15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrants to get free foodgrains||A major focus of the second tranche of the economic stimulus package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday is to provide free foodgrains for the next two months to migrant workers who do not have ration cards. The Centre will spend Rs. 3,500 crore for this purpose. Quoting numbers from State governments, Ms. Sitharaman said there were an estimated eight crore migrant workers who had been housed in government- and privately run relief camps across the country since the lockdown. However, economists said this intervention was too little, too late, and that the free foodgrain provision should have been universalised to deal with widespread distress. Credit facilities Apart from measures for migrant workers, the second tranche announced by the government included an extension of credit facilities for urban housing, street vendors and farmers and an interest subvention scheme for small businesses. The move to provide free foodgrain for migrant workers is an extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, announced on March 27, which provided an additional monthly free rice or wheat allocation of 5 kg per person, and 1 kg of pulse per household from April to June to the 80 crore people with ration cards covered by the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Over the past month, migrant workers and others without ration cards have struggled without access to this free food. Many who have lost their livelihoods are forced to walk home to their villages. “For those who are non-card holders, meaning they are neither under the NFSA nor are they holders of any State-level cards, they shall be given [this benefit]...And if the person is remaining without card, he can also get it,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “We are engaging with the State governments to make sure that they know where these migrants are, they can approach them and give them. Because most of these migrants who have no cards are staying in camps run either by the government or by NGOs, and therefore, based on a rough assessment given to us by all the State governments, we think there are about eight crore migrants for whom benefit will reach through this free food grain supply,” she said, adding that this is an initial assessment, and that numbers may change. The Finance Minister added that by August 2020, the ration card portability scheme will allow 67 crore NFSA beneficiaries in 23 connected States to use their cards at any ration shop anywhere in the country, allowing migrant workers to access subsidised food away from their home villages. The scheme would cover all beneficiaries by March 2021, she said. For returning migrants who have no means of livelihood back in their home villages, Ms. Sitharaman said State governments had been directed to enrol them under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Work from home may stay for govt. staff||Post lockdown, the Union government will continue staggered and variable work hours for its employees with the Personnel Ministry floating a draft consultation paper on best work-from-home practices. The Department of Personnel and Training may provide the option of work from home to eligible officers and other employees for 15 days a year as a matter of policy, the paper said. The department asked the Ministries and departments to send in their suggestions by May 21. “Extra protocol for all VIP and Parliament matters”, which require utmost attention, is among the proposals. An employee working from home cannot process “classified papers/files”. “As per instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, no classified information shall be handled through e-office. Therefore, classified files shall not be processed in e-office during work from home,” the draft paper said. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) may evaluate the existing security protocol for remote access of classified file and information in consultation with the Home Ministry and propose suitable guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOP) for handling classified information in e-office, it said. “Till the time, classified files shall be processed on standalone computers only as specified in the Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedure (CSMOP).” There are 48.34 lakh Central government employees.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Ordinance cleared to regularise unauthorised houses in BDA limits||Under the Akrama-Sakrama scheme, the State Cabinet on Thursday cleared an Ordinance to regularise unauthorised houses built 12 years ago under the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) limits. With this Ordinance, the government has decided to bring in changes to Section 38D of the BDA Act to enable owners of nearly 75,000 houses to regularise their constructions by paying penalties. Briefing on the Cabinet decisions, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said owners of houses, built on sites measuring 20x30 sqft., are eligible to regularise their constructions by paying 10% of the prevailing guidance value. About 45,000 houses built illegally under this category are within BDA limits. Similarly, owners of houses, on sites measuring 30x40 sqft. and 40x60 sqft., are eligible to legalise their constructions by paying penalties of 20% and 40% of the guidance values. The government has not estimated the revenue it will fetch from regularising houses since guidance values differ from one location to another location in the city. The changes in the BDA Act will not applicable to the regularisation of constructions of apartment complexes or other buildings. The Cabinet also passed an Ordinance on Town and Country Planning Act of 2015 for granting approval of development of layouts in different phases. It also cleared an integrated transport hub in Mangaluru to be developed on a public-private partnership model with an estimated cost of Rs. 455 crore. The transport hub will have many facilities, including commercial complex and bus bays.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Chaos as passengers protest institutional quarantine||The first special train from New Delhi to Bengaluru, with 553 passengers, pulled into Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station on Thursday morning at around 7.30 a.m. But despite elaborate arrangements at the station, such as one screening booth per coach, and more than 500 officials and staff from South-Western Railways, the BBMP, the Health Department, and the police on duty, there was chaos after passengers claimed that they had not been made aware of the mandatory institutional quarantine. Within hours after the screening commenced, around 140 passengers began protesting and refused to check themselves into designated quarantine facilities in hotels, said officials. The situation was chaotic as many of them insisted that they be allowed to quarantine themselves at home while officials refused to change the rules. After hours of protests, by the end of the day, all the passengers, barring 19, agreed to the terms of the quarantine. Senior officials intervened to convince them. Extra coach E. Vijaya, Chief PRO of SWR, in a statement said that transportation was arranged for the remaining 19 people by attaching an extra coach to the Bengaluru-Delhi passenger train that left around 8.30 p.m on Thursday. Some of them will deboard at Secunderabad. According to officials, in all, 507 people opted for the institutional quarantine and of them 203 took the free government quarantine facilities. The rest are in hotels identified by BBMP after agreeing to bear the accommodation cost. Around 20-odd passengers hailed from Tamil Nadu, and had inter-State passes to return to their hometowns. In a video message, BBMP commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar termed the protest as unacceptable and warned that action will be taken in future. “We will take legal action against those who fail to adhere to the health protocol brought out by the State government,” he said.  We will take legal action against those who fail to adhere to the health protocol brought out by the State government B.H. Anil Kumar, BBMP Commissioner
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State braces for further spike as 26 more test positive||With 26 more testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, the State continued to saw a surge in COVID-19 cases. Briefing mediapersons here, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned the public that it was a sign of the state of affairs in the offing as Kerala grappled with the influx of expatriates from nations and States where intense disease transmission was on. While the case numbers were expected to grow in the coming days, the State was also confident of facing the challenge, he added. Kasaragod accounted for 10 cases, Malappuram five, Palakkad and Wayanad three each, Kannur two, and Pathanamthitta, Idukki, and Kozhikode one case each. Of the 26 new cases, 14 are imported cases of infection, with seven persons having returned from abroad, while the rest from other parts of the country. Eleven persons are believed to have acquired the infection by local transmission through their contact with a known or unknown sources of COVID-19. One case in Idukki was picked up from the community through sentinel surveillance. These 11 cases include two health-care workers and one policeman who had been on duty in Wayanad. Wayanad a hotbed Wayanad, which remained free of COVID-19 cases for 32 days in a row, has become a hotbed of transmission following the return of an inter-State truck driver from Koyambedu market in Chennai. So far 10 positive cases, including three police personnel, have been linked to this person, apart from innumerable persons, including 43 police officers, who are now in quarantine. Kerala’s total tally of cases now stands at 560, out of which, only 64 are currently undergoing treatment. A total of 36,910 persons are now under the State’s surveillance, of whom 36,362 are quarantined in homes while 548 persons with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. MPs, MLAs quarantined In a related development, three Congress MPs, two MLAs had been asked to remain in quarantine after a 40-year-old man who reached the Walayar check-post on May 9 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doubling time slows to 13.9 days||India recorded another 3,722 COVID-19 cases and 134 deaths on Thursday, pushing the total number of cases to 78,003 and deaths to 2,549, according to the Union Health Ministry. The country has registered an average of over 3500 new cases every day since May 7. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in the last three days, the doubling time had slowed down to 13.9 days, while the doubling time in the past 14 days was 11.1 days. “The COVID-19 fatality rate of the country currently stands at 3.2% and the recovery rate has further improved. Currently, we are at 33.6% [from 32.83% on Wednesday]. There are 3.0% active COVID-19 patients in ICU, 0.39% on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support,’’ he observed. On Thursday, there were 14 States/Union Territories that had not reported any cases of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, including Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Gujarat and Jharkhand, he said. The Ministry said, “So far, 26,235 persons have been cured”.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||House helps left without help amid pandemic||Eight-month pregnant Sangeeta, a domestic help, resumed work at her employer’s house a week ago, but two days after her services were used, she was asked to not come back. The employer did not even ask if she needed any help with her pregnancy — monetarily or otherwise.  The Hindu spoke to seven house helps residing in the jhuggis is west Delhi’s Sudhamapuri and all of them said their employers had treated them harshly at a time when they desperately needed their help. Despite the Delhi government allowing domestic helps to start working again, the employers were not ready to use their services or pay them their dues. Sangeeta said she worked in four houses in Moti Nagar and three of them asked her not to come immediately and that they will let her know when she can join work later. The fourth employer left her the most disappointed. “I had to ask for work even in full pregnancy because we don’t have money. When I went to the house she agreed to let me work but two days later, she told me not to come. She didn’t even pay for the two days,” said Sangeeta. ‘Not allowed to enter’ Seema, 40, who works in seven houses along with her daughter, said she went asking for work to each house at least thrice. “I asked one of them for my dues for March. She didn’t even open the door, just put the money in a polythene bag and threw it at me,” she said. Kajal, 25, who works in five houses and has two minor boys, said when she called her employer, the woman was mocked at her saying, “I am poorer than you”. Kajal said when she “literally begged” for money, she was told by one of the employers, “Why don’t you eat langar or go to hunger relief centres?” When she replied that the rice given at those centres is not properly cooked, she was allegedly told, “Bring the food home and boil it.” “These are the same women who asked us to knead the dough and make chapatis for them. Today, they are treating us like we don’t exist,” she said. Sharing her experience, Gudiya, 35, said she went to her employer’s house four days ago and was turned away. “I pleaded with her to let me come and work. She asked me to leave and call her on phone. She is not answering the phone now.”  ‘Can’t refill cylinder’ Anjani, 38, who has five children, Santosh, 40, who has two, and Roshni, 22, who has a one-year-old son, shared similar experiences of being turned away by their employers. They said they are managing with bare minimum for over two months now. Santosh said she has no money to refill her LPG cylinder. “We are now using stoves which are ignited using wood.” Anjani said though they are getting ration from the shops after showing the card, there are expenses over and above that. “Even milk and vegetables are difficult to buy. We eat vegetables in one meal, and only chapatis and salt in the other,” she said. Roshni said her son was asking for ice cream since morning. “I slapped him and shut him up. He won’t understand I don’t have money.”
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Class X exams: Govt. statement on transportation on May 19||The State government was cognizant of sections of class X students stranded outside their homes due to the absence of transportation and will, on May 19, issue a clear statement on dealing with them, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Erode on Thursday. The Minister acknowledged that due to the COVID-19 lockdown, many students could not return to their home towns and are staying back at their relatives’ houses or in other districts. Discussions to be held “The government is considering the issue and after discussions with the Chief Minister, a clear statement will be issued,” the Minister added. Schedule The Minister said the schedule for class X board examinations was released only after considering the welfare of the students and after discussions with experts. In Gujarat and Kerala, answer paper valuations have begun, he said. The Minister said the Chief Minister had instructed all the Collectors to inspect the examination centres and also to ensure safe transportation of students to the centres and to their houses.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. clarifies G.O. on superannuation||The State government on Thursday issued clarifications on the implementation of its recent decision to increase the age for superannuation of its employees from 58 to 59 years. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam clarified that the orders issued would not apply to those government servants, who have attained the age of 58 years on or before May 1, 2020 and re-employed. Likewise the G.O. was not applicable to those teaching staff such as teachers, lecturers, professors, etc, who have already retired prior to May 2020 but re-employed for the remaining academic year.As to whether the retirement age of 60 years needed to be increased to 61 in respect of the government servants whose age of retirement was 60 at present, he said the G.O. No: 51 issued on May 7 shall not be applicable to them. “They shall retire at the age of 60 years.” The government also clarified that the G.O. was not applicable to the government servants, whose services were retained under Rule 56 (i) (c) of Fundamental Rules and not allowed to retire on or before April 30, 2020 due to disciplinary proceedings pending against them.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. revises testing, quarantine norms||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday issued revised guidelines for testing and quarantining people coming into the State. For persons undertaking travel within the State, testing will be done only for those with symptoms and all those travelling will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Persons arriving from other States/Union Territories must undergo tests. If they test positive, they need to be taken to a hospital. For persons coming from hotspots — Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra — even if the test is negative, they need to be in institutional quarantine for seven days. After seven days, if they display no symptoms, they can be in home quarantine or continue in government quarantine, if the individual does not have facilities for home quarantine. Persons travelling from other States (non-hotspot States) who test negative may be sent to home quarantine. If facilities are not available at their homes, they can be sent to institutional quarantine for 14 days. For travellers from other countries, if the test is positive, they need to be taken to a hospital. If the result is negative, they will have to be in institutional quarantine or hotel quarantine for seven days. After the seventh day, a second test needs to be done. If that test too shows a negative result, they can be sent to home quarantine for 14 more days. Categories exempted  The government has exempted certain categories from institutional quarantine after initial testing, with an undertaking that if the test result is positive, they will immediately admit themselves to a hospital. These are terminally ill persons and individuals requiring immediate medical attention in a hospital, persons who are due to attend a funeral and rituals associated with death of an immediate family member, pregnant women and persons over 75 years of age and requiring assistance. All the four categories claiming medical emergency will be subjected to a check-up by a medical team to confirm the emergency. The government said no relaxation will be given to any other category of travellers. The government has also asked those who seek exemption to submit full details with their representation in advance to the authorities concerned.People entering the State or leaving must apply for passes onwww.nonresidenttamil.organdtnepass.tnega.org. Since the introduction of the e-pass system, nearly three lakh passes have been issued in the last one week. If the result is negative, they will have to be in institutional quarantine or hotel quarantine for seven days. After the seventh day, a second test needs to be done. If that test too shows a negative result, they can be sent to home quarantine for 14 more days. Categories exempted The government has exempted certain categories from institutional quarantine after initial testing, with an undertaking that if the test result is positive, they will immediately admit themselves to a hospital. These are terminally ill persons and individuals requiring immediate medical attention in a hospital, persons who are due to attend a funeral and rituals associated with death of an immediate family member, pregnant women and persons over 75 years of age and requiring assistance. All the four categories claiming medical emergency will be subjected to a check-up by a medical team to confirm the emergency. The government said no relaxation will be given to any other category of travellers. The government has also asked those who seek exemption to submit full details with their representation in advance to the authorities concerned. People entering the State or leaving must apply for passes onwww.nonresidenttamil.organdtnepass.tnega.org. Since the introduction of the e-pass system, nearly three lakh passes have been issued in the last one week.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||With 472 new cases, Delhi sees biggest single-day jump||Delhi reported 472 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases, taking the total to 8,470. An estimated 58.5% of the total cases were reported in the first 14 days of May, though the first case in the city was reported on March 2. The total number of cases till April 30 was 3,515. Delhi’s previous highest spike of 448 cases was recorded on May 7. Nine more COVID-19 deaths were reported on Thursday, pushing the toll to 115. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. “Cumulative deaths [are] as per case sheets received from hospitals after [being] audited by committee,” said an official statement. Of the 8,470 cases, 3,045 people have recovered and 5,310 are still undergoing treatment, said the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that doubling time for COVID-19 cases in the city was currently 11-12 days. “Earlier it was three to four days and then six to seven days. We would be in a more comfortable position if the doubling time  is 20 days or more than that,” he said. “The novel coronavirus threat would not end in one or two months, as we thought. We have to learn to live with the virus,” the Minister said.
15 May 2020||Ghaziabad/Bhopal,||15 migrant workers die in U.P., M.P. road accidents||In two road accidents, 15 migrant labourers lost their lives on Wednesday night and in the early hours of Thursday in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, six were killed and five seriously injured around 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday when a State transport bus ran over them on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway near Muzaffarnagar, the police said. They were walking from Punjab to their homes in Bihar. Four of the dead were from Gopalganj and the others from Patna and Bhojpur. In Madhya Pradesh, nine migrants were killed and 50 injured when the truck in which they were travelling collided with a bus on a highway in Guna district. The truck was on its way to U.P. from Mumbai and the bus was returning to Ahmedabad. The highway has no median. Officials said many of the workers were from Unnao district of U.P.  Bus driver held Abhishek Yadav, Senior Superintendent of Police, Muzaffarnagar, said the bus that killed the six migrants was empty and the driver, who was under the influence of alcohol, had been arrested. U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked the Commissioner of the Saharanpur zone to hold an investigation. Compensation ordered Mr. Adityanath also announced compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the dead and Rs. 50,000 each to the injured. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “First train accident and now bus accident, why the lives of workers are so cheap? Can’t the poor of the country reach home via Vande Bharat Mission?” Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote on Twitter: “I pray that the soul of the deceased may rest in peace and their families get the strength to ensure this deep loss.” Guna Collector S. Viswanathan said, “Police and revenue teams and doctors reached the accident spot around 2.30 a.m. All the injured were immediately moved to the district hospital. There would have been more deaths if timely action was not taken... We are inquiring into the cause of the accident.” Guna Chief Medical and Health Officer P. Bunkar said, “Two persons travelling on the bus sustained minor injuries. We are planning to refer some of the serious patients to the government hospital in Gwalior.” Two deaths occurred during treatment. Guna Public Relations Officer Ashok Dwivedi said the Red Cross Society paid the families of the dead Rs. 15,000 each. On May 9, five migrant workers were killed and 13 injured when their truck overturned on a highway in Narsinghpur district of M.P.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Work on new collectorates to begin soon||The Public Works Department (PWD) will soon begin constructing collectorate buildings in four new districts. These buildings would house most of the government departments. The newly formed districts — Chengalpattu, Ranipet, Kallakurichi and Tirupattur — would get collectorate buildings at a cost ranging from Rs. 110-Rs. 115 crore each. Once the State government gives its approval in a few days, tenders would be floated for the projects. Officials of the PWD said the four-storeyed collectorate building in Chengalpattu district would come up at a space of 2.91 lakh sq.ft. The building at Venbakkam accommodate District Employment Office, Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Social Welfare departments among others. “We have tried to bring in small offices into the same premises for the benefit of the people. The ground floors in the district collectorate buildings will have a bank branch, post office and grievance redressal hall,” an official said. The building in Kallakurichi would be spread over 2.85 lakh sq.ft. of space at Veeracholapuram. It would accommodate many departments including health, handlooms, fisheries, education, tourism and Tamil Development and Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. Besides the passport office, this district collectorate would also have a women’s gym. Most of the offices of the newly formed districts. now functioning in temporary accommodation, would be shifted to new premises. The building at Ranipet, to come up at Wallajah taluk, would have departments such as the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and Labour. The one at Tirupattur would house departments, including Horticulture, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and Tamil Nadu Drug Control department. Spread over a space of 2.92 lakh sq.ft, a seven-storeyed building would be constructed at Tirupattur town. “We are preparing estimates for the building in Tenkasi district and identifying land for a collectorate building in Mayiladuthurai district,” the official added.  The newly formed Chengalpattu, Ranipet, Kallakurichi and Tirupattur districts will get buildings
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Ordinance to curtail APMCs||Despite objections from the Opposition and farmers’ groups, the Cabinet on Thursday went ahead and approved an Ordinance that will curtail the powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). The government argued it will bring reforms to facilitate market access for farmers outside APMCs. The Opposition said that it will benefit MNCs, big players and prove “anti-farmer.”
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||After 10 days, fresh cases dip below 500||For the first time in 10 days, Tamil Nadu reported fewer than 500 cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. With 447 persons testing positive for COVID-19, the State’s tally climbed to 9,674*. Nearly 80% of the new cases were from Chennai. Of the 447 (253 male and 194 female) new patients, 22 persons, who had returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for the infection in five districts. Chennai’s tally climbed to 5,637 with 363 new patients even as two more persons — in their 40s — died. The toll in the State now stands at 66. A 43-year-old resident of Chennai, admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 8, died on Thursday due to respiratory failure/pneumonia. He had chronic kidney disease and was on dialysis. He had hepatitis C infection and systemic hypertension.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Housing and interest relief too on list||As part of the stimulus package, the Centre plans to create affordable rental housing for the urban poor and provide relief worth Rs. 1,500 crore to small businesses through an interest subvention scheme, apart from extending credit to street vendors and farmers. Street vendors will get Rs. 10,000 as initial working capital.page 8
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bars to sell liquor as sealed bottles at Bevco rate||The State government on Thursday initiated measures to make it legal for bars and beer parlours to sell liquor as sealed bottles as takeaways. However, it did not set a date for the resumption of the sale of legal alcohol in Kerala. An excise official said that bars would have to display the catalogue and price list of liquor. They could only levy customers the per bottle rate charged by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). The managements would have to ensure that social distancing norms are followed on their premises. The current law allowed only for on-premise consumption of liquor. It prohibits licensees from dispensing alcohol as parcels. The government will amend the rules to facilitate the sale of liquor as unopened bottles through bars as a one-off measure.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways cancels tickets till June 30||The Railways have cancelled all tickets booked till June 30 and promised full refund to the passengers. However, the Shramik Specials or the 15 pairs of special trains started on May 12 will continue. The Railways said a total of 800 Shramik Specials were run from various States till May 14, ferrying over 10 lakh people. Additionally, for the special trains, so far over 1.25 lakh tickets worth Rs. 45.30 crore have been booked for more than 2.34 passengers. In April, the Railways announced that advance reservation, including e-tickets, would not be allowed “till further notice”. “...Regular passenger service including Mail/Express, Passenger and Suburban services have been cancelled until further advice... Competent authority has desired that all tickets booked for the above trains for the period up to June 30, 2020 may be cancelled and full refund generated as per provisions…,” a Railways order said. The Railways suspended mostly all passenger services from March 22. However, as part of efforts to gradually restart operations, it announced earlier this month that 15 pairs of special trains would be run to and from New Delhi.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Empty package wrapped with speeches: Cong.||Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala called the stimulus package a jumla (empty promise), while senior leader Ahmed Patel dubbed it an “empty package wrapped with speeches”. Addressing a press conference, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari said: “The image of our migrant workers walking to reach their homes will haunt us for a long time.”Page 8
15 May 2020||ONGOLE,||10 electrocuted in Prakasam||Ten persons were electrocuted and one person was injured when a live electric wire fell on them between Raparla and Machavaram villages in N.G. Padu mandal in Prakasam district on Thursday night. The incident occurred when the driver of an overcrowded tractor lost control and hit an electric pole, leading to the instantaneous death of nine persons. About 15 farm workers were returning after working in a nearby chilli field. The deceased were identified as P. Koteswaramma (50), N. Lakshmamma (65), K. Ramadevi (55), K. Kumari (45), K. Ramasri (40) G. Ravishankar (20), K. Siva (16), K. Mounika (14), K. Amulya (11) and Chenchaiah, the tractor driver.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Page-1-14-Nearby-1||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in the State on Thursday, with 47 more cases reported during the day, taking the total number of affected to 1,414. The GHMC area accounted for 40 of the 47 cases. Five cases were reported from Rangareddy district and another two were migrants who tested positive.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Page-1-14-Nearby-2||Two more international flights landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), bringing Indians from Manila and Washington, on Thursday morning. The fifth Air India Vande Bharat flight with 149 passengers landed around 1.58 a.m. and the sixth, around 8:22 a.m. with 163 passengers. The third flight or the seventh Vande Bharat flight from Kaula Lumpur was scheduled to land at 8.15 p.m.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi CM receives 5 lakh suggestions on lockdown||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said he has received an overwhelming response from people on suggestions regarding post-May 17 lockdown relaxations. He said maximum number of people had suggested that educational institutions remain closed till the summer break.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Movement for essential services to be allowed’||The Haryana government gave an undertaking in the Delhi High Court on Thursday that movement of people engaged in essential services — government and private doctors, nurses, policemen, courts and municipal bodies — will be allowed between Delhi and Haryana during the lockdown on production of e-passes.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Two more deaths reported in Karnataka||Two more deaths have been reported in the State on Thursday taking the total toll to 35. The first ever plasma therapy trial done on a 60-year-old critical male patient did not yield the desired results, as he died 48 hours after the therapy at Victoria Hospital. Meanwhile, 28 new cases have been reported on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 987.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,||State not keen to adopt new discharge guidelines||Karnataka is not keen to adopt the new discharge guidelines that allow sending COVID-19 patients home without testing if they are admitted for 10 days, with no fever seen for three previous days from the 10th day, and no requirement of oxygen support for four days.
15 May 2020||Chennai,||‘500 people can buy liquor from a shop a day’||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) on Thursday told the Madras High Court that it had printed tokens for distribution among customers and that it proposed to issue only 500 tokens a day, at the rate of 70 tokens an hour, in every shop.
15 May 2020||Chennai,||Continue testing, experts urge CM||Irrespective of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Chennai and other parts of the State, the Tamil Nadu government must continue to increase the rate of testing, public health and medical experts told Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday.
15 May 2020||Chennai,||More women test positive in Chennai||The proportion of women among the COVID-19 patients is disproportionately high in Chennai compared to the rest of Tamil Nadu, a possible indicator that the virus could be spreading “at the household level” here.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stimulus for small businesses, vendors, farmers||The Centre will help create affordable rental housing for the urban poor and provide relief worth Rs. 1,500 crore to small businesses through an interest subvention scheme, apart from extending credit for street vendors, farmers, and middle-class housing. Apart from free food for migrant workers, these are the major highlights of the second tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. Affordable housing Noting that migrant workers and other urban poor face difficulties in finding affordable housing, the Finance Minister said a scheme to build rental housing complexes through public private partnership mode would be launched under the existing Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme. Both public and private agencies will be incentivised to build rental housing on government and private land, while existing government housing will be converted into rental units. The credit linked subsidy scheme for lower middle class housing under PMAY will also be extended by one year to March 2021, and is likely to benefit 2.2 lakh more families, said Ms. Sitharaman, expressing the hope that this would also create jobs and stimulate demand for the steel, cement and construction industries. Street vendors who have been hit hard by the lockdown will be given access to easy credit through a Rs. 5,000 crore scheme, which will offer Rs. 10,000 loans for initial working capital. The scheme will be launched within a month and will benefit 50 lakh vendors, said the Finance Minister. Subvention relief Small businesses who have taken loans under the MUDRA-Shishu scheme, meant for loans worth Rs. 50,000 or less, will receive a 2% interest subvention relief for the next year, which will cost the government Rs. 1,500 crore. The Centre plans a drive to enrol 2.5 crore farmers who are not yet part of the Kisan Credit Cards scheme, along with fish workers and livestock farmers, and provide them with Rs. 2 lakh crore worth of concessional credit. NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) will also extend additional refinance support worth Rs. 30,000 crore to rural banks for crop loans, Ms. Sitharaman said. “The only fiscal outlay in today’s announcements are the Rs. 3,500 crore for food grains to migrants and Rs. 1,500 crore for the MUDRA loanees. So only Rs. 5,000 crore is actually coming from government coffers, while the rest are credit-based measures,” said Himanshu, an economist at Jawaharlal Nehru University’s Centre for Economic Studies and Planning. ‘Half-hearted’ Terming the government’s approach as “stingy and half-hearted”, he noted that at a time when demand is down, any moves to provide liquidity are not going to help, adding that putting cash in people’s pockets would have been a better approach. “Banks are parking money with the RBI (Reserve Bank of India), so the problem is not liquidity, but rather the appetite of people to take credit at this time,” he said.
15 May 2020||Patna,||Scuffle for food at Bihar stations||Even as Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday that migrant workers will be given free foodgrains for the next two months, a group of workers were seen resorting to fisticuffs to get food packets at the Katihar railway station in Bihar. In a video clip that has gone viral on social media, a group of migrant workers are seen mobbing a person carrying a bag of food packets at the railway station, fighting and pushing one another. A local journalist told The Hindu that the violent scuffle took place on Wednesday when a Shramik Special train, carrying workers from Delhi en route to Purnea, had stopped at the Katihar railway station. The local administration had arranged for food packets to be distributed among the travellers. However, on seeing a person carrying a bag of food packets, the hungry workers did not wait for them to be distributed and mobbed the man. In a similar video, travellers from another special train from Delhi are seen looting food packets arranged by the administration at the Barauni station in Begusarai district. As the group of men push and shove each other, a baton-wielding policeman and some women health workers are seen standing by helplessly. “We’re too hungry… For several days, we had not eaten full stomach,” a worker told a local journalist. Thousands of migrant workers are coming to Bihar from other States and district administrations have made arrangements for food and water bottles at railway stations before transporting them to quarantine centres in their respective districts and blocks by buses. The State Disaster Management Department is running about 3,665 quarantine centres at the block level in districts where currently over 1.3 lakh migrants are housed. About 2.5 lakh migrants are expected to reach the State in the next one week by over 200 trains. Bihar has reported 966 COVID-19 positive cases with seven deaths. So far, more than 350 migrants have tested positive.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus diagnostic test may be delayed||A promising technology developed by a laboratory funded by the Department of Science and Technology to accelerate COVID-19 testing in India may be delayed for several more weeks. The Chitra GeneLAMP-N, developed by the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram, needs more confirmatory testing and changes in its configuration, officials said. The technology uses a method called loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP). The objective, like that of the gold-standard RT-PCR tests, is the same: to detect the presence of viral RNA. Both achieve this via a series of chemical transformations. The LAMP method is said to be faster but is a relatively newer technology, more complicated in its design and has not been tested extensively for COVID-19 detection. N gene test Most RT-PCR kits focus on two different genes, the E (envelope) gene and the RdRP (RNA dependent RNA polymerase) gene. The World Health Organization recommends a E and RdRP test, while the U.S.’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) requires an N gene test. The N gene test is a confirmatory test and widely employed in Germany and China, among other countries. However, the design of it is complicated and can be expensive. The CDC protocol says three regions of the N gene must be analysed but the Chitra-model tests two to confirm the identity of the virus. Though the Chitra test passed an initial assessment by the National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha, a subsequent assessment showed that it was not performing as accurately as desired. “We are testing two N gene regions, so we need to recalibrate the machine to test both of them independently as a common cut-off wasn’t working well,” Asha Kishore, Director, SCTIMST, told The Hindu . “This is expected as all technology being used today [for COVID-19 diagnosis], such as RT-PCR or TruNat, have undergone multiple evaluations. This is a confirmatory test and needs to be absolutely solid. We need time until May end.” The Chitra test could potentially speed up the testing of a batch of suspected COVID-19 samples by 15 times and cut costs by two-thirds. The technology is licensed to Agappe Diagnostics Ltd., an Ernakulam-based company. Faster, cheaper Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted: “Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Tech, Trivandrum, an Institute of National Importance, of the @IndiaDST, has developed a diagnostic test kit that can confirm #COVID19 in 2 hours at a low cost.” The steady rise in confirmed cases in India is due to an acceleration in testing. The Indian Council of Medical Research reported having tested 1.94 million samples as of Thursday with Dr. Vardhan claiming that India was now testing about 100,000 samples a day.
15 May 2020||Sitapur,||Back home in U.P., migrants worried about jobs||Satish Kumar turns restless when asked what he thinks about the Uttar Pradesh government’s plans to provide jobs to the migrant workers who have returned to their homes during the lockdown. “There are thousands of people returning to their villages... they are starving. How will they employ all?” he asks. Mr. Kumar stands within the walls of the Chadra government primary school in Pisawan, Sitapur, which serves as a quarantine centre for migrants before they are allowed to go home. He was working as a labourer in Haryana in mustard and wheat fields, when the lockdown forced him towards his native place. After much struggle, he reached Sitapur on May 11. Mr. Kumar is sceptical of the government’s announcement that employment opportunities would be provided to the migrant workers. In Haryana, he says, he earned Rs. 360-Rs. 500 daily. In his village, if he works under the rural employment guarantee scheme, he is likely to earn relatively less. “Why would I leave my village in the first place if I was getting work here,” he asks. He calms down to say that if the government can guarantee him any form of employment, he is unlikely to return to Haryana. “I will earn only Rs. 200. But every penny will be worth it, in the presence of my family. My kids won’t have to walk [on the highway],” said the father of three. More than 9 lakh migrant workers have returned to U.P. during the lockdown, the government said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath plans to provide employment to 20 lakh such people. The process starts right at the quarantine centre. Anil Singh, the revenue official for this centre, says, “They will get the type of jobs they want.” A large notebook details the names, addresses, phone numbers and date of arrival of the migrants at the centre. However, the columns under educational qualification, skills and experience have not been filled for days. Most under quarantine here are labourers. Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya said the “work nature” of the migrant workers would be observed during quarantine and employment provided to them as per their skill set. While some were daily wage labourers, construction workers, vendors and non-skilled workers, others may have mechanical and technical skills. Many young migrant workers, especially those employed in technical jobs, are reluctant to work as labourers back home. Rajesh Mishra worked as a supervisor in a Delhi-based footwear firm and came back to Sitapur on May 4 with his wife and child. He is yet to make up his mind about going back, and is assessing employment options that the government could offer. “Even if I get employed as a supervisor under the MNREGA, I will do it. But digging work with a shovel? That I cannot do,” he asserted. If suitable employment is not provided, he says he will have no option but to return to Delhi.
15 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra toll crosses 1,000||The number of new COVID-19 cases and fatalities continued to rise in Maharashtra, with the State’s death toll touching 1,012 on Thursday. Continuing the trend over the last week of over 1,400 new cases everyday, the State saw 1,602 cases, taking the total to 27,524. State Health Department officials said as many as 512 persons were discharged, taking the cumulative number of persons discharged till date to 6,059. The number of active cases (excluding discharged and deaths) stood at 20,441. As per figures, 25 of the fatalities were reported from Mumbai city, taking the city’s death toll to 621. Pune district, according to State Health Department figures, reported five deaths to take its death toll to 175. However, district authorities said that the figure had risen to 178. “77% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Of the new cases, Mumbai city reported 991 new cases as the city’s cumulative tally touched 16,738. The tally in Pune district has risen to 1,305, with the district reporting at least 136 new cases, officials said. Besides Mumbai and Pune, the other sharp spike in cases came from parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with Thane reporting 102 new cases to touch 1,381. Navi Mumbai reported 95 new cases to reach a total 1,113.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Surveillance test for migrants||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said a decision had been reached to use one-time RT-PCR-based pooled sampling for surveillance purposes for migrant workers in institutional quarantine facilities, international passengers in institutional quarantine facilities and hotels earmarked for quarantine, and for surveillance purposes in green zones (districts with no case or no case reported in last 21 days). Issuing fresh guidelines for pooled sampling for migrants/returnees from abroad/green zones, the Ministry said a cohort of 25 people would be identified and throat/nasal swab would be collected following laid down protocol by trained laboratory personnel under appropriate protective gear (apron, hand glove, face-shield/goggles, N-95 mask), as per the ICMR protocol. As per the new guidelines, the report will be conveyed to the quarantine/concerned facility within 24 hours. “If any of the pooled samples tests positive, individual samples would be tested from the aliquoted samples preserved in the laboratory,” notes the Ministry. Giving details of the process of collection of samples, the Ministry said proper labelling (name/age/gender/specimen ID) needed to be done on specimen container. “Twenty-five such samples of such cohort would be packed in triple layer packaging and will be transported to the identified laboratory under cold chain as per ICMR guidelines,” noted the Health Ministry. The guidelines add that the outer container mentioning “be tested for SARS-CoV-2” will also bear the details of sender (name/address/phone number). It adds that the samples will be aliquoted and thereafter pooled samples from 25 specimens shall be tested in the laboratory by RT-PCR method.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.K. HC rejects Vijay Mallya’s plea||The U.K. High Court on Thursday rejected a plea of businessman Vijay Mallya for permission to move the Supreme Court against the dismissal of his appeal challenging the lower court’s approval of his extradition to India in the IDBI Bank fraud case. “The High Court has dismissed Mr. Mallya’s request to appeal in the Supreme Court. The U.K. government’s Home Office may soon issue a directive allowing his extradition. We have to bring him back within 28 days after he exhausts all legal avenues,” said a senior Enforcement Directorate (ED) official. Mr. Mallya may be brought on board a special plane, as international flight operations have been suspended due to the global lockdown. Following a hearing in February, a Division Bench of the High Court of Justice, on April 20, turned down Mr. Mallya’s appeal against the Senior District Judge’s order on December 10, 2018, for his extradition. The High Court concluded that a prima facie case was made out against the businessman for fraud, misrepresentation to the bank in securing credit facilities, conspiracy and money laundering, as adjudged by the lower court. The CBI and the ED have alleged that between September 1, 2009, and January 24, 2017, Mr. Mallya conspired with A. Ragunathan, S. Borkar, A. Nadkami, A. Shah, Y. Agarwal, B. Batra, O. Bundellu, S. Srinivasan, R. Sridhar and others to commit cheating. The accused fraudulently got loans sanctioned from the bank to the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) in the order of (a) Rs. 1,500 million on October 7, 2009, (b) Rs. 2,000 million on November 4, 2009, and (c) Rs. 7,500 million on November 27, 2009, with the intention not to repay them. Mr. Mallya was allegedly involved in false representation to the bank on KFA’s financial condition and the value and/or availability of securities. The funds raised through loans were diverted and laundered.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India reminds China of claims over Gilgit-Baltistan||The recent incidents of face-off between the troops of India and China are neither correlated nor have any connection with other global or local activities, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said on Thursday. The statement was supplemented by official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava who reminded China about India’s claims over Gilgit-Baltistan where China has teamed up with Pakistan to build the Diamer-Bhasha dam. Mr. Srivastava said both sides understand the importance of maintaining peace. “India and China attach importance to tranquillity and it is essential for the overall development of bilateral ties.” He reminded China about India’s claims over the territory of Gilgit-Baltistan under Pakistan’s control. “Our position is clear. The entire territory of Jammu and Kashmir is part of India.” The assertion is important as it was made a day after Power China, one of the biggest Chinese power companies, received a contract to build the Diamer-Bhasha dam which once completed will allow Pakistan to use the waters of the Indus for irrigation. Islamabad claims that the dam will help reduce downstream flood by the Indus.
15 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat records 324 cases||Gujarat on Thursday recorded 324 COVID-19 cases and 20 deaths. The State’s cumulative tally has increased to 9,592 and the death toll has risen to 586. As per the State’s Health Department figures, 5,210 patients are under treatment in various hospitals, while 43 are critical. In Ahmedabad, 265 cases and 19 deaths were reported, bringing the city’s tally to 6,910 and the toll to 465. Ahmedabad’s mortality rate is around 6.7%, which is above the national average that stands below 4%. Meanwhile, a controversy has erupted regarding the number of tests being conducted in the State. As per the Health Department’s data, the number of tests per day has reduced. On Thursday, only 2,412 tests were conducted against a capacity to test 3,000 samples per day. Moreover, the State government also disallowed private laboratories to conduct COVID-19 tests.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||BMS to stage protest over suspension of labour laws||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, a trade union affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, on Thursday announced plans to carry out a nationwide agitation against the suspension of labour laws by the Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat governments, which are all ruled by the BJP. The BMS said in a statement a virtual meeting of its national office bearers was held on Wednesday where the recent withdrawal of the labour laws was “strongly condemned”. Other States including Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa and Odisha had either already implemented or were planning to increase the daily working hours from eight to 12, it said. “This is unheard in history and is rare even in most undemocratic countries. The BMS State units have written to the Chief Ministers of all the States but only the Chief Minister of M.P. has shown the courtesy to meet our delegation,” the statement said. ‘No way out’ Referring to the plight of the migrant workers during the pandemic and lockdown, the Mazdoor Sangh said these issues had been aggravated “mainly because there is gross violation of the Migrant Labour Act by most of the States. And hence, we are pushed to the wall and there is no other way out except going for agitation.” The agitation planned by the BMS included a letter-writing campaign by local unions to the district authorities to raise the issues of wage payment, job losses and relief measures for workers from Saturday till May 18. Demonstration dates Protests against the States’ suspension of labour laws and extension of working hours would be held at district and industrial estates on May 20, while maintaining social distance, it said. State, industry, company and sector-level conventions would be organised on May 30 and May 31 to press for the demands of the workers and withdrawal of the labour law suspensions, the BMS added.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Masks crucial to prevent infection spread: scientists||In light of convincing research evidence that face masks are a great tool to stop community spread of COVID-19, a group of scientists across the world have come together to issue an open letter promoting the use of masks by members of the public. Arguing that the simple task of wearing a mask reduces transmission and thereby, mortality, the scientists have pressed for wearing masks, even defining it as any face covering, as a key public health intervention. The coordinators of the statement are Jeremy Howard, research scientist, University of San Francisco, co-founder fast.ai, member World Economic Forum Global AI Council, and Vincent Rajkumar, Editor-in-Chief, Blood Cancer Journal. The signatories are from North America, Africa, Asia, Oceania, and Europe. The statement said: We have an urgent message about some critical new scientific research. It strongly suggests that requiring fabric mask use in public places could be amongst the most powerful tools to stop the community spread of COVID-19. An international cross-disciplinary review of the scientific research by 19 experts and other recent research shows that: People are most infectious in the initial period of infection, when it is common to have few or no symptoms. Cloth masks obstruct a high portion of the droplets from the mouth and nose that spread the virus. Non-medical masks have been effective in reducing transmission of coronavirus. Cloth masks can be washed in soapy water and re-used. Places and time periods where mask usage is required or widespread have been shown to substantially lower community transmission. Public mask wearing is most effective at stopping spread of the virus when the vast majority of the public uses masks. Laws appear to be highly effective at increasing compliance and slowing or stopping the spread of COVID-19. Effective but low cost The preponderance of evidence, in both laboratory and clinical settings, indicates that mask wearing reduces the transmissibility per contact by reducing transmission of infected droplets. The decreased transmissibility could substantially reduce the death toll, other harms to public health, job losses and economic losses. The cost of such masks is very low by comparison. Modeling suggests that widespread public mask use, in conjunction with other measures, could bring the effective reproduction number (R) beneath 1.0, thus halting the growth of the pandemic. Therefore, we ask that government officials require cloth masks to be worn in all public places, such as stores, transportation systems, and public buildings as soon as possible. This action will prevent people who are infectious from unknowingly spreading the disease. We also ask business leaders who offer products and services to the public to require their employees and customers to wear masks whether or not it is required by local law. This vital step will help protect workers and customers. Such requirements will greatly increase the rate of mask wearing. This should be done in conjunction with, not as a replacement for, hand hygiene, physical distancing, testing, and contact tracing strategies. This requirement should be introduced alongside clear guidelines for the production, use and sanitization or re-use of face masks. We urge you to also consider their distribution as shortages allow. There is no need to wait for availability of medical-grade masks; any face covering, including a piece of cloth, a scarf, or bandana, appears to be effective.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC issues notices to States||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday issued notices to the Maharashtra government over the “inappropriate approach” adopted for the release of prisoners to avoid the SARS-CoV-2 infection and the incident of a pregnant migrant giving birth on the road. In the second case, it also issued notice to the Madhya Pradesh government as the woman was walking from Maharashtra to Satna, her home town, when she was forced to give birth on the road. Taking cognisance of a complaint by its prison monitor Maja Daruwala, the NHRC noted that “allegedly, the policy adopted by the Maharashtra government to decongest jails has arisen due to the misinterpretation of directions given by the Supreme Court in the matter”. She asked the NHRC for its intervention to ensure the safety of prisoners. “The Commission has observed that it is aware of the fact that in many jails, the prisoners as well as the staff members have fallen prey to COVID-19 owing to overcrowding, lack of manpower and medical facilities,” an NHRC statement said. In the second case, the NHRC took suo motu cognisance of media reports on Tuesday about a pregnant woman developing labour pain while walking with her husband from Nashik in Maharashtra to Satna. She gave birth on the road, resting for two hours and continuing to walk the remaining 150 km. “The Commission has observed that this incident amounts to sheer negligence of the state authorities, resulting in violation of human rights of the victim woman,” another statement from the NHRC said. The NHRC asked the Chief Secretaries of both States for a report in four weeks.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Empty package, wrapped with speeches, says Congress||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman displayed “arrogance, ignorance and insensitivity” while giving out details of the economic stimulus package that has turned out to be a jumla (empty promise), the Congress said on Thursday. While the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala called the stimulus package a jumla , senior leader Ahmed Patel said, “It is an empty package wrapped with speeches since the last three days.” Addressing a joint online press conference, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari and party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the humanitarian crisis surrounding the migrant workers is a defining image of the coronavirus crisis in India, but the government had fallen woefully short in addressing it. “The image of our migrant workers walking to reach the safety of their homes will haunt us for a long time. Was it not your responsibility to answer what are you doing about them?” Mr. Tewari asked the government. ‘Bamboozling people’ “You are trying to bamboozle people by throwing big numbers at people,” Mr. Tewari said, adding that the government had earmarked only Rs. 3,500 crore of the Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package.  “All the government has done is announce loan mela s (fairs) for different sets of people. Where is the assistance?” asked Ms. Shrinate. She added that only direct cash transfers on the lines of Congress’ NYAY minimum guarantee scheme to the bottom 13 crore households would have helped the poor cope with the crisis. “MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) wages have been revised annually for a decade now. Today’s FM (Finance Minister) announcement no big deal. Nothing on what’s urgently needed: 1. Provide wages for month of April. 2. Increase no. of MGNREGA days to 200. Ironic that those who ridiculed MGNREGA now rely on it,” tweeted former Union minister Jairam Ramesh.  Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “There is dense darkness and times are difficult. Have courage, all of us are standing for the safety of all of them. We will ensure that their screams reach the government...”
15 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha reports 86 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 86 COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the districts of Odisha, taking the State’s total to 624 on Thursday. Sixty-three of the 86 new cases had returned from Gujarat’s Surat — 42 in Ganjam, 13 in Kendrapara, five in Bhadrak and three in Khordha district. Of the remaining 23 cases, 20 had returned from West Bengal, one from Karnataka and two were detected in a containment zone, according to the State government. Of the 624 cases, 463 were under treatment at exclusive hospitals. While 185 have recovered and three have died so far, 594 persons are kept in hospital isolation. Subroto Bagchi, the State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19, expressed satisfaction that 84 of the 86 cases were detected in the temporary medical centres (TMCs) set up at the grassroots level where the returnees were undergoing 21-day quarantine. Samples tested The State had tested 77,150 samples till Wednesday midnight, according to the Health Department. The State’s inter-ministerial committee on the pandemic has decided to start testing facilities in the government-run medical colleges in Bolangir, Koraput and Baripada, to ramp up the capacity to 15,000 per day. About 4,500 samples are being tested per day at eight laboratories. According to the government, more than one lakh people had returned till Thursday.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy’s personal protective equipment gets patent||A low-cost personal protective equipment (PPE), designed and produced by the Navy, has received a patent, bringing it a step closer to mass production, the Navy said on Thursday. The patent was successfully filed by the Intellectual Property Facilitation Cell (IPFC) of the Defence Ministry, in association with the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC), an enterprise under the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Navy said in a statement. “The low-cost PPE has been developed by a doctor posted at the recently created Innovation Cell at the Institute of Naval Medicine (INM), Mumbai. A pilot batch of PPE had been produced at the Naval Dockyard Mumbai,” it stated. Efforts were on to commence mass production, and eligible firms were being identified for taking up licensed production, the Navy added. Shortage of PPE for healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic has been a major issue.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Short Service Commission to be made more attractive||As part of measures to reduce the mounting pension burden of the Army, efforts are on to make the Short Service Commission (SSC) more attractive, Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat said on Thursday. “We are looking at making the SSC more attractive. Looking at a year’s training [course] while exiting after 14 years. We are also looking at other courses and options,” Gen. Rawat told a small group of journalists. Other incentives include a lumpsum amount and medical facilities under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme. The courses can be professional or technical courses such as MBA or M.Tech. to give the skills for a second employment as a civilian. Currently, the SSC is for 10 years, which can be extended by up to four years. At the end of 14 years, there is an option for permanent commission (PC). Gen. Rawat said about 25%-30% of the SSC officers would be granted PC so that they are kept motivated. “So the SSC officers will compete to get PC. The rest can leave,” he said. The Army’s pay and pension bill has been increasing over the years, accounting for 60% of its budgetary allocation. During the last five years, though the growth in the defence budget has been 68% and the growth in salaries 75%, the pensions have increased by a staggering 146%.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition pans ‘insensitive’ relief measures for migrants||The Opposition parties on Thursday panned the announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for migrant workers calling out the government for being insensitive towards the sufferings of those who are trudging back hundreds of kilometres to return to their homes. Citing Ms. Sitharaman’s announcement that migrant workers will be provided with jobs under the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury called it a callous joke and an attempt at hoodwinking the public. “There are eight crore migrant workers as per Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, so if the promise is that every migrant worker will get a job the moment they return to their village under the MGNREGS, at the rate of Rs. 202 per day of wages, this amounts to just 2.2 days of work for every migrant worker in the whole year as per their current allocation,” Mr. Yechury told The Hindu . Ms. Sitharaman had said the government had generated 14.62 crore man days of work up to May 13 under the MGNREGS, which is 40-50% higher than previous May.  “Bulk of the announcements are essentially providing loans whether it is for street vendors or housing loans for the urban poor or farmers,” Mr. Yechury added. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’ Brien said that after announcing the lockdown with just four-hour notice, abandoning the migrant workers, the government was now shedding crocodile tears. Rashtriya Janta Dal MP Manoj Jha said: “They try to overwhelm people by numbers and skirt the critical issues and areas. Why the government has decided to choose the ‘easy loan corridor’ when it could have handed them over guaranteed money for at least coming five to six months.” ‘Jugglery of statistics’ BSP MP Danish Ali said: “There is absolutely no intention to help the migrant workers.” he said.  CPI general secretary D. Raja called it a jugglery of statistics and political rhetoric with no substantial announcement. “There are no jobs in the cities or in the villages and the government is insensitive towards the suffering of the poor,” he said.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India non-committal on talks with Taliban||India will “continue to be guided” by its friendship with the Afghan people, said the government, remaining non-committal on renewed questions of whether it would open direct talks with the Taliban. “We have our own perspectives on Afghanistan, and our traditional and neighbourly ties with the people of Afghanistan will continue to guide our Afghanistan policy,” a government source said, when asked about the suggestion by U.S. Special envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, that India should speak directly to the Taliban. In an interview to The Hindu last week, Mr. Khalilzad said he favoured India-Taliban talks, the first time a U.S. official had openly made that suggestion.  “It is for India to decide its role, but I do think engagement between India and all the key players in Afghanistan ... is appropriate given India’s regional and global position. India is an important force in Afghanistan and it would be appropriate for that [India-Taliban] engagement to take place,” Mr. Khalilzad said. External Affairs Ministry officials declined to comment on whether India would change its long-held position of dealing only with the elected government in Kabul, while considering the Taliban a terrorist organisation backed by Pakistan.  The comments by Mr. Khalilzad have led to a renewal of interest in whether India will shift its stand. “There is no doubt more pressure to engage with the Taliban, but India has always dealt only with the authority in power, and talks with the Taliban would be premature at this point,” former diplomat Asoke Mukerji told The Hindu .
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||President to forgo 30% salary for a year||President Ram Nath Kovind has decided to forgo 30% of his salary for the whole year apart from directing officials to adopt other austerity measures in the wake of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, a communiqué from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Thursday. The domestic tours of the President will be substantially reduced, guest lists as well as food menu at official ceremonies will be cut, and plans to purchase a new presidential limousine (estimated to cost Rs. 10 crore) have been deferred. “The President has given instructions to the Rashtrapati Bhavan to set an example by economising the expenditure, making optimal usage of resources, and dovetailing the saved money to combat COVID-19 and mitigate the people’s economic plight,” said the statement. “In the President’s estimation, this will be a small but significant contribution to realise the government’s vision of making India self-reliant ( atmanirbhar ) and energise the nation to take up the challenge to fight the pandemic and continue our journey for development and prosperity simultaneously,” it said.
15 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Quarantine cottages in Manipur village rival hill resorts||A Naga village in Manipur has prepared for its lockdown returnees with what ecotourists might pay to experience — cottages on a hill with a view. The Tungjoy Village Council has built 80 cottages to quarantine community members who are coming back after being stranded in various parts of India due to the lockdown. Tungjoy, inhabited by the Poumai Naga tribe, is in the Paomata subdivision of Senapati district bordering Nagaland. The village is about 110 km north of Manipur’s capital Imphal. The cottages on a hill about 1 km from Tungjoy have been erected in three clusters for people returning from as many zones. Volunteers have been deployed to ensure the returnees maintain physical distancing norms and check into a zone marked red, orange and green with plastic ropes. “Ours is a big village with about 1,000 households. People from the village stranded outside wanted to return home. We built the cottages to keep them in a safe place after discussions among all stakeholders,” said S. Kho John, a Tungjoy village leader and president of United Naga Council, an apex Naga social organisation in Manipur. The tin-roofed cottages, made of bamboo and other local materials, have been electrified. Each cottage meant for one person has an electric bulb, a charging socket, a bamboo bed, a bamboo gas table and a toilet, besides piped water, Mr. John said. “We spent about Rs. 3 lakh to make the cottages,” he added. Three information centres have also been erected with the fittest among the villagers assigned the duty of coordinating with the people arriving from outside. Family members have been entrusted with providing food and other essential items to the returnees, while the village authorities have taken the responsibility of volunteers, who would be guarding them round the clock for ensuring they do not break the rules. About a 100 people from Tungjoy are studying or working in other parts of the country. A few returnees were expected to reach the village by Thursday evening.
15 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi sees 33 cases||Dharavi reported 33 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the tally to 1,061. It also reported nine deaths, taking the total to 49. The new cases were from Matunga labour camp and Kumbharwada. Dharavi reported two new deaths, that of a 70-year-old man from Vaibhav Society and a woman from Indira Nagar. Seven deaths were conveyed to the ward office and recorded during the day.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. trying to save Nirav Modi, says BJP||The BJP on Thursday accused the Congress of “trying its best to save” businessman Nirav Modi, who is currently facing extradition proceedings at a court in the United Kingdom (UK), after Congress member and retired judge Abhay Thipsay deposed (by video link) as a defence witness. Addressing the media, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said (retired) Justice Thipsay, a former judge of Mumbai and Allahabad high courts, deposed as a defence witness in the case and claimed that the charges against Mr. Modi will not stand up under Indian law. He added that Justice Thipsay had joined the Congress in 2018 and had met top party leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chavan. “The ‘judge sahab’ is not acting in his individual capacity but is working at the behest of the Congress,” said Mr. Prasad.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Doubling time of cases slows to 13.9 days||The Ministry said, “So far, 26,235 persons have been cured”. According to data from State Health Departments, the nationwide death toll stood at 2,649 on Thursday. There were 51, 560 active cases out of a total of 81,859 cases. Maharahstra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat added an average of 1483, 628 and 429 new cases everyday since May 7 COBAS 6800 for nation Dr. Vardhan on Thursday visited the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), here and dedicated COBAS 6800 testing machine to the nation. The Minister said in a release, “This is the first such testing machine that has been procured by the Government for testing of COVID-19 cases and is installed at NCDC. COBAS-6800, is a fully automated, high-end machine for performing real time PCR testing of COVID-19. It will provide quality, high-volume testing with a high throughput of test around 1200 samples in 24 hours. It will largely increase the testing capacity with reduction in pendency”. Dr. Vardhan said COBAS 6800 was a sophisticated machine that minimised the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to health care workers as it could be operated remotely with limited human intervention.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China face-offs not related, says Army chief||The recent incidents of face-off between the troops of India and China in Eastern Ladakh and North Sikkim last week were neither “correlated” nor have have any connection with other global or local activities, Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said in a statement on Thursday. “It is reiterated that both these incidents are neither co-related nor do they have any connection with other global or local activities,” he said. Aggressive behaviour by both sides during the two incidents resulted in minor injuries to troops, after which both sides disengaged after dialogue at the local level. “Temporary and short duration face-offs between border guarding troops do occur along the Line of Actual Control due to the differing perceptions of the alignment of boundaries which are not resolved,” he said. All such incidents were managed by established mechanisms wherein local formations “resolve issues mutually” as per protocols given by the Prime Minister after the Wuhan and Mamallapuram summits, he said.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Migrant workers to get free foodgrains||The One Nation One Ration Card scheme was to cover all States by June 2020. As The Hindu had reported last week, Food Ministry data shows that inter-State transactions under the scheme have been very low, around 200 per month since the lockdown, due to poor awareness and the stalling of biometric authentications due to the pandemic. “The need of the moment was to universalise the Public Distribution System to provide food to whoever needed it, especially since the grains are available in the Centre’s godowns,” said Prof Jayati Ghosh, who chairs the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning at Jawaharlal Nehru University. IIM-Ahmedabad professor and economist Reetika Khera, who had calculated that 10 crore people have been excluded from NFSA coverage due to growth since census 2011, said the new intervention would not even cover that shortfall. For returning workers without livelihood in their villages, Ms. Sitharaman said States had been directed to enrol them under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREAGA). She said 14.6 crore person days of work have been generated under the scheme till May 13, claiming that this was 40-50% higher than work generated in May 2019. However, data shows that less than 14 crore person days of work have been provided in April and May 2020 together, while 64 crore person days of work were provided in April and May 2019. A senior Rural Development official clarified that Ms.Sitharaman meant to refer to e-muster roll data, showing that 50% more persondays of work were offered this May.
15 May 2020||new delhi,||Work from home may stay for govt. employees||Post lockdown, the Union government will continue staggered and variable work hours for its employees with the Personnel Ministry floating a draft consultation paper on best work-from-home practices. The Department of Personnel and Training may provide the option of work from home to eligible officers and other employees for 15 days a year as a matter of policy, the paper said. The department asked the Ministries and departments to send in their suggestions by May 21. “Extra protocol for all VIP and Parliament matters”, which require utmost attention, is among the proposals. An employee working from home cannot process “classified papers/files”. “As per instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, no classified information shall be handled through e-office. Therefore, classified files shall not be processed in e-office during work from home,” the draft paper said. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) may evaluate the existing security protocol for remote access of classified file and information in consultation with the Home Ministry and propose suitable guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOP) for handling classified information in e-office, it said. “Till the time, classified files shall be processed on standalone computers only as specified in the Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedure (CSMOP).” There are 48.34 lakh Central government employees The third phase of the lockdown ends on May 17 and a fourth phase may be announced by the government. Several Central employees are not able to reach office in the absence of public transport. The DoPT said the COVID-19 pandemic had necessitated many Ministries to operate from home to maintain social distancing. It is quite likely that in the near future, the Central secretariat would continue to go for staggered attendance and variable working hours to maintain social distancing at the workplace. Accordingly, a new set of SOPs have been finalised for the employees to ensure smooth and seamless functioning of the government for continuity of the office works.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Railways cancels tickets booked till June 30||The Railways has cancelled all tickets booked till June 30 and promised full refund to the passengers. However, the Shramik Specials or the 15 pairs of special trains started on May 12 will continue. The Railways said a total of 800 Shramik Specials were run from various States till May 14, ferrying over 10 lakh people. Additionally, for the special trains, so far over 1.25 lakh tickets worth Rs. 45.30 crore have been booked for more than 2.34 passengers. In April, the Railways announced that advance reservation, including e-tickets, would not be allowed “till further notice”. “...Regular passenger service including Mail/Express, Passenger and Suburban services have been cancelled until further advice... Competent authority has desired that all tickets booked for the above trains for the period up to June 30, 2020 may be cancelled and full refund generated as per provisions…,” a Railways order said.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Guru bhakti bhava||Guru Parampara offers obeisance to the lineage of preceptors who have handed down the spiritual tradition to posterity from the hoary past. It is held that Lord Narayana instructed the Vedas to Brahma and is the primordial guru. The Vedas are ‘apaurusheya,’ meaning that they are not the work of any human being. Adi Sankara is believed to be an avatar of Siva and Vyasa of Vishnu and the heritage has been propagated and fostered by the line of sterling disciples who have been instructed and inspired by them. To impress the importance of scriptural study under the guidance of a preceptor, Adi Sankara is held to have sought Govindapada as his acharya. Likewise, during their avatars, Rama and Krishna also underwent Gurukula vasa to foster this tradition. That the Guru is on a par with God and has the power to confer enlightenment on a deserving disciple is exemplified in the life of Adi Sankara, pointed out Sri Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The circumstances leading to the composition of Totaka Ashtakam by one of Adi Sankara’s disciples named Giri who was considered dull by others establishes the subtle benefits of the acharya’s grace. Giri was very devoted to his guru. Once, when Adi Sankara was about to begin his class Giri was late as he was washing clothes. The others became restless when they were asked to wait for Giri. Sensing their pride in their proficiency of sastra knowledge and to humble them, Adi Sankara instantly blessed Giri. Giri came from the river banks singing the wonderful Totaka Ashtakam in verses replete with poetic excellences that capture the various facets of Guru Bhakti Bhava in the disciple who seeks the feet of the guru. Giri became Totakacharya and the others were rid of their pride.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Talks with Nepal after pandemic’||India hopes to take up the necessary negotiation on the Kalapani dispute with Nepal after the current global pandemic is tackled successfully. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said both sides were in contact and a convenitent date for the Foreign Secretary-level dialogue would be decided to deal with the dispute over the construction of a link road to Tibet. “The road is in Indian territory. We have an established mechanism for dialogue ... We are facing COVID-19 crisis and once societies and governments have dealt with the challenges, we will have these talks,” said official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine nights||
15 May 2020||Bhopal,||253 new cases in M.P., tally rises to 4,426||The count of COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh surged to 4,426 on Thursday as 253 new cases were reported during the day, said the Directorate of Health Services. Indore, the worst-hit city in the State, saw the steepest spike of 131 cases on the day, while Bhopal reported 42 new cases and Burhanpur 35, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. Besides, five deaths were reported during the day. The death toll in the State stands at 237.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Destination mandatory for train tickets||Passengers wanting to travel via ‘special train’ services will need to mandatorily provide destination address at the time of booking tickets. The Railways on Thursday said it had started recording the destination address of passengers booking tickets on the website to help facilitate contact tracing. “With effect from May 13, IRCTC is taking the destination address of all passengers booking tickets. This will help in contact tracing, if required later,” a spokesperson said.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Search on for soldier missing in Sikkim||The Army on Thursday launched a massive search for a soldier who went missing after a snow clearance party was hit by an avalanche at Lugnak La in north Sikkim. “A patrolling-cum-snow clearance party of 17-18 soldiers came under a sudden snow slide. All personnel have been recovered, except one soldier. Intense search is in progress,” Army sources said. All rescued soldiers are safe, the sources said, adding one of them was seriously injured and undergoing treatment.
15 May 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Division Bench to interpret SC order||Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi constituted a Division Bench to answer a reference as to whether the Supreme Court’s order on extension of limitation period in view of COVID-19 lockdown would be applicable to Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. (dealing with police investigation and filing of report), after two judges of the High Court took different views. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the SC order on extension of limitation period did not deal with Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. The Judge, while granting bail to an accused after the police had failed to submit the final report within the mandatory time limit, said the SC had not mentioned that police investigation would be covered by the order. Justice G. Jayachandran, however, said though the SC order had not specifically mentioned police investigation, it had invoked its power under Article 142 of the Constitution in view of the lockdown. He dismissed the bail plea of an accused, and said the limitation under Section 167 of Cr.P.C. also got extended. The Chief Justice said the two conflicting opinions arising out of the orders were likely to have a direct impact on bail orders to be passed by the subordinate judiciary or by the High Court. The matter deserved to be resolved by an authoritative pronouncement, he said. This question would be answered by a Division Bench presided over by Justice P.N. Prakash at Madurai Bench itself, the CJ said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Step up pace of testing, health experts urge CM||Notwithstanding the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Chennai and other parts of the State, the Tamil Nadu government must continue to increase the pace of testing, medical and public health experts told Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday. They said that there was no need to worry about the surge in cases in Chennai. The experts reiterated that the lockdown should be relaxed in a phased manner. Addressing the media after their meeting with the Chief Minister, which lasted around two-and-a-half hours, Dr. Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR) said that testing should not be reduced, and should rather be increased. Increased testing was the “big achievement” of Tamil Nadu which, she said, was conducting the “highest number” of tests in the country. “It is even more than many other countries,” she added. The ramped-up testing provided a “big advantage” in mapping the spread, based on which containment strategies were being planned, she said. “The more we test, the more we will be able to realise the [extent of the] spread of the disease. Irrespective of the number of cases being reported, we have to continue testing. We should not be afraid of the increasing number of cases,” she said. The focus should be on testing those with symptoms. Data showed that about half of the patients were taken to a hospital within three days of their showing symptoms, which was to be sustained and improved upon, she said. Though there were more cases in Tamil Nadu, the number of deaths was relatively low, which was a “big achievement”, Dr. Kaur said. The contact tracing exercise was a success, she said, adding that this was how the issue of the first cluster was settled. Data showed that, on an average, there were 20 contacts for each case. The focus had to be on surveillance, testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, she said.  ‘No need to panic’ “In a pandemic situation, there will be waves, and there is no need to panic when a wave hits,” she said. She, however, added that community participation in efforts to contain the spread of the virus was necessary, by following physical distancing norms and wearing masks. Dr. Guhanandam, another expert on the panel, said, “There is no need to worry about the increasing number of cases in Chennai. It will help us deal with the situation at the earliest.” He said that the steps being taken by the State in accordance with the instructions of the Chief Minister had been satisfactory and useful. He said that all those returning to Tamil Nadu from other States were to be quarantined and tested. He insisted that those with non-communicable diseases, those undergoing treatment for cancer and HIV, and the elderly, had to remain under quarantine. World Health Organisation’s Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan also attended the meeting via video-conference from Geneva.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Misinformed about train service, migrant workers throng streets||False information, compounded by a lack of clear communication from the authorities, led to hundreds of migrant workers from Assam and a few other States descending on the city’s streets, in the hope of catching a train back home. According to the authorities and a section of workers, it all started with the train that left for Mizoram on Tuesday with around 200 workers from Assam on board. This was followed by the spread of information that another train would leave for Assam on Wednesday evening, and a select group of people, who had registered themselves with the governments of both Tamil Nadu and Assam, had been asked to come in for medical screening, a member of the Assam Association in Chennai said, on condition of anonymity. As this piece of information spread rapidly among the migrant community, hundreds descended on the Assam Bhawan in Pallikaranai on Wednesday, throwing personal distancing norms to the wind. Since there was no such train service, contrary to what they had been led to believe, the workers were asked to return to their places of stay and wait for further communication. Temporary shelter On Thursday, many gathered at the Guru Nanak College in Velachery, which was serving as a shelter for migrant workers. After waiting with their luggage for a long time, they were allowed by the authorities to take shelter inside the premises and provided with food. Later, tension prevailed as many workers gathered near the MGR Central railway station. The police had a tough time convincing the labourers about the arrangements being made for them. Migrant labourers could be seen walking on the streets in Velachery, Egmore, Kilpauk and other localities. Inderjit Deka, who works as a security guard in Chennai, said he had vacated his house in Taramani and had nowhere to go. “There was no clear communication about the train or who will get to travel,” he said, adding that many others like him spent the night in the open on Wednesday. Mukul Mondal, another worker, said, “We came here from a neighbouring district. Now, we don't have food or money. How long can we be here? We haven't bathed for days. We want to go home.” Joint Commissioner of Police, East, R. Sudhakar, who interacted with the workers, said, “On receiving word-of-mouth information, these workers had walked from across the city to the railway station. We explained to them that if they have registered themselves with the government portal, they will receive a message about the date and time of departure of the train to their destination.” A nodal officer of the Tamil Nadu government said, “Usually, the State government concerned gives a list of passengers who have registered themselves on our website and theirs. Once a train is arranged, we call these passengers for a medical check-up before allowing them to board the train. On Wednesday, a train left for Meghalaya. People gathered here on hearing that information. We are trying to arrange a train to Assam in a day or two. We are in touch with the Assam government in this regard.”
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||706 passengers arrive at Central from Delhi||The Chennai Corporation on Thursday received 706 passengers who arrived in the city by train from Delhi. Most of them showed willingness to be on free accommodation, said Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Corporation officials made arrangements for free accommodation for 500 passengers in St. Joseph College of Engineering in Semmenchery in Sholinganallur zone. Arrangements for paid accommodation for 100 passengers were made in Hotel Ambassador Pallava in Egmore. Another 100 passengers were shifted to Hotel Pride on Poonamallee High Road for paid accommodation. All passengers were screened for symptoms of COVID-19 before being taken to their choice of accommodation. “The passengers have no symptoms of COVID-19. We will take them to the COVID-19 testing facilities on Friday in the respective zones where they have been accommodated. After testing for the disease, decisions will be made for sending them home after the stipulated time of quarantine,” an official said. Transported by bus The passengers were received at the Chennai Central by Chennai Corporation Department of Revenue and Finance officials, who took them in 30 buses to hotels and educational institutions for accommodation. A passenger who went to Hotel Pride said the officials in the train informed them that the paid accommodation would cost Rs. 1500 per day. “But after we reached Chennai, officials say the cost of accommodation is Rs. 2500 per day. We hope to get better facilities and nutritious food. That is why we agreed to opt for paid accommodation,” the passenger said. Most passengers who opted for paid accommodation reached the hotel by 9 p.m. In a bid to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the passengers were asked to wait on the road while adopting social distancing for a long time before being permitted inside the hotel.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women with COVID-19: Chennai outnumbers State||The proportion of women among COVID-19 patients is disproportionately high in Chennai compared to the rest of Tamil Nadu, an indicator possibly confirming increased community transmission in the city. While the male to female ratio of patients for the whole of Tamil Nadu, among the 9,674 cases as on Thursday, stood at roughly 66:34, in Chennai the ratio was almost 60:40. On excluding Chennai, the ratio of female patients is considerably low for all other districts put together. Only around one in four patients are women in all other districts in Tamil Nadu. The trend is similar even in some of the districts with more number of cases like Cuddalore, Tiruvallur and Viluppuram. A similar trend has also been observed among the younger and older population who have tested positive in the State. In Chennai, the percentage of patients in the 0-12 age group and in the above 60 age group stands at 16.1 and 7.1, respectively. For all other districts put together, the percentage is significantly lower at 10.4 and 4.4. K. Kolandaswamy, who recently retired as the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Tamil Nadu, said that the trend was indicative of the fact that the virus was now spreading at the household level in Chennai. “Biologically, one gender is not prone to COVID-19 than the other. Men are more at risk, particularly in the initial stages of the pandemic, since the possibility of them venturing out and coming into contact with others is more. As cases go up, people at home also become more vulnerable,” he said. Usha Sriram, Chennai-based endocrinologist, who has been observing the impact of COVID-19 among women, said that there could also be other contributing factors to the trend. Vulnerable sections She pointed out that women in urban areas, particularly among the poorer sections, were prone to having predisposing conditions that could make them more vulnerable. “We know that the prevalence of non-communicable diseases is more among urban women than rural women. One of the key learnings we are seeing from COVID-19 is that people with non-communicable diseases are more prone to communicable diseases,” she said. Dr. Kolandaswamy said that it was important at this stage to identify the root and source of every infection. “We need to know how every elderly person is catching the infection, whether by going out or through family members. Adequate steps must be taken to protect them as they are more vulnerable,” he said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary denies DMK’s charge||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Thursday denied that he had humiliated a delegation of DMK MPs led by T.R. Baalu when they met him in his office on Wednesday and said it was disheartening to hear such allegations when government officials were working round the clock to fight COVID-19. Responding to accusations by Mr. Baalu after the meeting, Mr. Shanmugam in a statement said there was no truth in the claims made by him. Mr. Shanmugam said that at no point did he humiliate the delegation and photographs published in a regional daily were proof that their claim of being treated without even minimum courtesy was not true. The Chief Secretary said Mr. Baalu repeatedly insisted on him giving a time frame to take action on nearly one lakh representations received by the DMK under its “Ondrinaivom vaa” programme. “I told him that it was not possible to give a time frame as the government was working with minimal staff due to COVID-19 restrictions, but all the representations will be sent to the respective departments and action will definitely be taken.” He said Mr. Maran too insisted on a time frame for taking action on the representations. The Chief Secretary said Mr. Baalu then asked if he should inform his leader (M.K. Stalin) that a date by which the issues would be resolved could not be given. “I told Mr. Baalu to inform him that the representations were received and action will be taken”. To this, Mr. Baalu said that he would inform that action was not taken since there were not enough employees, Mr. Shanmugam said. “At this point, I told them ‘this is the problem with you people. You do not understand our difficulties’ and asked them to inform whatever they wanted to”, he said and added that he had no intention to insult or humiliate them. The Chief Secretary said he had sent all the representations to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. “I am an ordinary government employee. I am not a politician. I work with the responsibility that people’s problems have to be solved and that’s why I immediately ordered action to be taken on these representations,” Mr. Shanmugam said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Limiting buyers to 500 per shop in a day’||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) on Thursday told the Madras High Court that it had printed tokens for distribution among purchasers of liquor and that it proposed to issue only 500 tokens a day, at the rate of 70 tokens an hour, in every shop. Also read: TASMAC increases prices of liquor “Persons in excess of the day’s quota [of 500] will be given tokens with a time slot for the next day and sent back. This is done to ensure that there’s no overcrowding and to maintain physical distancing,” a counter affidavit filed by Tasmac before the court read. Also read: Long queues, umbrellas used to reserve spots, as TASMAC outlets open across Tamil Nadu The counter was filed before a Full Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justices Vineet Kothari and P.N. Prakash, seized of a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed against the reopening of liquor shops before the lockdown is lifted. In so far as the mad rush witnessed in liquor shops across the State on May 7, when they were reopened before theiclosure was ordered by the court on May 8 was concerned, Tasmac said that overcrowding at certain shops was something that had taken place in all States. Attributing the crowd to the reopening of shops after 41 days of lockdown, Tasmac said that it had stopped sales in 12 shops where overcrowding was reported and that policemen had also been deployed in most shops for crowd control. Tasmac managing director R. Kirlosh Kumar said that the High Court ought not to have ordered closure of the shops when the Supreme Court, in a similar case, had refused to restrain State governments from reopening the shops and had left it open to them to consider online sales. “It is respectfully submitted that the order of the honourable Supreme Court is binding upon all courts in the country,” the MD said and added that guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry on May 1 permittes the sale of liquor, gutkha, tobacco, betel leaves and so on. Also read: On Day 1, chaos prevail at TASMAC shops in Chennai’s neighbouring districts Listing out 12 States where liquor was being sold in retail shops, Tasmac said that of the 5,338 liquor shops spread across Tamil Nadu, the government had decided to reopen only about 3,850 shops, excluding those situated within the limits of the Greater Chennai police. It also raised a technical objection that most present petitioners before the court had challenged only a press release issued by the government on May 4 regarding a decision taken to reopen the shops and not a consequent government order issued on May 5. In so far as the cap imposed on the sale of liquor to individuals, Tasmac said that its intention was to sell to every individual only the quantity of liquor which a person was entitled to be in possession at a time, as per the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Possession for Personal Consumption) Rules of 1996. Anything in excess will amount to bulk sale and such sale had been prohibited, it said. During the day-long hearing of the case on Thursday, a battery of senior counsel, including R. Vaigai, N.L. Rajah, ARL. Sundaresan, Veera Kathiravan and others argued against reopening of the shops until the lockdown is lifted completely and normalcy is restored. After hearing them at length, the judges adjourned the hearing to Friday for Advocate General Vijay Narayan to reply to their wide-ranging submissions, questioning the urgency to open liquor shops when the State was facing an unprecedented crisis due to a pandemic.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Slum-dwellers to get free masks||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Thursday launched a scheme of distribution of masks free of cost to residents in various parts of the city. Inaugurating the distribution of masks at Kannagi Nagar on Thursday, Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan said the civic body had created awareness about wearing masks, washing hands and maintain social distancing among residents. The Corporation workers had been directed to distribute reusable masks to 26 lakh slum dwellers in the city. Every resident in 650-odd slums will get reusable mask free of cost. On Thursday, Mr. Radhakrishnan asked civic workers to distribute six masks to each resident at Kannagi Nagar and at Ezhil Nagar in ward 195 of Sholinganallur zone of Greater Chennai Corporation.  On Wednesday, 13 persons at Kannagi Nagar tested positive for COVID-19, taking the number to 27. Thirteen containment zones had been created at Kannagi Nagar following the rise in the number of positive cases. The area had high number of COVID-19 cases because of the high population density in resettlement tenements built for 23,000 tsunami-affected families. Each resident received sanitiser free of cost. “The Corporation has sent 150 workers to test the residents for COVID-19. Special teams have been formed to monitor the violations to physical distancing norms in the area. Shopkeepers have been advised to promote physical distancing,” he said. At a review meeting on Wednesday, Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani stressed on the need for distribution of masks and sanitiser free of cost to residents and front line workers.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A complaint of delay in testing prompts civic body to act||A resident of Anna Nagar West had a harrowing experience when she tried to get her mother tested for COVID-19. According to Swadi Prabakaran, her mother took ill on May 9. Initially, the family did not suspect that it was COVID-19, since she had no travel or contact history in the family. Since the lockdown, only her mother ventured out twice a week to buy groceries. But when her fever did not subside, Ms. Swadi called the helpline, only to be told to contact the nearest government hospital. She took her mother to the Govermnent Kilpauk Hospital on Wednesday, where doctors advised her to be quarantined at home and keep her grandmother protected. She was prescribed basic paracetamol and sent home. However, no tests were done for the other members of the family – Swadi, her 81-year-old grandmother and brother. She escalated her concern again with the authorities on social media. On Thursday, the Greater Chennai Corporation officials visited their home and sanitised the area, according to her and took the rest of the family, save her mother, for testing. Later, her mother was sent to a government quarantine facility. On Thursday, she was shifted to a private engineering college after a chest X-ray was done. “There has been no delay. We have clear guidelines that a person should have close contact with a positive patient or must have been exposed to the virus and tested positive. There was no delay on our part. In case she has concerns she can always contact us,” a Corporation health official said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protocol in place to test those arriving by Rajdhani Express||The government on Wednesday framed a protocol to test for COVID-19 and quarantine train passengers arriving at Chennai Central from New Delhi. Even if one passenger in a bogie tests positive, all co-passengers in the compartment would be institutionally quarantined for a week, according to the protocol framed by the government. The protocol came into effect on Thursday, when the Rajdhani Express special train arrived late in the day. Another special passenger train will arrive in the city on May 16. Passengers on the same bogie as a person who tests positive, which will be declared after due testing by the State, will be “put in institutional quarantine in their [respective] districts for seven days, followed by home quarantine at their place of stay for 14 days,” the protocol issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam stated. If all passengers in a compartment test negative, they will be home quarantined in their respective districts for 14 days. As per the protocol, each bogie would be opened one after another and only one exit would be used. If any passenger showed symptoms, they would be taken to the treatment facility. After screening, GCC authorities would guide them to one of two exits — A or B. While A was for free government quarantine, B was for paid hotel accommodation. Buses will be used to transport them to their choice of accommodation. “In the morning, swab samples will be taken from all passengers who are quarantined,” he said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t fall prey to ads offering online delivery of alcohol: police||“Tasmac wine shop home delivery. Online payment, phone pay and Google Pay accepted. Good Service Wine” — reads an advertisement on a social media page called Tasmac wine shop, with a phone number provided. This is one of the many fake Tasmac pages offering 24-hour door delivery of alcohol, that have emerged online, especially after Tasmac shops were closed due to the lockdown. The police have asked people not to fall prey to such fake advertisements and lose their money. Sources from Tasmac said a police complaint has been made to take action against people who are running and circulating these sites and pages. “When someone contacts the number, they ask for 50% of the payment through the online mode and the remaining, they say, can be paid to the delivery agents. However, after the payment, the number will not be reachable,” a police officer said. Sometimes the conmen ask for the debit card number and OTP and swipe the customer’s bank account clean. Cyber law experts said that State government that have began online sales of alcohol have to gear up to tackle online frauds as well. D. Dhanasekaran, general secretary, Tasmac Workers Association, said the government should create awareness among people about the online frauds. Sources from the Cyber Wing of the city police said that they had received information about such a crime, but were yet to receive a formal complaint.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore news portal founder moves High Court to quash case||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice, returnable by June 15, on a petition filed by the founder of Coimbatore-based news portal Simplicity to quash a criminal case registered against him for reporting about government doctors’ protest and pilferage in ration shops. Justice N. Sathish Kumar granted four weeks’ time at the request of State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan who said, the petitioner, D. Andrew Samraja Pandian, 39, had been granted bail by a court in Coimbatore and hence there was no urgency in hearing the plea to quash. In his petition, filed through advocate N. Ramesh, the litigant stated that he had carried a news item titled ‘No timely and adequate food, alleged UG and PG student doctors at CMCH hostel,’ on his news portal on April 14. The news was based on protest by government medical college students. Subsequently, he had carried another news item titled ‘Looting at ration shops during lockdown. Govt’s grant of Rs. 1,000 swindled, lament public’ on April 18 and it was based on complaints from local residents regarding pilferage in fair price shops during the lockdown. Taking exception to them, the Assistant Commissioner of Coimbatore Corporation lodged a police complaint against him on April 22 accusing the petitioner of inciting the people against the establishment. The police registered a case and arrested the petitioner. He was remanded to judicial custody on April 23 and got released on bail on April 28. Stating that he had only performed his professional duty as a journalist, the petitioner said that he had no malafide intention in publishing the news and that it could not be termed as false news. “In the present case, the petitioner is the victim of a political vendetta since the petitioner had rubbed up brother of local minister and functionaries the wrong way,” the litigant said and urged the court to quash the First Information Report.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tasmac revenue can't be matched by other sources in the short term’||The State government has no sources of funds that could compensate for the entire quantum of the revenue loss it would incur in the short term in the event of total prohibition, according to a cross-section of economists, politicians and policymakers. It is not possible to mobilise funds to the tune of Rs. 30,000 crore-Rs. 35,000 crore overnight through alternative sources, K.R. Shanmugam, Director, Madras School of Economics, and N.R. Bhanumurthy, Professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, point out. They, however, feel that Tamil Nadu, where the topic of prohibition refuses to die down, is in a position to raise resources that could match the revenue through liquor sale. But this could take four or five years. Their observations assume relevance in the context of the topic of prohibition gaining currency following the Madras High Court’s direction to the State government last week to close down 3,850 liquor shops [outside Chennai and COVID-19 containment zones] run by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac), which has since approached the Supreme Court against the order. Suggesting a hike in electricity tariff, water cess and user charges, Dr. Shanmugam says that the government should tap sectors like fishery and forestry to mop up the resources required. Another way for the government to raise funds is by increasing the fees considerably for undergraduate courses in government medical colleges, as those of private medical colleges are “very high”. Political policy measure Pointing out that additional revenue can be generated by hiking the stamp duty or registration charges in the area of real-estate, and entertainment tax and local taxes on petroleum products, Prof. Bhanumurthy says a decision on prohibition is more a political policy measure than a welfare-oriented or economic decision. Concurring with this observation, a Minister in the State government recalls how his party, the AIADMK, couldn’t re-emerge as a principal force in Puducherry after enforcing strict prohibition in the late 1970s. ‘No scope’ A former Minister, who belongs to the ruling AIADMK, says that post the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, there is virtually no scope for States to get more revenue from their own sources, other than having to rely on greater devolution of resources from the Centre. A senior policymaker says that prohibition can be achieved gradually through a multi-year strategy and sustained implementation of the following steps – a strong social campaign on the ill effects of liquor, health support for de-addiction and high taxes. Permitting star hotels Another veteran says the government could continue to earn 50% of the revenue it garners from liquor trade by permitting star hotels to serve liquor and distilleries to sell their produce outside the State or export it. The other 50% could be made up by pruning the size of government departments and restructuring welfare schemes. However, there is a different school of thought among policymakers who are sceptical about the practicability of the enforcement of prohibition, though there is a widespread feeling that the government’s recent move to open the shops was “ill-timed”. According to them, given that its neighbouring States and Puducherry are all wet, Tamil Nadu cannot remain “really dry”, as such a scenario would be like “a piece of camphor encircled by leaping flames,” as former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had once famously stated. Emphasising that he does not drink, A.X. Alexander, former Director-General of Police, points out, however, that one has to keep in mind that drinking has become a “socially accepted norm”.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Impact, recovery time linked to lifting of lockdown’||The extent to which the economy of Tamil Nadu has been affected due to the spread of COVID-19 and how fast the State can recover depends on when the lockdown is lifted, said former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) C. Rangarajan on Thursday. Mr. Rangarajan is the chairperson of a high-level committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to assess the short and medium-term responses to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Talking to reporters after chairing the first meeting of the 24-member high-level committee at the Madras School of Economics in Kotturpuram, Chennai, Mr. Rangarajan said that the report of the panel would be submitted to the government within three months. Asked whether there would be an interim report, he said: “If there is a need, we will give an interim report. We have not taken a decision on that.”  The committee will look at immediate responses as well as responses needed in the next two to three years, he said. “No decision was taken [today] since this was the first meeting. All members were present and some were present through video-conference. All of them gave their comments,” he said. The panel was to discuss the extent to which the economy of the State has been affected and the measures needed to address this, while also looking at the possibility of economic reforms. Sub-groups have been formed to look into issues facing various sectors, he said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TTD awaits government’s nod to allow darshan||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is waiting for a nod from the Andhra Pradesh government to allow darshan for devotees at Tirumala, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said on Thursday. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Reddy said the TTD had written to the State government that darshan could be allowed for about 10,000 devotees a day to start with, considering physical distancing in accommodation, queue, and darshan. Though an average of 85,000 to 1 lakh devotes visited Tirumala on a daily basis from across the country, the COVID-19 safety protocols would not permit such huge gatherings. The TTD management, in consultation with health and other officials, has chalked out a safety protocol for staff, security personnel and devotees. The plan is to issue a limited number of darshan tickets online and provide detailed instructions to devotees on the rules to follow. Sufficient numbers of masks, hand sanitisers and thermal scanners would be made available at the Alipiri security check point and at Tirumala for devotees. A quarantine block has been established to accommodate staff or devotees with symptoms of COVID-19. “Though the temple is closed for devotees, routine rituals are being conducted. We have enough funds to pay salaries and run hospitals and educational institutions owned by the TTD,” he said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crew member of an Indian ship from Iraq tests positive for COVID-19||A 27-year-old member of a ship’s crew that reached Chennai Port, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The ship, ‘MT Desh Abhimaan’ with an Indian flag, carrying crude oil, left from Basra, Iraq, and reached the city on May 3 and was waiting for berthing. The crew member joined the ship at the Mumbai Port on November 11 last year, and was suffering from pain in his right upper abdomen for nearly two months now. Since he was advised further medical assistance for this pain, the crew requested Chennai Port on May 12 if the treatment can be given at the Port Hospital, officials said. But since he needed additional treatment, he was taken to another Shipping Corporation of India empanelled hospital. Incidentally, at this hospital, he was also tested for COVID-19 and the results came back positive. He was subsequently shifted to a private hospital in Manapakkam, Chennai. Sources at Chennai Port said contact tracing was immediately done and investigations were on. “The ship has been completely disinfected and its 26 crew members have been asked to be kept in isolation inside the ship. Their health conditions are monitored daily,” an official said. Now, Chennai Port authorities have been trying to locate the source of the infection and how the crew member acquired it.
15 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. looking forward to next set of announcements’||A day after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced details of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s special economic package of Rs. 20 lakh crore to overcome the losses due to COVID-19 in the country, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said they were well thought-out measures and the State was looking forward to the next set of announcements. In separate letters to Mr. Modi and Ms. Sitharaman, a copy of which was released to media, Mr. Panneerselvam (who also holds the finance portfolio) said: “This well thought out set of measures covering a range of sectors will not only provide timely financial relief and liquidity but also stimulate the revival of the economy.”
15 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams govt. over ‘failures’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday alleged that the hasty clamping of the COVID-19 lockdown and the failure to take adequate protective measures in places such as the Koyambedu wholesale market complex where traders and people would crowd, was the major reason for the spread of the pandemic in Tamil Nadu. In a statement issued in Chennai, he said people to a large extent had followed the lockdown regulations, but the government had pushed them to a corner by sudden announcements. “In order to suppress the government’s failure, it seeks to shift the blame on to the people. Duringthe conference with the district collectors, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had accused the traders of Koyambedu of non-cooperation when the government decided to shift it somewhere else,” Mr. Stalin alleged.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations for pandemic relief continue||Sakthi Masala donated Rs. 5.10 crore to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund towards COVID-19 relief efforts. In a statement, the company said it had already contributed Rs. 5 crore in March, taking its total contribution to Rs. 10.10 crore. Toshiba JSW Power Systems Pvt. Ltd. said it contributed Rs. 5 lakh to the CM’s relief fund.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspect held for cheating senior citizens||Valasaravakkam police on Thursday arrested a suspect for allegedly cheating senior citizens at ATMs on the pretext of helping them to withdraw cash. Police said a few days ago, Prabakaran, 65, of Jay Garden went to an ATM on Arcot Road and struggled to withdraw cash since he had poor vision. A stranger wearing a helmet, pretended to withdraw cash and told him the ATM had no cash. On the sly, the suspect swapped the card. A few minutes later Prabakaran realised that Rs. 50, 000 cash was debited from his account following receipt of SMS on his mobile phone. Valasaravakkam police arrested the suspect and identified him as Parthasarathy, 50, of SVS Nagar. He was involved in cheating of senior citizens in ATMs in Valasaravakkam and Virugambakkam, police said.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Baalu, Maran submit privilege notices||DMK Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu on Thursday submitted a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, seeking the initiation of Contempt of Privilege proceedings against Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam for having allegedly treated MPs with contempt.  Mr. Maran also submitted a similar petition.
15 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco invites applications||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has invited applications from agriculture power consumers who want additional load. According to a Tangedco press release, the maximum load that can be granted is 15 HP, including the sanctioned load and the additional load. The transformer feeding the service connection should have spare capacity and only then will it be provided. Only existing agriculture consumers can apply under this pilot scheme for 2020-21. The applicant should make a one time payment of Rs. 20,000 per HP. There is no need for additional documents. However, if the applicant wants to go in for name transfer, the required documents should be submitted. The agriculture consumers, who want to apply for additional load, should register with the respective office of the executive engineer before June 30. For details, they can approach the nearest Tangedco executive engineer’s office.
15 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Now, masks with pics of your favourite star||With several garment factories in Tiruppur taking up mask production in a big way in the last one-and-a-half months, the orders have begun to come in thick and fast, and for varied needs — surgical masks, “fashion” masks, customised masks, and even masks bearing images of actors. V.S. Chandrakumar, chief executive officer, Sentinal Clothing, which used to make T-shirts with logos, says he decided to try out the concept for masks too. “The demand is huge from corporates for customised masks,” he says. Several companies want masks with their logos printed. Some give the design for the masks too, he adds. With an eye on market share, Mr. Chandrakumar says he began making masks with images of actors printed on them. “This immediately led to demand shooting up. We make 300-500 pieces a day with images of actors. However, customised masks with logos are more in demand,” he adds. Popular choices In the last few days, the company has sold over 4,000 masks with images of actors on them. With the in-house design facilities, he has so far printed images of a few Tamil actors and those in the Netflix series Money Heist . “It is all based on customer response and demand,” he adds. The masks are made of knitted, double-layered cotton fabric that is bio-washed. So the products can be reused, he says. Such is the demand for masks now that many factories in Tiruppur have decided to focus on them for the next three to six months. The exporters are all waiting for the Central government to permit sales abroad.
15 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More migrant workers in Coimbatore want to return home||Neeraj Kumar, who is from Bihar and is employed in Coimbatore for the last 10 years, walks to a government office at Singanallur every day, to register his name to go home. “Every day, they ask me to come the next day. But I am not able to take a train to Bihar. Even two months ago, I had booked ticket. But I am not able to use it now,” he says. However, Neeraj’s friend Ashok boarded the train on Thursday evening. As many as 48 of them live in a house here and 20 of them were able to board the train. “Many of my friends are not able to,” says Ashok. With 13 trains already operated to help workers from Coimbatore reach their home States, and five more in the pipeline, a number of workers are going to the railway station every day from different parts of the district to make an attempt to catch a train for their home town. The police talk to them and help them go back to their places of stay. Rohit Kumar, another worker from Bihar and about 50 other migrant workers, did not know that they need to register online to take a train to go home. They were walking to the railway junction a couple of days ago when the police stopped them and explained the procedure. “We do not know the procedures. We only want to go home. We tried walking to the States yesterday too,” he says. “One day, it was Thudiyalur and today it was Sulur. Every day, groups of migrant workers try to come to the railway station,” says Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan. Arrangements “No one has a clear, verified number on migrant workers employed in Coimbatore district. The district administration planned to help 20,000 workers return. Those who are staying back should be given provisions. And, arrangements should be made to enable all those who want to leave to take trains to their home towns,” he says. The MP met Collector K. Rajamani here on Thursday in this regard. There are also reports of one or two workers committing suicide as they are unable to go back home.
15 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three more trains leave Coimbatore||As part of the efforts of sending the migrant workers to their hometowns, three more Shramik special trains were operated from the Coimbatore Junction here on Thursday. The first train left for Bhadrak in Odisha at 11 a.m., which was followed by the train to Guwahati, Assam, at 4 p.m. The third train was bound for Danapur, Bihar, which left at 6 p.m. The first special train from Coimbatore to Assam was operated on Thursday, according to officials from the Salem Division of Southern Railway. Each of the three trains had 24 coaches and transported 1,464 passengers. The workers were screened for COVID-19 symptoms at the Coimbatore Railway Station before they were allowed to board the trains.
15 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead||A female elephant was found dead within the limits of Mettuapalayam forest range of Coimbatore forest division on Thursday. Frontline staff of Forest Department found the carcass of the elephant aged around 50 at Odanthurai reserve forest area. Forest veterinary officer Sugumar autopsied the carcass. The elephant had two injuries which it appeared to have suffered in the attack of a male elephant. The carcass was left at the same place for scavengers after autopsy.
15 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions seek Collector’s intervention||Representatives from five trade unions petitioned District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Thursday alleging that workers in cotton mills across Tiruppur district have not received their salaries during the lockdown period. The petition was submitted by representatives from INTUC, LPF, AITUC, CITU, MLF and BMS. According to the petition, about 1 lakh workers are employed in over 300 cotton mills at Dharapuram, Avinashi, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam. The workers have allegedly not received any wages in the past 45 days despite the directions provided by State and Central governments, the petition said.
15 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman commits self-immolation||A 23-year-old woman resident of a village near Negamam immolated self on the terrace of her house on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as G. Geetha, a resident of China Vadambacheri, near Negamam. The police said that the woman was employed in an automobile company and she did not go for work for the last five months. On Wednesday, she went to the terrace of her house in the afternoon and did not return for a long time. Her parents rushed to the terrace after a man saw smoke billowing from the top of the house and informed them. They found Geetha in flames. Though they managed to put out the fire and took her to Government Hospital at Palladam, doctors declared her brought dead. The police registered a case of unnatural death based on the complaint filed by the father of the woman. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050.  Woman found dead A woman aged between 40 and 50 was found dead in the canal of Parambikulam Aliyar Project at Periya Vadambacheri coming under Sulur taluk on Wednesday. The Negamam police reached the spot and retrieved the body. After inquest, the body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The police said that they were yet to confirm the identity of the woman.
15 May 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Woman doctor from Pennagaram Govt. Hospital relieved of duty||A woman doctor, who blew the whistle on the diversion of patients from Pennagaram government headquarters hospital to a private hospital by an assistant surgeon of the Pennagaram GH, has since been “relieved of her duty” and moved to Harur government hospital. A look at the turn of events in the last few days has revealed the play of sexism, veiled casteism and political interference in the functioning of the Pennagaram GH in the time of a pandemic. On Tuesday, on nurses day, a handful of nurses “stood in protest” outside the Pennagaram GH alleging that a woman assistant surgeon(Gynaecology and Obstetrics) in Pennagaram GH had slapped one of the nurses. However, the officials concluded the allegation as false and motivated by an assistant surgeon (Ortho) at the same government hospital. On Wednesday, the ortho in question L. Sivakumar Senthil Murugan, DNB(Ortho) was “transferred on administrative grounds” to Krishnagiri government headquarters hospital. The same day, J. Kanimozhi, assistant surgeon, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, against whom the false allegation was made by the nurses was “relieved of her duty and instructed to join duty at Harur Govenrment hospital.” The difference in the wording of the orders had also raised eyebrows among officials privy to the happenings. Incidentally, Dr. Sivakumar is a Caste Hindu, while Dr. Kanimozhi belongs to the Scheduled Caste. Dr. Kanimozhi, in a letter dated March 23 to the Joint Director of Health Services (copy of which is available with The Hindu ) detailed the malpractices under way at the Pennagaram government hospital. In the letter, along with annexure of memos of patients, WhatsApp chat transcripts, biometric punch in details, Dr. Kanimozhi had ramped up allegations against Dr. Sivakumar Senthil Murugan that included his diverting patients through private ambulances to a private hospital run by him; performing surgeries availing of the Chief Minister’s insurance scheme on such patients transferred from the GH, and later readmitting them to the Pennagaram GH; refusal to attend to outpatients or pregnant women and referring patients and deliveries to Dharmapuri government medical college hospital as a routine. Dr.Kanimozhi had stated that the deliveries fell in Pennagaram GH, which was highly equipped for deliveries. Further, the DNO had also alleged that 108 Ambulance of Pennagaram GH was hand in glove with the doctor, dialling up private ambulance to lift the patients off to the private clinic on a commission. The allegations included contemptuous comments against Dr.Kanimozhi , a senior doctor at the hospital, by Dr.Senthil Murugan, who was only two years old in the government service. Against this backdrop, the medical administration concluded the nurses protests as stage-managed by the Dr. Sivakumar. However, the issue also flagged the inaction of the medical administration over the course of two years, when issues were raised against the doctor, leading to the current crisis. “There are three to four files pending against the hospital (Dr. Sivakumar), highest for a district hospital in the last two years, and no action was taken. There were complaints from the patients, locals, and also from the local MLA,” said a medical department official requesting anonymity. An official source at the Collectorate told The Hindu , “Dr. Kanimozhi is a very efficient, committed doctor, constantly updating the Collector on the child and maternal health at Penngaram GH. It is good in a way she was transferred to Harur, a SC majority area, where she would be safe.” Asked about the “transfer” order of Sivakumar to another district headquarters hospital, instead of a disciplinary action, Dr. Sahaya Stephen Raj, Joint Director of Health, called it a “stop-gap arrangement to tide over the crisis.” “The Pennagaram hospital is a pioneering hospital in the State that had won the Kayakalpa award and the coveted NQAS award. This is to prevent further damage,” Dr.Raj said. When contacted, a highly placed medical administration official, while alluding to the pandemic and political pressure as reasons for stalled action, also said, “the transfer was an administrative issue,” and that there was nothing to comment.
15 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||A faux pas at Government Hospital||Uneasy calm prevailed in the Government Hospital here on Thursday for about two hours when a patient who tested positive for coronavirus left the premises following a faux pas. Officials said a group of men went to Koyambedu last week. They were returning in a lorry. When the lorry approached Tiruchi, the police stopped them and did not permit them to go beyond the point. Not in a mood to stay there, two men chose to walk towards Dindigul. On reaching Nilakottai, they were caught and kept in an isolation centre at government arts college campus three days ago. Their samples were sent to Dindigul and they were kept under surveillance at the isolation centre. When the authorities directed them to come to the GH, a 44-year-old man from Singarakottai near here was reportedly told that he tested negative. Doctors realised after a while that the man had indeed tested positive. But the man left the premises by then. Joint Director (Health) Poongothai alerted the police immediately and the man was spotted half an hour later walking near Begumpur. He was once again brought back to the hospital in 108 ambulance. The doctors and police heaved a sigh of relief.
15 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Many workers wish to stay: Collector||Since 80% of the industries in rural areas in the district have started functioning, many migrant workers are willing to stay back and work, said Collector C. Kathiravan, after inspecting functioning of shops in the city on Thursday. Addressing media persons, he said around 18,000 migrant workers had registered with the district administration a month ago to return to their native place. But now, with industries started to function, a survey carried out on Wednesday revealed that only 8,000 of them wanted to return.  Mr. Kathiravan said the administration was holding talks with the workers and if they were willing to return, arrangements would be made.
15 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Containment a challenge for authorities in Shoolagiri||With a particular locality in Shoolagiri reporting about 18 COVID-19 positive cases over the last week, the authorities are faced with challenges as reports of people jumping over barricades in the containment zones have been rife. However, local revenue officials said that containment was being maintained and volunteers were on the move to provide essentials to the residents. Last week, first two positive cases were reported at Kamarajar Nagar in Shoolagiri. The two women, both flower sellers, were suspected to have come in contact with truck drivers who had transported to and from Koyambedu and Bengaluru. The infection had spread from them to their neighbours and relatives thereafter. Earlier this week, amid reports of infected persons or their family members walking about freely, breaking quarantine, officials rushed to Kamarajar Nagar and took them to the ESI hospital amid resistance from their family members. The latest guidelines approved of home quarantine. But, in this case, all 18 persons were shifted to the ESI hospital, said Dr.Govindan, Deputy Director, Health Services. The containment zone has a population of over 1,700 people. But, so far, only 120 swab samples were collected and from those with direct contact with the patients. According to a local official, earlier women had to step out in the open for toilets, and in the process break quarantine. But under the Collector’s orders, 20 toilets were built in the past week and were opened for use. A total of 4,150 samples were taken so far in the district.
15 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers invited to apply for silt from KRP Dam||Farmers and potters are invited to apply to avail silt from KRP dam that is currently undergoing desilting works. According to an administration release, they may apply to the Village Administrative Officers concerned, which will be forwarded to the tahsildars for permits.
15 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||GRH isolation ward gets three robots||The COVID-19 isolation wing of Government Rajaji Hospital here has received three remote-controlled robots, named Zafi Go, from SASTRA Deemed to be University, Thanjavur, on Thursday. These robots will be used to serve food and medication to patients. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, who was present at the hospital, said that the robots would help the medical staff maintain personal distancing with the patients. “It is important to ensure the safety of doctors, nurses and sanitary workers, who are in the forefront of this fight against the pandemic. To boost immunity of the medical personnel, Vitamin C, Zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer are regularly distributed,” he said. V. Badrinath, Dean, Corporate Relations and Extension Activities of Sastra University, said the robots, which can be controlled using remote, have three racks to carry food, medicines and water to the patients. “A medical staff can use the robots from a maximum distance of 1,500 metres to serve food and medicines to patients,” he said. There is a LED screen on the robot and the remote to enable patients and doctors to communicate from a safe distance. “The main aim behind developing these robots was to reduce the personal distance between the patients and medical personnel, who are vulnerable to contract COVID-19 infection,” he said. The robots were developed by engineers of Propeller Technologies, a Tiruchi-based company, which is part of the Sastra Technology Business Incubator. The hospital staff were trained to operate the robots. Mr. Badrinath said the university will be giving away 20 robots to various government hospitals across the State. Collector T.G. Vinay and Dean J. Sangumani were present. Minister’s appeal At a press meet the same day, the Revenue Minister said that with the relaxation of lockdown norms in place, people must cooperate with the government and adopt safety precautions to contain the spread of COVID-19. People must wear face masks, maintain personal distancing and frequently wash their hands when they were outdoors. “Several shops and industries have started functioning after relaxation of lockdown norms. Based on people’s cooperation in adopting safety precautions, the Chief Minister will igradually permit other activities and restore normality,” he said. Works under kudimaramathu scheme had begun. In Madurai district, around 640 works were being carried out under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, outside the containment zones, he said. He also hailed the public health department for deploying mobile medical units - with each unit consisting of a doctor, nurse and a sanitary worker - to screen and provide medications to pregnant women and those with non-communicable diseases in all the 13 blocks of the district.  No more human contact Now, medical staff can maintain personal distancing with patients  The robots have three racks to carry food, medicines and water  They can be controlled using a remote from a maximum distance of 1,500 metres
15 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC allows man’s sentences to run concurrently||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has come to the relief of a 60-year-old man by allowing his plea to undergo his sentences for committing theft at different places concurrently. Otherwise, he would have to spend at least 10 years in prison for the offences. The court was hearing the petition filed by Sheik Madhar who was sentenced for burglary and theft. On January 9, 2017, he broke open five optical shops one after the other and stole money, and five separate cases were registered against him. He was sentenced to three years’ simple imprisonment by the trial court in Tiruchi and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for each offence. When he appealed against the sentence, the Sessions Court modified and reduced the sentence to two years and the fine to Rs. 100 in each case. However, both the trial court and the appellate court did not pass any direction as to whether the sentences in all the cases would run consecutively or concurrently. The petitioner filed the petition before the High Court, seeking to undergo his sentences concurrently. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that under Section 427 of the Cr.P.C. (Sentence on offender already sentenced for another offence) if the sentencing court failed to pass any specific direction that the subsequent direction should run concurrently with previous sentence, it would run consecutively. Suppose on a single day, an accused was found guilty in more than one case and sentenced, it was for the court concerned to clarify as to when the sentence in the subsequent case would take effect. If the court was silent on this aspect, the sentences would start running from the date when they were given effect to. Such an adverse consequence emanating from the silence of the court had a serious implication for personal liberty. The Constitution attached a very high value to personal liberty. Therefore, such a provision must be construed in a manner that was at once fair, just and reasonable. The sentences would necessarily run only concurrently, the judge said, and allowed the petition.
15 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Home is where business is||As migrant labourers across Tamil Nadu hope to make their way back home in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown, a group of dollmakers, who arrived from Rajasthan eight years ago, have stayed back and resumed business after the relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown. Bheema Ram, 40, was one of the earliest of his family to arrive in Madurai in 2012 from Pali district in Rajasthan. He hoped to earn a living by making dolls in plaster of Paris, a skill passed on through generations. Around 50 members of his family have settled down on a vacant piece of land owned by the State government opposite Mattuthavani bus stand in Surveyor Colony. They live in huts and many of the children have been born in Madurai. “Ahead of the lockdown, policemen alerted us to take away our dolls kept on road and stock basic provisions, and thankfully we did,” Mr. Bheema Ram said. Now these people receive help from total strangers. People give them rice, pulses, tea packs and wheat. Without any earnings for more than 45 days, they accept everything in gratitude. “Some people even come from faraway places to help us out,” he says. Sunil Lal, another family member, says officials came to their place and asked them not to leave their huts and keep themselves safe from coronavirus infection. They also provided them some rations but they were not enough, he says. Starting last Sunday they have resumed business and have displayed their ware on the roadside, hoping that people would at least buy them out of pity. Now the lockdown relaxation would allow people to venture out, he says. For them the peak seasons are Navarathri and Vinayaka Chaturthi. “On other days, we sell around four or five dolls priced from Rs. 40 to Rs. 400. We hope to rebuild our earlier routine of earning a couple of hundreds a day. We have nothing to go back to in Rajasthan,” Mr. Sunil Lal says.
15 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Agri business goes to next level and a better one at that||For G. Ravichandran, a groundnut farmer from Ponnankuppam in Villupuram district, COVID-19 pandemic could not have come at a worse time. After harvesting around 1,000 kg of groundnut, he could not sell his produce for over 25 days as the price was low. Then, he uploaded a photo and details of his crop on ‘Uzhavan e-market’ feature of Uzhavan application, run by Agriculture Department. “Then, I received phone calls from traders. I chose the best offer and within five days I sold it,” he said. Introduced on May 1, the e-market feature of Uzhavan app has helped farmers sell their produce at a good price by providing an online platform, directly connecting them with traders. Sellers, who are usually farmers, can upload pictures and details of their crops. Buyers can register to choose the crops and the district that they want to purchase from. “The main aspect is that both the sellers and the buyers can access the contact number of each other and do business. The government just provides a platform for facilitating the trade without directly getting involved,” said P. Venkatachalapathy, Deputy Director of Agriculture (Information Technology and Agricultural Technology Management Agency). Speaking to The Hindu over the phone, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the feature was introduced after farmers from across the State said they could not sell their produce at fair prices during the lockdown. “Our aim was to help the farmers from remote locations sell their produce, especially perishable commodities. They need not depend on regular traders to buy their produce. Through this e-market, they can negotiate with traders from different districts to get the best deal,” he said. There was also a menu displaying real time market prices of agricultural commodities, said Mr. Venkatachalapathy, adding, “Prices are reflected based on the data procured from 277 regulated markets and 189 Uzhavar Sandhais.” Since the introduction of the feature, over 30,000 kg of maize, 80,000 kg of paddy, 10,000 kg of shallot, 28,000 kg of green gram and 7,200 kg of groundnut were sold. Fruits like watermelon, banana, jackfruit and musk melon were also sold, added Mr. Venkatachalapathy. “This will be highly useful even after the lockdown as only a small number of farmers are being able to sell their produce at mandis in view of the personal distancing norms,” said A. Ravindrankumar, a farmer from Aranthangi in Pudukkottai district who sold coconuts through the platform.  Both the sellers and buyers can access contact number of each other and do business  P. VenkatachalapathyDD Agriculture (IT, ATMA)
15 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gaya pilgrims on their way back to Madurai||There is relief at last for the 22 senior citizens from Madurai who were stranded in Gaya in Bihar and their family members. Following a medical check-up, they were handed the travel e-pass and are now on their way to Madurai by road. Members of Madurai District Legal Services Authority, who are monitoring the status of the senior citizens, said that they left Gaya on Wednesday and were expected to reach Madurai on Friday. They were travelling in two buses. The senior citizens were on a pilgrimage to north India when everything came to a standstill following the COVID-19 lockdown. Unable to hurry back home, they started to develop mental health problems. The family members sought the help of DLSA-Madurai to get in touch with the pilgrims. The DLSA was informed that the senior citizens were provided food and shelter by the Nattukottai Nagarathar Chathiram in Gaya. DLSA Madurai was in constant touch with DLSA Gaya to ensure a continuous monitoring. The pilgrims tested negative for COVID-19. On their arrival to the city, they will be taken to Government Rajaji Hospital for screening. Following this, they will be asked to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. The family members heaved a sigh of relief on hearing that the stranded pilgrims were provided the e-pass. They said that though they were in touch with the senior citizens over phone, being away from home had taken a toll on their mental health and they longed to get back home.
15 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to replace biometric verification||Railway Board has asked zonal railways to come up with technologies that could replace the mandatory biometric verification of railway running staff that has been suspended in the wake of pandemic. In a circular dated May 11, it has said that the Health Department has been instructed to look at possible alternative for breath analyser test, another mandatory test for the running staff. In view of pandemic, the Union Ministry of Health ordered suspension of all biometric attendance system across the nation as the biometric attendance device could become a source of infection. However, railway employees objected to the compulsory use of breath analyser test expressing fear that they could be infected by the coronavirus as many staff have to blow air in the same device. Eventually, the board agreed to suspend the test for the staff during the lockdown. “Now, a written declaration is sought from the staff that they were not under the influence of alcohol,” a loco-pilot and assistant divisional secretary of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union, here said. The board asked the zonal railways to come out with some technologies in lieu of biometric attendance system like facial recognition, voice recognition, eye scanning and using transparent disposable gloves. The zonal railways have been asked to provide details of their preference of technology, its working and accuracy and cost involved in the technology.
15 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One more shift||Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected Agricultural College and Research Institute (ACRI) here on Thursday to check the feasibility of temporarily shifting a part of the wholesale vegetable shops functioning at M.G.R. Bus Stand in Mattuthavani. To reduce crowding and maintain physical distancing, the market from Mattuthavani is functioning at three locations - M.G.R. Bus Stand, lorry shed behind it and a helipad on Ring Road. However, once the lockdown restrictions are lifted, buses would start operating from M.G.R. Bus Stand, necessitating the shift. Hence, the shops from t bus stand are to be temporarily shifted to ACRI ground, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College and a Corporation’s empty plot at Virattipathu. Shops will be allocated in each of these locations after consultations with the vendors’ association, a release said.
15 May 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Former MLC dead||Former Member of Legislative Council K. Meenakshi Sundaram (90) died of heart attack in a private hospital in Thanjavur on Thursday. Despite his advanced age, he had been serving as the State Organiser of JACTO-GEO and General Secretary of Tamil Nadu Thodakkapalli Asiriyar Mandram for long. He is survived by his wife and a son M. Selvakumar, currently serving as PRO in Nagapattinam district. The last rites will be conducted on Friday at his residence in Thalaignayar.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC to hear appeal today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday via video-conferencing an appeal filed by the State government against a Madras High Court order of May 8 to close liquor shops in the State, with immediate effect, to enforce physical distancing till the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted or modified. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S.K. Kaul and B.R. Gavai will hear the State’s contention that an indefinite closure of liquor shops would lead to “grave” revenue and commercial losses. The State has accused the High Court of judicial overreach while highlighting that the ban order was passed the very same day the Supreme Court dismissed an identical call to close liquor shops across the country. Another petition has been filed in the Supreme Court against the High Court order allowing online sale of liquor, saying the judicial direction was against public safety.
15 May 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Three injured in AIADMK intra-party clash||An intra-party clash among AIADMK functionaries in the district resulted in three party members sustaining injuries on Wednesday night. The clash broke out at Neikuppai village between R. Durai - the party’s district level presidium chairman and his supporters with the supporters of the party’s Kunnam MLA R.T. Ramachandran- also the district secretary. Police sources said both groups had been distributing relief materials separately in their respective places for COVID-19. Both groups had been having differences for long, it is said. A wordy quarrel broke out between the two groups on Wednesday night apparently over distribution of relief materials with functionaries exchanging blows and abusing each other causing tense moments at the village. The sources said Durai and two of his supporters Thangasamy and Muthusamy were injured in the clash and admitted to the Government Hospital here. Based on a complaint from Durai, the V. Kalathur police has registered a case under various IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder) 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) against 10 persons who were the supporters of the AIADMK MLA. The accused were yet to be arrested.
15 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Financial package has nothing to offer for the poor, says Narayanasamy||Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday said there was nothing substantial in the Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus announced by the Centre to increase the purchasing power capacity of poor. In an audio message, the Chief Minister said the Centre had left out around 13 crore people living below poverty line. Instead of improving the purchasing power of the people, the Centre had chosen to facilitate loans to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, he felt. According to him, the government should have transferred Rs. 5,000 each to the bank accounts of BPL families. Revival of economic activity is not possible till people have money in their hands to purchase goods, the Chief Minister said. The States would be in dire need of funds due to poor revenue generation as a result of the lockdown, he said, adding that there was no concrete plan made by the Centre to address the financial concerns of State governments. As requested by the Prime Minister, the territorial administration would be providing suggestions to the Centre on lockdown relaxations after May 17. “We will be giving a detailed report enlisting views and suggestions on how to improve economic activity on Friday,” he said.
15 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||61 tanks identified for ‘kudimaramathu’ work||Sixty-one PWD tanks have been identified for kudimaramathu project this year and it would be executed at a cost of Rs. 38.79 crore, said Collector K Veera Raghava Rao here on Thursday. Speaking to reporters after visiting a tank at Semannur in Paramakudi where kudimaramathu work would be taken up shortly, he said the district had benefited from the kudimaramathu scheme during the last three years to a great extent as 30 lakh cubic metres of space in tanks had been established where water was conserved for irrigation. As many as 141 tanks were desilted, encroachments removed and tank bunds strengthened, among others, at an expenditure of Rs. 77.20 crore. It reflected the government’s commitment to help farmers. Appealing to Water Users’ Association in villages to be vigilant, Mr. Rao said PWD engineers and contractors should brief farmers at regular intervals about the progress or stages of work being executed. Officials would be taken to task in case of any irregularity, he said. He directed PWD officials and farmers to get the work done as per schedule. He urged farmers to follow social distancing and keep the surroundings clean especially during the pandemic period.
15 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers asked not to trespass rly. tracks||The Salem division of Southern Railways has requested public and migrant workers to avoid trespassing and walking on rail tracks. In a release, Railway officials said that only regular passenger train services has been cancelled at the moment due to nationwide lockdown. Railway officials said that they are also operating Shramik trains in co-ordination with State governments for transportation of migrant labourers to other parts of the country from here. Th railways requested public to not trespass or walk on rail tracks assuming there are no train services as it could lead to fatal accidents. Railway officials also said that legal action would be taken against those trespassing rail lines. Officials from Railway Protection Force said that necessary precautions are being taken to prevent fatal accidents. Officials said that keymen and personnel from engineering department if they notice any person near tracks would be removed with the help of local police and Government Railway police. Officials also said that awareness is being created in such incident-prone areas. K. Babu, Deputy Superintendent of Police, GRP, said that there are five stations under the limit and two personnel has been deputed specifically for creating awareness among public and necessary patrolling is being done in coordination with RPF.
15 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two teenagers drown in pond||Two teenagers drowned in a pond near Sithampatti here on Thursday. According to Tharamangalam police, the deceased M. Sanjay (13) and his friend S. Naveen (16) went to bathe in a pond near their house and the boys ventured into the pond without considering the depth. Police said they did not know swimming and drowned. Passers-by who noticed this alerted the police and they rushed to the spot. Tharamangalam police registered a case and recovered the bodies.
15 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two patients discharged in Salem||Two COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Thursday. A 67-year-old male patient from Krishnagiri, who was treated as ‘imported case’ here following admission in beginning of May, and a 33-year-old patient from Omalur, a contact of previous case, were discharged. R.Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, P.V.Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, J.Nirmalson, Deputy Director of health services and other officials were present when the patients were discharged. The patients were advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days.
15 May 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Private schools’ gesture to police||The Sivaganga district police, whose wards are studying in private matriculation schools, are happy because some educational institutions have announced huge concession in payment of school fees. The concession ranges from 12 to 50 %. Initially, eight institutions have come forward to extend the concession and more institutions would come forward, said Superintendent of Police Rohit Nathan on Wednesday. He said the one-time concession would help parents and could not be a strain for the institutions. It is voluntary and there was no compulsion. The benefit would go to all policemen and officers who were members of the District Police Club, he said and added that those interested in taking the concession should get a bonafide certificate from the office. The schools have extended a fee concession of 40 % of the fee to be remitted for the ensuing term for the children of policemen and special sub-inspectors and 30 % concession for Sub-Inspectors and above. If three children from a family are studying in a school, they would get 50 % concession.  A school correspondent said it was a kind gesture shown voluntarily. About 10 private schools in Manamadurai, Karaikudi, M Koilpatti and Sivaganga have come forward to give the concession. More institutions may join in the coming days, he added.
15 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Girl sets herself ablaze||A 16-year-old girl attempted to commit suicide by immolating herself after some youths were sexually harassing her. According to her relatives, a group of youths including Saravanan, Velsamy, Guhan and a few others were teasing the girl from a village under the Kulaththur police station limits for the past several months and sexually harassing her. When the girl was alone in her house a few days ago, this unruly gang barged into her house under the influence of alcohol and threatened her to have sex with them. As she screamed in fear, they left the spot after threatening her that they would rape her and set her and her family members ablaze. The girl, who did not tell her parents about the threat, allegedly immolated herself on Wednesday and was admitted to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital with burns. Her condition is said to be “critical.” Family members of the victim said though they had filed a complaint with the police after the suicide bid, no action was taken to arrest the culprits. “They, with the connivance of the Kulaththur police, have escaped in a lorry,” a close relative of the girl said. As pressure started mounting on the police with the girl’s narration of this gruesome incident going viral in the social media, a case was registered and a hunt is on to nab the culprits. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
15 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Relax restrictions’||Parotta shops, functioning as ‘Night Clubs’ in this coastal town that serve yummy parotta, prepared in a different style, urge the district administration to relax the restrictions. Though parotta is a favourite dish everywhere in south Tamil Nadu, ‘Thoothukudi parotta’ is very special as it is fried in oil and served with meat prepared with local flavour. Those who leave Thoothukudi for work or some other reason would miss delicacy quite a lot as it is so tasty and affordable.  Though some people have come back to Thoothukudi in the wake of lockdown, they could not taste the parotta as these shops remained closed for nearly 40 days. Now, they can buy parcels up to 9 p.m. Barring a few eateries that start the business at noon, most of them would start serving fried parotta from 6 p.m. which would go on up to 11 p.m. The stall owners urge the administration to allow them to serve the dish in their shops and till 11 p.m.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Closure of Manapparai cattle shandy has hit farmers||The closure of weekly cattle shandy at Manapparai, one of the popular cattle shandies in in the State, has hit cattle owners hard. The shandy, which meets on Tuesday evening and continues up to 2 p.m. next day, is a favourite trading centre for selling cows, buffaloes, sheep and goats. Traders and farmers from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Pudukottai visit Manapparai to buy and sell cattle. While a section of traders come to the shandy for buying animals for meat, there are traders, who mainly buy milch animals. According to a rough estimate, the shandy attracts 25,000 to 30,000 milch animals and bulls and 10,000 sheep and goats every week. About 10,000 farmers and traders visit the shandy every week and transact business to the tune of about Rs. 5 crore. But, the closure of the shandy since March 23 has affected the farmers. The farmers can neither buy nor sell milch animals and sheep. Though most restrictions on rural agricultural activities have been lifted, the shandy remains closed for more than seven weeks. No one is able to bring cattle on good carriers due to restrictions on inter State and inter district movement of transportation. “Both farmers and traders have been hit. Those farmers, who had planned to meet the marriage expenses of their daughters and sons by selling cattle, are in a real fix,” says N. Ponnusamy, a cattle trader in Manapparai. He said many farmers were desperate to sell their cattle. But, they could not do so as no truck operators had come forward to transport cattle to other areas due to transport restrictions in view of the lockdown. Mr. Ponnusamy said that summer was a period to sell milch animals as the farmers would invariably find it difficult to feed them properly. Moreover, the yield of milch animals would come down drastically in summer months. It was a best period to buy cattle for a good bargain. But, nothing could be done due to the extended closure of the cattle shandy, he said. However, opening the shandy would raise issues such as maintaining social distancing and effective steps to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. When contacted a senior Animal Husbandry Department official pointed out that the shandy attracts huge crowds and reopening of the shandy would depend on the government’s decision.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur and Ariyalur go in for aggressive testing||District officials in Perambalur and Ariyalur hope that effective measures such as aggressive testing and immediate quarantine of individuals would help bring down the cases of COVID-19. Both the rural districts saw a spike in cases over the last two weeks after workers who had apparently contracted the virus from Koyambedu market, started returning to their native villages. In Ariyalur district, with a population of over 7.5 lakh, the first COVID-19 positive case was a 25-year-old girl who returned from Chennai on March 27. “The girl was our only positive case for at least two weeks. Even when patients who had attended the single-source event in New Delhi were testing positive in other parts of the State, we only had a handful of patients,” an official source here said. “However, when patients began to return to Ariyalur from May 1 onwards, we made quick arrangements as we knew many of our villagers work in Koyambedu,” the official said. District Collector D. Rathna said that to avoid the spread of the infection in villages, all those entering the district were tested and quarantined. “By the first week of April, we had prepared about 600 buildings with bedding and other necessary facilities. The total capacity of our various quarantine facilities is now 17,000,” she said. Lodges, hostels, community halls are equipped and ready when required. So far 12 buildings were being utilised. The patients are being given kabasura kudineer , vitamin and zinc tablets, dry fruits, fruits and vegetables, Ms. Rathna said. Kabasura Kudineer is also being distributed to all villagers as an immunity-booster. The quick measures taken by district authorities and the district police personnel in not allowing those returning from other districts and States at toll gates and other entry points has resulted in preventing community spread, the Collector said. Since May, block-level teams have been formed consisting of the Village Administrative Officer, Anganwadi workers, Village Health Nurse and other local officers to monitor movement in the district. “They will be informed if any individual returns to the district,” she said. Perambalur district too saw a spike only after May 1. A district with only 5 lakh population, the officials here say that if control measures were not in place beforehand, the cases would have increased manifold. “From January onwards, we were on high alert. There were no locals with cases then, and there are no local cases now. All our positives are patients who contracted the infection from elsewhere,” said R. Geeta Rani, Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS). As on Wednesday, the total number of cases in the district is 133, majority of which consists of people who returned from Chennai. Dr. Geeta said ensuring testing at all possible locations helped contain the spread. “Doctors at Primary Healthcare Centres, private hospitals would also lift throat swabs from patients. Health infrastructure was strengthened as a primary requirement,” she said. When people began to enter the district, a live list was made and health department officials tracked and monitored them carefully. If their living spaces involved sharing toilets with other families, they were immediately shifted to institutional quarantine, she said. “One must remember that the rate of incidence is also important. For a district like Perambalur, one case per 5 lakh population is equal to at least 140 patients for a place such as Chennai with nearly 80 lakh population”, she said. A total of 236 people returned from Koyambedu of which 90 people tested positive so far. However, 45 of the 90 have now recovered and have been discharged, Dr. Geeta said. The district hopes to be COVID-19 free in the next 10 days, she said. “Our numbers are slowly decreasing and from the current trends, Perambalur will be COVID-free soon,” she said.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not look at DA as a benefit’||Aided College Teachers’ Association (ACTA) has urged the State Government to desist from considering Dearness Allowance as a benefit, and to rather look at it as a part and parcel of pay structure given periodically to manage inflation partially. The government should, hence, reconsider its decision to withhold DA and to sanction it. The government should also allow employees to claim their legitimate surrender of earned leave, State General Secretary of ACTA S. Sahaya Satish said. At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc on socio-economic conditions of all nations, the sacrificial commitment of the medical professionals, health workers, sanitary workers, police force and social service volunteers need to be appreciated. The Central and State governments should support and show concern to its employees, and not put them into further hardship by refusing the due financial rights and provisions, Prof. Sahaya Satish said in a press release. ACTA was of the opinion that the efforts of the Government to replace regular classroom teaching and tests with online mode was highly detrimental to the poor, marginalised and rural students. A suitable programme beneficial to the student community in toto should be evolved, he said. Taking strong exception to what the ACTA described as the Centre’s move to implement the new education policy through the back door, he charged the government with taking advantage of the lockdown to implement common entrance tests for students who aspire to pursue their higher studies in Arts and Science colleges and universities. This programme will adversely affect the student strength in higher education institutions. The proposed common tests must be scrapped so that higher education will be available not only to the creamy layer but also to the marginalised and disadvantaged students in the country, he said.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers divided over early opening of Mettur||Opinion seems to be divided among farmers organisations’ on advancing the date of opening of the Mettur dam for the forthcoming kuruvai season in the Cauvery delta. While a few associations are pressing for the opening of the reservoir in the first week of June, ahead of the customary date of June 12, others do not favour such a move. Prominent among those demanding an early release of water is P. R. Pandian, general secretary of the Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivsayigal Sangam, who contends that an early release would help protect the crop from possible heavy monsoon rains at the time of harvest of the kuruvai crop. “We can protect the crop from natural vagaries if the water is released early. We have given a representation to the Chief Minister demanding the release of water on June 1,” Mr. Pandian told The Hindu and urged the government to come out with an early announcement on the date of opening of the reservoir to enable farmers prepare for cultivation. Citing former Chief Minister late Jayalalithaa’s decision to open the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur on June 6 in 2011, Mr. Pandian says: “Farmers in the delta have lost the kuruvai crop for nine years. Now they are keen to take up cultivation given the good storage at Mettur and the government should help them. The South West monsoon is also expected to set in early and we can utilise the available water in Mettur.” However, Mr. Pandian made it clear that he was seeking water only for kuruvai cultivation in the delta and not for summer crop. Echoing similar views, Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, general secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, demands that the Mettur dam be opened 10 days in advance. “We will be able to protect the crop from monsoon damages. Besides, farmers in Vennar division will benefit immensely from such a move,” he claims. However, the Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association does not favour such a move at least at this stage. “Cauvery being a deficit river, it has to be very carefully managed. The available water will just be enough for kuruvai, thaladi and samba crops. Priority should be given only for these conventional cultivation seasons and Mettur should be opened on the customary date of June 12,” said Mannargudi S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. “Depending on the behaviour of the monsoon we can increase the area of coverage and go for double crop – kuruvai followed by thaladi. But just because we have 100 feet of water in Mettur Dam we need not go for an early release,” he feels, reiterating that any additional crop other than the traditional seasons should be raised only using groundwater. Supporting the view, Arupathy Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers’ Associations of delta districts, felt that it was unnecessary to advance the opening of the Mettur dam though there may be precedence for it. \“We may not get water continuously if water is released early. It is not advisable when the flow is not assured now,” he says.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||96 discharged, 6 test positive in central region||As many as 96 patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 were discharged after treatment from hospitals and quarantine facilities in the central region while six more persons – four from Perambalur and two from Karur – tested positive for the infection on Thursday. Among the discharged patients, 25 belonged to Perambalur district who were discharged from the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. The hospital staff including doctors, nurses applauded the patients and handed over fruit baskets for them to take home. They were also instructed to stay home and self-isolate for a period of 14 days. In Ariyalur district, 51 patients recovered and were sent home from the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital and the various COVID Care Centres. Among the 51 persons, 26 were discharged from the GH while the remaining 25 patients who had been asymptomatic and were being monitored by a team of doctors at the quarantine facilities were also sent home. So far 280 people have recovered and have returned home in the district. The total number of positive cases in Ariyalur district is 348. Meanwhile, 14 patients, one from Karur and 13 others from Dindigul were discharged from Karur Government Medical College Hospital. At the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, six patients – three from Tiruchi and three from Perambalur district – were discharged and were sent home on ‘108’ ambulances by hospital staff who gave them a warm send-off to them. As on Thursday, 36 patients , including eight from Tiruchi and the rest from Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts, were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi GH. Among the six new positive cases reported on Thursday, four persons hailed from Perambalur district while two were from Karur. All four patients from Perambalur are men aged 55, 39, 36 and 48 who had returned from Koyambedu market. Three men have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital while one person, the 55-year-old, has been sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. In Karur, two patients, including a 38-year-old staff nurse, tested positive. The nurse had not served at the COVID-19 wards but had been living in a containment area, from where she could have contracted the infection, official sources said. Contact tracing at both the hospital and in the residential area was immediately done and all samples returned negative, they said. The other patient, a 55-year-old native of Kulithalai had been working in Maharashtra and had returned home recently. He has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not attempt online admissions surreptitiously’||Some of the private schools in the district have come under adverse notice of the Education Department for attempting to carry out online admission of students surreptitiously notwithstanding the restrictions in place on functioning of educational institutions during the COVID 19 nationwide lockdown. The intense competition between matriculation and schools following CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) pattern, in retaining existing students and attracting additional students had reflected in some of the schools reaching out to prospective parents through WhatsApp messages about the initiation of online admission of students for classes I to X. Having reined in CBSE schools that had tried to fix deadlines for parents for online payment of fees last month, the district administration has again issued a stern warning to schools that stringent action will be taken against schools flouting the government directive to remain closed in all aspects during the COVID 19 lockdown period. “After the issue of online admission was brought to our notice, we thought it fit to issue a clear instruction to the schools, though no specific complaint was made,” Chief Educational Officer of Tiruchi S. Shanthi said. The instruction issued by District Collector S. Sivarasu requires schools, colleges and training institutions will remain closed until further notice. The Collector made a categorical statement that schools, irrespective of the stream, must not admit students for 2020-21 academic session either directly or through online process and desist from collecting fee or undertaking any other activity. The schools that flout the instruction will be dealt with stringently, the Collector said. Under ‘The Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009’, the institutions will face the risk of losing recognition if they were found collecting fee in contravention of the government's instruction. Last month, School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan warned private school managements of strict action if they collected free from students and appealed to parents to pass on information to the authorities. According to a functionary of a school management, even retaining existing students has become an ordeal, leave alone admitting new students, due to the continuous increase in the number of schools. The school education department's policy note 2020-21 states that there are 4,438 matriculation schools providing education to about 38 lakh children. During the year 2019-20, permission was granted to start 58 new matriculation schools, and 91 matriculation schools were upgraded into matriculation higher secondary schools.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||VAO on COVID-19 duty dies in accident||A Village Administrative Officer, who was returning home on a two-wheeler, died after being knocked down by a lorry on the Madurai-Chennai Bypass Road in Tiruchi late on Wednesday night. The victim S. Kumar (46) was the Village Administrative Officer of Siruganur East. Police sources said Kumar was deployed for COVID-19 duty at the Government Engineering College in Sethurapatti. He was returning home to Srirangam after completing his duty hours when a lorry knocked him down. In the impact of the collision, he was thrown from the vehicle and sustained severe head injury. He died while being taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. Lorry driver M. Sekar has been detained. The Traffic South Investigation unit has registered a case.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special flight carries another shipment of vegetables for Singapore||Another consignment of perishable cargo was exported to Singapore by a special SpiceJet passenger flight that was operated from here late on Wednesday. The special flight carried around 13.3 tonnes of vegetables, fruits and flowers to Singapore. A major portion of the consignment was assorted vegetables, airport sources told The Hindu . A portion of the perishables was meant for Kuala Lumpur. The flight left for Singapore at around 11.20 p.m. This is the second consignment of cargo being lifted from Tiruchi airport during the lockdown. Thefirst shipmentalso containing vegetables and flowers was flown to Singapore last Friday by an exclusive cargo flight operated by SpiceJet. A special cargo charter flight would be operated by IndiGo airlines in the late hours on Friday from here. The aircraft landed here from Singapore on Thursday morning, and would depart with cargo on Friday night. Normally, vegetables, fruits and flowers are regularly exported from Tiruchi to various destinations by passenger flights.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Case booked for damaging name board of court complex||The Sessions Court police here on Thursday registered a case after the name board at the entrance of the Combined Court Complex was partially damaged by an unidentified person on Wednesday morning. The case was registered under section 3 of The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act on a complaint lodged by a court employee. Police said they had examined video footages from the surveillance cameras installed in the vicinity of the court.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 fight: CII pitches in||The Confederation of Indian Industry and Young Indians, Tiruchi zone, have donated a touch free automatic hand sanitiser dispenser to the office of the city Police Commissioner. The dispenser is approximately valued at around Rs. 15000. About 500 cotton gloves and 500 surgical masks meant for police personnel were also handed over to V. Varadharaju, Commissioner of Police, on behalf of the Yi-Tiruchi in the presence of D. Senguttuvan, Vice Chairman, CII Tiruchi Zone, Ketan Vora, Chair, Yi-Tiruchi and others, a CII press release said. Meanwhile, an automatic hand sanitiser dispenser developed by BHEL, Tiruchi, was handed over to Collector S. Sivarasu on Thursday by M. Melvin, Deputy General Manager, BHEL (HR). A foot operated sanitiser dispenser developed at the Government ITI, Tiruverumbur, was also handed over to Mr. Sivarasu by V.Velmurugan, principal of the ITI.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for hunting hare||A Forest Protection Squad here arrested seven youth on Tuesday on the charge of hunting hare at Mavilipatti reserve forest. The accused had uploaded the hunt in Tik Tok. The crime was committed last month. Forest Department sources here said they received information from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, New Delhi, regarding the illegal act. Acting on the input, the Forest Protection Squad arrested seven persons all from Evur Ayyampalayam village near Musiri on Tuesday. A case was registered under the Wildlife Protection Act. Fine amount of Rs. 20,000 was slapped on them and they were subsequently let on bail. The officials made the accused plant a sapling in front of the office of the District Forest Officer. It was planted in memory of Forest Watcher Chandru who was washed away while retrieving an elephant carcass at Udumalaipet. In another incident on Tuesday, the Forest Department arrested Manikandan (37) of Kannanur village near Thuraiyur on the charge of attempting to hunt hare after trespassing into Veeramachanpatti reserve forest.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Traders at Puthur Fish Market warned||Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian on Thursday threatened to suspend sales at the Puthur Fish Market if traders failed to enforce personal distancing norms Mr. Sivasubramanian, who inspected the market with police officers to find a solution to prevent crowding, said the market witnessed heavy rush on Sundays and a few weekdays. There were complaints that many failed to follow restrictions while transacting business. It was important for the traders to enforce social distancing norms while dealing with customers. At least one metre distance should be maintained between each customer. Traders should not entertain over crowding. They should educate the customers on the importance of wearing masks. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that policemen would be posted at the market to monitor compliance. If needed, customers would be asked to bring umbrellas so as to ensure adequate personal distancing.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Foot-operated sanitiser units at District Police Office||Foot-operated sanitiser units have been put up at the District Police Office and at the office of Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, here for police personnel, ministerial staff and petitioners to sanitise their hands before entering the buildings. Two units have been installed at the District Police Office - one at the entrance of the building and another in front of the chamber of the Superintendent of Police. The units have been supplied by a private firm in the backdrop of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. All police personnel serving at the District Police Office and the office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, as well as law enforcers coming to both offices for professional works have been instructed to use the foot-operated unit to sanitiser their hands prior to entering the premises. Ministerial staff working at the two establishments have also been asked to use the system before they enter the respective premises. Petitioners approaching the two offices would also have to sanitise their hands before entering,said police sources. The units were installed on Tuesday.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||International Nurses Day celebrated||The G. Viswanathan Group of Hospitals celebrated International Nurses Day with programmes aimed at enhancing their preparedness for dealing with COVID-19 pandemic at work and on a personal level. The two-day event, held online through Zoom meetings, started on a light note with messages from Tamil actor and director Ponvannan and comedian Aadhavan, on Tuesday. It was followed up on Wednesday with a ‘webinar’ featuring experts, that talked about the challenges faced by frontline healthcare workers in the pandemic situation. The talks covered issues such as managing mental stress and staying healthy while attending to patients during the pandemic. “In the healthcare sector, nurses are the warriors. They bear the brunt of mortality among healthcare professionals, because of their constant exposure to infections,” said Dr. K. Govindaraj, of GVN Hospital.
15 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets to be closed on Sunday||The 10 temporary retail vegetable markets in the district, opened in view of the COVID 19 pandemic, will not function on Sunday. The temporary wholesale market, which functions during nights, at G. Corner in the city will remain closed on Saturday, Collector S. Sivarasu said in a press release.
15 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programmes launched||The district administration has launched a series of awareness programmes near places where the public come to buy essential commodities and vegetables to highlight the importance of wearing face masks and other lockdown norms. Inaugurating awareness events staged by the revenue department staff at old police quarters ground in Palayamkottai on Thursday, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the district administration was taking a range of measures to contain the pandemic with the cooperation of the public. While treatment to COVID-19 positive patients was being given to ensure early cure, awareness was being created among the public for prevention of the infection. Awareness was created through cultural events and pamphlets. Officials from revenue department chipped in with their theatrical skills to appeal to the people to remain indoors, wash hands frequently with soap, wear masks and follow physical distancing while going out to buy essential commodities. The Collector appealed to those who are coming from other districts or States to be in home quarantine for 14 days.
15 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Held for trying to marry minor girl||The police prevented marriage of a 14-year-old girl, a 9th standard student, with a 42-year-old married man. The girl, third of five children of a family near Munneerpallam, lost her father four years ago and her mother took care of the family. While the girl’s elder brother has been married, her younger siblings are in classes VIII and VI. Nagoor Pitchai, a construction worker, is married but had no children. He adopted a boy a few years ago. As the girl’s family is staying in one of his two houses as tenant, he used to help the girl’s family. When he expressed his willingness to marry the girl, her mother reportedly agreed and planned to conduct the wedding on Wednesday. Even as the wedding was about to take place, the girl, with the help of his elder brother, escaped from the house and went to the Munneerpallam police station. Based on a complaint from her, the police registered a case against Nagoor Pitchai and the girl’s mother under Sections 9, 10 and 11 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006. Inspector of Police Kumari Chitra has picked up Nagoor Pitchai for interrogation.
15 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fine imposed on four||Forest personnel slapped a fine of Rs. 65,000 on four persons for hunting wild boar with hounds. On getting information about wild boar hunting, forest personnel raided the forests close to Thattaanpatti under Kadayam Forest Range and picked up G. Arul Rajan of Thattaanpatti, I. Prakash of North Agasthiyarpuram, M. Vignesh of Kottaivilaipatti and Shankar of Kondabayanpatti as they were roaming inside the reserve forest with dogs.
15 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli reports 16 new COVID-19 cases||Tirunelveli district reported 16 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, thanks to the exodus from Maharashtra. When a group of people coming from Dharavi in Mumbai to their native place near Valliyoor were intercepted at Gangaikondan check post, 11 of them tested positive and were sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH). The 16 new positive cases included two persons who returned to their native places from Qatar. Of the 114 positive cases reported in the district, 51 are now under treatment at the TVMCH. Two of the three new cases reported in Thoothukudi had also returned from Maharashtra, and the total number of cases reported in the district is 38. Eleven patients are now under treatment at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Tenkasi district, which is struggling to contain the spread of the viral infection in Puliyangudi that recorded 50 of its 54 cases, recorded one case on Thursday – a 5-year-old boy. Twenty patients from the district are under treatment. Kanniyakumari’s toll moved to 31 as five more tested positive. The district has now 14 patients under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam.  Nine new cases Nine persons tested positive in Madurai on Thursday, bringing the total number of positive cases in the district to 132. Seven of the new cases had returned to Madurai from Mumbai recently. Six of them are from Kottampatti and Melur blocks. The seventh person is a 59-year-old man from Arapalayam. Also, a 47-year-old man from Karuppayurani, who was working in Chennai, tested positive. None of them displayed any symptoms. A 37-year-old man from Anaiyur, who was working as an ambulance driver in Chennai, was the ninth case. He had fever, cold, cough and heachache. Collector T.G. Vinay said all the persons coming from other States and districts were tested, and all those from hotspot States were home-quarantined.  Theni A man from Odaipatti in Theni district tested positive. Health officials said he had travelled to other districts and had contacts with people, who had tested positive. He has been admitted to Government Theni Medical College Hospital.  Sivaganga In Sivaganga, after 23 days, a woman tested positive. The district had recently made arrangements to bring in about 50 people from Maharashtra. On arrival about three days ago, they were accommodated at an isolation centre at TB Hospital in Karaikudi. The 27-year-old woman tested positive and was shifted to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital.
15 May 2020||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Traders body wants official back||In twist of events, traders association members met Tirupattur district collector, M. P. Sivanarul on Thursday at his office, urging him to reinstate the Vaniyambadi Municipal Commissioner P. Cecil Thomas who was moved out of his post, following the controversy over damaging goods of pavement vendors. He was put on the wait list as the SHRC took suo motu cognisance of video clipping showing the official in action.
15 May 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||“Send us back home” is the only demand from many migrant workers in Tiruppur||The wait seems to be endless for 35-year-old Kailash. His two sons, aged 10 and two, wife and parents all live in Odisha. Kailash came to Tiruppur in search of work two decades ago and is employed with an exporting unit since then. But, for the last two months there is no work. He received his weekly wages last in March. “Now, the factory is open. But, I get work only for two or three days a week,” he says. “When there is no work, how can I stay here with confidence ? I see the news every day. If Corona [COVID-19] increases, will I be able to see my family in Odisha ?,” he asks. This is one of the reasons, according to Kailash, why migrant workers in Tiruppur want to return to their home States. He has registered online to take the special train organised by the Government. He even asked his family to send Rs. 3,000 as there were reports that the district administration was organising buses and that the ticket cost for each person was Rs. 2,500. “My family sent the money. But, there no buses were arranged then. So I used that money for food for the last few days,” he says. Kailash stays in a room with two other workers, paying Rs. 1,600 as monthly rent. The building has 10 such rooms. The building owner is demanding monthly rent and the workers are unable to pay as they do not have work, he adds. “I have given my name and address with the police, post office, and Collector office. I am waiting to hear from them. We will all come back after the Corona problem is over,” he adds. Manish from Bihar is employed with a stitching unit in Tiruppur for nearly 15 years. “I have registered online and got the token too. But I have not yet got any information about the train,” he says. He stays in a room with three more migrant workers and the rent is Rs. 3000 a month. “We walk to work every day. The factory has just started work and the room owner is asking for rent. Where will we go for money,” he asks. “My family members call me every day. They want me to come home at the earliest. As I did not have work for a month and did not get my wages, my family sent me money,” he says. Kailash and Manish are among the nearly 1.3 lakh migrant workers in the district employed across sectors - knitwear, construction, trade, etc. Only around 11,000 have registered in the online State government nodal portal requesting to be sent to their respective hometowns, say Revenue Department officials. But, there were several instances of protests across Tiruppur district between May 4 and 9 with a single demand: “Send us back home”. Of the nearly 11,000 workers, the district administration has helped 6,743 board special trains or buses in the past five days since May 10. Nearly 4,000 more workers are expected to leave the district in the next one week. “We (garment exporters) request the workers to stay back. But they want to go to their respective States for many reasons. Many of them already left for Holi festival. The lockdown was extended twice and the industry is just beginning to resume work. It will take two or three weeks for the entire supply chain to start functioning. Only after that will all the workers get work as before,” says Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. “They (workers) are desperate to go home,” says District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal, who held talks with a group of protesting workers on May 7. “They said ‘If we get [COVID-19], we want to die in our native place,” she recalls. The District Police teams are also reaching out to nearly 1,400 locations on a daily basis, either through personal visits or over the phone, to address the grievances of the migrant workers. “I personally get calls from 20 to 25 workers every day,” Ms. Mittal said. According to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, the District Administration is taking “immediate action” regarding any issues related to the migrant workers. “We have not had any complaints since Friday and we will ensure the same in the coming days.”
15 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||88 kudimaramathu works to be taken up||Food Minister R. Kamaraj has said that 88 works will be executed in Tiruvarur district at a total cost of Rs. 20.23 crore under the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme this year. Disclosing this to reporters at Anaikuppam village panchayat in Nannilam taluk on Thursday, the Food Minister said the regulator across Valapparu at Anaikuppam would be renovated at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh and the irrigation channel at nearby Pillur would be desilted for a distance of 13.50 kilometres at a cost of Rs. 12 lakh through the Water Users Associations (WUAs) formed for this purpose. While the government would bear 90% of the expenditure, the WUAs would bear 10% of the project cost to revive or renovate the waterbodies and other structures required to ensure smooth distribution of water for irrigation. During 2019-20, 95 works such as desilting of supply channels, repairing of sluices, strengthening of bunds and deepening of tanks were taken up at a cost of Rs. 16.04 crore in Tiruvarur district. A total of 1,829 works were taken up under ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme 2019-20 in Tamil Nadu at a cost of Rs. 499 crore and the government had allocated a similar amount this year also for taking up 1,387 works, the Minister said. Meanwhile, the Thamizhaga Cavuery Vivasayigal Sangam general secretary, P. R. Pandian claimed that only about 60% of the works taken up under ‘kudimaramathu ’ scheme in the delta districts last year have been completed. Hence, he urged the State government to take up the suspended works along with ‘kudimaramathu ’ projects identified for this year without fail.
15 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,900 workers in the Nilgiris apply to go home||A total of 1,941 migrant workers in the Nilgiris have applied with the government to be allowed to return to their home states. The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, said that on Wednesday, arrangements were made for 40 migrant workers from Mizoram, Meghalaya and Rajasthan, who were working here, to return home. The remaining migrant workers would have to wait till the respective State governments gave their concurrence for them to be allowed to return. “The list of people wanting to go back to their home states has already been compiled and communicated with the respective states. Arrangements for their travel will be made by the Tamil Nadu government once they receive the concurrence from the other states,” said an official. The official said that many of the remaining workers were from Jharkhand, mostly employed as tea estate and construction labourers. “We request everyone, who has applied, not to gather at the government offices, as the district administration itself will communicate details about arrangements being made for their safe return once we hear from the respective state governments,” the officials said. The Collector said that people returning to the Nilgiris from other districts would be kept in home quarantine, while those from infection hotspots would also be tested for COVID-19. “Those returning from other states too will be tested, and will be placed in institutional quarantine for seven days, regardless of whether or not they test positive,” the Collector added.
15 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Truck carrying 72 migrant workers stopped on T.N.-Karnataka border||The Nilgiris district police stopped a lorry carrying 72 migrant workers who attempted to surreptitiously cross the Tamil Nadu border into Karnataka. Police officials said that the migrants had been working as clothes sellers at Ernakulam in Kerala. The could not stay in Kerala as they were not able to sell clothes or find any work for the last month, they told the police at the Kakkanallah checkpost in the Nilgiris. They said they decided to try and walk across the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, allegedly walking more than 40 km before managing to find a truck driver who agreed to take them across the border and into Karnataka. While the driver managed to easily cross the check-posts in Kerala, he was stopped by the Tamil Nadu police in Kakkanallah check post. They found the men inside the container lorry and prevented the lorry from crossing the border. The district police officials said the workers, all from Uttar Pradesh, were taken back to Gudalur, where they were given food and also underwent a medical check-up. “Special buses were arranged to take them back to Kerala,” said a top district police official.
15 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Shops can function with restrictions’||The district administration has permitted textile shops, weavers, spinning mills, jewellery shops in urban areas to function by following the standard operating procedure. Chairing a meeting with representatives of those sectors here, Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji said the showrooms and units should focus on social distancing among workers. The workers should wear masks and sanitisers. Customers coming to jewellery and garment showrooms should compulsorily wear masks. The shops and units should provide details of their employees to the officials concerned and get permits for them. Collector R. Kannan and Superintendent of Police P. Perumal were present. The Collector said the textile shops are allowed to function between 10.30 a.m. and 6 pm. However, air-conditioned shops, shops located in markets and complexes and those in containment zones are not allowed to function. The shops should issue identity cards to their employees. Jewellery shops without AC facility are allowed to function with not more than 10 workers. A powerloom can allow a maximum of 50 workers. The units should get permission from the District Industrial Centre. Spinning mills and ready-made garment units can function with a maximum of 50 persons or 50% of the workforce.
15 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||90 come from Maharashtra||Ninety persons from Maharashtra arrived here by road on Thursday. All of them, including women and children, have been kept in a quarantine facility at Aaviyur. “Those who have symptoms of COVID-19 would be tested immediately and if they turn positive they would be sent to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, all of them would be kept in the facility for seven days. They would be tested for COVID-19 before being sent home,” Collector R. Kannan said. Fifty more passengers were on the way from Maharashtra, he added. Meanwhile, with the discharge of the woman lab technician, who was infected with COVID-19, the number of active cases in this district came down to 12 on Thursday. The woman was working as a lab technician at Cunnoor Primary Health Centre. So far, 44 persons from the district have been infected with the virus.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||After 10 days, fresh cases dip below 500||Chennai’s tally climbed to 5,637 with 363 new patients even as two more persons — in their 40s — died. The toll in the State now stands at 66. A 43-year-old resident of Chennai, admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 8, died on Thursday due to respiratory failure/pneumonia. He had chronic kidney disease and was on dialysis. He also had chronic hepatitis C infection and systemic hypertension. The second patient, a 45-year-old woman, had diabetes, systemic hypertension and hypothyroidism. She was admitted to RGGGH on May 7 and died on May 13 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/respiratory failure. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that the State’s mortality rate was among the lowest in the country. It currently stands at 0.68%. “World Health Organisation’s (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan and a panel of medical experts, while giving their views on the State’s strategy, appreciated that testing more is good as it makes early diagnosis possible. Through this, we can admit patients and provide proper treatment. Though several States are affected, T.N. accounts for a low mortality rate due to comprehensive treatment, high testing numbers, early diagnosis and proper clinical management,” he said. Major challenges One of the biggest challenges for doctors was treating high-risk patients with COVID-19. "We have been able to keep the mortality rate low among high-risk patients too," he said. Those with co-morbid conditions should continue their treatment and take appropriate medications, he added. He said the total number of active cases, including those in isolation, stood at 7,365. A total of 11,965 samples were tested during the day. “Till now, we have tested 2,91,432 samples in the State. The State has taken up aggressive testing, and accounts for the highest number of testing facilities. The number of laboratories has increased to 58 — 38 in the government and 20 in the private sector — today,” the Minister said. Two more private laboratories — Bioline Laboratory, Coimbatore, and Premier Health Centre, Chennai — have been approved. “A total of 19 lakh samples have been tested in the country. As we speak, the testing numbers would have crossed three lakh in T.N. We are testing as per the guidelines of WHO and Indian Council of Medical Research,” he said. The Minister added that 64 persons were discharged from hospitals on Thursday. With this, a total of 2,240 persons have been discharged in the State. Apart from Chennai, there were 15 cases in Tiruvallur, nine in Chengalpattu, eight cases each in Kancheepuram and Tiruvannamalai, five in Kanniyakumari, four in Perambalur, three in Tirunelveli, two in Madurai and one each in Dindigul, Karur, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Theni and Thoothukudi. In addition, 24 persons who returned from other States and international returnees tested positive. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu revises testing, quarantine norms||If the result is negative, they will have to be in institutional quarantine or hotel quarantine for seven days. After the seventh day, a second test needs to be done. If that test too shows a negative result, they can be sent to home quarantine for 14 more days. The government has exempted certain categories from institutional quarantine after initial testing, with an undertaking that if the test result is positive, they will immediately admit themselves to a hospital. These are terminally ill persons and individuals requiring immediate medical attention in a hospital, persons who are due to attend a funeral and rituals associated with death of an immediate family member, pregnant women and persons over 75 years of age and requiring assistance. All the four categories claiming medical emergency will be subjected to a check-up by a medical team to confirm the emergency. The government said no relaxation will be given to any other category of travellers. The government has also asked those who seek exemption to submit full details with their representation in advance to the authorities concerned. People entering the State or leaving must apply for passes onwww.nonresidenttamil.organdtnepass.tnega.org. Since the introduction of the e-pass system, nearly three lakh passes have been issued in the last one week.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 14   Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Thursday) Recovered: 145 Death: 1 Active cases: 0    House quarantined: 1,470 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Thursday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
15 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pregnant woman tests positive for COVID-19; three booked||District officials have booked a case against the husband, brother and driver of a COVID-19 positive pregnant woman for entering Belagavi district without proper documents. Patient number 974, a 27-year-old pregnant woman who hails from Belagavi, had settled down in Mumbai. Her husband had brought her in a taxi to the State border on May 6. She was allowed entry on the condition that she strictly followed home quarantine for 14 days. On May 12, she visited the district hospital for ante-natal check-up. Doctors who went through her medical reports found that she had stayed at Dharavi in Mumbai. Her throat swab was collected and sent for test. The results were declared on Thursday. Investigators found out on Thursday that she and her husband did not have proper documents. Now, they have booked a case at the APMC Police Station under IPC Sections 269, 270, 188. 201, 202, 34, and Section 3 of the Natural Disaster Management Act. Her husband, brother and driver have been charged with violating lockdown protocol. “The woman belongs to an upper middle class educated family. It is unfortunate that the family did not feel it necessary to get her tested for COVID-19, despite the fact that she was living in Dharavi, one of the areas where the disease is prevalent. Her brother took her to the district hospital only because private clinics are closed. If she had not visited the district hospital, we would not have discovered that she had contracted coronavirus,” said an investigator. “The woman has been shifted to the district designated hospital and 10 persons who are her primary and secondary contacts have been asked to observe home quarantine. Their throat swabs would be collected on the 12th day of their quarantine period,” a Health Department officer said. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that the government would take strict legal action against those who travel without e-pass and proper documents. “We will file criminal cases against violators,” he said. He has also asked members of the public to inform the district control room in case they come to know of any such violations or violations of quarantine conditions. They can call the Control Room on Ph: 0831-2407290 or inform the nearest police station, he said. As far as the woman’s travel history was concerned, she had come to the border at Kuganoli. An officer, who is a member of the District COVID-19 Management Committee, said: “We have information that she has violated her quarantine conditions. She was seen going for morning walks along with her father in a residential area in the heart of the city. It is likely that she, her brother, father and other family members have met several persons in the last week.” District tally 108 After the 27-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for COVID 19 in Belagavi on Thursday, the district tally went up to 108 and the number of active cases to 73. One of the patients has died and 42 persons have been discharged from hospital.  Investigators, who found out on Thursday that the woman and her husband did not have proper documents, have booked a case at the APMC Police Station under IPC Sections 269, 270, 188. 201, 202, 34, and Section 3 of the Natural Disaster Management Act. Her husband, brother and driver have been charged with violating lockdown protocol.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many say they were not informed about institutional quarantine while booking ticket||Many of the over 553 passengers who arrived on the first train from Delhi to Bengaluru on Thursday morning alleged that the authorities did not inform them about the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine at the time of booking tickets. While some claimed they received a text message after they boarded the train at Delhi, others said they learned about it only after reaching Bengaluru. Confusion and anger played out at KSR (Bengaluru) City Railway Station as passengers started protesting when officials insisted that they undergo institutional quarantine. Many of them refused, pointing out that they did not have the financial resources to afford a hotel room for 14 days. BBMP authorities, however, said they had made arrangements for free quarantine facilities for those who could not afford to pay hotel rates. Not prepared Lakshmi Narayanan, who travelled form Jhansi, said, “I am a law-abiding citizen, but they should have informed us in advance so we could have prepared better financially or regarding clothes or medicines. To be prepared for it mentally is also a challenge.” Shreyansh, a resident of Bengaluru who came with his mother from Delhi, said, “I had booked the tickets on May 11 and I did not receive any message at the time. On May 12, when I boarded the train with my mother, I received a message from the Karnataka government that institutional quarantine is a must. After reaching Bengaluru, we pleaded with officials to allow us to undergo home quarantine.” Mr. Shreyansh said they spent hours at the station before he and his mother agreed to institutional quarantine. “I was moved to a facility at Gandhinagar where I have to pay somewhere between Rs. 1,600 and Rs. 2,200 per day. We are already in financial distress owing to the lockdown,” he added. Ankit Jain, who travelled from Secunderabad, said he got to know about the mandatory quarantine only after the train reached KSR station. He added that he would not have come to the city had he known about the rules. Civic officials, however, pointed out that in the early days of the pandemic, when COVID-19 was not so widespread, many had violated home quarantine. According to officials, some passengers had also misread the message, which said that asymptotic passengers would be quarantined while those with symptoms of COVID-19 would be hospitalised. “Many didn’t realise that they fell in the asymptomatic category and thought that they would be allowed to go home,” said an official. A South Western Railway (SWR) official said, “On the IRTC website prior to booking the ticket, the passengers were informed that they have to adhere to health protocols of the visiting State. We had also provided hyperlink of State-wise advisory on arrival. They should have read it prior to booking tickets.” As the chaos and arguments continued for hours, senior officials tried to pacify angry passengers. Many passengers spent the entire day at the station trying to find a solution. “I was there at the station from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Later, officials convinced us to go to quarantine by saying that if two tests come negative, we will be asked to go home. When I reached the hotel, health officials here told us that there is no such option and that 14 days quarantine is mandatory. I do not know whom to trust. I have to pay Rs. 2,200 for the accommodation and food per day,” said Manoj Singh, who boarded at Delhi. No social distance Passengers alleged that more than 300 people were asked to sit in the waiting room and that maintaining social distance also was difficult. Some also said that they were provided food at 4 p.m. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said, “We are following the directions of the State government. We had to convince many people and most of them agreed and went to quarantine. It is unfortunate that some protested and argued with our officials claiming that they were not informed. It is in the benefit of the their families and society as a whole that they should be under institutional quarantine.”
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bike rentals see spike in demand||In the absence of Bengaluru’s mass transport systems – BMTC buses and Namma Metro – rental vehicles, which hitherto were primarily filling in for last-mile connectivity, have been seeing consistent patronage under a relaxed lockdown 3.0. Their operations are also set to undergo some changes once the lockdown is lifted to cater to life with the coronavirus. Yulu, which provides bicycles and electric vehicles, has been sending out surveys to its customers to get feedback on their preferences post the lockdown. What they are already implementing is increased sanitisation of vehicles, with a minimum cut-off of 24 hours. “We are sanitising vehicles multiple times in a day and within 24 hours. Users will also be able to see a last sanitised time stamp. Users will have to put the vehicles back at the designated Yulu zones no matter what,” said Amit Gupta, CEO, Yulu. The company has so far deployed 70% of its EVs on the road since last Monday and has reported “good uptake” because nothing else is available. It has also seen changes in the usage pattern. “Earlier, it used to be from metro stations to home and office. Now, the average distance and usage time has gone up,” said Mr. Gupta. From their surveys, the company gathers that commuters would prefer availing rental vehicles that are able to assure social distancing rather than group mobility options.  Another popular option, Bounce, is reporting similar demand. A Bounce spokesperson said there are more takers for scooters on a long-term rental basis – 24 hours to one month – and is getting 2,000 rides a day at present in the green zones in the city. “Our scooters have been sanitised with a particular disinfectant that is like a protection quote lasting three months, and can ensure protection against virus to the extent of SARS. We have also been getting this done for the Bengaluru police’s vehicles on a pro bono basis,” said a company spokesperson. The company, which has been challenged by lack of etiquette from some users who dump vehicles in inappropriate places and steal helmets, is now urging people to bring their own helmets. “We used to sanitise scooters and helmets earlier too. But now, we need to be doubly sure. People will not be allowed to share bikes, and only single passengers will be allowed. They are also urged to bring their own helmets,” he added. Shared rides But questions remain over shared rides, such as in buses and pool ride of cab aggregators. Ola recently announced that all cars will be cleaned and sanitised after each ride, and a flexible cancellation policy will be introduced in case the rules are not followed, such as drivers without masks. Customers are also expected to wear masks and sanitise before and after the ride, ACs will be off, and there will be a restriction of only two passengers, the company said.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet clears Ordinance to amend APMC Act||The State Cabinet on Thursday cleared the Ordinance to bring about changes in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act to remove restrictions on the sale of farm produce. This, the government contends, will help farmers severely hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. The Opposition and farmers’ organisations, however, have opposed the move. The changes in the legislation will enable farmers to sell their produce in farm fields or anywhere without the intervention of APMCs. Direct purchasing This will allow food processing companies to directly procure commodities from farmers without the role of APMCs. The changes in the Act will come into effect after Governor Vajubhai Vala give his assent to the Ordinance, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. Following the Centre’s suggestion to States, the Cabinet decided to take the Ordinance route to bring in amendments to the APMC Act and adopt the Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017, of the Centre. BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have already made amendments to the APMC Act, Karnataka is expected to follow the Centre’s suggestion to adopt the APLM Act, 2017. The Congress and representatives of farmers’ organisations have termed the Ordinance “anti-farmer”, saying it aimed at clipping the powers of APMCs. Reforms will only benefit MNCs, big players and supermarket chains, they argued. Price mechanism Experts argue that the Ordinance to the APMC Act will change the existing arrangement in which the price mechanism is monitored at AMPC markets that have been built over decades. The Opposition and leaders of farmers’ organisations are expected to launch protests opposing the APMC reforms. The State has more than 162 APMCs and more than 354 sub-markets. Moreover, marketing at APMCs generates nearly Rs. 1,000 crore revenue to the State exchequer. Nearly 17,000 traders and about 34,000 agents involved in APMC marketing are present in Karnataka. JD(S), Congress oppose Meanwhile, the Opposition parties have opposed the Ordinance. Janata Dal (Secular) State president and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy described the step as “submission to multinational companies.” He said that it subjects farmers to risks and amounts to “breaking our own backbone.” Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said it was against the Constitution, as agriculture was the State subject.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State not keen on adopting new discharge guidelines||Karnataka is not keen to adopt the new discharge guidelines that allow sending COVID-19 patients home without testing if they are admitted for 10 days, with no fever seen for three previous days from the 10th day, and no requirement of oxygen support for four days. The Union Health Ministry recently revised its guidelines for COVID-19 patients, stating that only those with severe illness need to be tested and discharged after a negative report. Other categories of patients, including very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic, and moderate cases, need not be tested before discharge, the new guidelines stated. However, with more than 76% of patients in Karnataka being asymptomatic and also some patients testing positive after 14 days of hospitalisation, the COVID-19 expert committee, which is tasked with analysing how the disease infects people, has observed that it may not be feasible to discharge them without a test. The committee has recommended to the government that the existing practice of discharging a patient only after he/she tests negative twice in a gap of 24 hours should be continued. V. Ravi, Senior Professor and Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the expert committee, said when patients are testing positive even after 14 days it is advisable to ensure they test negative twice before discharge. People sent back untested may spread the virus in the community, he said. Also with a few patients in the country showing signs of relapse, it is risky to discharge without tests, he said. On May 11, a 50-year-old in Belagavi tested positive again after recovering and being discharged. He had tested negative twice and was under quarantine after discharge. Adequate beds Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, (Health and Family Welfare), said Karnataka was is not following the new guidelines now, as it has adequate number of beds and hospital infrastructure. “As our bed occupancy is not more than 4%, there is no need for the State to discharge patients without testing,” he said. “We are not following the new guidelines on discharge without tests. All COVID-19 patients in Karnataka will be treated in designated hospitals and discharged only after testing negative twice,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for lab testing in the State COVID-19 task force, said testing before discharge is a morale booster for the patients and their families. “If a patient is discharged without tests, there will be so much stress on the family and the patient. Some of them may opt to get tested at private labs by paying the charges,” he said. He also pointed out that the new guidelines may be feasible in States with high case load and poor infrastructure. “In Karnataka, we have over 27,000 beds with a mere 491 active cases. Moreover, our lab capacity is also high with over 7,000 tests being done daily in the 38 labs,” he added.  All COVID-19 patients in Karnataka will be treated in designated hospitals and discharged only after testing negative twice. Jawaid Akhtar Additional Chief Secretary, (Health and Family Welfare)
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Social distancing given the go-by at ration distribution programmes||With restrictions easing, there seems to be an uptick in the number of ‘ration distribution’ events by local leaders, much to the dismay of residents. “While it’s important for those in need to receive aid, these events are being conducted with fanfare. People are gathering in large numbers as organisers pay only lip service to social distancing,” said a resident from Chandra Layout. A video of a ration distribution event in Ramamurthy Nagar that recently went viral showed attendees not wearing masks. A senior police official told The Hindu that the situation is “tricky” as their hands are tied given that the events are held by local politicians. “The city Police Commissioner has clearly said that no one can hold public programmes. But political leaders don’t take mandatory permission when organising events to help the poor and distribute food. They simply inform us,” he said. Another police officer cited an example of an organiser claiming that only five people would be supplying rations. “But when the programme starts, there will be hundreds of people along with cameras and crew to record the event,” he said. Residents blame both officials and those organising such events. Manjunath J.S., a resident of Mahalakshmi Layout, said that in and around his area there were many such ‘distribution’ events that took place, mostly on roads. “Whenever there are senior party leaders attending such functions, the purpose of lockdown is completely lost,” he said. D.S. Rajashekar, former president, Citizens’ Action Forum, urged politicians and local leaders to conduct themselves in a more responsible manner. When contacted, a civic official said that most organisers take permission from the Joint Commissioner of particular zones before organising such events. “It is mandatory to have permission from the civic body and the police,” said the official.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Errors in 900 bills: Bescom||Amidst the furore over high power bills during the last two months, which coincided with the summer and lockdown, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has admitted that there were spot billing errors in 900 bills, but maintained that the remainder of the bills are accurate. Bescom Managing Director M.B. Rajesh Gowda said, “The errors were not in the backend calculation soft bills, which an IT implementation agency is doing. They were only in the spot billing machines, it was observed, where slab rates for a single month was taken for two months’ bill. They were rectified and issued to consumers on the same day.” A large number of consumers have been crying foul over, what they term, are inflated bills. Dileep Vidyadara (@VidyadaraDileep) tweeted: “I used to get around Rs. 500 every month. But this month they charged me Rs. 750 with same usage. This is totally unethical.” However, some felt that usage had gone up. Muhammad Mach (@MuhammadMach) wrote: “I also got more. We are using more power due to lockdown. That is the issue. Again due to summer, fan and AC are working for more time. So the usage of March and April was more than that of December, January and February. BESCOM is right.” Though consumers are divided, Bescom is maintaining that usage of power has gone up. Consumption, which is usually high during summer due to increased usage of appliances like fans and ACs, has gone up because of lockdown. People have been at home 24x7, and there has been an increase in the use of appliances because of work from home and holiday for children, officials said. “Our peak demand last summer (March, April) was around 6,100 MW. This year, despite all industries and commercial establishments being closed, it was 4,900 MW. This shows that domestic demand was considerably higher, as the reduction was only around 20% in demand, even though overall demand from commercial and industrial consumers is 50%. The 30% difference has been made up by domestic consumption this time. As our tariffs are telescopic, an increase in usage attracted higher slabs, therefore pushing up tariffs too,” Mr. Gowda said. The energy department and Bescom have assured consumers that there will be no disconnections till June 30, and they will be given time to pay bills in instalments on request.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Obstruction to health workers’ case: Two get bail||Two persons, who were arrested for allegedly obstructing health workers at Thanisandra locality in the city, have been granted bail by the High Court of Karnataka while imposing a condition that they have to quarantine themselves exclusively in their house for 14 days from the date of release from the prison if they do not require hospitalisation. The accused persons, Sarfaraz and Ansar Hadfa, residents of Ashwathnagar in Thanisandra, will also have to undergo a medical check-up by a medical officer soon after their release from the jail. Apart from these directions, the accused have also been directed to execute personal bond for Rs. 1 lakh each with a surety of a person possessing immovable properties for the like sum, and not to terrorise the witnesses or tamper with the prosecution evidence in any manner and not to come into contact with the complainant or his family members. Justice N.K. Sudhindrarao passed the order while allowing a petition filed by the duo seeking bail after the trial court did not consider their application for bail on the reason that there was no urgency to hear their plea for release on bail. It was alleged that the two petitioners and others had obstructed and abused the staff of Thanisandra Primary Health Centre and ASHA workers on April 1 when the health team was undertaking COVID-19 precautionary and preventive measures assigned to them.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State authorities caught between desperate migrant workers and bureaucratic red tape||The State government appears to be caught between a huge number of desperate migrant workers wishing to get back to their families and their home States that are wary of accepting them. For instance, while thousands of distressed workers are waiting for their turn to board trains, Bihar has asked the State to limit the number of train to one per day. Odisha and West Bengal are insisting on granular details, which would entail time-consuming bureaucratic procedures, before approving the train to leave. The authorities are now working on ways to placate the migrant workers from leaving the State in distress or persuade them to patiently wait for their turn to get into the train, sources said. Meeting with unions In one such exercise on Thursday, Revenue Secretary N. ManjunathPrasad and Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, who met the labour union representatives to understand the ground realities, were told that the labourers had become “restive, agitated, and troubled” because of not getting wages for the past two months and are desperate to return home. On Tuesday, the High Court of Karnataka also directed the State government to convene a meeting of all stakeholders to explore the possibility of generating money to fund the travel of those labourers who cannot afford to pay for their travel. So far, 43 Shramik Special trains have been operated from the State, which have carried more than 56,000 migrants back home. The highest number of trains — 13 — has left for Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar at 11, Jharkhand - 5, Rajasthan - 4, West Bengal - 3, and Madhya Pradesh - 2. One each train has been run to Odisha, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Uttarakhand. Bihar, which is grappling with migrants returning home in big numbers, has allowed one train from Karnataka to be operated daily as it is receiving 53 Shramik Specials every day. However, despite Bengaluru having a large number of migrant workers from Odisha and West Bengal, the two States have been stringent in receiving the migrants back. “The two States have asked for segregation and accommodation of workers in each coach based on the districts. Then the list of passengers have to be sent to them for approval. This is turning out to be a huge inconvenience for authorities here to do this,” sources said. Registered so far Currently, as many as 2.5 lakh migrants workers wishing to return to their villages have registered themselves on Seva Sindhu app. The State government’s estimate is that if 12 trains are operated from across the State daily, and if all States provide quick approval for the trains to leave, it may take more than a fortnight to clear the rush. However, currently between two and six trains are running from the State.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Can benefits under construction workers’ law be extended to those deprived of earnings, asks HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday asked the State government to examine whether benefits under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, can be extended to those labourers who have been deprived of earnings in view of COVID-19 lockdown. Also, the court asked the government to submit a report on compliance of directions issued in 2018 by the Supreme Court, in the case of National Campaign Committee for Central Legislation on Construction Labour, for effective implementation of various provisions of the BOCW Act, 1996. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice V. Srishananda issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by former MLC Ramesh Babu. The petitioner had sought various directions for paying benefits, including Rs. 10,000 as interim compensation, from the fund created under the Act to all labourers in the unorganised sector who have lost their jobs or are unemployed due to the lockdown. The Bench said that the benefit under the Act can be given only to the eligible building and other construction workers defined and registered under Section 11 of the Act. The government counsel told the Bench that Rs. 5,000 each was already paid to around 21 lakh registered workers by way of direct transfer to their linked bank accounts from the fund created under the Act. Pointing out that Section 22 1(f) allows the State Welfare Board to grant financial assistance to registered workers to meet medical expenses for treatment of major ailments of self, or dependant, the Bench said that the benefit of this provision, perhaps, could be extended to the beneficiaries if they test positive for COVID-19. As petitioner’s counsel said that some of the beneficiaries have not received Rs. 5,000 from the State government, the Bench asked him to give particulars of such beneficiaries to the government counsel. Further hearing was adjourned till May 27.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health Dept. to send quarantine info through SMS to all passengers||Many passengers who arrived from Delhi said they were not aware of mandatory institutional quarantine. This seems to stem from the fact that the information did not reach those who were on the waiting list and were accommodated on the train in the last minute. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that waitlisted passengers had been accommodated after some cancelled their tickets on learning about the quarantine rule. “The mandatory institutional quarantine announcement was made at the station at Delhi and messages had also been sent to all the passengers whose tickets were confirmed. And after learning about the rule, some cancelled their tickets and waitlisted passengers were accommodated. May be those who on the waiting list were not aware. We will now make the system more effective and send messages to waitlisted passengers too. We will also announce inside the train,” he said.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 137 cr. package to help fruit, vegetable farmers||As huge quantity of fruits and vegetables were destroyed during the COVID-19 lockdown since March 24, the State Cabinet on Thursday announced a package of Rs. 137 crore to provide compensation of Rs. 15,000 per hectare for growers of fruits and vegetables. The government had already announced relief amount of Rs. 25,000 per hectare for flower growers, who had been unable to find market during the lockdown following ban on festivals and ceremonies. Briefing on the Cabinet decisions, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons that vegetables and fruits have been grown on 50,083 and 41,054 hectares respectively in the State. Growers have not able to transport their produce to the market following closure of all modes of transport during the lockdown. Produce covered Crops covered under the package are banana, papaya, grapes grown in Kolar, chickballapur, Bengaluru rural, and Bengaluru Urban, pineapple, anjeer, watermelon, musk melon, avocado, and jujube. Vegetables covered under the package are tomato, green chillies, onions, cabbage, carrot, bitter gourd, ivy gourd, sweet pumpkin, ash gourd.  Powerloom weavers The government has announced relief of Rs. 2,000 per employee working in 1.25 lakh powerlooms in the State and this would cost the State exchequer Rs. 25 crore. A few days ago, relief of Rs. 2,000 per handloom worker had been announced. A sum of both packages (fruits/vegetable growers and powerloom employees) was Rs. 162 crore, the Minister said.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC rejects plea to direct govt. to enact law to protect gig workers||The High Court of Karnataka has rejected a PIL petition which had sought directions to the State government to enact a law for protection of gig workers and frame guidelines to ensure that the companies running information technology platforms pay salary to the registered gig workers.Observing that it cannot issue direction for issuance of guidelines as existence of any law for protecting the interests of gig workers was not brought to its notice, the court said if the category of gig workers have no protection, it is for them to make appropriate representation to the State government. “We are sure that if such a representation is made, the State government will consider the same expeditiously in accordance with law,” observed a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which is hearing PIL petitions related to issues cropped up owing to COVID-19 lockdown.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP’s budget approved||The State government, on Wednesday, accorded approval to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) 2020-21 budget, which has an outlay of Rs. 11,715.2 crore. The budget that was presented before the BBMP council had an outlay of Rs. 10,899.84 crore. “We had presented the budget with an intention of ensuring that the outlay doesn’t cross Rs. 11,000 crore and is realistic. However, following discussions, the outlay was increased to Rs. 11,969.5 crore,” said L. Srinivas, chairperson of the Standing Committee for Taxation and Finance. The State government has cut down the outlay by Rs. 254 crore before according approval, Mr. Srinivas said and added that the government had made minor changes to MLA grants, funding of pending and ongoing works, and road development. During the budget discussions that were also held via videoconference, the councillors suggested uniform distribution of food kits to all wards, free distribution of masks and sanitisers, extension of 5% rebate on property tax, and providing insurance cover for grave diggers and crematoria workers.
15 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Online test||PES University will hold online entrance test PESSAT 2020 for admissions to B.Tech programme from July 25. It will conclude on August 9. According to a release, the entrance test will be held at 35 centres across the country. For details, mail to info@pes.edu or visitwww.pes.edu.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||VTU students for promotion without evaluation||Several engineering students affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) have started an online campaign urging the varsity to promote them without evaluation. Due to the lockdown, the classes for students were held online. However, many students said they are unable to understand the online classes, which they described as unhelpful. They argued that they would be unable to appear for the examination. According to the VTU calendar of events, the academic year is scheduled to end on June 1 and semester-end examinations are slated for June and the results for July. One final-year student said they were facing several problems due to network issues. “Some students from remote areas who have returned to their hometowns are not able to attend classes due to poor Internet connectivity,” the student said, making a case for internal assessment marks to be considered to grade students. A professor of an engineering college in Bengaluru admitted that although students were trying to adapt to the new teaching method, it was difficult to explain many concepts virtually. Karisiddappa, VTU Vice-Chancellor, said the decision rests with the State government. “It is a problem that is not peculiar to our university alone. The State government and the UGC need to take a decision for all universities,” he said. He pointed out that on an average, only 70% were able to attend online classes. “We have always maintained that online learning is not enough and needs to be followed up with classroom sessions once colleges reopen,” he said, adding that all grievances will be addressed. Many others like Bangalore University are mulling over the possibility of online examinations.
15 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Swab collection begins at Padarayanapura||After much delay, the swab collection of residents of Arafat Nagar containment zone — where 54 cases have been reported —began on Thursday. In a video message, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said 11 samples had been collected on the first day of testing. Two more testing kiosks will be opened soon. “Priority is being given to testing of residents who are above 60 years, pregnant women and those with comorbidities,” he said.
15 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Upper Bhadra Project to be ready soon||Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that the Upper Bhadra Project would be completed at the earliest and people of four districts would benefit from it. He spoke to presspersons during his visit to Muttinakoppa in N.R. Pura taluk on Wednesday. He inspected work being carried out as part of the project. “The project is going on. We will speed up the work to ensure it is completed at the earliest. I inspected the civil works at Ajjampura, Tarikere and other parts as well,” he said. Sringeri MLA T.D. Raje Gowda, the former Minister D.N. Jeevaraj and others were present.
15 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Be ready for 2,470 people entering dist.’||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has instructed officers to make suitable arrangements to quarantine 2,470 people coming from other States in hostels and guesthouses in the district. He held a video conference with tahsildars here on Thursday. The officer made it clear that if any person avoids check-posts and reaches his native village, such a place would be declared a containment zone.
15 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC to run bus services after May 20||Chairman of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) V.S. Patil has said that as per an order of the State government and guidelines, bus services will be re-started after May 20. Speaking at the NWKRTC head office in Hubballi, Mr. Patil said that because of the lack of public transport, people had suffered a lot in the last two months. The transport corporation was functioning with the sole motto of serving the people but the COVID-19 pandemic had forced suspension of services, he said. He said that as per the guidelines, only 25 to 30 passengers would be allowed to travel on the buses. Although it would cause a loss of Rs. 3 crore per day, the transport corporation would still operate buses, he said. Due to the loss induced by the lockdown restrictions, the corporation required assistance from the State government for paying salaries to its staff, he said. “However, despite being from poor background, the staff of NWKRTC had agreed to pay one-day salary to the relief fund. On Wednesday, NWKRTC donated Rs. 2.03 crore to the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 Relief Fund,” he said. Mr. Patil said that as the transport corporation suffered losses, it was in need of further assistance from the State government and he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister. Mr. Patil was felicitated by KSRTC Officers Welfare Association for his efforts in getting grants from the State government for paying the April salaries for the employees. The association also thanked all those who facilitated release of funds from the government.
15 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Economic package welcomed||Welcoming the economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday as part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, Ambaraya Ashtagi, vice-president of the BJP Kalaburagi rural district unit, said that the Part 2 of the package would help street vendors, micro, small and medium enterprises and farmers and boost the economy from the bottom-up. In a release, Mr. Ashtagi commended Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his promising measures, including loans to 63 lakh farmers, initiatives for tribal families, that were aimed at reviving the rural economy.
15 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman dies of snakebite in Kalaburagi||A 32-year-old woman worker died of snakebite at Miriyan village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. The woman, identified as Anathamma Lakkappa, was bitten by a poisonous snake while she was working under MGNREGA works in Miriyan Gram Panchayat limits. She was immediately rushed to the district general hospital at Kalaburagi. However, due to the non-availability of anti-snake venom medicine at the hospital, she was taken to Hyderabad in Telangana where she died after failing to respond to treatment.
15 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jharkhand workers desperate to go home||For Mohammed Ansar from Jharkhand, every passing day means depletion of his little savings. “I can wait for another two days. If no train is arranged, I have no option but to join my fellow workers in the walk to our native places,” he said. Ansar is among the nearly 8,000 workers from Jharkhand working in Dakshina Kannada who are desperately waiting for trains to their State. “There is no question of returning to our houses here. Our family members are waiting for us there,” Ansar said, while pointing to rashes on his foot caused from frequent visits to the railway station in the last five days for for a train. He, along with many others, is put up at the Town Hall in Mangaluru temporarily. Two other groups of workers are housed at a government school in Attavar and in a government-aided school in Hampankatte. The district administration has arranged for food for these workers. As on Wednesday, 7,976 workers from Jharkhand have registered their names on the Sevasindhu portal. The district administration has already sent more than 1,400 workers on Shramik Special Train on May 9. Among those who have come to these three places include tiles worker Mohammed Shaban, who, along with two other workers, had to spend a night beneath the Kuloor bridge on Wednesday, and then, walk to the Town Hall the next morning. Others rested by the roadside at Kana in Surathkal. Mohammed Razak and six others paid Rs. 8,000 for a taxi to reach Mangaluru from Kundapur. Workers have reached the city from Bantwal and Puttur too. Trains arranged Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh told The Hindu that the Jharkhand government has agreed to receive special trains from Mangaluru. These trains will leave in the next few days. “As the trains are finalised, the workers will be safely taken to their native places. All those who have registered on the portal will be sent back to their States,” she said.
15 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen wind up season, hope for good catch in monsoon||Traditional fishermen, numbering about 2.5 lakh along the Karnataka coast, who suffered a double whammy with fish famine and COVID-19 lockdown in the last six months, have now begun preparing for the monsoon. “Unlike the previous couple of seasons, this monsoon we hope the weather would be favourable to get sufficient catch,” said B.H. Kumar, former president of Byndoor Valaya Nada Doni Meenugarara Sangha. He was among several fishermen who was winding up the season’s fishing activities at Koderi Fishing Harbour abutting Yadamavinahole river in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district on Wednesday. Mr. Kumar said the Arabian Sea witnessed unusual cyclones last monsoon, preventing traditional fishermen from entering the sea. “We need toofan (storms) at regular intervals during the monsoon wherein marine life comes up following convulsions in the sea. However, there were none last year,” he said. Yet, fishermen are gearing up for a favourable monsoon this time. “We need different fishing gear for the monsoon,” said Santhosh, a fisherman at Koderi. Unlike regular heavy fishing gear, fishermen use light-weight nets during the monsoon so that they can drag back the net in the turbulent weather, he explained. As such, they were cleaning the nets and keeping them tidy for the next fishing season. Fishing holiday The State governments along the West Coast declare 61-day fishing holiday from June 1 to July 31 when mechanised vessels (trawlers, gil-netters etc.,) are prohibited from undertaking fishing to facilitate fish breeding. However, these restrictions do not apply to traditional fishermen who use either motorised (up to 10 HP) or non-motorised small boats. When marine produces are not abundantly available during fishing holiday, traditional fishermen are in an advantageous position if the weather is favourable, said Mr. Santhosh. Karnataka has about 8,500 motorised fishing boats and 8,000 mechanised fishing vessels across the three coastal districts. Fishermen, traditional as well as those in mechanised vessels, have suffered extensive losses this fishing season due to severe fish famine coupled with the COVID-19 lockdown.
15 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fifth COVID-19 death in Dakshina Kannada||An 80-year-old COVID-19 positive woman (P-507) from Shakti Nagar in Mangaluru, who died of septic shock on Thursday, became the fifth COVID-19 victim from Dakshina Kannada district. Deceased P-507 and her son (P-506) were among the few persons whose throat and nasal swabs tested positive for COVID-19 following the death of 75-year-old positive woman (P-432), who underwent treatment in the First Neuro Hospital at Padil here on April 23. P-507, who had high blood pressure and had suffered a stroke, was undergoing treatment at the private hospital since March 13. After testing positive on April 26, P-507 and P-506, who was the caretaker of the former, were moved to the Government Wenlock Hospital. Since then, her condition continued to be sensitive and she succumbed on Thursday.  Discharged Meanwhile, a 30-year-old woman (P-389), wife of 39-year-old man (P-325) from Uppinangady who had history of visit to New Delhi in March, was discharged on Thursday. Her throat and nasal swab samples tested on May 10 and May 13 turned negative. P-325 got discharged few days ago. In all, 13 persons are undergoing treatment while 10 have been discharged.
15 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Help for Jokatte workers||The Nagarika Seva Samithi, which has been helping migrant workers staying at Jokatte, on Thursday arranged for lunch and also offered food packets to those who were boarding the Shramik Special to Gaya in Bihar. Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katpalla in a communique hailed the efforts of the samithi and its leader Abubakar Bava in working along with the administration in providing food and shelter to these workers. When 14 workers said that they had completely run out of money, Mr. Bava offered Rs. 15,000 to them to buy tickets. He had offered cash to a few workers from Uttar Pradesh returning home.
15 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Airport chief asked to oversee arrangements||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on Wednesday asked the Director of Mangaluru International Airport to personally supervise arrangements during the arrival of Indians from abroad. Ms. Rupesh has, in a letter, said that this comes in the wake of reports that passengers landing at the airport on Tuesday faced certain difficulties.
15 May 2020||MANIPAL,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 test lab to come up at KMC||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the setting up of a COVID-19 test lab at the Kasturba Medical College (KMC) here. It will start its operations in about four days, said Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital Avinash Shetty here on Thursday.
15 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Charakas of Badanavalu to spin again after lockdown||The multitude of charakas or spinning wheels at Badanavalu’s khadi production centre, located about 33 km from Mysuru, will start spinning again from Friday after nearly 50 days of lockdown. The centre was established in 1927 in the nondescript village on the Mysuru–Chamarajanagar highway. It was for the first time in the 93-year history of the centre that the units were shut owing to lockdown imposed to prevent the possible spread of COVID-19. The spinning and weaving centre employs 70 workers, mainly women, drawn from Badanavalu and surrounding areas. Apart from economic emancipation of the local women, the significance of the unit stems from the symbolism of khadi and its association with Mahatma Gandhi and freedom struggle when swadeshi movement took strong roots. Mr. Rajappa, secretary of Khadi Gramodyoga Sahakara Sangha, under which the unit functions, said the spinning wheels and looms stopped functioning on March 25 when the lockdown was announced. “The spinning centre will start functioning from Friday,” he added. Many of the women folk employed by the spinning centre used to come from the adjoining villages surrounding Badanavalu but in the absence of transportation, the women folk stayed away from work and the unit suspended operations temporarily. However, it led to other economic consequences too. Most of the women employed by the centre are daily wagers and the amount earned depended on the length of the yarn spun by them. “We pay Rs. 7 per yard and depending on the output they earn anywhere between Rs. 100 to Rs. 150. However, during the lockdown they were out of work and were deprived of their daily wages,” said Mr. Rajappa. But he is confident of the spinning wheels springing back to life though there will be social distancing and the workers will be spread out in the unit. As for raw materials, there is adequate stock of cotton to last another two months by when the sangha hopes there will be return to normalcy. The other units located at Kirgunda, also in Mysuru, and Kabbur in Hassan district, were also shut all these days owing to the lockdown and they will resume spinning from Friday. Badanavalu drew the attention of Mahatma Gandhi who visited the village in 1927 at the behest of his follower Tagadur Ramachandra Rao, who popularised khadi in the region.
15 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Mechanised boat operations hit by shortage of workers||Although the Udupi district administration permitted fishing by mechanised boats with the condition that social distancing is maintained, shortage of workers has led to just 100 mechanised boats venturing into the sea from the Malpe Fisheries Harbour here. According to the Department of Fisheries, there are a total of 1,645 mechanised boats at the Malpe Harbour, the largest in Udupi district. The administration gave its nod to fishing by mechanised boats a week ago. But it put riders that only 39 boats should land at the harbour in a day so that social distancing was maintained during unloading and later, sale of fish. “As a result, there is no proper auctioning of fish. The rate is decided by four or five fishermen and then, fish is packed in boxes and taken out for distribution. This has hit the profits of fishermen,” said president of Malpe Fishermen Association Krishna Suvarna. The mechanised fishing boats are mostly dependent on workers from Uttara Kannada district and other States. “Nearly 70 % of workers on deep sea trawlers are from Uttara Kannada district. They have gone back and are unlikely to return because of COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 270 workers from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu also have returned to their States,” he said. Assistant Director of Fisheries G.M. Shivakumar said that 415 workers at Malpe Harbour , who are from Odisha, Chhatisgarh, West Bengal and Jharkhand, had registered online as they too want to return to their native places. With the fishing season ending on May 31, the mechanised boat owners do not want to operate their boats just for a fortnight. “Earlier, the mechanised boats used to do business of about Rs. 6 crore daily at the harbour. The lockdown has hit them hard. We have urged the government to extend the fishing season till June 15,” said Mr. Suvarna. A fishermen’s delegation will be meeting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa soon. “We want a relief package for fishermen, release of pending diesel subsidy and postponement of loan repayment by six months,” he said.
15 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Salons to re-open in Udupi on Monday||The Udupi district administration has given permission to hairdressing salons to re-open in the district on Monday, subject to social distancing and other precautionary measures in the light of COVID-19, said president of the District Savita Samaj Bhaskar Bhandary here on Thursday.
15 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Lab gets two more machines||Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil has said that the government has granted two more machines to the COVID-19 laboratory here which will help increase the number of tests conducted. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, he said that the lab could now test at least 50 samples a day as against 24 earlier. Mr. Patil said that the additional capacity will help in testing more cases related to SARI, ILI and other such cases. Now, the administration need not have to wait for results to arrive from Bengaluru to where most of the samples were being sent. He said that as per a government order, home quarantine is advised to only those coming to the district from Goa. People coming from other States must have to stay in institutional quarantine facility for 14 days. He said that food and other basic facilities are being provided by the administration to those advised institutional quarantine. He said that 35 persons have been discharged leaving only 14 active cases in the district. Mr. Patil said that 6,200 persons, including 5,000 from Maharashtra, have returned to the district from different States.
15 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Release advertisement dues to newspapers, govt. urged||The District and Medium Kannada Newspapers Editors Association has submitted a memorandum to the State government through the Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir seeking release of dues against advertisements published in their respective newspapers in the State. Association president Siddappa Lingeri has said that the State government has merely called journalists and media persons as corona warriors but done nothing for their welfare as crores of rupees have remained as dues from the government to all newspapers against advertisements published so far in the State. Nearly 5,000 families of journalists and media persons across the State will face economic difficulties if the government did not release the dues soon, he said. After lockdown was announced to fight COVID-19, most newspapers began facing financial difficulties as they were not getting advertisements either from the government or private parties. Under such circumstances, newspaper organisations are waiting for the release of dues to them from the government to meet their expenditure, he said. Therefore, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa should take immediate steps and release dues to protect journalists and media organisations, he said. Sharanu Gadduge, Raju Nallikar and Kumarswamy Kalal were present.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths; first patient on plasma trial passes away||Two more deaths have been reported in the State on Thursday taking the total toll to 35. The first ever plasma therapy trial done on a 60-year-old critical male patient did not yield the desired results, as he died 48 hours after the therapy at Victoria Hospital. The patient, a resident of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, was admitted to Victoria Hospital with severe pneumonia and respiratory distress. He had hypotension and uncontrolled diabetes. He underwent plasma therapy on Monday night and passed away due to cardiac arrest on Thursday. However, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said it was too early to conclude the trials was a “failure”. “He was on a ventilator and plasma therapy and there was an attempt to save him in the last stages. The result is not a comment on plasma therapy as it was a last-minute effort. This is a trial and once we experiment with more people, its effectiveness can be assessed,” he said. Apart from the patient, a 80-year-old resident of Dakshina Kannada, who was admitted at a private hospital following a stroke and later to a designated hospital died of septic shock. Meanwhile, 28 new cases have been reported on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 987. The new cases include seven from Bidar, five each from Bengaluru Urban and Mandya, four from Gadag, three from Davangere, two from Kalaburagi, and one each from Belagavi and Bagalkote. While all cases from Mandya, Belagavi and one case from Bidar have a travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra; all cases from Gadag have a travel history to Ahmedabad. The rest are all contacts or from containment zones, said the Minister. In Bengaluru, all the five are from Padarayanapura. Three of these are minors including an eight-year-old boy and two 10-year-old boys. All are contacts of previous positive patients. Mysuru district, which had emerged as a cluster hotspot, has done well in terms of recovery” the Minister said.
15 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Steps on to prevent spread of COVID-19 in police force||The police department has intensified preventive measures in Wayanad district to check the spread of COVID-19 among police personnel in the wake of three Civil Police Officers (CPOs) at the Mananthavady police station testing positive for the disease. “The police officers who who were on duty contracted the disease from a 20-year-old youth who is undergoing treatment. “The police officials had contact with the youth, an accused in two cases, while interrogating him. The route map of the youth is yet to be prepared owing to his non-cooperation”, Wayanad District Police Chief R.Ilango told The Hindu . Mr. Ilango directed the Additional Police Superintendent of Wayanad to hold the charge of Mananthavady subdivision of the force and the Station House Officer of Vellamunda to hold temporary charge of the Mananthavady police station. As many as 43 police personnel, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police, one Circle Inspector, two sub inspectors in Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery police stations had been advised home quarantine as they had contacts with the police officials who had tested positive for the pandemic. All officials on duty in those stations on the day had been sent to nearby lodges and resorts on quarantine, Mr. Ilango said. Fire and rescue personnel disinfected and fumigated the station on Thursday.   Holiday for courts Meanwhile, District Judge A. Harris declared holiday for courts in Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady on Thursday and Friday.
15 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad reports 3 more cases||Wayanad district reported three more cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. A 44-year-old civil police officer at Valliyurkavu in the district who was on duty at the Mananthavady police station, a 28 year old man at Kammana, and his 35 year old brother-in-law at Panavally tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. They were admitted to the COVID-19 care hospital at Mananthavady, she said. The youth and his brother-in-law had primary contact with his father, a truck driver, who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after his recent visit to Chennai, Dr. Renuka said. The police officer had contact with a 20-year-old youth who tested positive for the disease and is undergoing treatment. As many as 331 body fluid samples for testing had been collected from police personnel in the district so far, she said. Three discharged Of the 16 cases reported in the district till now, three have been discharged. As many as 1,956 persons are under observation.
15 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||10 more COVID-19 cases in Kasaragod||The number of COVID-19 cases in Kasaragod district continued to rise with 10 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases recorded in the district stands at 191. As many as 177 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. However, more cases are emerging with Keralites stranded in other States and abroad returning to the State. 4 of family infected According to the Health Department, four members of a family — a 50-year-old man, who is a driver, his 35-year-old wife, and their eleven and eight-year-old children — tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The driver reportedly contracted the disease from a resident of Paivalike, who had returned from Maharashtra on May 4 and was tested positive on May 11. The driver had given him a lift in his car from the Talapady check-post. The driver had also visited the Kanhangad district hospital three times during the period and had entered the hospital’s cancer ward, lab, and X-ray room. Those who tested positive for the disease on Thursday include a staff member of Kasaragod General Hospital and another at the Kanhangad district hospital. A 65-year-old man from Kasaragod municipality has also been diagnosed with the disease. He was residing at Manjeri in Malappuram district for more than a month. He reached Kasaragod in an ambulance which was coming from Kottayam to Talapady. He was rushed to the General Hospital following a lung infection. Another person diagnosed with the disease is a 26-year-old Kallar resident who hails from Bangalore. He was under observation at Poodamkallu Taluk Hospital. On May 12, he suffered chest pain and was later sent to the district hospital, where samples were taken for a swab test. Two other patients, aged 58 and 31, hailing from Kumbala, returned to the district from Maharashtra.  1,428 under observation Meanwhile, there are 1,428 people in the district under observation.   Two cases in Kannur In Kannur, two more people have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. A 20-year-old man from Kadambur, who returned from Dubai by an Air India flight and landed at the Kannur airport on May 12, and a 24-year-old man from Mattannur, who arrived from Chennai on May 6, have contracted the disease. The two patients, who underwent a swab examination on May 12, are under treatment at COVID-19 Care Hospital at Anjarakandy.
15 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA-IAP ‘norms’ for school/college reopening||An expert committee representing the State chapters of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and Indian Medical Association (IMA) has recommended that classroom sessions in schools and colleges in the new academic year be postponed for at least a few months and distance learning be implemented in the interim taking into account the COVID-19 scenario. The ‘Guidelines for School Reopening in 2020’ drafted by the committee suggest that essential public examinations be held while observing social-distancing norms. Regular classes  On when regular classroom sessions could be resumed, M. Narayanan, president, IAP Kerala, and convener of the committee, told The Hindu that it would depend on several factors that may happen in the future. “At this point, we are in the middle of an unprecedented global crisis where saving lives is the highest priority and long-term predictions are impossible,” he says, adding as of now the COVID-19 situation requires that the school sessions be postponed. “If schools are reopened too soon, the virus may be able to travel from one household to another. Hub for virus spread The classroom effectively becomes a convenient hub for the virus to penetrate deep into the community. From the individual homes of students, it may then spread to offices, markets and other homes,” says S.S. Kamath, chairman of the committee and former president of the IAP. The guidelines suggest that even after the schools reopen, precautionary measures be well in place. Each grade and section (eg. Standard 8P and 8Q) shall be divided into two batches (A batch and B batch) consisting of 20-25 children per batch. A gap of at least one metre shall be maintained among the students in classrooms. Until further guidelines, classes shall be conducted from Monday to Friday only on shift basis. (A batch: morning shift -- 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.; B batch: noon shift -- 12.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.) If Saturday classes are necessary, they shall be held online, the committee says. Physical distancing shall be ensured during labs, PT periods, and entry/exit from classroom and school. Different interval/break time would have to be made for each class (e.g. Grade 8-10 at 10.15 a.m., Grade 9-10 at 10:45 a.m.), it says. Student mingling Students from different classes shall be prevented from mingling with one another. Children shall be permitted to carry mid-day meals to their homes. Schools must implement physical-distancing protocols recommended by the Health Department in school buses, according to the guidelines.
15 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||269 scheduled to arrive by Delhi-Kerala train||A total of 269 passengers were slated to disembark at Ernakulam Junction railway station from the first New Delhi-Kerala train during the lockdown, at 1.40 a.m. on Friday. Among the passengers were 27 pregnant women and two patients who have difficulty moving around. A total of 400 people, mostly from districts in Central Kerala, were expected to disembark here. Arrangements had been made at the station for the passengers to register on the COVID Jagratha portal. Every person would be screened at the station and those having COVID-19 symptoms would be taken to isolation wards in hospitals, for which ambulances were ready, said a press release on Thursday. While 100 people would go to their destinations in their vehicles, a total of 10 KSRTC buses would take others to their destinations.
15 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students develop robot for disinfection||Students of Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology have developed a prototype of a remote controlled robot that can spray disinfectants. The robot, named Rakshak, could lower chances of fire force or other personnel getting infected while sanitising public spaces or hospitals, according to Gokuldas V.R., who was part of the four-member team of third year mechanical engineering students comprising Jerin P. Raju, Aswin S. Nair and Ashik Faizal. The prototype is equipped with a camera in front that shares real-time images of the path before it to a mobile phone via bluetooth. The gizmo is fitted with 16-litre tank for the disinfectant and a storage space to carry medicines or medical equipment. It was used to disinfect the premises of the Rajagiri College hostel right before it was turned into a quarantine facility, said Vishnu Sankar, assistant professor at the college, who mentored the team. The students are in the process of updating the robot using artificial intelligence to give it a prefixed path that it can traverse automatically. They were also looking for funding to make more such devices that can be deployed in public spaces and hospitals, said Mr. Gokuldas.
15 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro trains ready to operate up to Pettah||Kochi metro trains are gearing up to operate all the way up to Pettah, hoping that the State government will accord its nod to resume metro services once the extended lockdown ends on May 17. The Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) is expected to inspect the Thykoodam-Pettah corridor the coming week, since the last leg of work is getting over. Services can begin once he issues the safety certificate. All the 25 trains are ready to commence operations in the corridor. The trains have been undergoing trial runs along the corridor every few days, said sources at Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). Asked whether the frequency of services would be reduced from a train every six minutes, the sources said it was unlikely. “However, number of passengers per train will be limited to 175, although the seating capacity is 350 and the crush load (maximum number of passengers) is 975,” they added. This is to ensure social distancing. All public contact points such as automatic fare collection (AFC) gates, ticket counters, handrails of staircase, escalators, lift buttons, and platform chairs would be cleaned with disinfectants every day, said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director of KMRL.
15 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KSINC records profit for the first time||The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), which incurred a Rs. 98-lakh loss in 2018-19, has for the first time since its inception, recorded a profit of Rs. 1 crore in 2019-20, Additional Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta, Chairman of the Corporation, said on Thursday. The public sector undertaking focusses on water transportation. The total revenue increased by 45% from Rs. 13.21 crore last year and touched Rs. 19.17 crore in the last fiscal. Freight revenue went up from Rs. 4.57 crore to Rs. 6.91 crore. Passenger and water sport revenue increased from Rs. 3.05 crore to Rs. 4.52 crore. KSINC Managing Director Prasanth Nair said the Corporation had targeted a revenue of Rs. 100 crore in the current financial year.
15 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MSMEs call for changes to labour laws||The Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) has called on the State government to convene a stakeholders’ meet on labour laws in the time of the pandemic. Industries feel that Kerala should take a cue from other States such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Rajasthan in changing labour laws to suit the current situation. About 50 days of lockdown and restrictions on production have dealt a body blow to thousands of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs), say KSSIA leaders in a communication to the Chief Minister. There is no certainty as to when the sector will achieve normality. Loss of capital, raw material, and finished products has immobilised the sector, says M.A. Khalid, KISSIA president.
15 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CCSK launches framework for online training||The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala (CCSK) has launched an operational and academic strategy for effective online training as the reopening of classroom learning is likely to be delayed in view of the COVID-19. The council has launched an online training programme for teachers as part of the initiative. Subject-wise training Subject-wise online training for teachers is available for all sections from primary to senior secondary classes, says Indira Rajan, secretary general of the council, in a communication. This will help the schools to supplement their studies once they reopen. Mostly all schools have migrated to the online platform for Class 10 and 12 teaching. The online classes cannot substitute the usual pedagogical pattern, but certainly they can supplement the same by productive utility of time. Own system Further, individual schools may adapt their own system of online education befitting the requirements and style of that particular school’s teaching methodology, rather than approaching a common platform outside the school system, according to the release.
15 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Now, event managers explore new biz models||Thrown out of gear during the pandemic, event management companies are now exploring new business models by organising COVID-19 protocol weddings, socially distanced public events, and other functions adhering to norms. Major players have already developed alternative templates and, according to them, hybrid events with both physical and virtual components will be the new normal. They will be providing live web streaming, customised seating, thermal screening, masks, sanitisers, and all required approvals for both small and big events, including weddings. Technology in play “A major challenge will be to minimise contact and we are considering many options, including the use of robots. Technology will play a major part in all future events. Also, now all events will be organised in consultation with medical professionals to ensure the safety of staff and guests,” says Ram C. Menon of Impresario Events. When it comes to weddings and birthday parties, extending the event window to accommodate more guests is another plan. Extended hours “Usually, a wedding reception will wind up in three to four hours. But we can extend it up to five or six hours, giving the guests separate slots to attend. If a dinner table accommodated six persons in the past, now it will be two, and we will also have to provide a waiting area for the guests and make sure all protocols are adhered to. It is a new concept which requires a lot more effort from our side, but there is no other option,” he says. Mr. Menon also observes that preparedness to tackle any possible situation will be another major challenge in the coming days. “At present only 20 persons are allowed to attend an event and further relaxation is expected after the lockdown. It will not be same as pre-corona days but we hope a crowd of 50 to 100 will be permitted in the initial days. At the same time, we cannot predict anything as there can be abrupt changes depending on the COVID-19 situation,” he adds. Guidelines awaited Meanwhile, all stakeholders associated with the sector are awaiting proper guidelines to resume operations. Since there will be strict regulations even after the lockdown, they will have to tread carefully. “In the initial days of the lockdown there have been mass cancellations and postponements, but people are also not willing to wait indefinitely, especially when it comes to weddings. So the only option is to customise events according to government specifications. At present, we are waiting for directions from the authorities so that we can chart out the rest,” says Anwar Pallickal, president, Confederation of Event and Entertainment Management.
15 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam COVID-free as 2 test negative||With two patients testing negative on Thursday, Kollam became one of the COVID-19-free districts in Kerala. They were among the last three patients to remain under isolation at Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, for around 40 days. The first one, a 28-year-old from Punalur tested negative on Wednesday, and his wife, and another 43-year-old woman from Prakkulam tested negative after a day. All three were discharged on Thursday.
15 May 2020||KOTTAYAM/alappuzha,KERALA||Govt. staff to be ferried by RTC||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch special services from various destinations in Kottayam from Friday to cater to government employees on duty. The corporation will operate similar services in Alappuzha from Monday. In Kottayam, the buses, which will operate as per the directions of the Health Department, will ferry government servants from Changanassery, Parippu, Mundakkayam, Pala, Chembu, and Vaikom. The passengers are required to produce their office identity cards on demand and follow social-distancing norms. Revenue Divisional Officer Anil Oommen said more services could be be operated to various taluk centres based on demand from the tahsildars concerned. In Alappuzha, the service will connect major centres in the district. “We wanted to start the service from Friday. But, the district administration urged us to postpone it for a couple of days. Initially, the services will be conducted in the Alappuzha-Haripad, Alappuzha-Cherthala, Alappuzha-Thanneermukkom, and Alappuzha-Kidangara sectors. More sectors will be included based on response,” said, V. Ashok Kumar, District Transport Officer, on Thursday.
15 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||165 reach Kozhikode by first train||The first special train after the easing of curbs on train services in the county following the outbreak of COVID-19 arrived in the State on Thursday when the New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani superfast (02432) with 165 passengers reached Kozhikode at 10 p.m. The passengers stranded in the national capital had boarded the train at the Delhi station at 11.25 a.m. on Wednesday. This apart, passengers had boarded from Kota, Vadodara, Panvel, Goa Madgaon and Mangaluru where the train had scheduled halts. However, no one was allowed to board the train from Kozhikode as the State government had prohibited intrastate travel on public transport. No intrastate travel Restrictions on intrastate travel will also be applicable for the Delhi-bound train on Friday. The tickets of those who booked from Thiruvananthapuram to alight at the Kozhikode and Ernakulam stations would be cancelled and the fare refunded, railway officials said. The passengers who alighted at Kozhikode were subjected to thermal screening and those who had symptoms of fever were shifted to the Kozhikode beach hospital or government medical college hospital. About 20 Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses were arranged to transport the other passengers to their destinations, including rural areas of Kozhikode, Kannur, Malappuram, Palakkad and Wayanad districts. The other passengers along with the drivers tasked with their conveyance were advised to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. At care centres The Kozhikode Corporation had arranged COVID care centres for the passengers who had no other option. They would also remain quarantined for a fortnight. Health officials and other staff from Railways and police were deployed to facilitate the screening of passengers. Special counters were arranged for this purpose. The railway station was sanitised and the police also banned entry of visitors.
15 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pregnant woman tests positive for SARS-CoV-2||A pregnant woman from Narippatta in Kozhikode was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, taking the number of patients in the district to two. The 30-year-old had arrived from Dubai on May 8, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release. She had gone home by a private vehicle and was under observation there since then. She was admitted to the isolation ward attached to the Government Medical College Hospital on May 12 after noticing COVID-19 symptoms. Right now, three patients, including a native of Malappuram, are undergoing treatment for the infection at the medical college hospital. Meanwhile, the number of people under surveillance went up to 4,323, including 406 people who were newly added. Thirty-three of them are at the hospital. A dozen people were discharged on Thursday. The number of expatriates under observation stands at 385, including 107 who came on Thursday. Of them, 211 are at their homes, 159 at COVID care centres and the rest at the hospital. Among those home quarantined, 55 are pregnant women.
15 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Three persons test positive in Palakkad||Three new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Palakkad district on Thursday. While one of them arrived from Chennai, another was a mango trader at Kollangode, and the other an expatriate who returned from Damam via Nedumbassery. The 35-year-old man who returned from Chennai on May 6 hailed from Kadambazhipuram. He developed throat pain on May 11 and was shifted to the Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, for taking a body fluid sample. The 30-year-old man from Kollangode was a headload worker. He had contact with a lorry driver from Tamil Nadu. He developed fever and body pain on May 12 and sought medical aid at a hospital at Chulliyarmedu. The person who returned from Dhamam was shifted to Government Medical College, Kalamassery, soon after he arrived at Nedumbassery. The other two persons from Palakkad are under treatment at the District Hospital here.
15 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||1,000 litres of toddy mixed with spirit seized||An Excise team seized about 1,000 litres of toddy mixed with spirit and 7 litres of spirit from a toddy shop at Panamanna near Ottapalam on Thursday. Two persons were arrested in this connection. The shop owner, Somasundaran K., 45, and worker Sasikumar M., 45, were arrested while another worker escaped. The excise team raided the shop in the morning and found 1,000 litres of toddy mixed with spirit in a pickup vehicle in front of the shop. The adulterated toddy was stored in five barrels. Officials said the raid took place when the shop owner and the two workers were mixing the spirit with the toddy. They said the spirit had been sourced from Thrissur. Excise officials said that spirit was being smuggled in to produce spurious liquor as toddy was in shortage when the shops reopened after lifting the lockdown restrictions.
15 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||COVID-19 patient gives birth through C-section||A 26-year-old pregnant woman who came from Kuwait on May 9 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. She was shifted to the General Hospital from her house at Kadapra, near Thiruvalla, later in the day, where she delivered a baby girl by Caesarian section. The woman who came to the Cochin airport in a special Air India flight had been placed in quarantine at her home on May 9. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the district has gone up to two. Both of them have been admitted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. Under observation As per a medical bulletin, eight persons remain under observation at three government hospitals in the district as on Thursday. Five are at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, one at the General Hospital in Adoor, and two at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. A total of 198 persons got discharged from hospitals as on Thursday evening.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM sets template for post-COVID-19 life||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has set the template for social life after the COVID-19 lockdown. The Chief Minister said here on Thursday that given the spectre raised by the World Health Organization (WHO) that the SARS-CoV-2 was going to be around for a long time and could become endemic in populations, the public should be better prepared to live with the virus, yet be cautious not to tangle with it head-on. As Kerala braces to take on a massive but expected surge in its COVID-19 case load, the focus of the public health system would be in developing specialised treatment protocols for disease management and in building the immunity of the general population in resisting the virus. The WHO has indicated that the pestilence is here to stay until the world discovered a vaccine. The virulence has ushered in a new normal. He said the people should become accustomed to wearing masks in public to reduce the risk of transmission. They should adhere to social-distancing measures in restaurants, public transport, markets, shopping centres and other common facilities. Businesses should allot time slots to customers to prevent commotion and crowding on their premises. The public should avoid overcrowding at all costs. They should plan their activities and avoid unnecessary travel. Travel curbs People and families would have to be prepared to take up only necessary travel and any get-togethers would have to restrict the number of attendees. Mr. Vijayan made no mention of opening up public parks, stadiums, swimming pools, sporting facilities, gymnasiums, malls, cinema halls, spas, barbershops and cosmetic treatment centres. However, an official said the government would take a call on the matter soon. The government was yet to decide on the resumption of cinema and television serial shooting despite pleas from the entertainment industry. Strengthened vigil He said the State could not avoid any slip-up in its vigil against the virus. In the long run, it is such behaviour changes amongst the public which will decide how normal life can be resumed in the post-COVID world, the Chief Minister added.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to step up sentinel survey||The arrival of expatriates to the State in hordes and the latest developments in Wayanad where a local market place has suddenly become the hotspot of COVID-19 local transmission have made the State take the decision to intensify sentinel surveillance to detect community transmission of the disease. Kerala had already initiated sentinel surveillance during the last week of April when it was decided to collect as many as 900 nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal samples across all districts every week to be tested using RT-PCR ( reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ) tests in designated labs.  Now that the sentinel surveillance is being intensified, the State aims at collecting and testing 3,000 samples every week from all districts. The study is expected to provide “early warning signals as well as epidemiological information about the next phase of the pandemic.” In the absence of reliable antibody testing kits, RT-PCR will be used for surveillance for the time being. From seven groups This time, samples are being collected from seven groups, based on potential risk exposure. They include patients in the general population with acute respiratory infection but are not COVID-19 suspects; health-care workers in non-COVID-19 hospitals; people with ‘high social exposure’ such as food delivery persons, community volunteers, police or media; guest workers in the State; and epidemiological samples as recommended by public health experts. Crucial category One of the new and crucial category included in the sentinel surveillance are natives of Kerala without any travel history who might have come into contact with interstate truck drivers (headload workers, vendors in markets, warehouse staff, people like tea sellers or repair workers at vehicle transit camps, female sex workers and men who have sex with men). Given the current situation in Wayanad wherein an interstate truck driver is believed to have set off a chain of local transmission of COVID-19, the samples from this group would be crucial. Interstate truck movement is something the government cannot stop nor control. Expatriates The other new category will be expatriates who have no symptoms. Samples are to be collected from people who arrived in Kerala after May 4 from outside the country/State. The State’s advisory specifies that the samples are to be collected from this group between the fifth and 14th day of their arrival in Kerala. The State will be following Indian Council of Medical Research’s protocol for pooled sample collection and testing as the number of samples would be huge.
15 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High alert at railway station||The district administration has made arrangements as per COVID-19 guidelines to receive and transport the 602 passengers who will arrive at the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station on the Rajdhani train from New Delhi on Friday. A tight security cover has been clamped on the station premises. Passengers will be allowed to proceed only through four exit paths where circles have been drawn for social distancing. The government has stationed 25 KSRTC buses to transport the passengers to their houses. The Kanyakumari administration has deployed five buses for those headed there and other parts of Tamil Nadu. Fifteen ambulances have been readied to take symptomatic people to hospitals. The passengers are headed for Thiruvananthapuram (150), Kollam (84), Pathanamthitta (89), Alappuzha (37), Kottayam (34) and Tamil Nadu (61). After medical screening and verification of travel passes at the station, the asymptomatic passengers can leave on KSRTC buses or own vehicles to be quarantined in their homes. Those unable to ensure self-isolation at their houses will be transferred to corona care centres. Drivers of private vehicles picking up passengers will be required to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Those with symptoms will be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital immediately. The train will start its return journey to New Delhi at 7.15 p.m. Arrival by road A total of 233 people entered the State through Inchivila on Thursday. These included 206 people from Tamil Nadu, 25 from Karnataka, and one each from Assam and Andhra Pradesh.
15 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||26 evacuation flights for expatriates in eight days||Air India Express (AIE) will operate 36 flights in the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission commencing May 16. Of the 36 flights to be operated from West Asia, Malaysia, and Singapore to various Indian cities, 26 will be to the four airports in Kerala. The second phase of the mission will be till May 23. Kochi has been given the mandate to operate nine flights, Thiruvananthapuram seven, and Kozhikode and Kannur five each in the flight schedule approved by the Union Ministry of Home and Civil Aviation. The remaining are to Hyderabad, Bengalaru, Mangaluru, and Tiruchirappalli. From the Gulf The airline will operate flights from Dubai to Kochi, Abu Dhabi to Thiruvananthapuram, and Abu Dhabi to Kozhikode on May 16. The airline and the crew have started preparations for the second phase of the mission. In addition to the two cockpit crew, there will be four cabin crew as well. The crew will be undergoing tests for novel corona virus at the boarding cities. The crew will be wearing personal protective equipment and the passengers will be provided snacks and drinking water during the flight to be operated using B 737-800. Meanwhile, Air India has opened bookings for the second phase of 149 repatriation flights to bring back Indians stranded in 31 countries. The airline will be operating to more than 30 destinations.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid for MSME sector to rebuild business||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that the Rs. 3,434-crore aid package announced by the State government on Wednesday to rejuvenate micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) came with slashed interest on loans and waiver of ‘margin money’ credit for manufacturing businesses. The State-run Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation and the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) would accord easy low-interest relief loans for entrepreneurs hoping to rebuild their business. The institutions would extend separate financial packages for those seeking to enhance their industrial infrastructure by acquiring machinery, land and other processes for manufacturing. Other incentives Investors in Kerala could also expect other incentives, including a moratorium on repayment of loans and an opportunity for one-time settlement of credit. Kerala hoped the Centre would help States write off the “fixed charge” slapped on electricity consumers. The Centre had allocated Rs. 90,000 crore for rejuvenating the power sector. But, it mandated that States stand guarantee for the outlay. The Centre had unreasonably directed that only the MSME sector employees who draw less than Rs. 15,000 as monthly salary would qualify for help to pay provided fund. Just tokenism He said the stimulus package announced by Union Minister of Finance Nirmala Sitharaman contained no aid to prop the State’s crippled economy. The Centre’s investment in the relief package was mere tokenism. It had not committed any serious money to help States rejuvenate their respective economies. Mr. Vijayan hoped the Centre would rectify the anomalies pointed out by the States.  The stimulus package announced by Union Minister of Finance Nirmala Sitharaman contains no aid to prop the State’s economy. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ripple of excitement over rain forecast||The announcement by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday that Kerala could expect extremely heavy rainfall is based on an input from the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) at a pre-monsoon review meeting. However, it is understood that the KSCSTE has not specified a particular month when the southwest monsoon might peak. (The Chief Minister at his COVID-19 briefing said the State had to brace itself for heavy rain in August. The start of the monsoon in May end might be vigorous. As the rainy season progresses, the State could face extreme flooding. The monsoon forecast does not augur well for Kerala. The State would have to evacuate thousands and move them to safe localities. Possible floods posed a significant economic and social challenge to the State.) ''We have pointed out that we cannot completely eliminate the possibility of a sustained spell. We still do not have clarity on whether the southwest monsoon would be normal or excess. So we need to be prepared. In both 2018 and 2019, the initial forecast predicted normal monsoons. Then they changed,'' K.P. Sudheer, executive vice president, KSCSTE, said. ''The chances of having floods in two consecutive years are considered to be a mere .03%. Still we had floods in 2019,'' he added. No formal warning According to him, neither the India Meteorological Department (IMD) nor the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has so far issued any forecast or formal warning regarding the possibility of heavy rainfall during the monsoon.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Grand Care’ for the elderly from today||With COVID-19 prevention activities entering the next phase, the Kudumbashree mission has stepped up its campaign for the well-being of the elderly. The mission has launched a scheme, Grand Care, to drive home the message of elderly safety to the 80 lakh families in the State. The comprehensive awareness programme prioritises safety and care of the elderly in the State and those arriving from other places, including abroad. Envisaged as a long-term programme that will be implemented with the support of other departments such as Health, Social Justice, and Local Self-Government, Grand Care’s objective is to persist with messages that highlight the extreme vulnerability of the elderly to the pandemic and the importance of them following safety protocols by avoiding contact with others and observance of strict home quarantine for those who come from other hotspots. Special campaign  A special campaign that focussed on the elderly belonging to the Scheduled Castes, those living in coastal areas, and the destitute would be rolled out, so that a social change that prioritised their well-being could be effected.
15 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac flays package||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements for the agriculture sector on Thursday is nothing more than a repeat of the package declared on Wednesday, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He said additional expenditure outside the Budget would only be about Rs. 10,000 crore. The government had not decided to waive the farm loans, but could have at least written off the interest during the moratorium period, which would amount to Rs. 80,000 crore , he said.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School admissions from May 18||Schools will start the process of admitting students for the 2020-21 academic year from May 18. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said students could reach schools and get themselves admitted. However, they should adhere to social-distancing norms. Schools could also admit students via the online registration system created by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education ((KITE). Students from marginalised sections of society and those living in remote hilly locations and near coasts might not have ready access to the Internet or personal computers. Such students could attend online examination training in 200 specialised centres designated by the government. The Education Department would distribute study materials and model examination papers to Classes 10, 11 and 12 students appearing for public examinations.
15 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Survey on impact of COVID-19||An expert committee constituted by the government for studying the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s economy would conduct a survey to elicit responses from various sections. Committee chairman K.M. Abraham said in a release here on Thursday that the panel would seek responses from associations of trade, service and industry besides institutions run by individuals. The data collected would be used only for public purposes approved by the government and its privacy would be protected. The committee has posted a questionnaire on eis.kerala.gov.in.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UV disinfector at airports||With the State gearing up to receive more passengers from other countries in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, ultraviolet (UV) baggage disinfectors developed by Keltron will be installed at airports. The first such equipment was deployed at the Kannur airport and the Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode airports will be equipped soon. The UV baggage disinfector was developed by Keltron with technology provided by the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), Kochi.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Poetry activities for students||With no clarity yet on school reopening, the General Education Department has launched another programme aimed at students. ‘Kavitha Pookkunna Kalam,’ being implemented by the State Institute of Educational Technology, aims at bringing students closer to nature and poetry. Poems in Malayalam textbooks for Classes 1 to 12 can be recited by students or teachers and even presented visually, the maximum duration being five minutes. The poems can be sent to sietpootathapadasala@gmail.com. Select poems will be uploaded on SIET Pootatha Padasala YouTube channel and telecast on Victers channel. The last date is May 25. For details, call 0471 2338541.
15 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||3 Cong. MPs, 2 MLAs told to go in quarantine||After a 40-year-old man who reached the Walayar check-post on May 9 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the Health Department has asked five Congress leaders, including three MPs and two MLAs, who were in the vicinity to quarantine themselves. Thrissur MP T.N. Prathapan, Alathur MP Ramya Haridas, Palakkad MP V.K. Sreekandan and MLAs Anil Akkara and Shafi Parambil are among those asked to remain in quarantine. Police personnel, health workers and mediapersons who had been in contact with the patient were also asked to remain in quarantine. The Congress leaders visited the check-post as part of their protest against the alleged delay in letting in stranded Keralites from other States through the Walayar check-post.  ‘No intimation’ However, Mr. Anil Akkara said he was not contacted by the Health Department. “If asked, we are ready to go into quarantine,” he said. The patient from Malappuram, who runs a juice shop in Chennai, reached the check-post along with nine others at 10.30 a.m. on May 9. He was at the check-post till 10 p.m. as he lacked a travel pass. Later he and a fellow passenger were shifted to the Palakkad district hospital as he complained of vomiting, headache and tiredness. He tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on May 12. ‘Political colour’ According to Indo-Asian News Service (IANS), Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said in the State capital that people naturally suspected a political colour to the decision, but the Congress leaders would abide by the health directive. The Congress lawmakers suspected that the local CPI(M) leadership was behind this. Special Correspondent adds from Thiruvananthapuram: Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan denied the government had press-ganged Opposition legislators and MPs into quarantine. “The action of the Opposition politicians warranted legal action. However, the government has advised them to go into quarantine,” he said. When pressed, Mr. Vijayan said Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen had welcomed Non-Resident Keralites at Kochi airport despite a consensus within the government to avoid such public gestures. Mr. Moideen merely waved at the arrivals from afar. If he had interacted with them, the government would have counselled him to go into quarantine, he said.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heavy with a bounty||
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Paddy procurement on track||
15 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||90% subsidy on groundnut seed sought||The A.P. Rythu Sangham has criticised the State government for going back on its earlier promise that groundnut seeds would be provided at 90% subsidy. On Wednesday, registration of farmers at the village-level began for receiving groundnut seeds at 40% subsidy. The registration process will end on Sunday. The Rythu Sangham alleged that at many places, the maximum quantity of seeds being allowed was 90 kg, while 120 kg needs to be given to people with two acres of land holding. Sangham district secretary R. Chandrasekhar said that at some places, farmers with more than 1.5 acres of land holding were unable to pay the amount for 120 kg, as the system was limiting it. Distribution of seeds will begin on May 18, said Joint Director (Agriculture) Sk. Habib Basha. He denied the allegations that the maximum limit was 90 kg. “Several farmers have paid money for 120 kg at the rate of Rs. 47.10 per kg. People with two acres and above will definitely get 120 kg,” he said. “In a single household, some people have three passbooks and are demanding separate quota of seeds for each of them. In such cases, we are trying to provide a minimum amount to at least one passbook in each household,” he said.
15 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma collected from two||Plasma was collected from two persons from Hindupur on Thursday at Deepu Blood Bank. The plasma will be utilised for treatment of COVID-19 patients if the government gives permission for the procedure in Anantapur district. Only two out of the four patients who were discharged and volunteered to give their plasma, were found suitable for donation.
15 May 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new cases in Kurnool, Anantapur||Officials in Kurnool and Anantapur breathed a sigh of relief as no new coronavirus cases were reported from either district on Thursday. The district administrations are now strengthening their efforts to effectively implement the containment operations in their respective red zones. The first pregnant woman who had tested positive for COVID-19 in Kurnool district was discharged from GGH, Kurnool on Thursday along with her newborn. She had given birth to the baby through a Caesarean section last month when she had already tested positive for coronavirus. Thankfully, her baby was diagnosed negative for coronavirus. Two other pregnant women who tested positive for coronavirus and were discharged after making a full recovery. In Kurnool district, a total of 27 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 343 out of the 591 COVID-19 cases recorded so far. While 18 persons died, 230 patients are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Four patients were discharged from the two COVID-19 hospitals in Anantapur district on Thursday.
15 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite from coronavirus in Chittoor||Chittoor district registered nine new coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 151. Eight of the nine new cases have links to the Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu, officials said. The fresh cases emerged from Nagalapuram, Srikalahasti, Pichatur, Satyavedu, Tavanampalle and V. Kota. Within a span of one week, the district saw close to 60 cases being reported, with all of them having a travel history to the Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu. Seeing that there is no respite in the Koyambedu-linked cases, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta took part in an emergency meeting at the Collectorate here on Thursday. Mr. Narayanaswamy, who is also the Excise Minister, was informed that in border areas, large groups of men from Tamil Nadu are crossing the border into Chittoor to purchase liquor, raising the risk of a large-scale spread of the virus. The Deputy Chief Minister asked the district administration to intensify vigil at the border checkposts at NR Peta, Cheekalabailu and Palamaner to prevent unauthorised travel across the border. He observed that officials should consider closing wine shops in border areas if the arrivals from Tamil Nadu continue unabated despite police surveillance. Mr. Narayanaswamy reviewed the conditions that led to a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district in a short span of one week. The task force personnel brought to the notice of the Minister that except for the cases with a Koyambedu link identified by them, not many persons affected by the virus are coming voluntarily for testing, complicating the issue. Crackdown on liquor Meanwhile, Mr. Narayanaswamy told The Hindu that special parties with the police and excise staff were actively destroying the ID liquor making dens all over the State. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is committed to drastically reducing the number of wine shops as part of a move towards complete prohibition. After increasing the liquor prices and reducing the number of shops, there is a phenomenal decrease in consumption of liquor in A.P.,” he said. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta instructed the official machinery, particularly in the municipalities and corporations, to strictly monitor the scheduled business hours of the commercial establishments and public movement, besides enforcement of social distancing and sanitization etiquette.
15 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor held on rape charge||The Madanapalle rural police on Thrusday took a minor boy into custody on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said that the parents of the girl of a remote village lodged a complaint with the Mudivedu police on Thursday. The boy reportedly is a relative of the victim. The official said that the boy would be shifted to a juvenile home.
15 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagarjuna university logs into online mode||The lockdown has derailed the academic schedules, forcing colleges and universities to postpone examinations and causing anxiety among the students, but online and digital interventions have ensured that the students do not miss their classes. The widely popular zoom app is now being widely used and the MBA Department of Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) has tapped into web technologies facilitating online meetings between students and professors. “The concept of online classes is vital to ensure that students keep themselves abreast of the latest developments. during the lockdown period,” said ANU Vice-Chancellor P. Rajasekhar. Head of MBA Department and coordinator R. Sivaram Prasad and co-coordinator Grishma Kanth said that online teaching covered courses on change management, value-based leadership, evolution, challenges and future of women workforce. Recently a webinar on ‘Hedging in financial derivatives’, was held in which Srinivasa Reddy, professor in SV University, spoke Programme was moderated by Grishma, a JRF research associate.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||312 Indians arrive by two flights||Two more international flights landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), bringing Indian nationals from Manila (the Philippines) and Washington (United States) on Thursday morning. The fifth Air India Vande Bharat flight, 149 passengers, landed around 1.58 a.m. and the other, the sixth such, around 8:22 a.m. with 163 passengers. The third flight or the seventh Vande Bharat flight from Kuala Lumpur was scheduled to land at 8.15 p.m. Passengers of both flights were serviced through the fully sanitised international arrivals of the main passenger terminal. To facilitate the arrival of passengers and aircraft crew, the international arrivals and the entire stretch, right from the aerobridge to the arrivals ramp, including washrooms, chairs, counters, trolleys, railings, doors, lifts and escalator, were sanitised and fumigated. The airport also enforced social distancing among passengers right from the aerobridge to across the terminal. Arriving passengers and aircraft crew were brought out from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 . Passengers/crew were screened by the thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO). CISF personnel in their protective gear escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance and glass shields were provided at immigration counters. An official spokesman said passengers were provided with complimentary boxes of food and were taken for the mandatory 14-day quarantine at designated locations.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cats keep forest staff on tenterhooks in Hyderabad||A leopard which absconded into a farm after being sighted at Katedan here on Thursday, is keeping the Forest officials and police on tenterhooks. It is one among the two incidents of wild cat sightings in the city successively on Wednesday and Thursday. In the first instance, a civet cat (Asian palm civet) was spotted on the ramparts of Noorani Masjid near Fateh Darwaza of Golconda Fort late on Wednesday. Rumours of a black panther sighting immediately caught up, keeping the residents nearby awake the whole night. Much to their relief, the animal was rescued early on Thursday by a Forest team, and shifted to the Nehru Zoological Park. Close on the heels of the rescue came news about sighting of a leopard on the road near the Katedan underpass, on the peripheries of Mylardevpally. The feline was reportedly found sitting on the road for close to one-and-a-half hours before the police and Forest teams began rescue operations. It was reported that a person who went too close to the animal was attacked and received mild injuries. Pursued by rescue teams, the animal later escaped into a 40-acre farm on Shamshabad route. Police and Forest department officials, together with rescue teams from Nehru Zoological Park, secured the area and were attempting to capture the big cat when reports last came in. As per information from the Forest department, two trap cages and nets have been set up inside the farm, along with 25 CC camera traps. Three special teams under the FDO, Shamshabad, would keep night vigil at the farm, supported by police force under ACP. Attempts to get images of the feline using drone cameras failed, and officials are not ruling out the possibility of the animal jumping over the compound wall in its attempts to escape in the dead of the night.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow ICMR guidelines on recording deaths: HC||Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the government to adhere to guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with regard to appropriate recording of COVID-19 related deaths in the State. A bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman passed the interim order after hearing two PIL pleas requesting the court to instruct the government to collect samples from dead persons to ascertain if they died of COVID-19. Citing an instruction from Director of Public Health and Family Planning, the petitioners said the government decided not to conduct COVID-19 tests on dead persons. Some persons, despite carrying the virus, do not show any symptoms of the virus. A person undergoing treatment for some ailment in a private of government hospital might contract coronavirus. In the event of that person’s death due to the virus, the doctors would not know that COVID-19 caused his or her death without conducting any diagnostic tests. The government’s instruction not to collect samples for tests from dead persons would create a situation of the dead person’s primary and secondary contacts getting infected with the virus. This would eventually result in community spread, the petitioners professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao and K.P. Rajender Kumar, retired District Medical and Health Officer, contended. Advocate General B.S. Prasad and Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao sought time to secure instructions. The AG said ICMR guidelines did not mention about collection of samples from dead persons. The WHO guidelines too did not mandate such tests. Autopsies are were performed only in medico legal cases, he said. If a person undergoing treatment dies in hospital, the doctor concerned would confirm the cause. “But what if a person dies at home unaware that he or she contracted the virus. Cause of death in such instances need to be established to ensure the virus did not spread to that person’s family members,” the bench said. The two petitions were posted to May 26 for next hearing.
15 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL tells Rehana Fatima to ‘compulsorily retire’||Activist Rehana Fatima, 33, who stirred a controversy two years ago following her attempt to enter the Sabarimala temple, has been ordered to go on compulsory retirement by BSNL. ‘Will take legal recourse’ Ms. Fatima, a telecom technician at the Palarivattom exchange, received the order from her controlling officer on Wednesday. She said she would take legal recourse against the order. BSNL instituted an internal inquiry following her arrest by the Pathanamthitta police on May 27, 2018, on charge of fomenting enmity between communities by posting religiously controversial comments and pictures on Facebook pertaining to the entry of women of all ages to Sabarimala. She was placed on suspension. The inquiry found her guilty and the order was issued asking her to go on compulsory retirement with immediate effect. The order said it was not acceptable that Ms. Fatima “was ignorant of the consequences of her actions, as public tension was already mounting up at the point of time due to the movement against women entry in Sabarimala.” Hence, her acts were intentional. “The action comes at a time when the police have not even registered a chargesheet in my case while proceedings are under way at the Central Administrative Tribunal on a petition I filed against my suspension,” said Ms. Fatima.
15 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samithi alleges bias against Rayalaseema water projects||Rayalaseema is being discriminated against when it comes to sharing water sharing, alleged Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi (RSSS) president Bojja Dasaratha Rami Reddy. On Thursday, the RSSS president shot off a letter to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) chairman J. Chandrashekhar Iyer alleging that the bias against Rayalaseema had become apparent at a KRMB meeting held on April 21 to decide on allocation of water. At the meeting, it was agreed upon that Rayalaseema projects fully utilised their allotted water, except 1 tmc ft allotment to the HNSS, considering the water pumped in during floods. About 50 tmcft of water can be drawn by Telangana projects from Nagarjunasagar up to August 2020 against unutilised allotted water during 2019-20. It also allowed water level depletion from 814 ft at Srisailam to 807 ft as against the Minimum Drawdown Level of 854 ft and maintain Nagarjunasagar MDDL intact at 510 ft. The letter states that the KRMB decision has forced the Rayalaseema region to anxiously wait for the next floods which were uncertain and erratic, Mr. Reddy alleged.
15 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore reels under Koyambedu impact||Fifteen persons in SPSR Nellore district who visited the Koyambedu market yard in neighbouring Tamil Nadu have tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of confirmed cases has rose to 126 in the district, with 45 patients being treated in the COVID-19 Isolation ward. Three patients have succumbed to the pandemic so far. With Thursday’s development, Nellore district has achieved a dubious distinction of recording the highest number of fresh cases in the State on a single day, health officials said. Authorities were on their toes implementing the cluster containment strategy in the affected areas with a view to avert the spread of the pandemic. Sullurpeta, roughly 80 km from Chennai, accounted for a maximum of nine new cases followed by Nellore (3), Nayudupeta (2) and Ojili (1). The lockdown was implemented strictly in the affected areas. Over 100 primary contacts of traders who frequently visit the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market were subjected to testing. It is feared that more persons who have been regularly visiting Chennai are carrying the virus. The first set of cases reported in the district was of people who had visited New Delhi. Now, the Chennai connection has led to a fresh rise in positive cases even as 78 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 were discharged. No fresh cases were reported in Prakasam district on Thursday, with only three persons still undergoing treatment. Officials have embarked on an exercise of identifying those who have visited Koyambedu.
15 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Novel campaign launched against liquor in Ongole||Social activists have launched a campaign against the State Government’s decision to resume sale of liquor. The activists said that it was unfortunate that wine shops have been reopened at a time when people across the State are struggling to cope with the lockdown enforced to combat the spread of coronavirus. Activists performed a classical dance before spreading awareness on the harmful effects of alcohol, at Housing Board Colony on Thursday. Mahila Abhyudhaya Samiti president T. Aruna, who led the campaign, found fault with the State Government’s excise policy and called for an immediate closure of wine shops. “All the efforts to enforce the lockdown and the sacrifices made by people by staying away from work for the last few weeks have gone waste due to the decision to resume liquor sale,” Ms. Aruna said, adding that social distancing norms were being flouted with abandon at the liquor shops. She also alleged that people who have become addicted to liquor and with no source of income during the prolonged lockdown are parting with family valuables to buy liquor.
15 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala prepares for rise in cases, 2 die in Karnataka||Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Thursday taking the total toll to 35. Andhra Pradesh witnessed one more death and 68 new cases. Kerala expected to take on a surge in cases, and prepared to focus on specialised protocols for management and immunity-building of the general population. People and families must take up only necessary travel, and restrict get-togethers with limited attendees, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Thursday. Kerala’s tally of cases now was 560, out of which 64 were under treatment. Migrant workers in A.P. In Andhra Pradesh, the increasing number of cases among returning migrant workers caused concern. Twenty-six migrants who returned around May 5 from Gujarat tested positive. Later, the number went up to 105 with more migrants from Maharashtra (67), Odisha (10), Karnataka (1) and West Bengal (1) testing positive. Chennai’s Koyambedu market continued to have an impact in Chittoor, Nellore, East Godavari and West Godavari. At least 56 persons who had been to Koyambedu and their contacts had contracted the virus, the Health Department said. To contain the spread of the virus by persons coming to the State, the Health Department decided not to allow home quarantine. In the case of people coming from hotspot zones, tests were conducted on arrival. On Thursday, 318 persons returned by a special train to Vijayawada from where they were sent to their respective districts after basic screening. Over 6,000 migrant workers were stopped from entering the State at the borders and sent to relief camps. In addition, over 8,000 workers returned to the State by trains and buses. The State recorded 68 new cases after testing 9,256 samples. Of the new cases, 36 were locals and 21 linked to Koyambedu market. The other 32 cases were migrant workers from Maharashtra (29), Odisha (2) and West Bengal (1). Nellore district reported 15 new cases and 12 were linked to Koyambedu, as were eight out of nine in Chittoor. Guntur reported five cases and Kadapa, Krishna and Srikakulam one case each. West Godavari had one case, again linked to Koyambedu. In Karnataka the death toll was 35 in all. The first plasma therapy trial for a 60-year-old critical male patient did not yield results, and he died 48 hours later in Victoria Hospital, Bengaluru. A resident of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, he was admitted with severe pneumonia and respiratory distress. He had hypotension and uncontrolled diabetes. An 80-year-old resident of Dakshina Kannada admitted following a stroke died due to septic shock. The new cases include seven from Bidar, five each from Bengaluru Urban and Mandya, four from Gadag, three from Davangere, two from Kalaburgi and one each from Belagavi and Bagalkote. The surge in cases continued in Telangana with 47 more cases, taking the total to 1,414. The Greater Hyderabad area accounted for 40 of the 47 cases. Five cases were reported from the neighbouring Rangareddy district and another two cases were of the migrants. No deaths were reported and the number remained at 34. Among those who tested positive were 42 migrants.  Cases dip to below 500 After 10 days, Tamil Nadu reported fewer than 500 cases of coronavirus disease on Thursday. With 447 persons testing positive for COVID-19, the State’s tally climbed to 9,674. Nearly 80% of the new cases were in Chennai. Of the 447 (253 men and 194 women), 22 persons, who had returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for the infection in five districts. As Chennai’s tally of positive cases climbed to 5,637 with 363 new patients, two more persons - aged in their 40s - who tested positive - died in the city. This took the total deaths to 66 in the State. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the State had one of the lowest mortality rates in the country at 0.68%. He said the total number of active cases including those in isolation stood at 7,365. A total of 11,965 samples were tested during the day. “Till now, we have tested 2,91,432 samples in the State. The State has taken up aggressive testing, and accounts for the highest number of testing facilities. The number of laboratories has increased to 58 - 38 in the government and 20 in the private sector - today,” he said. “A total of 19 lakh samples were tested in the country. As we speak, the testing numbers would have crossed three lakh in TN,” he said.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Chennai, and Hyderabad Bureaus)
15 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. clears 6.5-km tunnel to Wayanad||The government has given the nod for a Rs. 658-crore two-lane tunnel road in the Anakkampoyil-Kalladi-Meppadi corridor that would run parallel to the landslip-prone Thamarassery pass that links Kozhikode to Wayanad. On completion, the 6.5-km tunnel will be the third longest in the country. Kerala’s longest is the 962-metre tunnel at Kuthiran, between Thrissur and Palakkad. The alternative subterranean road would be 30-km shorter than the present ghat road. Approach roads and a 70-metre bridge over the Iranjipuzha river are part of the project. The Konkan Railway Corporation, which prepared the detailed project report, will execute the project on a turnkey basis, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said on Thursday. The Cabinet has given the nod to make available the funds of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for the tunnel road. The Cabinet has also given the nod for a Rs. 39.9-crore Perumon bridge across Ashtamudi Lake in Kollam district. The proposed bridge will link Perumon and Munrothuruthu. The Rs. 34.39 crore Naluchira bridge acoss the Pampa river to link Thottappally and Naluchira in Alappuzha district has also got the approval.
15 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||International flights at Tirupati unlikely till May 17||Tirupati airport is unlikely to have any inward arriving flights from international destinations, at least till the current lockdown period ends on May 17. Though the State government has expressed the preparedness of Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati international airports for repatriating stranded Indians under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, it appears there is still a long way to go for Tirupati airport. Though upgraded into an international airport several years back, Tirupati is yet to have a full-fledged immigration desk, both in terms of infrastructure and manpower. The staff that was supposed to be working here were sent to Hyderabad and other places after the completion of their training in 2017. On the infrastructure front too, the airport lacks passport scanners and other equipment, as these were shifted out with no international arrivals in sight. Now, shifting back the immigration staff as well as the equipment during the lockdown has become the stumbling block. Vande Bharat Mission Notwithstanding the issues, the airport is expected to have sufficient hands before it is opened up for foreigners, given the huge inflow expected under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. “There are some manpower-related issues in the immigration wing. We are in touch with the authorities concerned to fix them,” Tirupati Airport Director S. Suresh told The Hindu . Meanwhile, the grapevine was initially thick with rumours that a special flight from Kuwait would fly into Tirupati, given the huge number of migrant workers from Rayalaseema districts working there on a contract basis. Responding to which, Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy, who monitors passenger movement through trains and flights, said: “We don’t have any information, at least till May 17, on hosting any international flight.”
15 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A portal that can gauge country’s ‘mood’||The Indian Institute of Technology-Tirupati (IIT-T) has developed an interactive web portal that can gauge the prevailing mood of any region in the country based on real-time analysis of Twitter data. The portal —https://moodofindia.hero kuapp.com— has been built by the Research and Intelligent Software and Human Analytics (RISHA) Lab of IIT-T. Users can log on to the portal and select a location and particular date and see the prevailing mood in that region, based on tweets made using a set of hashtags. Based on the tweets, results are classified into seven categories — six basic emotions and one ‘neutral’ category. “Across India, 4,64,933 tweets were posted during March 14 to May 9 under the hashtags #Indiafightscorona, #Covid19, #coronavirus and #lockdown, of which 29% sounded positive, 20% were sad, 11% expressed surprise, 5% anger, 2% fear and 1% disgust, while 35% remained neutral,” said C. Sridhar, an assistant professor of Computer Science and Engineering, who developed the portal along with V. Dheeraj and Venigalla Akhila Sri Manasa. A list of ‘trigger events’ such as the announcement of the Janata Curfew in March, extension of the lockdown, Prime Minister’s call for lighting lamps, and lifting of the ban on the export on hydroxychloroquine, among others, has been specified, which allows users to view the country’s reaction to specific events during the COVID-19 situation. “By following api.covid19india.org, updated information is regularly provided on the number of confirmed, recovered and deceased cases in every State, which acts as a ready reckoner for policy-makers as well as field staff,” said Dr. Sridhar. The portal will continue to gauge the public mood as long as the fight against COVID-19 is on, he added.
15 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City triumphs in fight over pandemic||The Sri City industrial cluster on Thursday won plaudits for managing to steer clear of coronavirus cases despite being surrounded by red zones. R.P. Sisodia, principal secretary to the State Government and Special Officer for Containment, Control and Surveillance of COVID-19, personally inspected the struggles faced by the industrial city in ensuring that the pandemic does not come knocking on its doors and how it is preparing to return to normalcy in the wake of the lockdown. As part of his tour to Varadaiahpalem mandal to review the COVID-19 situation, Mr. Sisodia visited Sri City on Thursday and was given a briefing on the unique features of the industrial city and the progress it had achieved during the last decade. Sri City president (Operations) Satish Kamat and vice-president (Customer Relations) C. Ramesh Kumar explained the measures taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus and maintaining the campus as ‘COVID-free zone’. Mr. Kamat also explained the challenges faced in making industrial units resume work, retaining migrant labour and mobilising employees from the green zones. Mr. Sisodia appreciated the efforts of all the stakeholders in maintaining Sri City as a green zone, in spite of several red zones present around it.
15 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja Group unveils app for its staff||The Amara Raja Group has launched a web app that serves as an online screening tool and provides information about diseases and guidelines from the Centre for Disease Control (CDC), World Health Organisation (WHO) and Ministry of Health. Amara Raja People Safety Management System (ARPSMS), developed in collaboration with Doxiva, serves as a digital platform for its 16,000-strong workforce to understand the risk of contracting coronavirus. With this app, company employees and their family members can use the self-screening assessment tools to understand the risks of contracting the disease.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||318 return to State by first special train||As many as 318 persons returned to the State from New Delhi by the first special train, here on Thursday. All of them, belonging to various districts, alighted the train in the city which was the only stop and they were sent to their respective districts by the Krishna district administration in special buses. Basic screening Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha and Sub-Collector HM Dhyan Chand oversaw the arrangements at the railway station where all the passengers underwent basic screening for COVID symptoms. They were also given food and water upon arrival. The Railways made necessary arrangements for the passengers at the station complying with the social distancing norms. Ms. Madhavi Latha said all the returnees would be placed under institutional quarantine by the respective district nodal officers for 14 days and would be sent home after their samples were tested. Among the returnees, 70 belong to Krishna district and they would be sent to IIIT, Nuzvid for institutional quarantine, officials said. Meanwhile, 282 persons from the State left for Chennai by the same train. More persons will be returning to the State from Chennai and New Delhi by other special trains scheduled in the future.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. accepts SCERT report on English medium||The government has accepted a report submitted by the State Council of Educational Research and Technology (SCERT) and recommended by the Commissioner, School Education, on introduction of English as a medium of instruction in government schools from the new academic year. A GO released to this effect said implementation of the report would be in adherence to the directions of the Supreme Court in the SLP to be filed by the government. Recommending English as a medium of instruction in all government schools from Class I to X in a phased manner, the Council has said that it had already developed textbooks in all media from Class I to VI, and that the government may issue orders for printing of the books and their supply to the children. ‘Compulsory subject’ Schools of linguistic minorities such a Urdu, Kannada and Odiya can continue with an option of simultaneously running English medium. The report said Telugu will remain a compulsory subject for all classes from I to X, irrespective of the media. The Telugu textbooks should be restructured, reflecting the rich literature and cultural values of Telugu language. Teachers should be re-oriented and children should be provided with workbooks, school libraries strengthened with the addition of more books on Telugu literature so as to enable the teachers and children to improve their understanding and proficiency in the language. Considering the lack of administrative and economic feasibility for running exclusive Telugu medium schools, wherever the children have opted for, the government may consider the option of setting up one Telugu medium school in each mandal headquarters and provide transport facility, or the cost incurred for transport to children. The government would incur an expenditure of Rs. 32 crore per annum (Rs. 6,000 per head) on this count.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC exams to begin on July 10||The State government on Thursday announced that the SSC (10th class) examinations would be held from July 10 to July 15, bringing down the number of papers from 11 to six. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said at a press conference that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of examination papers were reduced to six so that the students would have to visit the examination centres on minimum number of days. Social distancing Each examination would be for 100 marks. The examinations would be conducted in strict adherence to the social distancing protocol. The examinations would he held from 9.30 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. The first six days of the examinations would be followed by Oriental SSC and vocational SSC examinations that will conclude on July 17. The Minister said sample question paper and details of the examination centres would be made known soon. He said the students should make the best of the two months’ time they have for preparation. District Collectors, Education Officers and other officials were asked to identify examination centres. He said in addition to the existing 2009 examination centres, more would be added to facilitate physical distance between the students. Schedule The following is the schedule: July 10 (Friday)-first language (Group-A) for 100 marks and first language paper-I (composite course) for 70 marks, July 11 (Saturday)- second language (100 marks), July 12 (Sunday)-English (100 marks), July 13 (Monday)-mathematics (100 marks), July 14 (Tuesday)- general science (100 marks), July 15 (Wednesday)-social studies (100 marks), July 16 (Thursday)-first language paper-II (composite course) for 30 marks and OSSC main language paper-I (Sanskrit, Arabic, Persian) for 100 marks and on July 17 (Friday)-OSSC main language paper-II (Sanskrit, Arabic, Persian (100 marks) and SSC vocational course (theory) for 40 and 30 marks.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bailout plan ready for MSMEs, says Mekapati||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the guidelines for disbursing a financial assistance of Rs. 905 crore to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had been drawn up and that the Discoms were instructed to waive fixed electricity charges for three months. Applications were being received for the incentive package that was announced two weeks ago, he stated. Addressing media persons after holding a review meeting on MSMEs at the Secretariat on Thursday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said there were about 97,000 MSMEs in the State and clarity was awaited on the financial assistance announced by the Central government to the industrial sector. The extent to which the Central package would be beneficial to industries in the State was to be seen, he said, while committing on behalf of the State government that is required to bail out the MSMEs which bore the brunt of the lockdown.  Referring to the incident at the LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam, the Minister said a South Korean team had arrived and it would study the situation over a two-week period. Notices were served to 86 hazardous industries across the State seeking information on their compliance with safety protocols and they were ordered to resume operations post lockdown only after doing a safety audit.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conductors in RTC buses will be a ‘thing of the past’||Post COVID-19, life will not be the same. People from different spheres of life will see different changes. For commuters of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) buses, it will be a new experience of cashless travel. The officials of the giant public carrier are currently running dummy trials of this new mode of travel which will eliminate the risk of coming in contact with the driver or conductor in the bus. “We are visualising a scenario of buses without conductors to facilitate cashless transactions. This is imperative in the wake of the COVID-19 guidelines that mandate physical distance,” said an official of the corporation. Even as the operation trials are on, the top officials of the transport corporation are also looking into the tentative guidelines of operating only 50% of the buses from their fleet and making use of only 50% of the seats in each bus, as part of social distancing. The RTC had launched an app and a smart card in February as part of digitisation of the operations. Little did the officials know that this particular tool “Chalo” app would come handy for them in the post-COVID-19 scenario to maintain distance among commuters. Smart card The Chalo app and a smart travel card by the same name, is a pre-paid card that enables a commuter to buy bus ticket on the go. The plan is to rationalise a fare for entire Vijayawada city. For instance, if a person equipped with the “Chalo” smart card boards an RTC bus, all he has to do is tap the pre-paid card on a machine and the bus fare will be deducted from his account. “It is a closed loop payment system which will allow a hassle-free transaction and a risk-free travel for the commuter in the times of COVID,” said the official.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition cries foul over sale of govt. land||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has demanded that the government stop the sale of public properties under the pretext of ‘Build AP.’ Addressing a press conference on Thursday, TDP leader and former Minister Nakka Anand Babu said the government was determined to go ahead with the sale public properties but without any concrete plan to develop the State. The ‘Build AP’ programme is “a conspiracy” to rob the people of Andhra Pradesh by “grabbing” prime land. Already a few land parcels were being sold in Visakhapatnam and Guntur, Mr. Anand Babu alleged. Citing an example, the former Minister said land belonging to the Labour Department in Guntur city was allotted for the construction a new division of the Government General Hospital by the previous government. The YSRCP government, now, had put up the same land parcel for sale ignoring the medical and health requirements of people. Mr. Anand Babu wondered how the government could sell land at a time when the State was under lockdown and activity in several sectors, including real estate, had coming to a grinding halt. Meanwhile, BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana demanded that the proposed sale of nine land parcels in Guntur and Visakhapatnam owned by the government should be cancelled, saying that the sacred principle of public finance management was not to liquidate assets for unproductive expenditures. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Lakshminarayana said if the government keeps selling its assets one after another, it would be harming the interests of future generations. He pointed out that the Chandrababu Naidu government had committed a blunder by mortgaging assets for funding its populist schemes. As a consequence, the State’s financial position took a severe beating. ‘Explore alternatives’ The CPI and the CPI (M), in separate statements, demanded that the government drop the move immediately. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said the government was resorting to real estate business by planning to sell prime properties through e-auction. It would seriously impact the social needs in future. The government should explore other options for mobilising funds, he added. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said ‘Navaratnalu’ should be a continuous process. If Mr. Jagan were sincere, he should try to get the Special Category Status and the funds due to the State from the Centre, he said.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Influx of migrants, Koyambedu links push State’s tally||At a time when the number of active cases is gradually coming down in the State, the increasing number of positive cases among the migrant workers returning to the State has become a cause for concern. Twenty-six migrants who had returned to the State around May 5 from Gujarat tested positive. Later on, the number went up to 105 with more migrants from Maharashtra (67), Odisha (10), Karnataka (1) and West Bengal (1) testing positive. In addition to these cases, the impact of Tamil Nadu’s Koyambedu wholesale market, which is a hotspot, is being witnessed in at least four districts – Chittoor, Nellore, East Godavari and West Godavari – of the State. Two of these districts are already hotspots with at least 100 cases each. So far, at least 56 persons who had been to the Koyambedu market and their contacts had contracted the virus, the bulletins by the Health Department said. On the whole, during the past 10 days, the State witnessed 158 positive cases, which is 7.16% of the total cases, due to transmission outside the State, and detection of more cases is expected in the coming days. To contain the possible spread of the virus by persons coming to the State, the Health Department has decided not to allow home quarantine. In the case of people coming from hotspot zones, tests are being conducted immediately upon arrival. On Thursday, 318 persons returned to the State by a special train. They arrived in Vijayawada from where they were sent to their respective districts after basic screening for symptoms. Officials said that they would be put under institutional quarantine and sent home only after testing. On the other hand, over 6,000 migrant workers were stopped from entering the State at the borders and sent to relief camps. In addition, over 8,000 migrant workers returned to the State by trains and buses. Meanwhile, the State witnessed one more COVID-19 death and 68 new cases during the past 24 hours ending Thursday after testing 9,256 samples. Of the new cases, 36 were locals and 21 had links to the Koyambedu market. The other 32 cases were migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra (29), Odisha (2) and West Bengal (1). With this, the tally in the State went up to 2,205 and the toll reached 48 with the death of a patient in Kurnool district. As many as 50 patients – Guntur (21), Kurnool (19), Anantapur (3), Chittoor (3), West Godavari (2), Krishna (1)and Nellore (1) – recovered, leaving 965 active cases. So far, 1,192 patients, including a nine-month-old baby, recovered. Nellore district reported 15 new cases and 12 of them were linked to the Koyembedu market. Chittor reported nine new cases and eight of them were traced to the market. Guntur reported five new cases and Kadapa, Krishna and Srikakulam one case each. West Godavari reported one case, which was linked to the Koyambedu market.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu takes up plight of Telugu NRIs with Union Minister||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has urged External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to look into the plight of the Telugu NRIs stranded in the country. In a tweet, Mr. Naidu said, “More than 400 Telugu NRIs are stranded in A.P. and other States in the country. They are waiting for resumption of non-immigrant visa operations at the US consulates. Kindly look into it.” Mr. Naidu was responding to a request made by Sree Manvi, a Telugu NRI, and others. Ms. Sree Manvi, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, said she was making a request on behalf of the 400-plus families who had come to India from the US prior to imposition of lockdown for visa processing. “Due to the lockdown and closure of the US consulates, we have been stranded for the past two months,” she said in a tweet, tagging Dr. Jaishankar, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Naidu and TDP general secretary N. Lokesh. ‘Careers at stake’ She said, “We are on the verge of losing our career / livelihood that took years to build in the US. We humbly request you to consider our solicitation to exclude the US consulates from the lockdown and resume the non-immigrant visa operations,” she said. Royce, another NRI, tweeted, “Visited India for my mom’s terminal illness just before the US embassy closed. On unpaid leave for 60 days as of today. The loss of income has a huge impact on my mom’s treatment along with other debts.”
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donations pour in||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has been receiving donations in various forms to help it fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the city. In a release, VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that so far many persons and organisations came forward to help the homeless and migrant workers. Former MP Gokaraju Gangaraju has donated essentials worth Rs. 5 lakh, VMC Employees Co-operative Bank donated essentials worth  Rs. 2 lakh, Builders Association donated essentials worth Rs. 1.2 lakh , Bank Of Baroda donated 200 grocery kits, Bhagam Constructions donated essentials worth Rs. 2 lakh , Gurudwara Samaj donated 100 rice bags, Reliance donated 100 grocery kits, and Yamanchali Joshi donated groceries worth Rs. 52, 850, he said.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga temple makes puja offer to devotees||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam Executive Officer MV Suresh Babu on Thursday said that regular and daily rituals were being performed at the Durga temple and all sub temples atop Indrakeeladri. In view of the lockdown due to coronavirus and the special situation prevailing in the country, devotees were not being allowed to participate in rituals personally, but, they can send their contributions and make payments for special pujas and rituals, Mr. Suresh Babu said. They can make payments by logging onto temple website www.kanakadurgamma.org.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rail land authority takes online route||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has successfully conducted online pre-bid meetings for the redevelopment of railway stations in Nellore and Tirupati. These redevelopment projects are in line with Smart Cities Mission and aim at making Tirupati and Nellore multi-modal transit hubs endowed with state-of-the-art amenities, including differently-abled-friendly access ramps and elevators and green building features such as rainwater harvesting and solar energy generation. The tender is scheduled to be opened by mid-June. The pre-bid meetings for Nellore and Tirupati witnessed participation by prominent firms such as GMR, Oberoi, Ambience, Adani Group, Godrej Properties, Reliance Infra, Sobha, Brigade and Embassy Group. Both stations will be redeveloped in the PPP mode on Design, Build, Finance, Operate, Transfer (DBFOT) model. They will have operational areas like administrative areas, miscellaneous technical areas, security and station operation staff areas besides world-class amenities for passengers such as shopping, hospitality, food court, cloakroom, dormitories and executive lounges. The Tirupati railway station is targeted to be redeveloped in three years.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to receive ‘rythu bharosa’ aid from today||The State government is gearing itself up to pay the remaining portion of the first instalment of financial assistance to farmers under the ‘YSR Rythu Bharosa - PM Kisan’ from May 15. Under the scheme, which is aimed at reaching out to the farmers ahead of the kharif operations, it is proposed to give the beneficiaries an incentive of Rs. 13,500 per annum in three phases — Rs. 7,500 as first instalment; Rs. 4,000 as second instalment in October and Rs. 2,000 as final instalment on Sankranti. As a part of the first instalment in the 2020-21 financial year, an amount of Rs. 2,000 had already been credited to the bank accounts of the farmers in April. The remaining amount of Rs. 5,500 would be credited to their accounts from May 15. About 49 lakh farmers would be benefited under the scheme. During 2019-20, the State government had spent Rs. 6,534 crore under the scheme. This apart, the State government plans to launch 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) May 30. The RBKs will offer all agriculture and allied services from a single platform and also function as crop procurement centre. The RBKs will have digital kiosks and smart TVs to help the farmers stay updated on the latest developments.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure speedy disposal of Disha cases’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to expedite the establishment of special courts for the Disha Act and one de-addiction centre per parliamentary constituency as part of the implementation of total prohibition in a phased manner. At a review meeting on the Disha Act on Thursday, Mr. Jagan said the appointment of public prosecutors should also be speeded up so that the cases could be disposed of quickly. Forensic labs with basic infrastructure should also be set up at the earliest. Besides, Disha police stations should be set up in each one of the 25 Lok Sabha constituencies. Officials told the Chief Minister that ever since the Disha Act came into force, about 2.80 lakh people had downloaded the app and there had been 19,918 SOS messages since February 9 and action was taken in 292 cases.  De-addiction centres Mr. Jagan said the 11 teaching hospitals that are coming up should have de-addiction centres to wean away people from alcohol consumption. Earlier, the Chief Minister interacted with the staff of six Disha police stations (Vizianagaram, Rajahmundry urban, Visakhapatnam city, Nellore, Kurnool and Ananthapur) which won ISO 9001:2015 certification. These stations have disposed of 167 cases in just one week. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Goutham Sawang, Disha Act special officers Kritika Shukla and Deepika Patil were among those present.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD extends liquidity support to rural banks||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has made available a Special Liquidity Facility (SLF) of Rs. 25,000 crore for providing support to Regional Rural Banks, Cooperative Banks and Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) during 2020-21. NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj, in a statement on Thursday, said: “The SLF is being provided in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The SLF is a front loaded liquidity support provided to banks with a view to ensuring continued flow of credit to farmers to carry out their agricultural operations smoothly even during this crisis,” he said. An amount of Rs. 2,500 crore was allotted to Rural Financial Institutions in the State. Of this, an amount of Rs. 1,300 crore has been released to 13 District Cooperative Central Banks and Rs. 1,200 crore to four Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) in the State by NABARD, A.P. Regional Office. “This line of credit will help the banks in augmenting their financial resources for providing uninterrupted credit to farmers under Kisan Credit Card and also for issue of fresh Kisan Credit Cards to all eligible, to rejuvenate agricultural operations during this difficult situation, for the Kharif crops,” he added.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. chambers hails stimulus package||Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (AP Chambers) has welcomed the economic stimulus package for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. AP Chambers president K.V.S. Prakash Rao and general secretary Potluri Bhaskara Rao stated in a press release that the Rs. 3-lakh-crore corpus for issuing collateral-free term loans, creation of Rs. 50,000 crore fund for equity support for business expansion, Rs. 20,000 crore subordinated debt for stressed MSMEs, e-Market linkage etc. would bail out the lockdown-hit enterprises to a large extent. The Finance Minister would take more steps that would enable MSMEs to revive the MSME sector thereby reboot the economy, they said.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collection of electricity bills deferred till June 30||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the Energy Department to defer collection of electricity bills till June 30 following complaints of inflated bills. The officials concerned informed the Chief Minister that bills were not given last month due to lockdown and the current bills were for two months calculated on the average basis. They said the domestic power consumption had gone up as people stayed at home due to the lockdown, and the perceived hike in billing was because of the number of units jumping to higher slabs.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permission sought to reopen units in Autonagar||The Vijayawada Notified Municipal Corporation Industrial Area Services Society, the industrial area local authority (IALA), of Autonagar representatives have submitted a representation to Collector A. Md. Imtiaz seeking permission for the industries to reopen and work with 50% workforce. IALA chairman Sunkara Durga Prasad along with other office-bearers and association's representatives met Mr. Imtiaz here on Thursday. In the representation, they said they would reopen units by following all the social distancing norms if given permission. They sought permission for working hours from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Mr. Durga Prasad said that thousands of Autonagar units and their workers are facing a lot of difficulties and reopening them would help them come out of the crisis.
15 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex gratia for accident victims||Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the road accident near Raparla in Prakasam district on Thursday. He asked the officials to provide medical aid to the injured and conveyed his sympathies to the bereaved family members. The Chief Minister also announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. TDP president N. Chadrababu Naidu expressed shock over the accident and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak survivors in the grip of trauma||Even as the authorities have announced that the areas affected by the gas leak tragedy at LG Polymers are safe for habitation, the residents of RR Venkatapuram and four other villages in the vicinity of the plant are worried over an uncertain future. “Two of my family members are in hospital. A week has passed since the gas leak, but the pungent smell hangs heavy in the air. I returned from a relative’s house only after being told by the officials that our village is now out of danger. But, we can not convince ourselves,” says Y. Pydikonda whose husband is a contract worker at LG Polymers.  ‘Still fresh in memory’ There are many in RR Venkatapuram, SC -BC Colony, Padanabhanagar and Nandamurinagar with a total population of about 25,000 who are under the grip of fear as the horror of gas leak incident is still fresh in their memory. Rajanna Satish, a youth from Padmanabhanagar, a hamlet on the outskirts of RR Venkatapuram, did not leave his house immediately due to fear that his cattle would die. In the morning, he ventured out only to find his cattle dead. “We just can not make peace with the horrific experience of the early morning on May 7,” he says. Most of the people settled in the five villages are from small landholdings in Pendurthi, Sabbavaram, Rambilli, Atchutapuram and Anakapalle. Describing the gas leak as a tragic chapter, G. Hymavathi, Chairperson of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said children and elderly are still staying put at their relatives’ houses as the fear of leakage is still making them tense. ‘32 children discharged’ “At least 32 of the 64 children who fell sick after the incident have been discharged. They need special care as they are enduring the trauma,” she said. K.S. Chalam, a former member of National Human Rights Commission, said it was not the business of the government to ask people to return to their homes. “The gas leak should not be viewed as an industrial incident, but as a chemical disaster such as Bhopal gas tragedy. The experts from NEERI and professors from Department of Environmental Sciences, Andhra University should recommend that the villages are fit for human habitation,” he said. Counselling needed He also agreed that due to trauma suffered by the survivors, arrangement should be done for organising counselling sessions for them.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five positive cases reported in district; tally goes up to 71||Five more COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday, according to officials from Health Department. The cases are likely to be confirmed in the State Health Bulletin on Friday. If the cases are confirmed, the total cases in the district will be 71. According to sources, among the five cases, three persons including a couple are said to be migrant labourers who have come from other States. The three cases are reported from Butchayyapeta area and Cheedikada. Meanwhile, another couple from Poorna Market area have also been tested positive. Meanwhile, a crew member of the MV Ella, who was sent to the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, was tested negative on Thursday. The vessel, carrying pet coke from a port in the U.S.A., was berthed at EQ 7 of the city port on Wednesday. The crew member hailing from Haryana was shifted to the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) after he showed some symptoms.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Situation in LG plant area under control’||The LG Polymers management on Thursday confirmed that status quo of the plant at RR Venkatapuram remained ‘completely controlled’ by all measures. Reacting to the May 7 incident that claimed 12 lives and affected many, the company said: “We have begun the transportation of the styrene monomer (SM) inventory within the plant as well as in the styrene tanks at the Visakhapatnam Port by vessels to South Korea to prevent and eliminate all risk factors.” In an official release, the company said a team of experts from its Seoul headquarters arrived at the plant on Wednesday. The team of production, environment, and safety experts are currently investigating the cause of the incident. “We have already been supporting responsible rehabilitation which is their main objective,” it said, adding the team was working closely with related authorities to analyse the cause of the incident, prevent a recurrence, and support damage recovery in a prompt and expedient manner. LG Polymers India has identified comprehensive support measures to resolve the situation quickly and responsibly. The release said a special task force was currently supporting the bereaved families and those affected by the gas leak and visiting them at the hospitals and their homes. Food and medical services have been organised for the returning residents. Helpline The process for executing a comprehensive care package for recovery, the company said, would include continue to work with government agencies to ensure all possible support for bereaved families and victims and commissioning of Suraksha Hospital to take care of all residents’ health check-ups and future treatment. Helpline numbers 08912520884 and 08912520338 have been created. A direct mail id has been openedlgpicsr@lgchem.comfor any queries the villagers may have. “We will soon set up specialised institutions to conduct surveys on health and environmental impacts and disclose the results. Our teams will carry out mid-to-long-term Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects that can contribute to the local community based on suggestions of the residents,” the release said.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Telemedicine meets healthcare challenges during lockdown’||The telemedicine programme has helped the State overcome the challenges in the healthcare system owing to the lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19 pandemic, D. Raghunadha Rao, former Director of the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Visakhapatnam, has said. Telemedicine is the delivery and facilitation of healthcare services via digital communication technologies. “The programme is big success in the State as not only did it come to the rescue of the people suffering from various ailments during the lockdown, but also efficiently identified suspected COVID-19 patients,” a statement quoted Dr. Raghunadha Rao as saying. The facility can now be extended to treat chronic, lifestyle disorders such as diabetes and hypertension, he said. “The Medical Council of India framed the telemedicine guidelines with the purpose of enabling registered medical practitioners to offer their services through the programme. The guidelines, prepared in partnership with NITI Aayog, were released on March 25,” he said, adding that Andhra Pradesh was quick to grab the opportunity and entrusted the task to the YSR Aarogyasri Trust. How it works The field executives of Aarogyasri visit the houses and gather data of people with any symptoms or complaints from any family member. They enroll people for the web-based telemedicine programme. Patients are also roughly triaged to the relevant specialty, Dr. Rao said. As soon as doctors from across the State log in, the patient’s names, specialty pop up on the screen. The doctors interact with the patient and arrive at a diagnosis. The Asha workers pick up medicines from the pharmacy and deliver it to the patient, he said.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parcel express trains to Sambalpur, Cuttack||The East Coast Railway will ply several parcel express trains to ensure transportation of essential commodities to all parts of the country. Schedule Train no. 00530 Visakhapatnam-Sambalpur Parcel Express will leave from Visakhapatnam on May 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29 and 31 at 9 a.m. and reach Sambalpur at 5.30 p.m. In the return direction, train no. 00529 will leave Sambalpur on May 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and June 1 at 9 a.m. and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 6 p.m. on the same day, a statement quoted Waltair Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar as saying. These trains will have stoppages at Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Paravatipuram, Rayagada, Muniguda, Kesinga, Titlagarh, Balangir and Bargarh Road. Similarly, train no. 00532 Visakhapatnam–Cuttack Parcel Express will leave Visakhapatnam from May 16 to 31 at 10 a.m. and reach Cuttack at 6.30 p.m. on the same day. Train no. 00531 Cuttack – Visakhapatnam Parcel Express will leave Cuttack from May 17 to June 1 at 9 a.m. and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 5.30 p.m. on the same day. Halts These trains will stop at Vizianagaram, Srikakulam Road, Palasa, Ichchapuram, Brahmapur, Chatrapur, Balugaon, Khurda Road and Bhubaneswar. These services can be used for transportation of essential commodities. For more details, people can approach the Station Managers and the Parcel Supervisors of the respective stations. Merchants and interested suppliers can also contact the Parcel Offices at the stations.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decision on shifting plant only after panel report’||The State government will take a decision on the demand for shifting the LG Polymers plant on the basis of the recommendation of the high-power committee that is probing the accident, according to Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Satyanarayana said the committee, headed by senior IAS officer Neerabh Kumar Prasad, was examining all angles of the styrene leakage on May 7 that had killed 12 persons. The committee was also mandated to study the status of 86 hazardous industries in the State, he said. “We will complete the enumeration of victims with a view to paying them compensation in a day or two,” he said.
15 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam leaders held at Venkatapuram||TDP leaders Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and Gandi Babji were arrested by the police on Thursday when they were returning from Venkatapuram village after meeting residents affected by the styrene monomer vapour leak at LG Polymers. The duo was stopped near Naidu Thota and taken into preventive custody, a police official said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Murthy said that he and Mr. Babji had gone to the village only to offer their support to the affected families. “We were returning to my car after meeting the villagers when we were picked up by the police. We did not hold any protest or meeting at the village,” Mr. Murthy said. A few more activists were also arrested and reportedly shifted to Anandapuram police station.
15 May 2020||Warangal Urban dist.,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two naxal leaders surrender||Two naxal leaders of the CPI (ML) New Democracy surrendered to the police in the presence of City Police Commissioner V. Ravinder here on Thursday. They duo are - Soma Bhaskar alias Suryam of Duggondi mandal of Warangal Rural district and Burka Pratap alias Shyam of Kothaguda mandal of Mahabubabad district.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City airport gearing up for post-lockdown operations||It will be a touch-free entry and exit for passengers once flight operations resume after lifting of the lockdown at Visakhapatnam International Airport. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) is making all arrangements to ensure safety of passengers. Passengers have to wear masks. They can bring their own masks or purchase them at the stalls being opened at the airport. These stalls will also sell sanitisers and gloves. The AAI has entrusted the task of sanitising the airport, including offices and garden area, to the Central Warehousing Corporation. Bar code reader The security personnel have been provided with magnifying glasses to check ID cards and the ticket details on the mobile screen of the passengers from a distance, eliminating the need to take mobile into their hands. “The barcode reader will read the boarding pass and retrieve the information from the database . Messages regarding the hand baggage will be sent to the mobile of the passenger and the same checked with the help of a magnifying glass in the security area,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore said. “Hand-held metal detectors will check the baggage to be put in the cargo hold. When physical checking of the baggage is required, the staff will wear gloves. There are a total of 600 seats in the security area on the ground and first floor, which can accommodate three flight loads of passengers,” he says. Social distancing will be observed while allowing passengers through the aero bridges by sending 10 persons at a time, which will take about 15 minutes more for completion of boarding.  “Trial runs will be conducted in a couple of days,” Mr. Raja Kishore adds.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops to remain open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||The State government has issued orders for regulated opening of shops in view of the restrictions imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, Collector V. Vinay Chand has said. No shop will be allowed to open in containment and buffer zones, while the shops in all other zones can do business from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Pharmacies will remain open as usual, while vegetables will be available from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. All shopping malls, market complexes and markets will remain shut both in urban and rural areas, the Collector said on Thursday. Standalone shops in rural areas, those in colonies and residential complexes in both urban areas and rural areas will remain open. Garment stores, jewellery and shoe stores will remain shut. Roster system Shops located close to each other should consult the local authorities or the market associations and ensure that one shop in between two should be closed. A roster should be maintained and the shops in between should be allowed to open by turns. Social distancing Shops selling implements relating to construction work, agriculture pump sets, spare parts can operate. The Collector said circles should be drawn outside shops to ensure social distancing of six feet. Sanitiser should be made available at entry and exit doors of shops and staff must wear masks and gloves.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) leaders oppose plan to sell govt. land||The CPI(M) has opposed the proposal of the State government to sell government land in Visakhapatnam district through e-auction to generate revenue. “The proposal to sell the land allocated to the Reserve Police and the APIIC tells all about the the lack of interest of the government in developing the city. The government land needs to be protected,” said party leader K. Lokanadham on Thursday. Reiterating the same, B. Ganga Rao said that it was evident from the decision taken by the government that there was no truth in the statements of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on making Visakhapatnam as the executive capital. The CPI(M) leaders recalled that the YSRCP had opposed the move of the previous TDP government to dispose of the government land. The party leaders demanded that the State government drop the proposal of selling the government land.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apply online for vehicle pass||People who need to go to other districts and States to attend to any emergencies can apply for e-vehicle pass by logging on to the websitehttps://serviceonline.gov. . in/epass/ The passes will be issued only for emergency such as health, attending a wedding or death of a relative, a statement quoted Rural Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee as saying on Thursday. People whose applications are approved will get an SMS on their mobile phones. The recipient can show the same to the police personnel at the checkposts, who will facilitate their journey after scanning the QR code, the statement said. For more details, people can dial the landline number 0891-2791186. In a separate statement, the SP said that 64 cases have been booked related to violation of the lockdown norms and 1,353 cases of traffic violations have been booked in the district in the last 24 hours, ending on Thursday evening. The police have also seized 25 vehicles and arrested 88 persons and collected Rs. 4,13,595 from the violators as penalties.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long road ahead||
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depression brewing over Bay of Bengal||The well-marked low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to concentrate into a depression on Friday and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening, the meteorology officials have said. Under its influence, thunderstorm and lightning are likely to occur at isolated places over the north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on Friday. Apart from thunderstorm, gusty winds reaching the speed of 40 kmph are likely to bow over isolated places over the north and south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema and Yanam on Saturday. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places on the same day. The weather system is likely to continue on Sunday. The Cyclone Warning Centre in Visakhapatnam has issued a warning for fishermen for the next 24 hours, ending at 6 p.m. on Friday.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. aid sought for budget schools||The Andhra Pradesh Private Schools’ Association (APPSA) has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider small budget schools in the category of micro industry to enable them avail of the benefits under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. In a letter to the Prime Minister, APPSA State chairman K.S.N. Murthy said that the budget schools were rendering yeomen service in the field of education to the poor and downtrodden sections. “The fee structure of these schools are minimal. The managements, however, have to give salaries to teachers and pay the building rent. The lockdown during the past 50 days have led to the closure of many such schools which do not get any aid from the government,” Mr. Murthy pointed out. Interest-free loan He appealed to the Prime Minister to give minimum aid to the schools to help them function after the lockdown, apart from providing interest-free loans. He said details of the budget schools are available at the DEO’s Office for verification.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back at work||
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homebound, finally||
15 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Six-year-old boy dies in accident||A six-year-old boy riding pillion on a motorcycle driven by his father died when their bike rammed a roadside electricity pole at Vinayakapuram in Aswaraopeta mandal on Thursday. The bike rider also suffered serious injuries in the incident. The incident occurred when the father-son duo was returning to their native village in Andhra Pradesh’s Velerupadu mandal after visiting their relative’s house at Vinayakapuram on Thursday afternoon. Sources said that the bike rider was apparently in an inebriated condition.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||47 new COVID cases reported in Telangana||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in the State on Thursday with 47 more cases reported during the day, taking the total number of affected persons to 1,414. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area accounted for 40 of the 47 cases reported during the day. Five cases were reported from the neighbouring Rangareddy district and another two cases were of the migrants who tested positive for the virus. No deaths were reported in the State for the day and the number remained at 34 and 37 migrants had been tested positive to the virus. The total number of persons discharged from different hospitals after undergoing treatment/cured was 952. The number of acive cases was 428. Three districts Warangal Rural, Yadadri-Bhongir and Wanaparthy continued to remain in the green zone with no positive cases reported till date and the number of districts where no positive cases had been reported since 14 days has increased to 26, according to the bulletin released by the Public Health and Family Welfare department. The gender-wise distribution of the deaths due to the virus showed that 27% of those succumbed to the virus were male and only 7 % cent were female. Home quarantine The bulletin said that a large number of migrants were entering the State from across the country. The evacuees from other countries were being screened at airports while the migrants arriving by road and rail were being screened for symptoms at railway stations and at border check posts. The asymptomatic migrants arriving in the State through various points of entry were being quarantined at home and in government quarantine facilities. Symptomatic migrants were being isolated and tested for further course of action. The department had requested people to inform the local authorities in case they identify any new persons, migrants who newly arrived in the towns and villages.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress approaches KRMB against AP govt. order||Alleging that the Andhra Pradesh government is illegally drawing water from Srisailam by upgrading canal systems from Pothireddypadu head regulators, the Telangana Congress approached the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and sought its intervention. “Lakhs of farmers in southern Telangana would be affected adversely. Besides, farming will also suffer from water shortage if the plan to draw an additional 3 TMC per day is executed,” a delegation headed by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy told KRMB Chairman Chandrashekhar Iyer on Thursday. Malkjagiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, MLA Jagga Reddy, AICC secretaries A. Sampath Kumar, Vamshi Chand Reddy, and G. Chinna Reddy, former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, ex-MPs Konda Vishveshwar Reddy and Mallu Ravi, ex-MLA Rammohan Reddy and others were present. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said attention of the KRMB chief was drawn towards G.O. No. 203 issued on May 5 by the Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Department involving sanction of Rs. 6,829 crore to upgrade Pothireddypadu head regulator to draw 80,000 cusecs from foreshore of Srisailam reservoir. The above G.O. also approves sanction of up-gradation of canal system and envisages utilisation of additional 3 tmc per day from Srisailam water. The TPCC chief said the decision of the Andhra Pradesh government is against the provisions of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 and, the KRMB has the authority to stop upgradation works. The Pothireddypadu head regulators’ capacity has already been enhanced from 11,000 cusecs to 44,000 cusecs, he said. “The issue was brought to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao by Congress leader Nagam Janardhan Reddy through a letter on January 4. However, Mr. Rao did not pay any attention and this negligence clearly shows that he has some secret understanding with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy,” Mr. Uttam Reddy alleged adding that despite both the Chief Ministers meeting after that date, the issue was not raised by Mr. Rao. Mr. Reddy said that agricultural activities would be badly affected in Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda districts and there would be huge shortage of drinking water in Hyderabad. It might even lead to drying up of Nagarjunasagar dam. He said the KRMB has been urged to submit a report to the Central government to protect the interests of Telangana. He said the party demanded deployment of CISF forces to prevent theft of Krishna river water and installation of telemeters. Representation would also be submitted to Prime Minister Narender Modi and Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, he said.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. is to be blamed: TRS||Excise and Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud has said that if Andhra Pradesh Ministers claimed that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was aware of GO 203, enhancing water drawing capacity from Pothireddypadu, they are lying. Speaking to reporters here along with TRS MLAs from erstwhile Mahabubnagar, Lakshma Reddy and Anajaiah Yadav, he said if these reports are true, the AP Ministers are indulging in politics. Mr. Goud took potshots at the Congress and BJP for raising the issue stating that they should approach the Central government to stop the project if they are sincere. Their criticism of the Chief Minister is a mere a stunt to gain political mileage but people are smart enough to realise who stands behind Telangana, Mr. Goud said. He said the Congress leaders are responsible for allowing the water withdrawal from Pothireddypady in the combined State, and those criticising the Telangana government served as Ministers in the Congress rule. ‘Unnecessary criticism’ He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Mahabubnagar but did not even allot a single rupee for the Palamuru Ranga Reddy project. He advised the opposition parties to work with the government to stop the project rather than indulging in unnecessary criticism. Former Minister and MLA Lakshma Reddy said Mahabubnagar, that was totally neglected in the united State, is getting attention only after the TRS came to power. It is not right on the part of opposition to play politics with the district’s development. He said Mahabubnagar, which was a barren land, is turning green only with the vision of Chief Minister. He also rejected the allegations that the lifting capacity of the Palamuru Ranga Reddy project was reduced and asked the opposition not to spread rumours. He demanded the AP government to withdraw the GO immediately.  Congress and BJP should approach the Centre if they are sincere. V. Srinivas Goud, Excise and Tourism Minister.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Curious case of patient who was denied testing for COVID in govt. facility||In a curious case, a patient, who was experiencing discomfort in chest but denied sample testing for COVID-19 reportedly at Fever Hospital three days ago, turned out to be coronavirus-positive on Thursday when a corporate hospital sent his sample for testing. The case, contrary to the government claims, shows that government hospitals are not proactive in conducting COVID tests. According to the patient Sandeep Rao (30), he first went to Fever Hospital in Nallakunta suspecting coronavirus infection but the doctors there did not think so and ruled out a test. But the patient, who was not feeling well then went to out-patient department of pulmonology at Care Hospital, Banjara Hills on May 11. As he had no obvious symptoms of COVID barring discomfort in chest, he was advised CT scan. Sandeep Rao decided to go for CT scan outside the hospital and the diagnostic centre which did the scan apparently did not give him any report but verbally told him he could be suffering from COVID-19. The patient returned to Care Hospital on May 13 and underwent repeat HRCT which showed ‘ground glassing’ appearance and a strong suspect for COVID-19, according to Hospital Superintendent. The patient was admitted the same say in a special isolation room and his sample was collected and sent for testing to NIMS, a government facility. The test report confirmed him as COVID-19 positive on Thursday. Meanwhile, Sandeep, who spent Rs. 80,000 at the corporate hospital as he was asked to undergo various investigations, decided to go to Gandhi Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital by the government. The Superintendent of the Corporate Hospital stated the the patient visited four other hospitals before being admitted to Care Hospital as all those hospitals denied admission. Since the patient was anxious with frequent episodes of diarrhoea, necessary medical attention was given to him, he said. He continued to complain about chest discomfort and thus he had to be evaluated further for the underlying cause. After two days’ hospitalisation, the patient who was covered under insurance showed his willingness to go to Gandhi Hospital on Thursday, he said.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Self-discipline, testing are the way forward, says CCMB Director||The dangers of COVID-19 continue to lurk even if relaxations to the lockdown continue to be given, to keep the wheels of the economy running. “We are seeing cases spiking up everyday and it is not surprising. We have to further enhance our testing capacity to understand which way the virus is going even if 70-80% infected persons are asymptomatic carriers because they are going to spread the disease. So, self-discipline is the key and we have to continue to maintain personal hygiene and social distancing,” CSIR - Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra said on Thursday. “For a variety of reasons, perhaps even due to our genetic disposition and maybe due to exposure to other such viruses earlier, we seem to have a large percentage of asymptomatic patients. These carriers could infect the vulnerable like the elderly and those with co-morbidities. So within our capacities, we need to go for more testing. Only then can we can understand the virus spread better because there is no valid proof or single drug available and a vaccine is several months away in most optimistic assessment,” he asserted, in an exclusive interaction. The issues related to the rapid testing kits had put brakes to the plans for mass testing for sometime but there are encouraging signs of new antigen testing kits coming into play and these could help increase the testing numbers. “We need to keep the serious illness cases down considering our hospitals’ capacity to take care of them. We have been able to manage it well so far, but to ensure such cases don’t spring up more we need to know the carriers even if asymptomatic, so that they can be isolated and quarantined,” he maintained. Urgency of testing is there because “transmission is happening fast,” he said. “We can understand the anxiety of the governments to let the economy move and people cannot be put under lockdown indefinitely because of the revenues and incomes. However, the way forward is to ramp up testing between one to five lakh a day which the Central government is seriously considering in next few days,” says the director. Mass testing for the coronavirus on the susceptible carriers would give precise data for epidemiologists and others to have some idea about the peaks, trough or flattening of the virus graph across the country. “We are thinking the virus would peak in June before flattening towards August,” feels Dr. Mishra.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS-bPass implementation from June, says KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has said that the TS Building Approval and self-certification system (TS-bPass) will be implemented totally in the State, including the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), from June. At a review meeting here, the Minister instructed the officials to be ready as necessary infrastructure and systems would be in place by then totally. The TS-bPass allows people to construct houses through self-certification if the dwellings are to be built within 75 square yards. The Minister stated that the TS-bPass was being implemented in 87 municipalities on a trial basis and about 1100 applications had been received till now. KTR instructed MA and UD officials to call for a meeting within two days with district collectors, revenue officials and town planning officials from the GHMC limits. He also asked them to enhance the training for employees to ensure hassle-free transactions. The Minister asked the officials to work towards providing online approvals, once the complete system fell in place. Expressing happiness over the present software system used for the approval system, he asked the officials to make necessary upgrades of the software based on the feedback given by the officials from the ground. He instructed them to provide various online options (Mee Seva centres, mobile app) for the citizens to send their applications, apart from offline registrations. A call centre was also being set up for those who had any queries. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, CDMA director Satyanarayana and senior officials were present.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||929 Aadhaar cards deactivated since 2012||The Unique Identification Authority of India’s Hyderabad Regional Office has deactivated as many as 929 Aadhaar cards. According to a response to a Right to Information query, the UIDAI stated that the cards had been deactivated since 2012. These include the 127 cases which were reported in February this year. “For illegal immigrants, reports for 127 cases have been received from different police authorities. Fake Aadhaar number is not issued by UIDAI and hence is not an Aadhaar,” an excerpt from the response reads. As was reported earlier, one of the cases was that of Mohd Sattar Khan. He was accused of obtaining a card ‘fraudulenly’ and was directed to provide documents to prove his claims of citizenship. The incident had caused widespread consternation and outrage among sections of citizens and politicians as well. A hearing with UIDAI officials was scheduled, but was later postponed. In the response, the UIDIA also revealed the source of several complaints or information of the alleged wrongdoing. It said that of the 127 cases, reports pertaining to 78 cases were received from the ‘Intelligence Department, Govt of Telangana’. It did not elaborate further, but invoked Section 24 (4) of the RTI Act of 2005 and declined to furnish copies, stating that these enjoyed exemptions. As regards the reports of 49 cases which were received from ‘other authorities’, further information, the UIDAI stated, could not be furnished given the fact that they contained information pertaining to identities of the Aadhaar card holder. Speaking to The Hindu , activist S Q Masood, who filed the RTI query, said, “There was a lot of confusion as to who lodged a complaint with UIDAI. Was it the law and order police or special branch or any other authority? If a citizen’s credentials are questioned, it is important to know how this system works, which is why I filed the RTI.”
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State may get good monsoon||The Monsoon Research Group of Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), Germany, has predicted normal monsoon for Central India and Telangana in 2020. It has also forecast that the onset of monsoon in Telangana is expected between June 16 and 24. The predictions were given by Leader of the research group Prof. Elena Surovyatkina while delivering a lecture on the monsoon prediction for Central India and Telangana for 2020 over webinar from Germany. The lecture was organised by Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) from Hyderabad and was presided over by Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao. Vemulawada legislator Chennamaneni Ramesh, a Humboldt-expert in agriculture, environment and cooperation and chairman of the Indo-German Project on Sustainability, introduced the eminent speaker by joining the webinar from Germany. Prof. Surovyatkina predicted normal monsoon for Telangana and Central India in 2020 and stated that the onset of monsoon in Telangana was expected to be three days in advance than in the Eastern Ghats. The monsoon research group scientists also expected the onset of monsoon in Telangana between June 16 and 24. Further, she predicted that isolated rainfall and dry spells between between the last week of June to July 15. She forecast continuous spells of rain between July 15 and October 13, officials of the PJTSAU who participated in the event said. Prof. Surovyatkina, however, stated that the continuous spells of rain would start early in the Eastern Ghats than in Telangana. She stated that it was good indication to the farming community in Telangana for taking up preparatory cultivation keeping in mind the prediction. She further predicted that Telangana would receive about 854 mm rainfall during the monsoon period.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Grafts of quality mango trees to go on sale from June 1||The grafts of trees producing the superior ‘Himayat’ variety of mangoes will be on sale at the Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Horticulture Department at Mulugu, 20 km from here, from June 1. As a premier variety commanding higher price, Himayat has so far been a restricted product but now, the Horticulture Department has made plans to take it to the public in a big way to enhance its commercial value. It had planted about 600 Himayat saplings at the CoE, two years ago, and started observing one or two fruits from each plant this season for quality. The quality was found to be high and fit for export market, said Horticulture Commissioner L. Venkatram Reddy. He expected an annual average income of Rs. 2.40 lakh per acre from the sixth year of plantation of the Himayat trees. The yield by then could go up to five to six tonnes per acre as against one-and-a-half tonnes in traditional trees. The CoE has developed a hassle-free technology to grow Himayat trees at its 50-acre campus to make it a high density crop with a raised bed and training and pruning of branches. The canopy of plants was made uniform in four directions. The trees were raised to a maximum height of six to seven feet for easy harvesting of fruits. In traditional plantation of mango trees, the height was unmanageable and often resulted in fruits dropping, resulting in 40 to 50% spoilage. The cultivable area was also wide accommodating just 50 trees per acre. Whereas, the Himayat variety with the help of high density technology ensured 500 trees per acre. The fruits could be hand-picked because of low height. Crop damage due to high velocity of winds could be avoided by taking up plantation of sandalwood and tissue culture bamboo along borders to stand as a wall.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Relief package is old wine in new bottle: Vinod Kumar||State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar has said the relief package announced by the Central government were all ongoing schemes and credit-linked by banks that would be busy with their own problems after COVID lockdown situation and will no way take-off. In a statement here, he said that the Rs. 30,000 crore Additional Emergency Working Capital Funding for Farmers through NABARD is about refinancing and not at all useful for farmers in the next two months. The 2 lakh crore Concessional Credit boost to 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan Credit Cards is also ongoing and the farmers, and amount of credit, are not based on ground-level realities. Similarly, the Rs. 70,000 crore boost to housing sector and middle income group through extension of CLSS is an existing scheme and not a relief measure. When the migrant labour had gone back to their places, how can these targets be met before March 2021 is anybody’s guess, he said. He said the Rs. 6000 crore employment push through CAMPA funds are funds to be released to State governments for the works undertaken by State governments and not linked to COVID-19 crisis. The Rs. 5000 crore Special Credit Facility for Street Vendors will remain on paper as it has to be implemented by the banks that are clueless as of now. Mr. Vinod Kumar said that the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) for Migrant Workers and urban poor is aimed at north and eastern states and since there is no verifiable statistics about them, the scheme cannot take off for another three to four years.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahabubnagar safe with community watch||At a time when migrants, particularly labourers, returning to their native places in Telangana from different parts of the country have become a cause of concern with increased fears of coronavirus spread with them, Mahabubnagar district has successfully checked any rise in positive cases for the last 34 days. The district administration, which had initiated the community watch concept during the initial days of COVID-19 spread in the State and also kept a tab on people’s health with door-to-door information collection, has once again switched on its community watch activity supervised by the District Rural Development Authority (DRDA). Identifying the potential of community watch to prevent spurt in COVID-19 cases in spite of migrants returning to the district, the administration has shouldered the responsibility of health quotient (HQ) management both in rural and urban areas by monitoring the health condition of returnee migrants. “The village-level community watch teams have been helping the surveillance teams by informing changes, if any, in the health condition of those returned from other areas and getting medical/health check-up done, if necessary,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao said. Health status According to DRDA officials, the community watch teams have been helping the administration by stickering the houses of the returnee migrants and keeping a watch on their health status by visiting the houses everyday and collecting information. “We have made district and divisional officers in-charge for taking care of the migrants returning to the district and also helping the inter-departmental teams oversee the relief 24×7. A total of 441 community watch teams in rural areas and 125 in urban areas are dealing with the migrants, both incoming and outgoing,” the District Collector explained. The community watch teams have information from ward/village level as to who have returned and who went out. “Their role in ensuring the people returning from other areas undergo prescribed quarantine period is very significant and it’s with their support we have been able to prevent new positive cases for over a month now,” Mr. Venkata Rao told The Hindu . The district administration has also set up nine inter-district/inter-state border checkposts for conducting health screening of all those returning to the district.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rail passengers sent to home quarantine||The Secunderabad railway station saw 245 passengers alighting from Bengaluru-New Delhi AC special train and 228 passengers getting into the train on Thursday morning. Along the route, 30 passengers got down at Anantapur and 14 got in while 23 passengers got down at Guntakal and 14 got in en route New Delhi, senior railway officials said. From Friday, the special train will be arriving daily from New Delhi on way to Bengaluru in the evenings and arrive from Bengaluru on way to New Delhi in the mornings. TS Health department and revenue officials were at the station to stamp ‘Home quarantine’ on passengers’ hands soon after disembarking. The contact details like mobile number and home address of each passenger was taken by them for monitoring their health status during the period. The passengers here had to make their own arrangements to reach homes whereas in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, local government officials had arranged vehicles for dropping the passengers home with no quarantine stamps but only advising them not to move out for the next fortnight. They were also asked to contact the health authorities in case of any issue, said senior railway officials. Meanwhile, the Secunderabad station was cleaned and disinfected with separate entry/exit gates for the incoming and outgoing passengers with only confirmed ticket holders allowed in after temperature check. Sanitisers were made available with social distance markings on the platforms. Railway police ensures that there was an orderly getting in and out of the trains.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Announce spl. package for lockdown-hit: Cong.||The State government should announce a special relief package for those affected due to lockdown, as was done by the Central government, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy demanded. After distributing masks and sanitisers at Manikeshwari Nagar in Secunderabad Assembly segment on Thursday, he said that initially Health Minister Eatala Rajender blamed people with travel history for the spread of coronavirus, and later cursed the Tablighi Jamaat returnees and now was holding poor migrant workers responsible. Instead of indulging in blame game, Mr. Rajender must admit that the KCR government has failed to identify the suspects at the right time and they were left untested. “Consequently, many COVID-19 patients might have spread the virus unintentionally,” he said. The Congress leader also pointed out that except for 12 kg rice per person and Rs. 1,500 per family for white ration card holders, the State government did not announce any relief package for other citizens of Telangana. “While the entire State is looking up to the CM for some relaxations like water and electricity bill waiver for March and April, Mr. Rao is looking up to the Centre expecting an increase in FRBM limit so that he could borrow a few more thousand crores to pay his contractors,” he said. He also expressed concern over the Telangana government not preparing an assessment of the damage caused by coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court declines to direct govt. to conduct COVID-19 tests for all||Telangana High Court on Thursday declined to direct the government to conduct COVID-19 confirmation tests on every individual in the State. Appreciating the concerns expressed in a PIL petition seeking direction to the government to conduct extensive diagnostic tests, the HC said tests for all would require adequate testing kits and funds. A bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman said, however, an individual who can afford to bear the cost of the diagnostic tests for COVID-19 would be permitted to get checked up at an ICMR approved laboratory. The petitioner Sankineni Varun, a businessman from Suryapet district, said the government not conducting adequate COVID-19 tests was a constitutional failure. He requested the bench to instruct the government to review its strategy on the matter and subject all asymptomatic persons to tests in localities where coronavirus positive cases were reported. He contended that door-to-door sample collection should be taken up instead of people going to government hospitals for confirmation tests. Since some persons tested positive for coronavirus though they did not show any symptoms of contracting it, all persons in red zones should be subjected to the tests, he said. The petitioner’s counsel Gorantla Sri Ranga Pujitha said the diagnostic tests held in Telangana were much less compared to the national average of tests. She apprehended that this could result in community spread of the virus. “Is it possible for the State to compel an individual to undergo COVID-19 test without that person’s consent in a democratic system,” the bench said. To test all persons for the virus, the government should have sufficient number of testing kits, laboratories. “For a population of 3.5 crore, testing every individual for coronavirus would mean a massive finance implication on the State,” the bench noted. The bench directed the registry to tag other petitions with similar content together and posted them for hearing on Monday.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. seeks HC nod to conduct SSC exams||State government on Thursday sought permission of the Telangana High Court to conduct SSC examinations which were deferred following its orders in a PIL petition. Special Chief Secretary (Education) Chitra Ramachandran, in a counter affidavit, assured the HC that government was taking all precautions to ensure that the COVID pandemic did not spread to anyone in holding the examinations. Special buses would be arranged to ferry students to exam centres. Parents and students would be permitted to travel to the centres in their own vehicles. Hall tickets would be treated as COVID-19 pass for movement. Students, who used to reside in hostels and went back to their homes, would be brought back with special transportation arrangements. Parents of the students appearing for exams would be allowed to stay near the exam centres to pick up their wards. The SCS said if the order staying conducting of the SSC exams was not vacated, students community would suffer an irreparable damage.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MCME donates N-99 masks to Military Hospital||Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) Commandant Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan honoured the COVID front-end warriors by presenting nano-particle technology N-99 masks to Military Hospital-Secunderabad Brigadier V Srinivas on Thursday. A local firm has come up with an advanced N-99 mask which has been developed with a breakthrough nano-particle technology to ensure safety of the medical COVID warriors. The mask has a superior filter technology with filtering efficiency of 99.7 % and possesses ergonomic suitability with the special exhale valve, adjustable nose clip and elastic ear loop, a press release said.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spurt in eye trauma cases among children||Lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19 is also keeping parents of young children on their toes, who are guarding them to ensure they are not up to some mischief or injure themselves. Yet, a rise in the number of eye trauma cases in the past one month has become a concern L V Prasad Eye Institute has seen a significant rise in cases of trauma, of which one-third are among children, says Dr.Tarjani Dave, Ophthalmologist. The lockdown period that subsequently coincided with summer vacation gave lot of free time to children. As playing outside the home is strictly prohibited in view of the pandemic, children are glued to television or are playing with a wide range and spectrum of toys, including popular toy umbrellas. The popular Ramayan and Mahabharat TV series being re-telecast have become the favourite TV show for children and adults alike have inadvertently became the cause for eye injuries — with children taking to ‘role play’ of the epic characters and playing with makeshift bow and arrows etc. Children falling off from bed while playing and hitting against a sharp edge is another common cause, Dr.Tarjani said. The cases to LVPEI increased because the tertiary institute continued to function and children from far-off districts too were brought to LVPEI as small practices in local eye clinics have been closed down due to lockdown. “About 85 trauma cases came to LVPEI until April 12 which needed surgical intervention,” said Dr. Tarjani, specialist in ophthalmic plastic surgery. In the case of infants, ‘Blouse Hook’ injury is one of the common injuries that happens by oversight when mothers breast-feed them.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IT staff asked to download Aarogya Setu app||Several IT and ITeS companies have sent emails to their employees asking them to download the Centre’s COVID-19 tracking Aarogya Setu app. While the Centre had earlier stated that downloading the app was absolutely optional, this month, it was made mandatory for both government and private employees. Some IBM employees said that they have been asked to download the app and managers told that there should be compliance. An email was sent to employees days after the Centre mandated the downloading of the app. HSBC and Cognizant also encouraged their employees to download the app. Sources said that other IT and ITeS companies followed suit. As reported in these columns, IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan had said that the Telangana government would not instruct its employees to download the Aarogya Setu app and they would continue to use the State government’s T COVID 19 app. He had also stated that IT companies asking their employees to download Aarogya Setu was their prerogative.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister, three mayors inspect development works||Minister Ch. Malla Reddy and Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan along with Mayor of Peerzadiguda Jekka Venkat Reddy, and Mayor of Boduppal Samala Buchi Reddy inspected the development works of connecting roads towards Cherlapally railway station on Thursday. With a view to developing Cherlapally railway station into a junction so that the burden on Secunderabad railway station may be reduced, connecting roads leading to the station are being widened and developed. Similarly, the road from Chengicherla crossroads to Pedda Chengicherla through the railway overbridge is being widened to 100 feet, apart from another road to the station via Bharatnagar. The team also inspected the land for proposed development of 120 feet road from NFC crossroads to Chengicherla main road, and from Bharath Gas Company to the railway station. The feasibility of land acquisition would be discussed at a meeting to be convened shortly with Forest department and TSIIC officials, a statement by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said. The team also inspected link roads and slip roads being developed in Uppal and Peerzadiguda.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. takes Rs. 600 crore from BOCW Welfare Board||The State government has taken around Rs. 600 crore from the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) welfare fund as part of efforts to provide relief to workers registered with the Labour Dept. who are finding it difficult to find jobs due to the prevalence of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The BOCW Board had earlier given Rs. 336 crore to the government as its contribution for providing relief to over 14 lakh workers registered with it. The amount has been used to provide 12-kg. rice and Rs. 1,500 cash to registered workers with white ration cards as part of the relief package announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Senior officials said while the Board reimbursed the expenditure of Rs. 336 crore incurred by the government on workers towards the end of March and early April, close to Rs. 600 crore had been channelled through the Finance Department to the Civil Supplies Department for meeting the expenditure for May and June. “It was reimbursement earlier. This time the government took the amount as advance to meet the expenditure incurred towards workers welfare,” a senior Labour Department official said adding the total contribution of the department was around Rs. 900 crore for the relief works. The BOCW Welfare Board, according to officials, was faced with a piquant situation as far as the distribution of relief to the workers is concerned. The government had decided to extend relief with family as a unit. Ration cards are issued for families and workers are registered individually.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to take up checks for ILI, SARI at villages||The State government has decided to take up testing people for symptoms of flu and respiratory ailments at the village level. According to Health Minister Eatala Rajender, steps have been initiated to check for influenza like illness (ILI) – cough, cold, fever - and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) for lung related problems in all households in villages. The Minister conducted video conference with district health officials, superintendents of hospitals, medical officers of primary healthcare centres and ASHA workers on Thursday. He wanted the ASHA workers and ANMs to ensure that tests were conducted to identify symptoms relating to ILI and SARI.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation worker tests positive||A GHMC sanitaiton worker has tested positive for coronavirus, sending the officials into a tizzy on Thursday. Residing in Meerpet limits, the worker is part of a sweepers’ team deployed in Bagh Amberpet limits, and had been absent from duties for the past one week, higher officials informed. She was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 infection recently, fuelling fears about the status of the remaining team members. “She is part of a nine-member team, and as soon as she was diagnosed positive, we sent all the remaining women in her team into home quarantine. Samples collected from them were sent for testing, and seven samples tested negative. One result is yet to come,” informed an official.
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 Briefs||A Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) machine was installed at Gandhi Hospital on Thursday, which can be used for dialysis of patients with co-morbidities such as low blood pressure and cardiac problems. Superintendent of the hospital M Raja Rao said the machine was not available at any other government hospital in the State.
15 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farmer held on rape charge||A 26-year-old farmer was arrested by the Vikarabad police on Thursday on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The accused, Srinivas, from Bennur village in Yalal mandal had been stalking the 12-year-old victim for the last few days and abducted and raped her on Wednesday evening. The offence came to light after the girl told her parents, following which they lodged a complaint.
15 May 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Suryapet is now ‘COVID-free’||From 83 COVID-19 positive cases three weeks ago to zero active cases on Thursday, Suryapet has emerged ‘COVID-free’ district, according to figures from the official bulletin. With the discharge of the last 13 patients from Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad, the active cases fell to zero. As of Thursday, there were no fresh samples collected and no test results pending.
15 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||BRF||A 16-year-old boy drowned in the Godavari Lift Irrigation Scheme-3 canal near the Dharmasagar mandal in Warangal Urban district on Thursday. The victim was identified as G. Ganesh from Saipetta village.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus lockdown | CM receives over 5 lakh responses in 24 hours||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his appeal to the people for suggestions regarding lockdown relaxations post-May 17 has received an overwhelming response. Also read: Coronavirus lockdown | Complete exit from lockdown not possible, Modi tells CMs The responses were received on various sections such as transport, industries, businesses among others, he said, adding all the suggestions given by the people of Delhi were discussed in a meeting with the Lieutenant-Governor. “Two days back, I had asked whether the lockdown should be extended or lifted. In only 24 hours, we received more than 5 lakh responses, including around 4,75,000 messages on WhatsApp, 10,700 e-mails, and 49,000 calls,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the maximum number of people had suggested that educational institutions remain closed until after the summer break. Some said hotels should not resume facilities but restaurants must open barring dine-in arrangements but take-away or home-delivery must resume. There were also suggestions that barbershops and hair salons must not resume services. In the same way, cinema halls and swimming pools, and other such gathering places must not open for now. “A lot of people have also asked the logic behind not going out after 7 p.m. they are of the view that the timeline should be relaxed. However, every suggestion that I saw said that senior citizens, people with other serious ailments, children below 10 years and pregnant women should stay home,” he said. “Everyone has suggested strict fines must be imposed on those not wearing masks. People have suggested the opening of parks,” he said. Also read: Delhi is ready to deal with COVID-19, says Kejriwal He also added that many people have given their suggestions for the resumption of transport services, including autorickshaws and taxis, with only one passenger allowed in autos and two passengers in taxis and disinfection of these vehicles after each ride. A majority of people are in favour of the resumption of bus services, he said, but with not more than 25 people travelling on a bus. People have also suggested that metros should be open in a limited manner. 3 changes in next phase The government said it had conveyed to the L-G three changes it wants in the next phase of the lockdown from May 18. The changes are opening of markets and shopping complexes with non-essential shops on the odd-even basis, starting of public transport, including metro and buses, and allowing labourers to travel inside Delhi for work, it told the L-G. “All these changes would not be applicable in the containment zones,” said a source. The government will prepare SoPs for implementation of each of the changes after which the L-G will then convey these to the Centre.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. stops sharing hospital-wise death figures||The Delhi government on Thursday stopped releasing hospital-wise numbers of COVID-19-related deaths in the city, in a daily health bulletin. The government spokesperson did not comment on the reason why the data is not provided. “The total number of deaths sent by hospitals is being audited and it will be updated again once it is complete,” an official source said. The number of COVID-19-related deaths reported by the Delhi government has been less than the data coming from the hospitals. The Congress and the BJP have accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of hiding the actual number of cases and deaths due to COVID-19 from the public, an allegation the Delhi government has denied. Though the total number of deaths reported by the Delhi government till Thursday is 115, the number of such deaths from just two city hospitals until Wednesday, accessed by The Hindu, is 176. “There have been 69 COVID-19-related deaths in our hospital and six people were brought dead. All of them [75] were COVID-19 positive,” said Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. Similarly, there were at least 81 such deaths in Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital till Wednesday, according to the hospital. The government has maintained that hospitals send the number of deaths to a death audit committee, appointed by the government. Only after the committee can certify the deaths, those will be counted in the health bulletin. On Tuesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that some hospitals were not sending death summaries to the government in time. “We have written to hospitals to send reports of deaths immediately,” the Minister said. Lack of details The Delhi government, from April 15, had stopped providing details of “under investigation” cases, which are cases in which how the patient got infected by the virus is unknown, suggesting chances of community transmission. The government also had stopped proving details of COVID-19 tests being done and later restarted it following a High Court order on May 4. But the Delhi government is still not providing the details of pending tests.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Essential services staff can cross Haryana-Delhi border with e-passes||The Haryana government gave an undertaking in the Delhi High Court on Thursday that movement of people engaged in essential services — government and private doctors, nurses, officials of police, courts and municipal bodies — will be allowed between Delhi and Haryana on production of e-passes during the COVID-19 lockdown. The Haryana government said e-passes will be issued to all the individuals, involved in essential services, within 30 minutes of receipt of the applications and each e-pass will be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and could be used for multiple visits. Additional Advocate General of Haryana government Anil Grover told a Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula that free movement of trucks carrying both the essential as well as nonessential goods between Delhi and Haryana (except to and fro between Containment Zones) as well as transiting through Haryana shall be allowed. Mr. Grover also said the Delhi-Haryana border is open and the roads near the border have not been dug up. The said border shall be kept open and shall be manned by security personnel, he added.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘With no transport, govt.’s decision on offices unfair’||The Delhi HC said that the Centre’s decision to allow private offices to open with 33% strength is discrimination against those without own vehicle. It added that it was unjust for such persons as no provision was made for them to commute to work during the lockdown. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal issued notice to the Centre and the city government seeking their response on a petition to permit resuming of public transports. “We have noticed in the court also that owing to this situation, the entire burden of court work has fallen on those having their own transport, with the others not sharing the workload at all,” it added.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown leaves mother waiting for son’s medicine||A 45-year-old woman has been running from chemist shops to hospitals here in search of a medicine for her son, who suffers from mental health disability. She said the medicine is only available in Kanpur and she is unable to go there owing to the lockdown. The woman from west Delhi’s Basai Darapur said her son, who worked at a factory before lockdown, has been undergoing treatment for mental health for the past 13 years. She said she used to get the medicines for 30 days from Kanpur. “I have checked in RML Hospital where I admit him when his mental health deteriorates but they too don’t have it. I have checked in almost all medical shops here,” she said. The woman said the last time she received the medicine was through a relative who had come from Kanpur in the first week of March. “The medicine lasted a month. Had I known about this lockdown, I would have stocked it for two-three months. For the last two months, I am giving him another similar medicine but he has been unusually silent,” she said. The woman said she had also called the Kanpur hospital, asking them to deliver the medicine but they refused, saying that there were no courier services operating. “I am just waiting for the lockdown to end so I can go to Kanpur and get the medicines,” she cried.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief||The Delhi Medical Association on Thursday hit out over the non-payment of salaries to doctors of the North Corporation for the last three months. North Delhi Mayor, Avtar Singh had appealed to the CM to accept the fifth Delhi Finance Commission’s recommendation for a special fund for municipal hospitals retrospectively and release Rs. 1,500 crore to the corporation to help pay salaries.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal call an all-party meeting urgently to discuss the plight of migrant workers and other COVID-19 issues. Mr. Bidhuri said in the absence of a proper system, thousands of workers were leaving for their home towns on foot daily.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Cantt. MLA Virender Singh Kadian took oath as members of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in a special council meeting held on Thursday. The oath of faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India was administered by NDMC Chairman Dharmendra.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Driver at Secretariat tests COVID-19 positive||A driver working at the Delhi Secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19, said officials on Thursday.  Wife tests positive The driver’s wife has also tested positive for the virus, said sources, adding that the family, including their two children, have self-isolated themselves at home. Two policemen posted at the secretariat’s reception too are said to have contracted the virus. This, however, could not be confirmed from the authorities concerned. Following the incident, the officials posted at the Players Building are apprehensive about not only their own health but also the safety of their family members as they continue going to work. “The driver was working for the health department and showed mild symptoms. He got tested and the result came out to be positive about three to four days back. He is currently under home isolation,” an official told The Hindu . The official said staff who came into contact with the driver were tested, but their results came out to be negative. “He was not coming to work for a while before he tested positive so chances of others getting infected are less. Also, he was not assigned to any particular official,” the official added. When contacted, the government spokesperson said various parts of the Secretariat were sanitised and no higher official or Ministers were tested for the virus as the driver did not come into contact with any of them. Last month, personnel secretary of District Magistrate (South-West) Rahul Singh, was tested positive for COVID-19. Following it, two more people working at the office tested positive but the DM had tested negative and the office was sanitised. “There is no restriction on the entry of visitors to the Delhi Secretariat; Ministers are coming off and sanitisation is taking place regularly but we are still apprehensive,” said a source. “No decision has been taken about the central air conditioning at the building; though there is no evidence about whether or not it can have a role in the spread of the virus, many employees are concerned about their health due to it,” the source added.
15 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Odia worker on foot march dies of exhaustion||Kasa Madkami, 22 , a tribal migrant worker from Odisha’s Malkangiri district, breathed his last due to exhaustion while walking back home from Hyderabad due to continuing COVID-19 lockdown. Help from government or any one else eluded him even after death. His three compatriots paid up Rs. 8000 to hire an ambulance to transport his body from Bhadrachalam to his home at Tanginidanga village in Malkangiri district on Wednesday. The deceased was the only earning member of his family. He was working as a menial labourer in Hyderabad. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown took away his job in the city. It became hard for him and his friends to survive there.  No transport Madkami and his three friends decided to return back to their homes in Malkangiri district. Dearth of inter-State transport and lack of money compelled these four migrant workers to take up the long walk from Hyderabad to Malkangiri. They had reached Bhadrachalam in Andhra Pradesh on Monday (May 11), where exhausted by the long walk in the scorching summer heat, Madkami became unconscious. His friends admitted him in a Bhadrachalam hospital, where he breathed his last.
15 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Chandigarh extends vacation in govt. schools||Punjab recorded 11 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally of positive cases to 1,935, according to an official statement. The health department said a major chunk of the cases were reported from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts respectively. The active cases in the State are 1,680 and 223 patients have so far recovered, it added. Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh allowed cottage industries in non-containment mixed-use areas of Ludhiana to immediately resume operations in order to support the opening of bigger industries that are dependent on the small ones for components. He said that repeated requests had been received from industry associations to allow opening of industries with access control in non-containment zone of Ludhiana district. “The resumption of operations in these small units, which normally have labour living on or in the vicinity of the premises, will be subject to requirements of access control and strict compliance with COVID SOPs,” said the Chief Minister. Meanwhile, in Haryana one COVID-19 death was reported while 25 more positive cases surfaced, taking the State’s tally of confirmed cases to 818. In the Union Territory of Chandigarh, two fresh cases surfaced on Thursday, taking the tally to 191. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration announced extension of summer vacations in all government and government-aided schools till further order, in the wake COVID-19 outbreak.
15 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Delhi focal point of drug supply: Punjab STF chief||As Punjab continues its battle against the drug menace, the State’s Special Task Force chief has claimed that Delhi has become a major centre from where foreign nationals supply drugs. STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu said on Thursday that as many as 180 foreigners had been arrested in connection with 147 cases over the past three years. “Sixty-one foreign nationals were arrested in 2017, 81 in 2018 and 37 in 2019. There has been one arrest this year. Most of these arrested persons had come via Delhi, indicating that it has become a major centre from where foreign nationals supply drugs to Punjab,” he told The Hindu . Enhanced vigil along the India-Pakistan border and effective policing has forced smugglers to explore new sea, air and land routes, often under the garb of legal trade and commerce.  Supply ring busted The recovery in January 2020 of 197 kg of heroin with 64 kg of other intoxicants and an illicit laboratory with six drums of chemicals by the STF from a house in Akash Vihar in Amritsar led to the busting of an international heroin supply ring. “It revealed new efforts by drug traffickers to smuggle heroin into Punjab through the sea route from Gujarat,” said Mr. Sidhu.
15 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers board train for home after night at police station||More than a hundred construction workers, including women and children, spent the night at Rohtak’s Shivaji Colony police station premises on Tuesday after the migrants were called in large numbers to board a train to their home towns, but arrangements could not be made for all of them. However, they were sent back to their homes in Madhya Pradesh by a train a day later. Around 100 construction workers staying in the Shivaji Colony police station area got themselves registered online to return to their homes on Monday after the Station House Officer, Inspector Balwant Singh, called up the local labour activists seeking details of the stranded workers. These workers along with 30-odd farm labourers were then told to come to the police station on Tuesday afternoon to be taken to the railway station to board the trains to their home towns. Though all workers were called, only 35 farm labourers were taken to the railway station. The remaining were told to go back to their rented accommodations in a bus. “But none of these workers got down from the bus and the driver brought them back to the police station,” said Bhawan Nirman Kamgaar Union Rohtak president Sanjiv Kumar. Demanding that they also be sent back home, these workers claimed they had cleared the dues of their rented rooms, including electricity bills, and had nowhere to go. When they refused to leave the police station, arrangements were made for their stay inside the premises.  ‘Food not provided’ Though Mr. Kumar claimed the workers were not provided food on Tuesday night, the police officer denied his claims, saying that two social organisations arranged for their evening and next morning meals. Eventually, the administration made arrangements for their return home and all workers boarded train to Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon.
15 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Ashok- FIR||An FIR has been registered against unknown persons in connection with the death of a teenager. The 17-year-old had jumped to his death from a high-rise on May 4 after a social media post by a girl accused him of molestation three years ago. Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Boken said a case was registered against unidentified person on charges of abetment to suicide. Roles of persons mentioned in the complaint will be investigated, he said.
15 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Offering only credit, loans shows insensitivity: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday raised a question over the economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in two days. Mr. Gehlot accused the Centre of showing lack of sensitivity by offering only credits and loans during the distressing period of COVID-19 pandemic and complete shutdown of economy. “The Central government is not realising that the immediate need for poor people is to give them direct cash as an immediate financial support so that they have some money with them to spend. It will stimulate the demand,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. Mr. Gehlot pointed out that all schemes announced in the economic package were long-term measures, except the free foodgrains for the next two months. They would not provide immediate support to the poor, migrant workers, farmers and the destitute, he said. ‘A ray of hope’ “The Central government needs to announce financial aid,” the Chief Minister said, adding that offering only credits and loans would not serve any immediate purpose. He said the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme could be a ray of hope for the poor in the rural areas as a social security measure.  Work for migrants As Ms. Sitharaman had announced relief measures, the MGNREGA would ensure that the poor migrants get work when they reach home, Mr. Gehlot said. While the flagship employment scheme would provide livelihood security for at least some days, the Centre must consider giving wages to all registered MGNREGA workers for the lockdown period, he suggested.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Truck driver held for ‘ferrying’ migrants to U.P.||A truck driver was arrested for allegedly ferrying 33 migrant workers from the city to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh amid the nationwide lockdown, the police said on Thursday. All the migrant workers allegedly travelling in the truck were daily wagers residing in Ranhola and Mayapuri areas in Delhi, said the police. The driver, Hari Ram, was nabbed on Wednesday and his vehicle was also seized. The alleged truck bearing Delhi registration number was stopped during picket checking at South Extension-1. The vehicle had a paper pasted on its windscreen reading “Medicine Emergency Services Provider”. The vehicle was also found to be covered with multiple layers of covers using ropes which further raised suspicion. “When questioned, the driver initially claimed that he was going to supply medicines, but failed to show any papers. When he was asked to remove the covers, he admitted to ferrying migrant labourers,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. On removing the covers, 33 migrants were found crammed inside the truck in “inhuman conditions”, he said. ‘Paid Rs. 1,800 per person’ The workers allegedly told the police that they hired the truck for Rs. 1,800 per person to drop them to their hometowns in Azamgarh, Mau, Ghazipur and Banda districts of Uttar Pradesh and had paid Rs. 20,000 advance to the truck owner. A case has been registered against Hari Ram at Kotla Mubarakpur police station under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the DCP said. The police are also looking into the role of the truck owner in the matter. Of the 33 workers, 29 were handed over to the Ranhola police station while the other four were handed over to the Mayapuri police station with the request to send them back to their respective rented accommodations, said the officer.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks release of quarantined Tablighis||A plea before the Delhi High Court has sought release of nearly 3,300 members of Tablighi Jamaat who were sent to various quarantine centres for around 40 days and not released despite reporting negative for COVID-19. Social worker Sabiha Quadri, in the petition, alleged that many people have been illegally lodged in quarantine centres and submitted that several people in such centres have written letters to the authorities. However, they have not been considered. The plea sought direction to the authorities to constitute a high-level panel to enquire as to whether continuous confinement of the members is a constitutional violation or not.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain relief||
15 May 2020||The Hague,||Virus may never go away, warns WHO||The European Union’s medicines agency suggested on Thursday that a vaccine for the COVID-19 could be ready in year, even as the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that the disease may never go away. World leaders past and present have insisted that any eventual vaccines and treatments should be made available to everyone free of charge, with the global death toll from the disease nearing 300,000. The pandemic has caused massive social and economic upheaval across the planet and while some nations have begun easing punishing lockdowns, fears of a second wave have kept many businesses shuttered and people confined to their homes. Washington ratcheted up tensions over the crisis by accusing China of trying to steal research, and U.S. President Donald Trump upped the rhetoric with a colourful phrase that was likely to infuriate Beijing. “We just made a great Trade Deal, the ink was barely dry, and the World was hit by the Plague from China. 100 Trade Deals wouldn’t make up the difference — and all those innocent lives lost!” Mr. Trump tweeted. ‘Best-case scenario’ With the race to find a vaccine gathering pace, the European Medicines Agency said one could possibly be ready in a year based on data from trials under way. Announcing the forecast at a video news conference, Marco Cavaleri, the EMA’s head of biological health threats and vaccines strategy, stressed that it was a “best-case scenario”. “We know also that there may be delays,” he said, voicing scepticism over reports a vaccine could be ready as early as September. Patent-free science And world leaders were among 140 signatories to a letter published on Thursday, saying any vaccine should not be patented and that the science should be shared among nations. “Governments and international partners must unite around a global guarantee which ensures that, when a safe and effective vaccine is developed, it is produced rapidly at scale and made available for all people, in all countries, free of charge,” it said. A vaccine could allow countries to fully reopen from shutdowns that have battered economies and thrown millions of people out of work. But the WHO cautioned that the virus may never be wiped out entirely. “This virus may become just another endemic virus in our communities and this virus may never go away,” said Michael Ryan, the global health body’s emergencies director. “HIV has not gone away — but we have come to terms with the virus.” The UN also warned that the outbreak risked a major mental health crisis and called for urgent action to address psychological suffering. Mr. Trump has been pushing for a swift resumption of economic activity in the U.S., often against the advice of health officials, as he tries to jumpstart the world’s largest economy before a November election. ‘Wave of bankruptcies’ The U.S. is the country hardest-hit by COVID-19, logging a total of more than 84,000 deaths. Top infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci has said reopening too soon risks triggering uncontrollable outbreaks, but Trump dismissed the call for caution as “not acceptable”. The tensions between health and the economy were thrown into sharp relief on Wednesday when Federal Reserve chief Jay Powell warned of a potential “wave of bankruptcies” that could cause lasting harm. Further signs of the damage to businesses emerged on Thursday when Lloyd’s of London forecast the pandemic will cost the global insurance industry about $203 billion. And Australia released figures showing almost 6,00,000 people lost their jobs as the country’s virus shutdown took hold in April, the steepest monthly drop in employment since records began more than 40 years ago. But the reopening of economies continued across Europe, where the EU has set out proposals for a phased restart of travel and the eventual lifting of border controls.
15 May 2020||CHENNAI,||China rebuts Taiwan on WHO participation||China opposed any move by Taiwan to use the COVID-19 pandemic as a “pretext” to seek independence, its Embassy in New Delhi said on Thursday. Taiwan was looking to “hype up Taiwan’s participation in the World Health Organization (WHO)” while “their real intention is to solicit foreign support and seek independence under the pretext of the pandemic”, the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said in a statement. “We are firmly opposed to that and have repeatedly clarified our position,” said the statement, which was issued in response to comments made by Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu in an interview with The Hindu on Wednesday. Mr. Wu said Taiwan’s status had limited its ability to share information about COVID-19 and its arrangement with the WHO was “far from satisfactory”. He called for “full participation” in the WHO and for Taiwan to interact with countries on “an equal basis”. Taiwan is not a member of the WHO. China has opposed its inclusion in the World Health Assembly (WHA), the organisation’s decision-making body, citing the ‘One China principle’, although Taiwan participated in the WHA as an observer from 2009 to 2016. Relations have been strained after the Democratic Progressive Party’s (DPP) election win in 2016. In the statement, the Embassy said the DPP “has been stubbornly adhering to ‘Taiwan independence’ separatist status” and “undermined the political foundation for the region’s participation in the WHA”. India is among the 179 of the 193 member states of the UN that do not maintain any diplomatic ties with Taiwan. While the U.S. has been pushing for Taiwan’s inclusion in the WHA, the move will require a simple majority from member states. Ahead of next week’s WHA meet, India has found itself in the middle as it takes over as chairperson of the executive board. The government is yet to make a final decision on whether to support the U.S. move to include Taiwan or to accept China’s objections to it, officials said. Final view “The agenda of the WHA meeting still being evolved,” an official said on Thursday. “We will take a final view [on the Taiwan inclusion issue] depending on how the agenda evolves.” The Chinese Embassy statement rebutted Taiwan’s claims that it had been excluded from the WHO and that it had provided an early warning on the pandemic that had been ignored. Taiwan sent an email on December 31 to the WHO, the same day Wuhan authorities alerted the body, and asked for more information about the outbreak. The email, later made public, did not provide any new information or warning about the pandemic, as was initially claimed. The WHO, which has faced questions over its initial response to the pandemic, did not follow up with Taiwan’s request for information. “The Taiwan region is never excluded from the WHO global anti-epidemic system,” the Chinese Embassy said. “As of May 6, China’s mainland had updated Taiwan on the epidemic situation 148 times. The WHO has also clarified many times that Taiwan has not made an alert, but only sought more information... The so-called statement that Taiwan first issued a warning but did not receive the attention from the WHO is purely groundless.” “We urge the relevant Indian media take a correct stance on issues of core interests concerning China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, adhere to the one-China principle, do not provide platform for ‘Taiwan independence’ forces, and avoid sending wrong messages to the public,” the statement said.
15 May 2020||COLOMBO,||Petitions challenge Sri Lankan govt.’s compulsory cremation rule||Former Cabinet Minister and All Ceylon Makkal Congress (ACMC) leader Rishad Bathiudeen on Thursday petitioned the Sri Lankan Supreme Court, challenging health authorities’ decision to cremate all COVID-19 victims — and those suspected to have died from it — including Muslims. As of Thursday, Sri Lanka reported 916 cases, 445 recoveries and nine deaths. Of the deceased, four were Muslims, who were cremated against their families’ wishes. Three other Muslims who died recently were also cremated, on suspicion of the COVID-19 infection. “Despite millions of infections of the virus across the world and hundreds of thousands of deaths and burials of cadavers, hitherto there is not even a single report of infection being caused by burial of a cadaver,” Mr. Bathiudeen said in a statement, urging authorities to respect the religious beliefs of the Muslim community. On March 31, the Ministry of Health revised its guidelines, ordering cremations only, for persons who succumbed to or, were suspected to have died of, COVID-19. The move came the day after a Muslim, who tested positive, passed away. On April 11, the government issued a gazette notification making cremations mandatory for COVID-related deaths. The new rules shocked Sri Lanka’s Muslim community that makes up about 10% of the island’s 21 million population. Community leaders and religious bodies, including the All Ceylon Jamiyyathul Ulama, have voiced concern, citing the World Health Organization’s guidelines that say victims can be “buried or cremated.” However, with no change in the government’s position, civil society activists filed at least five fundamental rights petitions last week at the Supreme Court. No evidence “The WHO guidelines are clear. There is no scientific evidence backing the fear that COVID-19 might spread due to burial of the remains of a patient. Clearly, this is beyond science and comes from a racist agenda,” said Hilmy Ahmed, one of the petitioners. Mr. Ahmed, who is also the Vice President of the Muslim Council of Sri Lanka, said the government’s approach is in line with the anti-Muslim attacks seen in the last few years. Since 2012, Sri Lanka witnessed multiple instances of mob violence against Muslims, often instigated by hardline Sinhala-Buddhist groups with apparent impunity. “This decision has to be seen in that context. Making cremation mandatory will likely be used as election rhetoric soon, by some mediocre politician who will say Muslims were taught a lesson during the pandemic,” Mr. Ahmed told The Hindu . Rafaideen Nawsar’s father, 64, died last week after complaining of chest congestion. Soon after, health authorities visited his home and said he had to be cremated since it was a “suspected case” of COVID-19. “When I said it was against our religious beliefs, and that my father had not tested positive, they asked me if I would take responsibility if more people got infected. How can I say I will take the blame? I just signed the document,” he told The Hindu . Brute force Former MP of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress Ali Zahir Moulana said authorities used “brute force and intimidation” to carry out the cremations swiftly. “The health officials and police visiting the grieving families are very insensitive. They round them up like they are some terrorists. It is not just discriminatory, it is inhuman,” he said. The “aggression”, Mr. Moulana said, is linked to the “highly militarised response” to the pandemic. “Even the recently appointed Secretary to the Health Ministry is a Major General,” he added. UN Rapporteurs and rights watchdogs have urged the Sri Lankan government to review the decision and respect the Muslim community’s burial rights in the wake of COVID-19. The petitions challenging the government's guidelines on COVID-19 deaths are likely to be heard next week by the Supreme Court.
15 May 2020||Beijing,||China rejects U.S. charge of vaccine research theft||Beijing accused the U.S. on Thursday of smearing China after Washington alleged Chinese hackers were attempting to steal research on developing a vaccine against the COVID-19. The claims have added fuel to tensions between the global superpowers, who have traded barbs over the origin of the pandemic that has killed 3,00,000 people. U.S. authorities said on Wednesday that Chinese hackers were trying to obtain coronavirus data on treatments and vaccines, warning the effort involved Chinese government-affiliated groups and others. ‘Significant threat’ The FBI and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency said China’s efforts posed a “significant threat” to the U.S. response to COVID-19. “China expresses strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to such smearing,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a regular press briefing. “Judging from past records, the U.S. has carried out the largest cybertheft operations worldwide,” Mr. Zhao told reporters. He stressed that Beijing has significant achievements of its own in the fight against the pandemic. China is “also leading the world in COVID-19 vaccine research and treatment”, and therefore has more reason to worry about cyber espionage itself, Mr. Zhao said. He added that the country has cracked down on cyber-hacking, and that any cyber attack hindering the global fight against the pandemic should be condemned by people around the world. Responding to U.S. President Donald Trump’s reference to COVID-19 as the “Plague from China”, Mr. Zhao said the U.S. should stop blaming and discrediting others, and focus on their own prevention and control work.
15 May 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israeli govt. formation delayed||Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his rival-turned-partner, Benny Gantz, on Thursday postponed the swearing-in of their controversial new government as the Israeli leader rushed to quell infighting within his Likud party. In a joint announcement, the two men said they would hold a swearing-in ceremony on Sunday to give Mr. Netanyahu more time to hand out coveted Cabinet appointments to members of his party. After three deadlocked and divisive elections, and a year and a half of political paralysis, Israel had hoped to swear in the new government on Thursday. Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz, a former military chief, announced last month they would put their differences aside and join forces to steer the country through the coronavirus crisis and its severe economic fallout. It came at the price of the dissolution of Mr. Gantz’s Blue and White party and his reneging on a key campaign promise not to serve under Mr. Netanyahu, who is scheduled to go on trial this month for corruption charges. Their much-scrutinised coalition deal, resulting in the most bloated government in Israeli history and new legislation to help Mr. Netanyahu cling to power, could only come about after the country’s Supreme Court ruled it had no legal grounds to block it. Despite the criticism, Mr. Gantz argued that teaming up with Mr. Netanyahu was the only way to avoid a fourth election. Swearing-in on Sunday Just as the government was set to be sworn on Thursday, the two men announced the delay in a joint statement, saying Mr. Gantz had agreed to a request by Mr. Netanyahu to wait until Sunday. The coalition deal calls for Mr. Netanyahu to serve as Prime Minister for the government’s first 18 months before being replaced by Mr. Gantz for the next 18 months. Their blocs will have a similar number of Ministers and virtual veto power over the other’s major decisions.
15 May 2020||Washington,||Despite Fauci’s caution, Trump pushes for opening of schools||President Donald Trump called on Governors across the nation to work to reopen schools that were closed because of the coronavirus, pointedly taking issue with top medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci’s caution against moving too quickly in sending students back to class. The President accused Dr. Fauci of wanting “to play all sides of the equation,” a comment that suggested he is tiring of the nation’s top infectious disease expert. “I think they should open the schools, absolutely. I think they should,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House, echoing comments he had made in a television interview. Our country’s got to get back and it’s got to get back as soon as possible. And I don’t consider our country coming back if the schools are closed.” Dr. Fauci had urged caution in testimony before a Senate committee on Tuesday, although he made it clear that he believes reopening decisions will likely differ from one region to the next. “We don’t know everything about this virus and we really better be pretty careful, particularly when it comes to children,” Dr. Fauci told the committee. Mr. Trump said the coronavirus has “had very little impact on young people,” although there is growing concern over cases of a mysterious inflammatory syndrome in young people that is thought to be related to the virus.
15 May 2020||Dhaka,||Bangladesh builds huge field hospital||Bangladesh has prepared a huge field hospital in three weeks to treat COVID-19 patients in an attempt to fight the intensifying outbreak in the country. The South Asian nation has reported nearly 18,000 infections and 269 deaths from COVID-19 despite a countrywide lockdown. The 2,084-bed Bashundhara Convention Centre Grid Hospital (BCCGH) comprises three convention centres and a large temporary structure at a 2.5 million square-foot compound.
15 May 2020||WUHAN,||Mass testing in Wuhan over new cluster||Nervous residents of China’s pandemic epicentre of Wuhan queued up across the city to be tested for COVID-19 on Thursday after a new cluster of cases sparked a mass screening campaign. Long lines of physically distanced people formed at makeshift testing sites set up in parking lots, parks and and residential complexes as it rained in the metropolis of 11 million people. More than 3,800 people have died from COVID-19 in the city, accounting for the majority of fatalities in China.
15 May 2020||Sydney,||Sydney, May 14, 2020 (AFP) -||Nine Entertainment, Australia’s second-biggest media company, called on Thursday for Google, Facebook, and other Internet firms to pay Australian news outlets some $400 million a year under a mandatory code of conduct ordered by the government.AFP
15 May 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. partners with Power China to build key dam||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government has signed a Rs. 442 billion contract for a joint venture between a Chinese state-run firm and the commercial arm of Pakistan Army for the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha dam.PTI
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Stop the return to laissez-faire||Through the public health crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic, we are witness to another massive tragedy — of workers being abandoned by their employers and, above all, by the state. The workers’ right to go home was curbed using the Disaster Management Act, 2005. No provisions were made for their food, shelter, or medical relief. Wage payments were not ensured, and the state’s cash and food relief did not cover most workers. Staring at starvation, lakhs of workers started walking back home. Many died on the way. More than a month later, the Centre issued cryptic orders permitting their return to their home States. Immediately employer organisations lobbied to prevent the workers from leaving. Governments responded by delaying travel facilities for the workers to ensure uninterrupted supply of labour for employers. Employers now want labour laws to be relaxed. The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an ordinance keeping in abeyance almost all labour statutes including laws on maternity benefits and gratuity; the Factories Act, 1948; the Minimum Wages Act, 1948; the Industrial Establishments (Standing Orders) Act, 1946; and the Trade Unions Act, 1926. Several States have exempted industries from complying with various provisions of laws. The Confederation of Indian Industry has suggested 12-hour work shifts and that governments issue directions to make workers join duty failing which the workers would face penal actions. Thus, after an organised abandonment of the unorganised workforce, the employers want the state to reintroduce laissez-faire and a system of indenture for the organised workforce too. This will take away the protection conferred on organised labour by Parliament. Colonial exploitation The move is reminiscent of the barbaric system of indentured labour introduced through the Bengal Regulations VII, 1819 for the British planters in Assam tea estates. Workers had to work under a five-year contract and desertion was made punishable. Later, the Transport of Native Labourers’ Act, 1863 was passed in Bengal which strengthened control of the employers and even enabled them to detain labourers in the district of employment and imprison them for six months. Bengal Act VI of 1865 was later passed to deploy Special Emigration Police to prevent labourers from leaving, and return them to the plantation after detention. What we are witnessing today bears a horrifying resemblance to what happened over 150 years ago in British India. Factory workers too faced severe exploitation and were made to work 16-hour days for a pittance. Their protests led to the Factories Act of 1911 which introduced 12-hour work shifts. Yet, the low wages, arbitrary wage cuts and other harsh conditions forced workers into ‘debt slavery’. The labour laws in India have emerged out of workers’ struggles, which were very much part of the freedom movement against oppressive colonial industrialists. Since the 1920s there were a series of strikes and agitations for better working conditions. Several trade unionists were arrested under the Defence of India Rules. The workers’ demands were supported by our political leaders. Britain was forced to appoint the Royal Commission on Labour, which gave a report in 1935. The Government of India Act, 1935 enabled greater representation of Indians in law-making. This resulted in reforms, which are forerunners to the present labour enactments. The indentured plantation labour saw relief in the form of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951. Dignity through democracy By a democratic legislative process, Parliament stepped in to protect labour. The Factories Act lays down eight-hour work shifts, with overtime wages, weekly offs, leave with wages and measures for health, hygiene and safety. The Industrial Disputes Act provides for workers participation to resolve wage and other disputes through negotiations so that strikes/lockouts, unjust retrenchments and dismissals are avoided. The Minimum Wages Act ensures wages below which it is not possible to subsist. These enactments further the Directive Principles of State Policy and protect the right to life and the right against exploitation under Articles 21 and 23. Trade unions have played critical roles in transforming the life of a worker from that of servitude to one of dignity. In the scheme of socio-economic justice the labour unions cannot be dispensed with. The Supreme Court, in Glaxo Laboratories v. The Presiding Officer, Labour (1983), said this about the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946: “In the days of laissez-faire when industrial relations was governed by the harsh weighted law of hire and fire, the management was the supreme master, the relationship being referable to a contract between unequals... The developing notions of social justice and the expanding horizon of socio-economic justice necessitated statutory protection to the unequal partner in the industry namely, those who invest blood and flesh against those who bring in capital... The movement was from status to contract, the contract being not left to be negotiated by two unequal persons but statutorily imposed.” Any move to undo these laws will push the workers a century backwards. Considering the underlying constitutional goals of these laws, Parliament did not delegate to the executive any blanket powers of exemption. Section 5 of the Factories Act empowers the State governments to exempt only in case of a “public emergency”, which is explained as a “grave emergency whereby the security of India or any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance”. There is no such threat to the security of India now. Hours of work or holidays cannot be exempted even for public institutions. Section 36B of the Industrial Disputes Act enables exemption for a government industry only if provisions exist for investigations and settlements. No statutory support The orders of the State governments therefore lack statutory support. Labour is a concurrent subject in the Constitution and most pieces of labour legislation are Central enactments. The U.P. government has said that labour laws will not apply for the next three years. Even laws to protect basic human rights covering migrant workers, minimum wages, maternity benefits, gratuity, etc. have been suspended. How can a State government, in one fell swoop, nullify Central enactments? The Constitution does not envisage approval by the President of a State Ordinance which makes a whole slew of laws enacted by Parliament inoperable in the absence of corresponding legislations on the same subject. Almost all labour contracts are now governed by statutes, settlements or adjudicated awards arrived through democratic processes in which labour has been accorded at least procedural equality. Such procedures ensure progress of a nation. In Life Insurance Corporation v. D. J. Bahadur & Ors (1980), the Supreme Court highlighted that any changes in the conditions of service can be only through a democratic process of negotiations or legislation. Rejecting the Central government’s attempt to unilaterally deny bonus, the Court said, “fundamental errors can be avoided only by remembering fundamental values”, as otherwise there would be a “lawless hiatus”. The orders and ordinances issued by the State governments are undemocratic and unconstitutional. The existing conditions of labour will have to be continued. Let us not forget that global corporations had their origins in instruments of colonialism and their legacy was inherited by Indian capital post-Independence. The resurgence of such a colonial mindset is a danger to the society and the well-being of millions and puts at risk the health and safety of not only the workforce but their families too. In the unequal bargaining power between capital and labour, regulatory laws provide a countervailing balance and ensure the dignity of labour. Governments have a constitutional duty to ensure just, humane conditions of work and maternity benefits. The health and strength of the workers cannot be abused by force of economic necessity. Labour laws are thus civilisational goals and cannot be trumped on the excuse of a pandemic. R. Vaigai and Anna Mathew are advocates practising at the Madras High Court
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Are India’s labour laws too restrictive?||Some State governments including Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Madhya Pradesh (M.P.) have proposed ordinances to exempt manufacturing establishments from the purview of most labour laws. In a discussion moderated by Suresh Seshadri , Amit Basole and K.R. Shyam Sundar look at the backdrop for this move and consider what lies ahead for the country’s labour and industrial relations. Edited excerpts:  Are the ordinances justified given the need to both preserve and create jobs in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis? K.R. Shyam Sundar(KRSS):First, let me express my profound sense of shock [at the] changes or even disruptions that M.P. and U.P. governments have introduced on the pretext of creating employment and attracting investment. This is a very dangerous kind of political legitimacy that has been invoked. There are three issues here. The Constitution provides a number of basic rights, and, under the directive principles of state policy, a number of assurances. Now, the kind of changes that have been made, they potentially will hurt, will dis-enable the realisation of the constitutional objectives. Second, the facility of the concurrent subject has been abused. And, we should bear in mind that the national codification and the labour law reform process is on. What is the unholy hurry on the part of the State governments to do this? But, I have an explanation: given the COVID situation and the national lockdown, the trade unions that are already weak cannot mobilise their forces and conduct any kind of a State-level or national struggle. This is a clear case of vulnerability, which the state has exploited. Now, whether the labour laws constitute rigidities, the answer, in a cautious sense, is ‘indecisive’ because there are research studies on both sides. The World Bank survey, 2014, asked employers... and the employers did not rate labour law regulations as [among] the top five or seven or 10 irritants. For them, the availability of skilled workforce and cooperative labour-management relations were far more important than flexible labour laws. So, the gravest implication of these labour laws [changes] is that it will create industrial discontent, even a kind of labour unrest, which will stifle any hope of achieving industrial progress. And, employers will not benefit because these provisions will hurt labour welfare and thereby labour efficiency. Amit Basole (AB):One must remember in all of these discussions that India still remains, what economists call, a labour-surplus country. Particularly at the lower ends of the labour spectrum where less education is required, there is usually an excess supply of labour which gives more bargaining power to employers. So, the responsibility of the state in such a context is to safeguard the interests of labour through legislation because the market does not give them the necessary protection. Second, on the question of how they act as constraints or barriers: of course employers will always want to have a freer hand in managing labour relations, setting wages, conditions and so forth. That just follows from the nature of the capital-labour relations. That does not mean that the state should allow them that free hand. Will employers hire more workers if they are given a freer hand? Possibly, if certain other conditions are also met. [If not], there is no reason to believe that labour laws by themselves will do anything to improve job creation. Of course, they will make working conditions worse, and life worse for workers. But, on the plus side, will you get any benefit out of a total increase in employment? That is not clear. The well-known things that act as constraints on job creation [include] the overall health of the economy, the level of demand in the economy. What is people’s purchasing power? Are their wages rising or not? What is the stability of the business climate? Is the state trusted by businesses, small and large businesses, to deliver on its promises? What are the export conditions like? Is the government following a consistent policy, sending out the correct and consistent signals on what it wants to promote and what it doesn’t want to promote? All of these macro policies, industrial policies, trade policies govern the climate of job creation, in addition to the overall health of the economy. If none of that is in place, a simple tweaking of the labour laws basically worsens working conditions and doesn’t achieve much else. Was lack of flexibility an issue retarding manufacturing and job creation even before the pandemic? AB:There is also an issue of diversity of employers when we talk about manufacturing. We’re talking about some very large companies. We’re talking about small and medium companies, we’re talking about very small workshops also. And they all experience the government and the labour regime differently. It is certainly possible that at the lower end of the manufacturing spectrum, the labour laws have been arbitrarily and extortionately imposed. There is always a possibility that bribes can be extracted in the name of labour laws not being covered, making life difficult for employers, which creates incentives for them to double book, keep workers off the books. So, do the labour laws act as a constraint on good job creation? In this particular sense, yes, because they do incentivise some employers to evade showing workers on their books, for fear that even if they’re following laws, the state may come down on them on some pretext or the other. Now, to use that to extend it to the entire manufacturing sector, to vastly productive industries, to large-scale manufacturing, where we know that the labour share of income has been precipitously declining, productivity has been rising, over there can we continue to use the labour laws argument to give this bigger and bigger contract labour force, create precarious working conditions and widen the rift between wages and productivity? We shouldn’t be doing that. There, we are creating, actually, macroeconomic problems for the country in addition to making working conditions worse. So, there has to be a little bit more of a nuanced understanding of where exactly labour laws are a constraint and what can the government do to make life simpler there, while not going beyond a non-negotiable floor. Industry is reported to have urged the Centre to mandate the return of workers and warn labour of penal consequences. Is this implementable and what does it bode for employer-employee relations? KRSS:The state and the employers could ask the employees to report for work, only if two conditions are met. Given the imposition of lockdown and suspension of public transport, there must be enabling conditions like resumption of public transportation or private provision of transportation by the employers... [Second] COVID SOPs [must be] effectively implemented at the workplace because the workers could withdraw from a potentially hazardous workplace. And third, there must be work. If these three conditions are satisfied and still the workers do not report, action can be taken against them, as per the company rules or agreements or the standing orders under the Industrial Employment Standing Orders Act, 1946. But, the workers should be given a fair hearing. Do these ordinances risk compromising workers’ rights, including safety? KRSS:So, the professed objective of ensuring occupational safety and security may not be realised for primarily two reasons. Both [ordinances] have frozen the conditions of work like lighting, temperature, dust and fumes and brightness... and there is every incentive for the employer to ignore [these conditions] given the labour market opportunistic behaviour. And these may lead to unsafe working conditions. Second, the extension of working hours. It is well known that long hours of work, repetitive work... deficient conditions of work, pose a considerable threat to occupational safety and health. One justification spoken of is the need to make India a more attractive destination than China for setting up manufacturing plants. AB:Regarding competitiveness with respect to labour, it is true that a race to the bottom is a general accepted principle. It is ironic in a way in the globalisation period, that countries compete on low wages, and primarily on that sort of labour element, particularly the labour-surplus countries. But that said, those are again never the only factors when investment decisions are considered. Almost always, the overall business climate, the reliability of the state and its policies, the infrastructural situation, electricity supply, logistics and transport, the quality of labour and the skill of labour, human capital issues. All these things matter as much, if not more, than the level of wages and the laxity, or lack thereof of the labour laws. So, if we don’t do anything on the other fronts, and only expect that somehow, with the stroke of a pen, diluting labour laws will magically bring in investment then we are very sadly mistaken. Given that job creation is crucial and that trade unions have been weakened, what lies ahead for our labour force? KRSS:During the financial crisis when the trade unions were taken into confidence by the employers, the trade unions were willing to offer concessions in terms of deferring increments, agreeing to regular overtime wage rate, or to work on a Sunday or to have some kind of structured lay-off systems. So, instead of making macro-level, uncalled for interventions, which are draconian, the governments should have held social dialogue and asked the trade unions: “Look these are difficult times, we need to create jobs, we need to get out of the COVID crisis, how can we go about it?” And then, if the trade unions set unreasonable demands, then there is a call for introducing certain directives. AB:At this point, in the immediate months to come, the responsibility actually lies squarely on the government to restore some health to the labour market... because we were in a slowdown, even going into the lockdown. [P]rivate investment may not pick up. Jobs also may not come back. In the immediate term, there is a necessity for the government to come out with a fairly strong fiscal package that creates optimistic conditions by providing employment to people, something that tightens the labour market a little bit, puts money in people’s pockets, and creates demand in the economy; the private investment then will follow as it usually does. And, once that happens, once there’s some health restored in the economy and economic growth has been restored, then, a lot of these things are discussable: we can go back to the labour reform issue.  The state needs to safeguard the interests of workers, particularly those at the lower-end of the labour spectrum Amit Basole, Professor
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||States cannot be left to the Centre’s mercy||Karur MP S. Jothimani recently conducted a telephonic survey of 30 lakh people in Tamil Nadu on the re-opening of liquor shops in the State during lockdown 3.0. An overwhelming 89% were opposed to the move. The Maharashtra government too decided to permit liquor shops to open but was quickly forced to reverse its decision in some parts of the State following protests. Similar protests against the sale of alcohol were seen in various States. This may be largely due to fears of crowding and the consequent spread of COVID-19 rather than about alcoholism and its potentially deleterious societal impact. Whatever may be the reason, it is clear that permitting the sale of alcohol during the lockdown is an unpopular move among the majority. Why then have popularly elected governments in nearly every State resorted to this move? The answer lies in what happened ‘at the stroke of midnight hour’ on July 1, 2017. A triple blow It is apparent that financially broke State governments are forced to adopt desperate and reviled measures such as opening liquor shops to mobilise money for their fight against COVID-19. The question is, even if they are strapped for resources, surely there must be other means to raise funds in this struggle to save lives than to prey on people’s alcohol addiction? Therein lies the rub. All the States have come together like “pearls on a string” in the “spirit of cooperative federalism” for the economic integration of India, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the stroke of midnight hour on July 1, 2017 when he launched the Goods and Services Tax (GST). What was not mentioned was that the States on that “pearl string” were now stuck to the Centre’s neck forever. GST forced the States to surrender their powers to raise resources independently through local State taxes and place them entirely at the mercy of the Centre for most of their financial needs. Most States raise resources through a combination of their own taxes and a share in the Centre’s taxes. For richer States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, 70% or more of their revenue comes from taxes generated within their State boundaries. Nearly half of these were from the sale of goods and services within the State and the remaining half, from a combination of excise duties on petrol, electricity, alcohol, land registration fees, etc. Before GST, States were free to charge sales taxes as legislated by their State legislatures. If a State had a natural disaster, they could raise additional resources for rehabilitation by raising sales tax rates on goods and services. For the sake of GST, States sacrificed their fiscal powers in the promise of ‘economic efficiency’ and ‘tax buoyancy’, which never materialised. Under GST, States are legally entitled to their share of tax revenues collected in their State. But they are now reliant on the Centre to release these funds to them periodically. When the GST was enacted, States were also guaranteed a minimum tax revenue every year for a period of five years. In the midst of the current pandemic, the Centre has reneged on both these promises. This is a triple blow for the States — not being paid what they are owed, not being helped with additional resources, and bearing the brunt of the pandemic’s impact. Not only are they not paid what is rightfully due to them, they have also lost the powers to raise their own sales tax revenues. So, how are they supposed to fight this health calamity with no money? The other available options for States to raise funds are through taxes on sale of petroleum products, alcohol, lottery tickets, electricity, land or vehicle registration. During this extreme lockdown, demand for petroleum products, electricity, land and vehicles has dwindled substantially. So, the only option left for most States is to raise funds through the sale of alcohol. For the large, richer States, alcohol sales account for more than one-third of their State tax revenues. One could argue that alcohol consumption could even potentially increase during the lockdown and hence States have been tempted and coerced to resorting to raising monies from people’s alcohol habits. Ironically, the States are being forced to rely on alcohol for resolving a health crisis. Can’t the States borrow money to tide over this crisis? In order to do that, they need the Centre’s approval to raise their borrowing limit or to stand as guarantors. Since States do not have clear revenue visibility, the rates at which they can borrow are very high and their ability to borrow is severely undermined. They are once again dependent on the Centre to borrow funds from the market and then release them to the States.  The pre-GST era How would the States have handled this crisis in the pre-GST era? One, they would have had the funds raised through sales taxes to themselves and not be at the Centre’s mercy to release funds. Two, they would have raised taxes on select essential goods sold in their States (say, mangoes or coconut oil) in accordance with their norms. Just as it is clear that COVID-19 has to be fought in a decentralised manner at the local level and not through a Delhi diktat, the resources needed to fight this disease should also be raised locally and not be dependent on Delhi’s whimsical magnanimity. The Centre has defaulted on its financial obligations to the States at a critical juncture. Former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley’s catchphrase “cooperative federalism” has proved to be neither cooperative nor federalist in times of this crisis. The idea of ‘one nation, one tax’ is deeply flawed in an economically and politically divergent India, as I have argued since 2015. Ruling parties and alliances in States can change every five years. The efficient functioning of a GST regime cannot be beholden to political party affiliations at the Centre and the States. Democratically elected State governments cannot be expected to govern with no fiscal powers. Five States account for half of all GST collections in the country. It is time these bigger States challenge the very idea of GST. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office-bearer of the Congress party
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping Asia-Pacific afloat||For generations, the Asia-Pacific region has thrived on our seas. The seas provide food, livelihoods and a sense of identity, especially for coastal communities in the Pacific island states. Sadly, escalating strains on the marine environment are threatening to drown progress and our way of life. In less than a century, climate change and unsustainable resource management have degraded ecosystems and diminished biodiversity. Levels of overfishing have exponentially increased, leaving fish stocks and food systems vulnerable. Marine plastic pollution coursing through the region’s rivers has contributed to most of the debris flooding the ocean. While the COVID-19 pandemic has temporarily reduced pollution, this should not be a moment of reprieve. Rather, recovery efforts need to build a new reality, embedded in sustainability. Lack of data Despite a seascape celebrated in our collective imaginations, research shows that our picture of the ocean is remarkably shallow. Insights from ‘Changing Sails: Accelerating Regional Actions for Sustainable Oceans in Asia and the Pacific’, the theme study of this year’s Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), reveal that without data, we are swimming in the dark. Data are available for only two out of ten targets for the Sustainable Development Goal 14, ‘Life Below Water’. Due to limitations in methodology and national statistical systems, information gaps have persisted at uneven levels across countries. While there is much we cannot see, images of plastic pollution have become commonplace. Asia and the Pacific produces nearly half of global plastic by volume, of which it consumes 38%. Plastics represent a double burden for the ocean: their production generates CO2 absorbed by the ocean, and as a final product enters the ocean as pollution. Beating this challenge will hinge upon effective national policies and re-thinking production cycles. Environmental decline is also affecting fish stocks. Our region’s position as the world’s largest producer of fish has come at the cost of over-exploitation. The percentage of stocks fished at unsustainable levels has increased threefold from 10% in 1974 to 33% in 2015. Generating complete data on fish stocks, fighting illicit fishing activity and conserving marine areas must remain a priority. While the most connected shipping economies are in Asia, the small island developing States of the Pacific experience much lower levels of connectivity, leaving them relatively isolated from the global economy. Closing the maritime connectivity gap must be placed at the centre of regional transport cooperation efforts. We must also work with the shipping community to navigate toward green shipping. Enforcing sustainable shipping policies is essential. The magnitude of our ocean and its challenges represent how extensive and collaborative our solutions must be. Trans-boundary ocean management and linking ocean data call for close cooperation among countries in the region. Harnessing ocean statistics through strong national statistical systems will serve as a compass guiding countries to monitor trends, devise timely responses and clear blind spots. Through the Ocean Accounts Partnership, ESCAP is working with countries to harmonise ocean data and provide a space for regular dialogue. Translating international agreements and standards into national action is also key. We must fully equip countries and all ocean custodians to localise global agreements into tangible results. ESCAP is working with member states to implement International Maritime Organization (IMO) requirements. Keeping the ocean plastic-free will depend on policies that promote a circular economy approach. This minimises resource use and will require economic incentives and disincentives. Our oceans keep our economy and our lives above the waves. In the post-COVID-19 era, we must use the years ahead to steer our collective fleets toward sustainable oceans. Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana is Executive Secretary of ESCAP
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||One for the poor||More than 50 days since a nationwide lockdown was announced by the Union government, it is clear that what was done as a public health measure to protect people from the COVID-19 threat has snowballed into a major economic crisis for the urban poor in general and migrant labour in particular. The travails of migrant workers have been well-documented. With loss of livelihoods, they have been pushed into penury in their places of work. And with the lockdown initially preventing inter-State travel, many have embarked on arduous journeys to their native places to get some support at a time of acute distress. In the second of a series of measures that are part of a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has tried to address the needs of these sections, apart from small farmers. She has recognised that migrant workers have taken to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in a major way after the Centre gave explicit instructions to reopen the scheme. As in the past, this remains a lifesaver for people dependent on fragile livelihoods, and the decision to extend it to the monsoon season is welcome. The government should also ensure that wages are paid without delays, a major problem with the scheme’s implementation lately. A waiver or at least an extension of the 100-day limit per household too would have helped. It is now up to the States to ensure the scheme is implemented properly. For migrants who are still stationed in their places of work and who are not beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act or State schemes, the Finance Minister has promised 5 kg of foodgrains per person and 1 kg of channa per family per month for two months. This will bring the number of people receiving subsidised foodgrains close to the legal requirement of the National Food Security Act (67% of the population). It is a welcome relief for many starved workers, but the government could have extended the Public Distribution System coverage to include more people who are suffering from loss of jobs and livelihoods, besides migrant workers. Ms. Sitharaman also announced that the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme to allow migrants access any fair price shop across the country will be implemented by March 2021. But this scheme, as implemented now, has been utilised only sparingly by migrants, and concerns from States like Tamil Nadu where PDS is near-universal are yet to be addressed. Many of the announcements, including one for small farmers, are a combination of liquidity and credit-easing measures or the extension of existing schemes. As things stand, they fall short of the substantive fiscal measures that could stimulate demand in the economy. After all, that seemed to be the crux of the Prime Minister’s promise of spending Rs. 20 lakh crore.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown syndrome||Official data capturing the economic impact of the nationwide lockdown are starting to pour in slowly. The country’s industrial output, as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), contracted by 16.7% in March, according to statistics released by the government on Tuesday. This is in contrast to a growth rate of 2.7% witnessed during the same month last year. The sharp fall can largely be explained by the nationwide lockdown that was imposed by the Centre in the last week of the month. The manufacturing sector, which witnessed a contraction of about 20%, was the worst hit among the key sectors, perhaps due to disruptions in the labour market caused by the lockdown. In terms of end-goods, capital goods and consumer durables witnessed a roughly one-third contraction in size as the sale of non-essential goods was obliterated by the unexpected lockdown. Analysts say that industrial output is likely to fall even further in April when the economy was in complete shutdown. In fact, some estimates suggest that the economy’s overall output in the first quarter of FY21 could be cut by one-fourth and growth for the whole financial year could well turn out to be negative. So, March’s gloomy industrial production figures are likely to be soon forgotten as a flood of bleak economic data hits the country further down the road. That said, it should be noted that FY20 IIP growth was set to post a weak show even before the lockdown was imposed in late-March. The COVID-19 crisis being a temporary external shock, much like demonetisation in 2016 but much larger in scale, can theoretically lead to a quick bounce-back in economic activity once the lockdown is lifted. But the actual pace of the recovery in industrial production and even the wider economy will depend on the policy environment created by the government after the crisis. The economic rescue measures announced by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday, such as more loans to small and medium scale enterprises and looser credit standards, can help the recovery by allowing businesses to find their feet soon. Obviously, the key will lie in the implementation of these measures. Previous attempts by the Reserve Bank of India and the government to flush the system with liquidity, after all, have failed to improve credit flow to businesses. The government must also ensure that bureaucratic red tape does not kill any nascent recovery at a time when businesses, whose balance sheets have been hit hard by the crisis, need the freedom to adjust to a new economic reality. The government’s emphasis on self-reliance as its new economic agenda, however, does not bode well for such hopes.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Rescuing Indians left stranded by war, disaster or pandemic||“Pin drop silence in the control room please” said the ship’s commander. We were a small group of journalists squeezed deep into the hull of the Indian Naval warship INS Mumbai , as it made its journey towards Beirut harbour in 2006. The ship had set sail along with accompanying frigates INS Brahmaputra and Betwa and the tanker ship INS Shakti from Larnaca two days before, on a mission called Operation Sukoon, to evacuate 3,000 Indians and others stuck in Lebanon after Israel declared war. Above stairs, bunks were being emptied out to accommodate more than a thousand men and women who would board the next day, while the ship’s cavernous kitchens had vats of food on the boil to feed the guests. In the control room, the commander was communicating with Israel Defence Forces (IDF) commanders to ensure that our fleet would be given safe passage into the harbour. It was tense till the last minute, despite prior diplomatic clearances. Like with all such evacuations, logistics can be planned, but the really big task is getting all civilians to register to board the ship. Despite the dire threat they faced, many didn’t want to leave and lose their jobs. Some had entered the country illegally, and had no papers. Officials had to work quickly against deadlines to ensure they didn’t miss their ride home. There were other unusual moments. Many of the Indians leaving had married other foreign workers while in Lebanon, and their wives came to bid them teary farewells at Beirut harbour. When we returned with them by Air India flights from Cyprus, we were shocked to see equally teary welcomes for them from their Indian wives at Delhi airport! In Libya and Yemen In 2011, I watched another naval ship bearing the tricolour steam into Libya’s Tripoli; this time, I was standing at the harbour, as my cameraman and I had flown into Tripoli some days ago. With the UN’s go-ahead for NATO’s mission, it was clear that getting more 15,000 Indians working in Libya out would need a massive naval and flight operation. The Yemen evacuation of 2015 too saw some very tricky moments, as diplomats negotiated flight windows between air raids by the Saudi defence forces on Houthi rebels who had taken over the capital, Sana’a. While journalists were not allowed to cover Operation Rahat, I remember a long conversation with naval officers who had been on board ships like the INS Tarkash from Yemen to Djibouti which evacuated nearly 5,000 Indians and other nationalities, speaking of how they had to deal with AK-47-armed Yemeni gangs who also wanted a passage to safety. After some very dangerous moments, the naval commanders negotiated to have the Indians allowed on to the ship, and agreed to take some Yemenis, after they had disarmed. The current repatriation effort, Operation Vande Bharat, comprising operations to bring home lakhs of Indians stranded due to the COVID-19 lockdown, is certainly India’s most extensive, and involves dozens of countries; but these operations are much more orderly and far less dangerous than those that preceded it. As in the past, however, there will be hundreds of brave officials, diplomats, pilots and crew, and sailors and soldiers who will be the unsung heroes.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Place of English in Education||(From an editorial) Fifty three of the 72 universities of India are now offering degree courses in the regional language, according to a statement made by the Union Minister for Education, Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao during the debate in the Lok Sabha on the University Grants Commission (Amendment) Bill. What the Minister says may be correct, but it is at the same time misleading in one sense. For the vast majority of university students opt for the English medium and in some cases, as in Bombay University, the regional languages do not come into the picture at all. There is nothing surprising about this preference of college students for English, since it gives them freedom of movement and opportunity not only in India but in other countries as well, and opens to them the gates of science and technology in all fields. The Government of India has been trying to arrange for translations of English books into all the regional languages but it will be a long time before up to date sets of books are available. However, there is a striking contrast between the place of English in higher education and its role at the primary and secondary school level.
15 May 2020||Chennai,||Sainz to Ferrari, Ricciardo to McLaren||There are still huge question marks over the 2020 Formula One season’s viability, but that doesn’t mean the teams are not looking to the future. Sebastian Vettel’s decision to leave Ferrari at the end of the year triggered a set of moves that will see Carlos Sainz Jr. taking over from the German in 2021 and Daniel Ricciardo slipping into Sainz’s seat at McLaren, both of which were confirmed on Thursday. Means business Sainz had been hung out to dry when Renault replaced him with Ricciardo for 2019. If not for Fernando Alonso’s exit, the 25-year-old might not have landed the McLaren gig. But in helping McLaren to its best finish in five years, Sainz proved he had to be taken seriously. In the Spaniard, Ferrari sees a driver capable of consistently bringing home the points on a Sunday even if he isn’t as quick over a single lap, with the team set to throw its weight behind Charles Leclerc. It is a good place for Sainz to be in. Without the pressure of expectations that befalls most Ferrari drivers, he can grow into the role. In a quirk of fate, Ricciardo has yet again taken Sainz’s seat, but this time the latter would feel he has had the better of the ‘exchange’. It is, at best, a sideways move for the Australian. Leaving a race-winning team in Red Bull for Renault, a decision that was questioned at the time, hasn’t served Ricciardo’s career well. With the regulation changes planned for 2021 deferred until 2022, Renault’s ability to make drastic gains is limited. The team lost ground last season, which wouldn’t have helped Ricciardo’s confidence in his crew. Quicker than necessary At McLaren, which will have Mercedes engines from next year, Ricciardo joins a team on the upswing. But he will again feel overlooked by Ferrari. Weirdly enough, this time it’s likely because of his quickness, which can cause headaches for a team with a clear No. 1 driver. The focus now shifts to Renault. Desperate for a big name to signal its intent, it had broken the bank for Ricciardo. It now has to quickly fix things. On Wednesday, the team tweeted a photo of Alonso during his glory days with Renault. That would be the perfect end to a dramatic silly season. As was once said, “There are decades where nothing happens, and there are weeks where decades happen.”
15 May 2020||Chennai,||Chances of World T20 slim: Hayden||Matthew Hayden put fear in the minds of fast bowlers in his playing days. Now, a commentator for the online cricket game, World Cricket Championship (WCC) Hayden was typically frank and direct with his views about the times we live in. This is a very challenging period for cricket. These are very difficult times and cricket has a role to play, but only when there is significant advice from global experts not only about the safety and well being of cricketers but all people cricket brings with it. It should sit with those guidelines and requirements. And not a second before. What are the chances of the ICC World T20 happening? I would think it is very slim. The global economy has tanked. We have seen the number of deaths go up. To make a call on cricket is disrespectful to the times we are living in. Would you like a scenario where cricket is played in empty stadiums? Fans are the biggest stakeholders in the game. With the business hat on, if health is not compromised, matches can be played in front of empty stands. Putting a playing hat on, it is gutting. You want to play in front of fans, give them joy, not see them behind laptops and television. COVID-19 hit the world just when Australia was beginning to dominate the cricketing scene again Australia will always compete hard. But there should not be anything above humanity. Can you tell us about the WCC? The game of online entertainment has never been more important. It’s a creative and liberating space. Your best opening Test pair from across teams. David Warner took off when I ended my career and he has been brilliant ever since but for an occasional slump. Along with Warner, I would have Rohit Sharma opening in Tests. They would be quite a spectacle together. On cricket where players will not be allowed to use saliva on the ball? We should take a pause before cricket can be played in conditions that were prevalent before the break happened. Not using saliva to polish the ball is ridiculous.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Athens the toughest in my Olympic journey: Paes||Leander Paes was visibly emotional as he soaked in the nostalgia of clips from his seven Olympics — Tokyo, if he plays, will be a record eighth — during a conversation with Olympic Channel. “In the Olympics, there are about 10,000 athletes. Each athlete has a story, about how they got there. Some of us are lucky to win medals. In my eyes, every single Olympian is a champion. I salute the passion and spirit of the athlete,” the 18-time Grand Slam winner said. His Atlanta Olympics singles bronze medal behind Andre Agassi and Sergi Bruguera may be fresh in the minds of connoisseurs 24 years on, but many may not remember that Paes was close to winning a doubles medal with Ramesh Krishnan at the Barcelona Games in 1992. “I still chat with Fernando [Meligeni]. I tell him, ‘this medal has your name also’,” he said of the bond he shares with the player he beat to win that bronze. “Athens was the toughest Olympics. I had worked so hard to get there, after being wrongly diagnosed with a brain tumour. We had a match point,” Paes said about his (and doubles partner Mahesh Bhupathi’s) bronze play-off defeat to Ivan Ljubicic and Mario Ancic of Croatia. “I love rewriting the history books. It will be great for India to have the record of a tennis player competing in eight Olympics. The physical fitness is the easy part. With one more year, the emotional happiness and mental fitness are required. Once tennis starts, I will take a call,” said Paes. He credited his father Dr. Vece Paes, a hockey bronze medallist at the Munich Olympics in 1972. Paes said he was happy with the first “time off” in his 30-year professional career, using the period to care for his father and 14-year-old daughter Aiyana, cook and clean. Inherent talent Paes Sr., who joined the video chat, acknowledged that his son had inherent talent and fast-twitch muscles, which made him quick. “The support system, coach, parents, Davis Cup captain have all played their role. On your own, it is difficult,” the 75-year-old said.
15 May 2020||TIRUCHI,||Gutsy Anandan eyes Tokyo Paralympics||Sheer grit has always been the driving force for para-athlete Anandan Gunasekaran’s achievements. The blade runner has set his sights on fulfilling his dream of winning a medal in the Paralympics. That the 400m event he specialises in does not feature in his category (T64) at the Tokyo Paralympics hasn’t bogged Anandan down. The 33-year-old, who trains under Mohammed Kunhi, has found a way to overcome this disappointment by preparing hard for the 200m, an event in which he bagged bronze in the Asian Para Games 2018. He had also won a silver in 400m. Landmine blast Anandan, who hails from Kumbakonam, joined the Army in 2005. He lost his left leg in a landmine blast while on duty at the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in 2008. “It is very important to face challenges life throws at us with courage and confidence,” Anandan told The Hindu from the Army Sports Institute, Pune. After winning gold medals in 100m, 200m, and 400m (IT1 events) at the World Military Games in October last year, the Subedar with the Indian Army’s Madras Engineer Group and Centre, Bengaluru, made up his mind to focus solely on 200m keeping the Paralympics in mind. Anandan intends to make best use of the time he now has after the postponement of Paralympics because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “I am confident of performing well in the selection trials and make it to the Indian team for the Paralympics.”
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Balbir Singh Sr. suffers two cardiac arrests||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior continued to remain critical and on ventilator support after suffering two more cardiac arrests early on Wednesday morning. The 96-year old, three-time Olympic gold winner, remains in the ICU in Mohali, his grandson Kabir said on Thursday. “Nana ji suffered two more cardiac arrests yesterday morning. His condition has not deteriorated since then but he continues to be very critical and on ventilator assistance. Doctors are continuously assessing his condition,” Kabir said.
15 May 2020||LONDON,||England players may start training soon||England players could tentatively start their outdoor skill-based training in the coming weeks with the ECB eyeing resumption of international cricket with a series against West Indies in July, said its director of cricket Ashley Giles. However, as per health directive issued by government wing, the players — across all sports in UK — will have an option to “opt out” if they have any apprehensions of health risk. “These are the very first tentative steps back to playing cricket,” Giles was quoted by ESPN Cricinfo , indicating that it could be done in controlled environment. “This is individual-based training, so in many ways we should be able to get control of the environment so it’s safer to go back to practice than it is to go to the supermarket”
15 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Another Olympic medal is Carolina Marin’s goal||Reigning Olympic champion, three-time World champion and a Premier Badminton League regular, 26-year-old Carolina Marin is chasing another Olympic medal. The champion from Spain, who staged a grand comeback from an eight-month injury break last year, shared a few thoughts in an e-mail interaction with The Hindu . “Not being able to play is the most challenging part of this lockdown. But, we need to be patient,” Marin said. Not ready “Currently, I am in my hometown and things have improved here. I do fitness training at home with my coach and a mental trainer guiding me. “Given the situation, we are in no way ready for hands-on training let alone playing. Big cities like Barcelona and Madrid are still not fully functional. “Such a long break for athletes, who are used to hopping from one country to another to play tournaments, can lead to anxiety issues. So, we are trying to remain physically fit and mentally charged up. “These are unprecedented times. We all have to be strong and wait, I am no different. I keep myself busy with household chores apart from my training,” Marin said. “The Olympics postponement was not a concern. I was rather happy. I was playing the All England when the news of the impact of the virus began coming in. I think the Games postponement was the best thing to have happened for everybody. Safety and health are a priority,” Marin said. Faith in BWF “The BWF is doing their part and I have full faith that they will come out with a plan (for qualifying norms) that is in the best interest of players,” she said. “I also feel that freezing world rankings was a wise decision and we can start over from where we left,” she added. “I have been following the BWF guidelines for the Covid-19 crisis. Yes, not having fans at the stadium for some time may be a reality and that I will surely miss,” she signed off.
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen adds four events||To beat lockdown blues and maintain continuity of elite events, World chess champion Magnus Carlsen on Thursday announced a schedule of four more major online events concluding with the Tour Final in August. After the huge success of his signature event, the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational which he won on May 3, the World No. 1 revealed the prize-fund for the five-leg Tour would be $1 million. The four events added to the Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour are: Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge (May 19-June 3), Online Chess Masters (June 20-July 5), Legends of Chess (July 21–August 5) and Tour Final (August 9-August 20).  The four events will be live on Chess24.com .
15 May 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC Board to discuss T20 WC on May 28||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board is set to discuss the possibility of resumption of international sport and the prospects of staging the T20 World Cup in Australia later this year. With international sport, including cricket, coming to a standstill due to the pandemic, the ICC Board — the highest decision-making authority of cricket’s governing body — on March 27 had discussed contingency planning in case the marquee event in Australia cannot go ahead as per schedule in October-November.  The Hindu understands that with Australian government keen on charting a roadmap for resuming sport, the ICC Board is likely to give itself some more time before taking a final call about the fate of the tournament. It will be interesting to see if major cricket boards, especially the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), push for utilising the T20 World Cup window to make up for lost time in the bilateral series calendar. Meanwhile, the ICC Board video-conference is also likely to kickstart the election procedure for the successor of Shashank Manohar as independent chairman. While Manohar’s term was originally scheduled to end with the conventional ICC annual conference in June, COVID-19 has forced the ICC Board to extend Manohar’s term till August.
15 May 2020||LAUSANNE,||IOC creates $800m fund||The International Olympic Committee said on Thursday it had created an $800 million fund to tackle the financial hardships created by the coronavirus pandemic which has forced the postponement of Tokyo Games. IOC president Thomas Bach said the body had released “an envelope of up to $800 million to address the financial consequences.” The envelope has two parts: $650m which “refers to the cost of organisation” of the postponed Games and $150m as an aid package for the Olympic movement.AFP
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NRAI recommends Anjum for Khel Ratna||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), on Thursday, recommended World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil, in pic, for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, coach Jaspal Rana for the Dronacharya and proposed the names of Manu Bhaker, Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma and Elavenil Valarivan, all multiple gold medallists in World Cups last season, for the Arjuna Award.
15 May 2020||Srinagar,||COVID-19: uncertain times for Kashmir’s cherry growers||Kashmir’s first crop of cherry fruit, expected to cross the 11,000 metric tonne (MT) mark this year, is staring at uncertain times due to the novel coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. “Double Glass, a variety of cherry, will hit the markets next month. Due to the nationwide lockdown, all mandis are closed. The fruit growers have already suffered huge losses due to last year’s clampdown and subsequent lockdown,” Jammu Kashmir Kisan Tehreek (JKKT) general secretary Ghulam Nabi Malik. The market chain of cherry has already seen a disruption due to the curfew imposed in the wake of the Centre’s move to revoke J&K’s special status. “We used to sell the crop even while the cherry was on trees. However, this year, due to uncertain situation and Internet blockade, prospective buyers did not prefer pre-plucking payment,” Maznoor Ahmad, an orchardist from the Ganderbal district, said. Mr. Malik said the situation was further compounded after the local processing units had been closed down due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “The local processing units should be allowed to resume functioning,” he said. Significant jump The official figures suggest that the yield, 11,789 MT in 2018 and 11,000 MT in 2019, would see a significant jump due to the introduction of high density variety of trees in recent years.  The shelf life of the cherry is short and around 50% is transported outside every year. According to official figures, around 400 MT was transported by road though refrigerated vans last year. Besides, 400 MT more was ferried in trains and 900 MT by air, the officials said. With the COVID-19 bringing trains and air services to a grinding halt, Mr. Malik urged the administration to allow smooth and transportation to outside mandis. “The government should continue its market intervention scheme and keep its purchasing centres open so that the produce is purchased and sold at proper rates,” Mr. Malik said. Director, Industries and Commerce Kashmir, Mehmood Ahmad Shah, said, “Both cold stores and cardboard packaging units cater to the cherry crop. This year more emphasis will be on canning of the produce to increase its shelf life." The orchardists, who have tended over 2,713 hectares, have demanded that all the cart vendors in the Valley be allowed to sell cherry in the open markets locally. Produced on the outskirts of Srinagar’s Harwan-Zakura belt, Ganderbal, Tangmarg and Shopian districts, the harvest season will start in the last week of May and end by the first week of July.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 08:36 IST,||Sudoku - May 15, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The intriguing world of Nayikas||Consider the well-known Telugu padam, ‘Indendu Vachitivira’ (Suratti), which deals with a woman confronting the unfaithful Muvvagopala at her doorstep. According to the abhinaya legend Kalanidhi Narayanan, the dominant emotions in the lyrics are of khandita — anger laced with sarcasm — and hasya — humour — upon which other emotions of surprise, compassion, disgust, etc., maybe layered. On further analysis, we can identify the protagonist — Dr. Anupama Kylash calls her a khandita samanya, an angry courtesan (one whose company is available for a consideration). “The treatment will be different for every classification and with more understanding, a dancer’s interpretation will become more nuanced,” observed the Vilasini Natyam and Kuchipudi artist and scholar. Anupama was delivering a talk, ‘Protagonists in Indian Textual and Literary Traditions — The Hero, Heroine and Companion,’ at a session hosted by dancer Divya Ravi on Instagram Live. This was part of her Sangati series on various aspects related to dance including body kinetics, solo productions, nutrition, spirituality, decoding musicality in dance, de-constructing sahitya, and the Music Trinity. Dr. Anupama explained the premise first. The Indian literary traditions — consisting of kavyas including poems, prose and natakas (dance, drama and music), itihasas such as the Ramayana, Mahabharata, etc., puranas such as the Bhagavata Purana, Agnipuran, etc., prabandhas, pada sahitya such as Jayadeva’s Gita Govinda, Annamacharya’s sankirtanas, et al — have presented a wide variety of heroes and heroines. The Indian Textual Traditions analysed such works of literature. They are: the Natya Sastra written by Bharatha Muni (2BC-2AD), Rasa Manjari by Bhanudatta (17th C), Sringara Manjari by Akbar Shah (17th C), Sringara Prakasam by Raja Bhoja (10-11th C) and Ujjvala Nilamani by Rupa Goswamin of the Krishna Bhakti sect (16th C), amongst others. They dealt with aspects of Natya, dramaturgy, and Alankara Sastras, aesthetics and poetics, which included the staging of plays, rasa theory and analysis of poetry, language, characterisations, etc. Dr. Anupama referenced three texts for the classifications — Natya Sastra , Rasa Manjari and Sringara Manjari . According to her, the ancient Natya Sastra had a basic classification for all characters and aspects of a performance — Uttama (superior), Madhyama (middle) Adhama (inferior). Female characters (nayikas) were classified according to different parameters — according to their birth and position — Divya (celestial), Adivya (human), Nrpatni (queen) and Ganika (courtesan); according to their social status — Kulaja (wife), Kanyaka (unmarried) and Vesya (courtesan); according to 23 personality traits, silas — Go Sila or cow type (plump hips, kind, respectful), Naga Sila or snake type (pointed nose, slender body, irritable, deceitful), etc. Bharata Muni also provided eight avasthas (states) for a woman in love. The Ashtavidha Nayikavasthas are: Vaasakasajja (one dressed up for union), Virahotkhandita (one distressed by separation), Svaadhina-Bhartrka (one having her husband in subjection), Kalahantarita (one separated from her lover by a quarrel), Khandita (one enraged with her lover), Vipralabdha (one deceived by her lover), Prositabhartrka (one with a sojourning husband) and Abhisaarika (one who goes out to meet her lover). Rasa Manjari and others expand the concept of the Abhisarika — Jyotsnaabhisarika (one who goes in moonlight camouflaged in white and pearls), Tamisrabhisarika (one who goes out in darkness camouflaged in dark coloured clothes and blue sapphires), Divasabhisarika (one who goes out in broad daylight) and so on. Dr. Anupama wanted to underline the fact that any nayika can experience any of the eight situations. It is not an exclusive classification as is assumed by some. The Agnipuran classified Sringara nayikas in the context of their relationship with the nayaka — Swakiya or Sweeya (married and loyal), Parakeeya (married to one and longs for another), Punarbhu (widow remarried) and Samanya (those who are free to accept any man without restrictions). This classification became popular as it is applicable to any pada sahitya with Sringara. The parakeeya has an element of secrecy to her — she could be a Kanya (under the guardianship of her parents) or a Parodha (married woman). The Krishna Bhakti poets of the East and the subsequent Hindi Bhakti poets have celebrated the Parakeeya Abhisarika nayika as the highest form of devotion — Radha going out to meet Krishna or getting him to visit her, and the gopis dropping all chores when they hear Krishna’s flute, are prime examples. This philosophy is known as the Parakeeya Vada.  Kamasutra classified nayika according to the woman’s beauty, sexual capabilities, compatibility between husband and wife, etc. “All these aspects were an integral part of society. The celebration of courtesans and sexuality proves that the industry of eroticism was part of society. There was no judgment of these things being wrong. The idea of compatibility, love-making and the love between man and woman — nothing was wrong with these. Not that the society was debauched. It had a balance of the four purusharthas — Dharma (duty), Artha (material wealth), Kama (pleasure) and Moksha (liberation),” said Anupama. Age and maturity The Sweeya nayika was further classified according to age and maturity — Mugdha (11-13), Madhya (early twenties) and Prouda/Pragalba (mature, confident). There is further classification of the Mugdha nayika according to her state of awareness of youth and another according to the level of comfort with her husband. Anupama cited an example of an un-awakened young girl from Rasa Manjari — “Emerging from the water, the moon-faced nayika comes to the bank and mistakes her wide eyes for two full blown lotuses stuck to her ears, and tries to brush them away!” The Sweeya nayika, particularly the Madhya and Pragalba nayika, maybe classified according to her behaviour — Dheera (self-controlled), Adheera (who lacks self-control) and Dheeraadheera (one who is partially self-controlled). This will determine her behaviour, for example, when she senses another woman — a Madhyadheera nayika may express her anger on the erring lover with sarcastic words. Anupama quoted from Rasa Manjari for a sarcastic Madhyadheera — ‘You have been sweating profusely while you were moving around in the bower flocked by swarming and agitated bees. How I wish to fan your body gently with a lotus leaf!’ A Madhyaadheera nayika will use harsh words while a Madhyadheeraadheera would cry, sigh or be sarcastic. A Pragalbadheera nayika may deny access, a Pragalba-adheera nayika may be rude and non-cooperative, a Pragalba-dheeraadheera nayika may hit her husband in anger (Anupama mentioned an instance of Satyabhama kicking Krishna). Sweeya also has a Jyeshta (more beloved) and Kanishta (lesser beloved) classification. An example would be Kaikeyi, who was the more beloved among King Dasarata’s wives. The Parakeeya nayika could be classified according to her maturity — Kanya (one who is under the guardianship of her father and harbours a secret love) and Parodha (a married woman who harbours a secret love for another man). Only Sringara Manjari has classified the Samanya nayika — Swatantra (free), Jananyadheena (under the control of the mother), Niyamita (courtesan assigned to one person — king, zamindar, rich man), Klptanuraga (who loves only one), Kalpitanuraga (one who pretends attachment to a man for financial gain). Anupama peppered the presentation with many examples from literature — one was for the Virahotkhandita avastha (suffering in separation). She quoted Sakuntala’s friend in ‘Abhijnanasakuntalam’ — ‘When the moon is hidden, the same night, the lotus’s beauty is only a matter of remembrance. Surely the sorrow of a young girl is very hard to bear (when the nayika is separated from the nayaka for sometime).’ Another was a Kshetrayya padam, ‘Enta chakkani vaade na saami’ — as a Mugdha, the nayika will be shy and hesitant, whereas a Proudha will openly and proudly describe him. The dancer-scholar urged dancers to read more, particularly regional texts. For a padam, she said, ‘Read the text, read everything around it and then go back to the text. If you create abhinaya for the subtext, the text will unravel on its own. Abhinaya is not only about telling a story. It is about creating multiple layers of imagery where the poet’s philosophy and ideation brought out.’  Regarding Ashtavida Nayikas, any nayika can experience any of the eight situations. It is not an exclusive classification
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The treasures of Tadipatri||Tadipatri, a town in Anantapur District of Andhra Pradesh, located on the banks of River Pennar has a long history going back many centuries. It was ruled by a number of kings belonging to the major dynasties of the Chalukyas of Kalyana, the Hoysalas and the monarchs of the mighty Vijayanagara Empire. There are two temples in Tadipatri, one for Siva and another for Vishnu, both constructed in the 16th century c.e., when the chieftains of the Pemmasani family administered this region during the Vijayanagara era. The Chintala Venkataramana Swami temple was constructed during the time of Pemmasani Yera Timma Nayudu, son of Timma Nayudu and younger brother of Ramalinga Nayudu. The main deity is Venkataramana or Srinivasa, whose prefix Chintala indicates that this deity will remove worry. It is said that this area in Tadipatri was once a forest of tamarind (chinta) trees. When one of the trees broke, an image of Vishnu was seen inside. Yera Timma Nayudu, who was ruling over this area at that time, saw the image and received a divine bidding that a temple be constructed for this deity. It was duly done. This temple has three entrances — one each on the north, south and east. On the east are the deepa-stambham (a tall monolithic pillar used for lighting lamps at the apex) and a two-pillar unjal mandapam which is used during the swing festival. The stone base of the east gopuram, datable to the Vijayanagara era of the 16th century, is superbly carved with many images of various forms of Vishnu, guardians of the eight directions (Ashta Dik Palakas, each on their respective vehicles), rows of elephants and horses among others. Noteworthy are the numerous carvings of parrots — stunningly lifelike, each different from the other. The sculptures of the river Goddess Ganga and Yamuna are prominently seen on either side of the entrance as in many other gopurams in South India constructed during the Vijayanagara times. The upper portion of this gopuram, built of brick and limeplaster, was in a dilapidated condition, and has been rebuilt in recent times. A unique shrine Facing the main sanctum is a unique shrine for Garuda designed like a chariot (ratha) which is similar to the one seen in the Vittala temple in Hampi. The central sanctum enshrines the principal deity, Chintala Venkataramana Swami in a standing posture holding the conch (Sankha) and discus (Chakra) in the upper hands. The lower right hand is in abhaya hasta (reassuring devotees) and the lower left hand is in kati hasta (resting on the waist). The Ranga Mandapa directly in front of the central sanctum, with intricately carved pillars, is of arresting beauty. One of the rare sculptures in this mantapa is the Matsya (fish) incarnation of Vishnu killing a demon named Hayagriva. The most eye-catching feature of this temple is the carvings of numerous episodes of the Ramayana on the outer walls of the principal sanctum in three tiers. Well-known episodes from the epic as also lesser known stories are sculpted here in great detail. Goddess Lakshmi, worshipped as Anandavalli Thayar, Lakshminarayana, Varaha and the famous Vaishnava preceptor (Acharya) Ramanujacharya are also enshrined. An eye-catching structure is the Ekanta-Seva-Mandapa which is circular in shape and delicately carved. The earliest inscription in this Vishnu temple, which can be accurately dated, registers gifts in 1551 C.E. Other epigraphs belonging to the 16th and 17th centuries C.E. are also seen. The Bugga Ramalingeshwara (Siva) temple, situated on the right bank of River Pennar was constructed in the reign of Pemmasani Ramalinga Nayudu. This temple has three entrances in the south, north and west. The intricate carvings of various deities, birds, especially parrots, many animals and floral and geometric designs found on the south gopuram are breathtaking. The north gopuram is noteworthy because of its sculptures — those of the Ashta-Dik-Palakas, each on their respective vahana (mount) and carrying weapons; manifestations of Siva such as Nataraja and Bhikshatanamurti; and a tall figure, wearing the typical conical Vijayanagara era crown, which has been identified as Ramalinga Nayudu. The west gopuram has the insignia of the Vijayanagara dynasty, which is the boar with a sword in front and the sun and moon above, clearly carved on it. Next to this gopuram and directly in front of the main sanctum is a finely sculpted Nandi. The main sanctum enshrines a Linga worshipped as Bugga Ramalingeshwara. The word ‘bugga’ means spring in Telugu and the Linga is thus called as there is a perpetual spring near it and is always surrounded by water. In front of the central sanctum is an ornate mantapam called the Ranga Mantapam which has sixteen elaborately carved pillars, some of which are ‘musical pillars,’ emitting different sounds when tapped lightly. The ceiling of the Ranga Mandapa is richly carved. Goddess Parvathi worshipped as Rajarajeshwari, Rama, Chandesha and Virabhadra (a ferocious aspect of Siva who arose from the matted hair of this deity) are also seen in the temple. On the south-west corner is the Kalyana-mandapa, a characteristic feature of many Vijayanagara era temples. A few inscriptions have been discovered here which speak of gifts of land to this shrine. Both the Siva and Vishnu temples are in active worship and are protected monuments of national importance under the care of the Archaeological Survey of India.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Stalwart of Thanjavur bani||I had the privilege of knowing Pichumani Iyer since 1955. He possessed all the required qualities for a Vainika — his playing had sunadam and was strictly within the classical framework, with an excellent control over laya. He adhered to the Thanjavur bani of veena playing having been mentored by stalwarts such as K.S. Narayanaswami and V.S. Gomati Sankara Iyer at the Annamalai University, Chidambaram. His raga essays were bhava laden and the plucking of the strings was never harsh on the ears. I had the opportunity to accompany him in several concerts and distinctly remember the one at the Mylapore Fine Arts Club, Chennai, in the year he was conferred the ‘Sangita Kala Nipuna’ by the sabha. Pichumani Iyer had an open mind and readily consented to take part in the lecture-demonstration of the fibre glass veena and mridangam, which I had developed in association with the IIT, Madras. The lecture-demonstration concert took place on December 22, 1976, at the Srinivasa Sastri Hall in Mylapore, which was attended by a galaxy of musicians, including M. Balamuralikrishna and S. Balachandar. Pichumani Iyer was very happy with the fibre glass veena, which he felt would be convenient to transport due to its light weight. A man of few words, he graciously accepted awards and honours which came his way. Notable amongst these are the Kalaimamani from the Government of Tamil Nadu, the central Sangeet Natak Akademi award, the TTK award from the Music Academy, Madras besides others. He trained a number of disciples and was a much sought after Veena guru.  (As told to P. Vasanthkumar, disciple of the late Pichumani Iyer)
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Drama troupe raises the bar||The Stage Creations team, family they call it, keeps trying new tricks to beat the lockdown. One of the first to upload a skit on digital platform, the resourceful group, guided by Kathadi Ramamurthi, has stitched up a play involving actors located at different places. Together they seamlessly push the drama forward. Naanu has written the script of ‘Ennatha Solla?’ A typical Tamil phrase that aptly conveys disapproval and helplessness and much more through inflections. (Would it roughly translate as ‘Less said the better') The young daughter-in-law, hemmed in on all sides by demanding family members, repeats this. Hats off to the team for bringing to the digital screen, a full-fledged play with five characters. Initially dismayed by the challenges the script would pose while dramatising it, the team eventually decided to take the plunge. It involved cut dialogue, suitable reactions and body language and the actor self-shooting. Kathadi Ramamurthi, who also plays the father-in-law, had no hesitation in giving the green signal to an enthusiastic crew. The script was forwarded to the Stage Creations family. Naanu sent a detailed note regarding the expressions, the spot they had to take, posture, etc. and dress code to each actor. They have risen to the occasion with perfect expressions and gestures. Next came the most difficult part... editing... because it called for trimming and cut-paste-mix-match manoeuvre. This pretty complex task fell on the shoulders of young Kaushik Venkatesan, musician-editor-mixer. With the limited resources available in the situation, he delivered the goods. Vignesh was assisted by Sivakamy and Nandini. The former also did the title card animation, a neat job, which sets the tone for this engaging video. On the whole, the team succeeds in creating the atmosphere of a single location, while watching the act. The cast is Kathadi Ramamurthy, Lavanya Venugopal, Geetha Narayanan, Srinivasan and Bala Maheswar Link to the video: https://youtu.be/QhfDASIFDa0
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Tyagaraja’s imploration, Balamuralikrishna’s genius||When I chanced upon Tyagaraja’s magnificent ‘Sri Rama Padhama’ the very first time in the summer of 1993, I was blissfully unaware of the more recent history of the 200-year old composition. The Compact Disc (CD), which featured the kriti was among the earliest of Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna’s recordings to appear on the state-of-the-art audio-format, then a talking point among music-lovers. The album contained another song, which I had not heard the maestro perform before. Accustomed to viewing a Balamuralikrishna rendition as a barometer of a composition’s authenticity, my exhilaration knew no bounds over the discovery of two hitherto unfamiliar tracks in a single record. It was irrelevant to the purpose that the rest of the selections in the CD, an EMI release, were already among my collection, in different cassettes. The piece in question — in raga Amritavahini — had all the usual hallmarks of a BMK presentation and I would escape into its beautiful melody on countless occasions. In the raga alapana, the great artiste splendidly glides through the three octaves. There is early indication in the pallavi of the leitmotif of the tune — padhama, the three syllables of the word also aptly denoting the three musical notes — panchamam, daivatam and madhyamam. The charanam stands out for an emotive portrayal of Tyagaraja’s implorations to Rama, a plea for the kind of divine intervention that once redeemed Ahalya to her human form. In his kalpanaswarams, BMK does not miss an opportunity to showcase the beauty of the aforementioned swaraksharam, returning to the refrain padhama. But it is during this lockdown that I stumbled upon the fascinating story behind Balamuralikrishna’s recording of ‘Sri Rama Padhama.’ The kriti features in M.R. Srinivasamurthy’s YouTube channel, dedicated to the propagation of the maestro’s vintage music. Unique to this entry, the Bengaluru-based professional engineer and a long-time BMK associate, appends an anecdote recounted by Dr. Balamuralikrishna’s prime disciple D.V. Mohana Krishna, another reminder of his guru’s genius and reputation. Tyagaraja’s masterpiece When the student played ‘Sri Rama Padhama,’ on his car stereo while travelling with his guru, the latter grew nostalgic about the incident way back in 1980. On the drive to the studios in Chennai, the EMI team, the story goes, requested Balamuralikrishna to include Tyagaraja’s Amritavahini composition in that day’s recording. Apparently unfamiliar with the piece, he turned to Sri Annavarapu Ramaswamy, his long-time associate and accompanist on the violin for the lyric and notations. A quick glance over the writing was all that followed by way of preparation prior to the recording and the rest is history. That was the first and the last time he had performed Tyagaraja’s masterpiece, observed Balamuralikrishna to his student. Suffice it to say that Balamuralikrishna’s lone rendition of Tyagaraja’s only song in Amritavahini is as remarkably distinctive, as the now commonplace compositions ‘— for e.g., ‘Nagumomu’and ‘Nanupalimpa’ — are refreshingly unrepetitive. The album around which Sri Mohana Krishna’s anecdote revolves is titled Thristhaayee – EMI LP, Shellac Stereo LP – ECSD 40519, 1983. The other two tracks therein are Dikshitar’s ‘Sri Nilotphala Nayike’ and Syama Sastri’s ‘Birana Varalichi’. While Annavarapu Ramaswamy accompanies him on the violin, Guruvayur Dorai on the mridangam and T.H. Subhashchandran on the ghatam provide percussion support.  In his kalpanaswarams, BMK does not miss an opportunity to showcase the beauty of the swaraksharam
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Marginality in a churning milieu||In our previous articles we explored marginality in relation to patriarchy in the work of the acclaimed devadasi Muddupalani from the 18th century and how it impacts our performance, “Radhika and Muddupalani.” We also looked at violence against women stemming from sexual repression in Indian society due to the collusion of various forms of patriarchy in our intercultural project, “Sthree.” In this piece, we continue to explore questions of marginality from our perspectives as we worked collaboratively in our inter-cultural work — ‘Churning Waters.’ In 2018, the Indian-Australian Indigenous project called ‘Churning Waters’ was selected for Australia Festival in India and premiered in 2019 January-February at Adishakti in Puducherry, Mettumulluvadi village near Kanchipuram and at DakshinaChitra in Chennai. Together with Uthra Vijay (Carnatic vocalist-composer from Melbourne), we joined Indigenous Australian women Gina Maree Bundle, Nadine Lee and Sylvia Nulpintidj (Yuin, Larrakia and Yolgnu) from Victoria and Northern Territory. We worked with them between Darwin and Melbourne, both online and in person. Koothu artiste Thilagavati Palani and her team, including Green Kumar and Loganathan, joined us when we all arrived at Adishakti. What we developed was a multi art form work that required audiences to move along with the installation, stories, music, and dance being performed. The work was site specific and designed differently in each location, catering to different kinds of audiences. At Adishakti, the work aligned itself to the politics of the space of contemporary experimental performance, critically engaging a unique mix of local and international audiences. In Mettumulluvadi, which was the home of Thilagavati, at the centre of the village under a temporary makeshift canopy, we performed for over 1000 people (including children) to become part of an all-night koothu. At DakshinaChitra, it was adapted to cater to the much larger configuration of the site with its eclectic markets, folk arts and featured visuals and brought a Chennai audience unsure of what they would encounter. Exchanging stories ‘Churning Waters’ was the culmination of three years of discussion and collaborative exchange including other Indigenous-Indian work (such as Serpent Dreaming Women) that had preceded it in Melbourne and Darwin. In the process of creating the work, we brought together ancient myths and stories about land, water and sky with contemporary stories of climate change from a feminist perspective. The work intertwined Tamil, Yuin, Larrakia, Yolgnu and English languages, songs, dances and stories mixing elements from different caste, class, national and race backgrounds that each of us came from. Stories of Bunjil/Nyankara, the eagle, intertwined with Garuda, Matsya Purana combined with whale dreaming, terrible stories of fracking in far north Australia was juxtaposed with the pollution of the Yamuna river in India. What was reflected was a melange of bodies, thinking, dreaming together about how we bring past stories, some that go back 15,000 years, 3,000 years and others more recent to reflect our different and varied backgrounds. The work was the culmination of very different processes for each of us.  Priya: I left India when I was quite young and arriving in Melbourne I found myself in a sea of whiteness with blond hair and blue eyes surrounding me all the time. Coming from the majority in India, it was very strange to become a minority and see myself as a coloured body. It was only when I saw images of Indigenous Australians with dark bodies and dark curly hair like mine and understood their deep and long history in the land that I began imagining a place for myself in Melbourne. I also found a refuge through my dance training in Bharatanatyam, which became my deepest connection to India and entwined with my identity. My dance form was and continues to be marginal within an Australian mainstream context. My relationship to both power and marginality is very complex and constantly shifting. As a person of Indian origin, it is by being marginal in contexts outside of India, that I began to understand what it means to have privilege within an Indian context. To quote the post-colonial theorist Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, “How can we unlearn our privilege as our loss?” becomes the question for us as artists when we are in positions of privilege. I realised however that my marginalisation is quite different to Indigenous marginalities. Despite seeming commonalities we had great differences. I was a migrant on their land that had been stolen from them. They were still colonised whereas I had come from a country where although our colonisers had departed we still faced deep inequities in society due to caste and class differences. Indigenous Australians are some of the most marginalised communities but despite having faced colonialism, genocide and decimation have still survived and continue to adapt and grow. When I asked myself what was my responsibility as a settler on their land, the possible pathway that opened was how to create a dialogue through performances that highlighted the structural inequalities while finding deep connections. Years later, working together to create ‘Churning Waters,’ the significance of it was multiple for me. Primarily because Bharatanatyam, Carnatic music and Indigenous art practices all remain marginal within the Australian context albeit in very different relationships to power. Without access to mainstream spaces and stages and funding that is reserved for Western contemporary or classical forms, we struggle to be seen and supported.  Priyadarsini: The strength of my training with my guru Kalanidhi Narayanan focused on the analysis of texts and the situations portrayed in them, as well as the characters and layered meanings containing within. When we started working on ‘Churning Waters,’ this approach to understanding texts opened new perspectives. When I listened to serpent and whale dreaming stories from indigenous perspectives in the course of our collaboration, it took me a while to understand their way of storytelling as it was very different to ours. The Indian ways of storytelling I know moves laterally and vertically and there is a beginning, middle and end. On the other hand, I found their stories very open ended, almost like puzzles that we have to solve ourselves. This was very striking. I learned not to interpret from what I know and experienced but I had to get into the spirit of how they think. This was true of the collaboration in ‘Churning Waters’ and other ongoing collaborations which heightened awareness of climate change and pollution. Through research and performance exchange we were able to find cultural differences and similarities including the idea that Indigenous Australians and Indians had been exchanging ideas for thousands of years evident in DNA, animals, coins, dances, songs and Dravidian languages present in Indigenous cultures. We can see the world order is rapidly changing and the veil of illusion and control has slipped. Truly, we don’t know what tomorrow brings. We also don’t know what kinds of lives we will lead if and when this crisis is over. What we do know is that this is a moment of great change and possibility and we cannot slip back into the miasma of what we were doing before. The arts and dance are under peril more than ever. Especially in the Indian context in the field of Bharatanatyam, there is currently heated discussion raging about privilege, appropriation and marginality — how do we move from here with a sense of history? Despite our many differences how can we work towards an important common cause?  Priyadarsini Govindis a national and international award winning Bharatanatyam dancer and artiste based in Chennai. Dr. Priya Srinivasanis a dancer, curator and author of the book, Sweating Saris: Indian Dance as Transnational Labour’ based in Melbourne, Australia.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||An offering to counter the pandemic||Some technical snags notwithstanding, the two-day online fest presented by ‘Art from India’ showcased the richness of Indian classical tradition. Seven dancers, each from a different stream, came up with a crisp 15-minute presentation. The performances were all stated to be prayers to drive away the evil virus that has struck mankind across the globe. Opening the show was Kathakali dancer Prabal Gupta in Stree Vesham (impersonation). He took up the popular Siva stuti from Markandeya Charitam (his guru Sadanand Balakrishnan’s choreography) for exposition with utmost coherence. His large expressive eyes spoke eloquently to match his abhinaya (haava-bhava) as he described the crescent moon, which adorns lord Siva, who is seated with his divine consort and the beseeching devotee. The episodes of the Mandara mountain and Tripura samhara were metaphors for divine force in action to save the earth from calamity. The trident, the deer, skull, etc., were shown with artistic grace and clarity. The artiste’s command over his medium was laudable. The footwork and eye movement were particularly impressive. If anything went awry, it was the poor acoustics. Bhavana Reddy’s Kuchipudi was a tad disappointing. Devi Stuti in Sindhubhairavi was a mechanical eulogy of the goddess though Bhavana’s movements were perfect. The soul seemed to be lacking in this piece and the next Tarana, which was a pure dance to mnemonics. The lack of coordination with the camera blocked her footwork to the viewer. Odissi dancer Arupa Gayatri Panda’s Madhurashtakam was as breezy as the Krishna of Gokul who teased the gopis, stole butter, vanquished the serpent Kaliya, sheltered his people under the Govardhan and so on. These interesting anecdotes were presented by Arupa with crisp footwork, fine abhinaya and graceful movements. Pavitra Bhatt gave a brief and brisk presentation with Kamakshi suprabhatam and Siva raksha stotram in Tillana format in keeping with the theme of this fest. His agility and adherence to tala being his hallmarks, both the pieces were commendable. Again, there was a hitch with the camera, which distorted an otherwise creditable performance. Sattriya artiste Anita Sharma danced with alacrity to Krsna Vandana but for the most part, her entire frame was not captured by the camera and we didn’t get to see her footwork as much as we would have liked to. Sinam Basu Singh elucidated Siva Panchakshara with excellence and elan. His movements were marked by masculine grace and lucid abhinaya. The diverse expression to illustrate river Mandakini in the second verse was noteworthy. Shambhavi Dandekar’s Kathak was a neat presentation against a spacious backdrop with no glitches in transmission. This online fest under the aegis of NRI Ajayveer Chapotkat was marred by technical snags. Anchor Sadhana Shrivastav’s picture kept interfering with the dance, off and on, even after her brief introductions were done. As such fests are expected to become a common feature, the organiser would do well to tie up all loose ends to present a perfect picture.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Athur Patasala goes online||It is not only mainstream organisations and institutions, which have resorted to technology in order to keep it going, online classes and performances on social media platforms becoming the new normal. Veda patasalas too have joined the bandwagon by imparting lessons online. The Sri Chathurveda Vidhya Ganapathi Vedashram (SCVG), Athur, near Chingleput, for instance launched its Raksha Veda Camp 2020 for school children on May 10. The call to register for the online programme drew excellent response from participants across the world, it is heard. The first ever global programme found people from the U.S., the U.K., UAE and Singapore apart from several parts of India getting in touch to register. Google Meet as the chosen App. linking our Teachers and the enrolled students. Two batches Taking into account the various time zones of the participants, the programme is being offered in two batches — from 6.30-8 a.m. IST and 6.30-8 p.m. IST, the Google Meet App linking the teachers and the enrolled students. The students have been further grouped based on their Shakas and assigned to respective Adhyapaks. “Our teachers’ enthusiasm and involvement are amazing. This has been a new and enriching experience for them and they are also learning along the way to equip themselves,” says R. Kamakoti, Patasala founder, who adds that the feedback from the parents of the young wards is highly encouraging.  Study materials in three languages — Sanskrit, Tamil and English were posted to the students' group much ahead of the session. Apart from these frontline facilitators, the back office team of administrators, personnel of systems, operations and content wings, are working round-the-clock to ensure seamless transmission. The course has been condensed into a module of 14 sessions spread over two weeks. “This programme's success is crucial to us, because this could be the trend setter for several programmes on the anvil. This is the model around which the knowledge sector is going to redefine its offerings in the months to come,” says Kamakoti, who is devoted to the Acharyas of Sri Kamakoti Pitam. The SCVG Vedasram is the implementation arm of Vedam Eternal, the umbrella, which is dedicated to Veda Samrakshana and Gosamrakshana — two among the concepts nurtured by the Pitam. Website: www.athurvedapatasala.com Contact: 9884402624.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Classicist of the transition era||Veena playing had enjoyed an exalted status six or seven decades ago. In subsequent periods, it lost a lot of audience following, even though a few stalwarts filled the expert talent pool. One of them was the late Pichumani Iyer, whose birth centenary is being celebrated this year. Pichumani Iyer, who hailed from Nagapattinam, learnt the early art in his home place and Tiruchi but went to Annamalai University looking for learning opportunities. He was lucky to impress doyens like Tiger Varadachariar and K.S. Narayanaswamy, both Sangita Kalanidhis and revered as great teachers. While opportunities to perform were rare, Pichumani Iyer polished his style with the inputs from his gurus. Into a new world A chance meeting with a friend (director K. Subrahmanyam) brought him to the film industry. At that time, film music was in transition from a classical-only genre of songs to what came to be called as ‘light’ music. The melody started to shift but orchestration was enriched. That gave avenues for classical instruments like veena, sitar, shehnai etc,. to embellish some segments. This turned out to be Pichumani Iyer’s window to a whole new world. Besides playing in different orchestras of the day (including those of M.S. Viswanathan and K.V. Mahadevan) and being attached to big commercial outfits such as AVM studios, Pichumani Iyer ploughed on in the Carnatic circuit and earned many plaudits. He differentiated himself slightly by playing a shade faster in an engaging tempo (critics of veena often cited its slow tempo as unappealing for a long duration concert) and used chord-like effects to good listening pleasure. Perhaps the second profession as a film orchestra player moulded his new style. He however, maintained classicism and respected the Chinese wall between the two. Succinct raga alapanas and brisk ragamalika forays and transitions also characterised his style. Blessed with a long life, Pichumani Iyer developed his school of students in later years, with the Iyer brothers of Melbourne, P. Vasanth Kumar and B. Kannan amongst them. Recognised by the Tamil Nadu Government with the Kalaimamani title, Pitchumani Iyer’s creative mind produced a new raga, Vasantha Kaisiki, in which he composed a tillana. A versatile artiste steeped in good tradition, Pitchumani Iyer was a quiet achiever who did not seek undue attention. Indeed, he symbolised a bygone era!
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on Kathakali singers||As the live video opens on Facebook, the singer couple is seen greeting the viewers with a namaste. After they exchange pleasantries, the playlist unfolds. The soulful singing of Kathakali padams begins. The live greetings swell in no time. There are many requests for popular pieces. The chemistry between the couple keeps the viewers hooked to the session. COVID-19 crisis has unlocked a hitherto undiscovered territory for the artistes — live streaming the performance from the comfort of their homes. Kathakali singers are among the first to grab the slot, thanks to the push by the fan pages. The initial attempts were a few impromptu performances. But the domain soon became enduring and popular. The reasons are many. Devoid of the usual frills or even the accompaniments, home streaming concerts offer a new experience. Tune in the sruti box and take the chengila (gong), the singer is show ready. Being routed in the Sopana style which is typically sung to the basic accompaniments, this arrangement does not clash with Kathakali padams. In the social distance scenario you can’t expect more either. The frame, usually the home confines, presents the singers in a different light. They are casual and engage with the audience in a way live concerts don't allow. Says one enthusiast, “With live stage shows hanging in the balance, this may be the best bet. There are many recorded (Kathakali) padams available. But I find this more lively and interactive.” Kathakali addicts are divided lot, so to say. For some the actor is supreme and the musicians are secondary, whereas for others it is the other way round. The blend of Sopana style and Carnatic tradition have made Kathakali music a unique genre. It gradually evolved into a tradition that could hold on its own. Although on the stage, the vocalists rendered the padams in a supportive role, boosting the play act, they invented other avenues, say Kathakali pada kacheris, to entertain their exclusive fan base. Many of the veterans might not be well-versed with the grammar of Carnatic music. But the present breed of singers is fine tuned to the whole set of nuances. Home streaming perhaps has signalled the dawning of a new era in singing of Kathakali padams. This also provides an opportunity for the fans to bond with the singers. One only wishes that the trend continues even during normal circumstances.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A rejoinder||With reference to the report, “Shorts from Komal Theatre” published on May 1, Deepalakshmi, daughter of the late Jayakanthan writes: “No permission whatsoever has been given to enact any of Jayakanthan’s short stories, to anybody. As one of the copyright holders to Jayakanthan’s published works, I had already communicated to the makers of the play about the violation of copyright they had committed, and the related video was then subsequently taken down from YouTube, where it was originally published for public viewing.”
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||‘He showed paternal affection’||My guru veena R. Pichumani Iyer hailed from our ancestral town Nagapattinam. It was my grandfather director K. Subrahmanyam, who brought him to Chennai around 1940 and made him part of his MUAC (Madras United Artistes Corporation), the first orchestral music group which regularly performed for AIR. He taught veena to my grandmother Meenakshi and my eldest aunt Lalitha, both of whom performed along with him regularly at our place, when foreign delgates visited. My guru’s prime disciple Vasantha Krishnamurthy initiated me into veena. After her marriage, I directly came under Pichumani Sir, who showed me paternal affection. My Arangetram happened in 1981. He would often say that teaching me veena was one way of paying back for my grandfather’s kindness. During every class he would share interesting anecdotes, about my grandfather, MUAC, his playing before Kanchi Mahaswami and so on. His music for the Kriti Venkatagirinatha Saranam (of Suddha Satvananda) in Revati Ragam and his tillana in Vasantakaisiki ragam are hallmarks of his composing prowess. His style of playing the Tanam was indeed unique. Mention should be made about my Guru-Pathni, a motherly figure, who took care of us, students. Last year we dedicated the annual Veena Mahotsavam at both Narada Gana Sabha and Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan to Pichumani Sir during his Centenary Year. His legacy is being preserved by several of his senior students, including P. Vasanth Kumar (in Chennai) and the Iyer Brothers (Ramnath and Gopinath, who run a school in his name in Australia).
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Week-long radio festival||Paalam is presenting a week-long radio festival (May 12 - 19), from 8 a.m. to 8 a.m. the next day. The programmes will be broadcast again every eight hours. The event is spread over four segments — ‘Vandanam’ dedicated to past legends, ‘Aanandam’ (present stalwarts), ‘Nidharsanam’ (lecdems or interviews) and ‘Oli Chithiram’ (Tamil plays). Today’s line up will begin with M.L. Vasanthakumari’s concert followed by that of O.S. Thiagarajan. Suguna Purushothaman’s lecdem will be followed by Mother Creations’ play ‘Thalaimuraigal.’ The last day of the week-long festival (May 19) will begin with the concert of S. Kalyanaraman followed by that of Hyderabad Sisters, T.S. Sathyavathy’s lec-dem and conclude with the play ‘Demo Crazy.’ Log on towww.paalamradio.comor download Paalamradio Android mobile App. Whatsapp +91 9840072821 for more details.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Passion beyond his years||The lockdown has challenged the endurance of people, who are basically outdoor-oriented. And for energetic children, it has been a strange experience, the summer vacation starting much ahead. Keeping them engaged has not been an easy task, in spite of digital entertainment, television shows, reading and indoor games. The parents of 10-year old Prahladh, however, encountered difficulty of a different kind. They ran out of stationery — paper and chart-paper — for the boy, who draws pictures of divine forms. Prahladh was five, when he drew the picture of Narasimha, the deity he had just seen in the shrine at Sri Parthasarathy Swami temple, Triplicane. After darshan, he quickly sketched Telliyasingar with a pencil on an A4 that he had brought with him. His concentration amazed onlookers and a stunned Bhattar blessed the child with prasadam. Earlier, Prahladh had surprised his parents by drawing a picture after seeing an old photograph of the reclining posture of Ranganathaswamy of Srirangam. Over the past five years, the boy’s devotion has grown manifold, and he is spending his leisure drawing images, at least one a day. The first thing his parents did when the restrictions eased a few days ago, was head to the nearest stationery shop. His parents, who support Prahladh’s unusual passion, reveal that he draws the figures from memory after visiting the temple. Back in the hotel room after darshan of Nellaiyappar and Kanthimathi, presiding deities of the Tirunelveli temple, the boy produced a sketch before the day ended. Prahladh’s huge collection includes Lord Venkatakrishnan of Tiplicane, Kapaleeswarar of Mylapore, Durgai of Patteeswaram, Ranganathaswamy of Srirangam and Chakkarathazhwar of Thiru Mogur. In December last, the family made a trip to Melkote. They went atop the hill for a darshan of Lord Narasimha and Prahladh left the shrine reluctantly. By the time they returned to Chennai, he was ready with a picture of Melkote Narasimha. Incidentally, Prahladh has captured Narasimha in many forms. A student of Class 6 at the Hindu Senior Secondary School, Triplicane, Prahladh says that his inspiration is the eminent artist Keshav, whom he hopes to meet some time. Prahladh also is learning scriptures. A student of the late Nannilam Rajagopalan Ghanapadigal, his learning continues under his son Sri Krishna Ghanapadigal.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual game show on Zee Tamil||With activities coming to a grinding halt during the lockdown, television channels have been re-telecasting some of their old serials. For those who are looking out for something new, Zee Tamil is offering a virtual game show, based on film music, on weekdays at 10 p.m. ‘House Party’ is hosted by Archana, with whom the stars of various serials and hosts of reality shows being aired on the channel will connect to play the game. Contestants, either as a team or solo, will exhibit their musical talents. The half-hour show is spread over three segments based on different themes. ‘English Pulavar,’ ‘Word Antakshari’ and ‘Padam Paaru Paadalai Paadu,’ are some of the rounds. Watch ‘'House Party' on Zee Tamizh, Monday to Friday, 10 p.m
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||What they thought||Musings of the participants Nadine Lee: ‘Churning Waters’ has been a great platform to showcase our Dreamtime stories. I’m proud to showcase my culture and intertwine with Indian stories about water. I felt very respected here in ways I am not in Australia. Sylvia:I’m going to take back a story from India about our cultures coming together and creating new stories. It’s important to have cultural exchange. Thilagavati Palani:Combining Koothu, Carnatic music, Bharatanatyam and Australian Indigenous arts hasn’t been done before and I learned so much from it. I am so proud it came to my village. Gina Maree Bundle:It’s my first time overseas and I came to India. The elders where I come from say when we look after our land, the land will look after us. That’s what Churning Waters is about! Uthra Vijay:When I heard Indigenous chants it sounded like our Sama Veda, that then triggered a way for me to compose songs that matched theirs. It was a good challenge to find commonalities between all our communities. (‘Churning Waters’ performance was supported by Creative Victoria and Australian High Commission in India).
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||With no onward facilities, several left stranded at New Delhi station||With the absence of onward facilitation, many arriving at the New Delhi station on Thursday found themselves stranded even as they made multiple calls in a bid to arrange private cabs. Vikas Kumar, a civil engineer working in Kolkata, reached the city at around 11 a.m. only to be welcomed by an empty parking lot, sans autos and taxis. His journey was only half way through, as he was Karnal-bound. “It has been three hours already and I have been waiting here, trying to arrange for a cab that will take me to Karnal. Who knew there won’t be any arrangement? Some of the co-passengers had private vehicles pick them up. But for people like me who has a long distance to cover, that is not an option,” he said. For 21-year-old Shivnandan Kumar, the wait was longer, as he did not have the means or requisite information to board the special train to Patna. “I had gone to Mathura just before the lockdown to drop my sister at her in-laws’ place and got stuck there. I took a truck from there and reached Delhi in the afternoon to take a train back home. But the police did not let me enter as I did not have a ticket. I am penniless right now and do not know how to book an online ticket,” he said. “Everything is shut here and I have not been able to arrange even food. How do I go back?” asked the man from Bhagalpur. Long wait Even as hundreds got to make their journey back to their home States, several labourers, with no resources to buy tickets for the special trains, continued their wait outside the station. Jitender Sahni, who hails from Samastipur district in Bihar, has been outside the New Delhi station’s Paharganj entrance for three days. Camping under a tree with his wife and two children, he said that despite being close to the station, their wait for the train was turning out to be “endless.” “We want to go back but we cannot afford the tickets. Every time we try to approach the entrance, police personnel send us back, stating that only those with tickets can enter. Where will we get Rs. 5,000 for the tickets? We have walked from Faridabad, over two days, and reached the station with the hope we can return. It seems nobody cares about us,” said Sahni, a daily wager. Sitting next to the Sahni family, Rajendra Swain, from Odisha’s Cuttack district, added: “There have been several people who have been coming throughout the day and asking for details. These children have been lying on the sidewalk for three days. Even though I have arranged for a ticket for Friday’s train, I will probably have to spend the night under this tree itself.”
15 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||RWA comes to the rescue of maid as employer leaves her in the lurch||House help of the Defence Colony family, which was tested positive in April, was found on the road sobbing. She claimed she was tested positive and was asked by the family to leave the house. Resident Welfare Association president Major (Retd) Ranjit Singh said that around 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday, security guards informed him about a woman on the road. “When we enquired, she told us that she used to work in the house and now she has been tested positive. She said she was asked by the family to leave after the test result came,” he said. Though she was asked to go to a hospital, Mr. Singh got the impression that she wanted to go back to her employer’s house. “We consoled her. A doctor in the locality was also called to console her. We asked her if she had any relatives we could call. She shared a relative’s number, which we called,” Mr. Singh said. The police was informed and a few hours later, an ambulance was called to take her to the hospital, Mr. Singh said. But the vehicle was allegedly not equipped to take COVID-19 patients. Therefore, it was sent back. Shifted to hospital Subsequently, around 6 a.m., the woman was shifted to a facility in Defence Colony. “I’ve been informed that she is stable,” said Mr. Singh. In April, three members of the aforementioned family were tested positive. The man passed away while his wife and son recovered. An FIR was registered against their security guard, who was allegedly present around the religious centre in Nizamuddin, which he hid from the family. He was later tested negative.
15 May 2020||New Delhi/Lucknow,||UPSRTC forms committee to check issue of exorbitant fare from IGIA||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has formed a committee to examine the issue of exorbitant fare being charged by taxis and chartered buses it operates to ferry passengers from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport to destinations in the State. Taking cognisance of reports regarding chartered buses being run by the UPSRTC, Raj Shekhar, UPSRTC Managing Director, said a committee has been formed to examine the issue and submit its report in 24 hours. According to news reports, Mr. Shekhar had issued a letter on May 9 to the UPSRTC’s Regional Managers in Noida and Ghaziabad districts, informing that they would facilitate the travel of residents of these districts returning from foreign destinations as part of the Vande Bharat Mission from the airport. For taxis, up to 250 km from IGIA would entail a cost between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 12,000 at Rs. 40 and Rs. 50 per kilometre. “Each additional kilometre would cost Rs. 40. Booking an SUV would cost Rs. 12,000 for first 250km and Rs. 50 for each additional kilometre,” it said. Bus fare A seat aboard a non air-conditioned bus would cost Rs. 1,000 while a seat on an air-conditioned bus would cost Rs. 1,320 for a distance of 100 kilometres with charges doubling for any distance from 101 to 200 kilometres. On Thursday, Mr. Shekhar also said the UPSRTC services from Delhi airport to Noida and Ghaziabad were free of charge. “It is to clarify that UPSRTC services from IGI airport to Noida/Ghaziabad quarantine centres are completely free of cost, just like all other UPSRTC operations, where we are ferrying migrant workers from railway stations to their respective home districts,” he said. Meanwhile, the Central Industrial Security Force said it did not have any information about the fare being charged by the UPSRTC. “The airport has no role in arranging transportation for passengers to reach their home States. It is up to the States to arrange transport and quarantine facilities,” said an IGIA official.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||DU to hold open book online examinations for final semester||For final semester, Delhi University’s students will be allowed to take open book examinations from home, starting July 1, in case the situation does not normalise, the university notified on Thursday. The move has invited opposition from students and teachers’ bodies alike. Examinations will be held for students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses in their final semester, term or year, including those part of the School of Open Learning and Non Collegiate Women Education Board , as well as for arrears for previous semesters, the notification stated. Former students of different categories will also be allowed to sit for the exams, it said. “All these exams shall be conducted in three sessions in a day, including Sundays, with a duration of two hours,” DU said. A detailed datesheet and guidelines for open-book examinations will be issued by the end of the month The notification has drawn strong condemnation from several different quarters, including teachers and students’ bodies. The Delhi University Teachers Association, in a letter to the V-C, criticised the manner in which the decision was pushed through with “statutory processes... thrown to the winds and statutory bodies trampled upon” and detailed various. Students groups, including AISA, SFI, ABVP and NSUI, hit out at the proposal, unanimously calling for the need for wider consultations with all stakeholders.
15 May 2020||May 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Cane-do spirit||
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||685 sent into quarantine after landing at IGI Airport||Delhi Police on Thursday said that out of 1,186 Indian nationals who arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) so far during the “Vande Bharat Mission”, 685 have been placed under quarantine at designated centres across the city following medical screening. About 55 Delhi police personnel are being deployed at Aerocity round-the-clock where 174 passengers have been sent to quarantine at various hotels as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19, the police said. In addition, 80 police personnel are deployed at Terminal-3 for medical screening.  “Passengers are being taken to designated quarantine facilities while adhering to social distancing norms on buses,” said Praveer Ranjan, DCP (Airport).
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- single||Residents of north Delhi’s Prem Nagar pelted stones at municipal staff deputed at a school here to distribute ration, when it was found that stock had run out, a senior municipal official wrote to the Delhi government on Thursday. The official raised concern for the safety of the staff.Similar issues were earlier reported at dry ration distribution centers in Adarsh Nagar, Mangolpuri, Sultanpuri among others, the letter stated.
15 May 2020||New Delhi,||Allow stranded students inside hostels after screening: JNUSU||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Thursday wrote to the university Vice-Chancellor urging the administration to allow stranded students in the Delhi-NCR to return to their hostels after proper screening for COVID-19.
