15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Loan borrowers’ Deepavali is in your hands, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday questioned the government’s need to wait till November 15, to notify the implementation of a scheme for waiving the compound interest accumulated during the moratorium against loans worth up to Rs. 2 crore. The scheme is meant to “hand-hold small and vulnerable borrowers” whose fortunes have dipped during the lockdown. “Their Deepavali is in your hands,” the court told the government. Eight categories The waiver scheme has been proposed for eight different categories, including MSME, education, housing, consumer durables, credit card, auto, personal and consumption loans. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had termed the Centre’s resolve an “additional relief” for pandemic-induced financial distress among borrowers. But the court sounded sceptical. “Having taken the decision to waive their compound interest for the moratorium period, our only question to you is why do you require a month [till November 15] to bring this scheme into effect? Why do you delay issuing the circular?” Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the RBI. Justice M.R. Shah, on the Bench, asked Mr. Mehta to consider the plight of the common man. “In his mind, the government has already helped him... Now he wants concrete results. When you have already taken a decision, why do you need one month to issue a circular?” Mr. Mehta said the scheme was itself proof of the government’s concern for the common man. “We have already considered the plight of the common man. That is why we have brought this scheme... We would not gain anything by delaying it. There are complexities involved. November 15 is the outer limit,” he explained. To this, Justice Shah said the court welcomed the step taken by the government to “take care” of the common man. “We welcome it, but you need to implement it soon”, Justice Shah said. Mr. Mehta replied that certain “modalities” need to be worked out. Justice Bhushan observed, “Modalities will take a month? If you had issued a circular to the banks, they would have taken steps... Till now you have not. You have only told the court”.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Keonics plans to develop IT Park||Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation (Keonics), a State government undertaking, has drawn up plans to develop a medium size Information Technology Park on its land in Mangaluru with a view to generating more employment for the youth in the coastal region. The Board of Directors took the decision to develop the IT Park on the 3.75 acres of land in Kuntikana-Derebail in its recent meeting, Keonics Chairman Harikrishna Bantwal told The Hindu . It would be a public-private partnership initiative with the participation of Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) and supported by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India and the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he said. Mr. Bantwal said that he recently held discussions with the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada about the modalities to take forward the proposal. Keonics seeks to develop IT infrastructure in Tier 2 cities such as Mangaluru thereby reducing the burden on Bengaluru. The proposal was to invest Rs. 30 crore from the State government and another Rs. 30 crore from MSCL. Having about 2 lakh sq ft floor space, the park would provide space mainly for Electronics System Design Manufacturing, Biotechnology and other initiatives. It would also provide space for incubation centres for start-ups with 340 seats as well as IT and IT-enabled services. There would be two blocks of nine floors each at the proposed IT Park, detailed project report of which was prepared by the IDFC. Kanara Chamber president Issac Vas had in December last written to Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, in-charge of IT and BT departments, to help set up an IT Park in Mangaluru that has an abundant talent pool. The region with over 20 engineering colleges and over 100 non-engineering colleges produces thousands of graduates every year. The space earmarked for Keonics at Kuntikana-Derebail was best suited to develop the IT Park, Mr. Vas said and added that it was also located adjacent to the Software Technology Park of India. KCCI’s initiative — Centre for entrepreneurship Opportunities and Learning — supported by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, too was functioning close to its capacity, he had said. Companies incubated for 18 months in this centre have to move out; but no commercial space was available in Mangaluru for them.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Government rushes to teacher’s help||Responding to a post on Facebook by the daughter of Padmakshi N., a teacher in a government aided school who is undergoing treatment in a private hospital here, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday directed the district administration to bear all treatment expenses. On Tuesday, Aishwarya Jain from Moodbidri, daughter of Ms. Padmakshi, teacher in Jawaharlal Nehru Makki Aided High School, wrote about the critical condition of her mother who has been in the intensive care unit of Indiana Hospital since September 29 after testing positive for COVID-19. In the post, Ms. Jain said that her father Shashikanth Y., headmaster of DJ Higher Primary Aided School, who also tested positive, was finding it hard to bear treatment expenditure for his wife. He was also under unbearable stress due to the ongoing situation, she said. Seeking financial help, Ms. Jain, who is a final year BE student in a private college in Moodbidri, held the Vidgyagama scheme of neighbourhood schooling, in which her parents were involved, responsible for the present situation. “Hope, the government will not let its teachers down when they are in need of help,” she said in her post. In a joint statement on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that Mr. Yediyurappa has directed the district administration to arrange for all necessary speciality services for Ms. Padmakshi. Accordingly, Dr. Rajendra spoke to the hospital management and asked it not to collect any fees from the family members of the teacher. The two officials said that Ms. Padmakshi was tested negative for COVID-19 on October 13 and was shifted to the general ward on Tuesday where she was under Oxygen Therapy. Mr. Shashikanth, who tested positive after his 11-year-old son Anai tested positive on October 2, has recovered along with his son, following home isolation, they said. Happy over the response of the government, Ms. Jain told The Hindu that she and her other family members were praying for the speedy recovery of her mother. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, in a Facebook post, thanked Ms. Jain for brigning the plight of her parents to the government’s notice. He expressed his gratitude to Mr. Yediyurappa for his immediate response.
15 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Incessant rain leaves Kalaburagi in tatters||It started raining heavily late on Tuesday and continued through Wednesday throwing life out of gear in Kalaburagi and other parts of Kalyana Karnataka region. In Kalaburagi city, a 96-year-old woman was killed after floodwaters gushed into her hut at Sundar Nagar and caused an electricity short-circuit. Fire and Emergency Services personnel retrieved the body from the flooded house on Wednesday. While low-lying areas in towns and cities in the region, including residential localities, remained inundated throughout the night, overflowing rivers, their tributaries, rivulets and streams have submerged bridges cutting off connectivity between habitats. Villages along the banks of the Bhima in Afzalpur, Jewargi and Kalaburagi taluks, the Amarja in Aland taluk, the Bennethora in Kalaburagi, Chittapur and Sedam taluks, the Mullamari in Chincholi taluk were the worst hit. Over 50 villages have been affected by heavy rain in the district. The Kagina in Kalaburagi district is in spate submerging many bridges built across it, including those near Malkhed, Kachur and Dandoti. All the routes that connect Sedam town with Kalaburagi city have been closed. The submergence of the Malkhed bridge in Sedam taluk has cut off key connectivity between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad. Many trucks transporting goods between Mumbai and Chennai and Kalaburagi and Hyderabad were found parked near toll plazas on either side of the bridge. Road connectivity between Kalaburagi and Chittapur was also cut off due after the Dantodi bridge was submerged in the Kagina. The premises of the Uttaradi Math on the banks of the Kagina near Malkhed has been flooded. The rising water level in the river is posing a threat to villages such as Samakhed and Dandoti situated on the banks. The release of excess water from the Chandramapplli dam flooded large tracts of agricultural fields with standing crops downstream. At least three tanks in different villages have breached causing damage to standing crops. Chimmanchod bridge built across the Mullamari connecting Chimmanchold and other areas with Bidar was completely submerged. Bridges at Tajpur Garampalli, Kotaga, Kanakapura, Goudanahalli, Neela Hosalli and other places were also submerged. Rain also destroyed 12 houses and flooded over 600 houses in Chincholi taluk. In certain places, grain stocked at fair price shops under the Public Distribution System were destroyed in the floods. At least 22 people who were stranded at different places in Chincholi taluk were rescued by the police. They included three migrant workers from Bihar. They are working on the Bidar-Chincholi bridge and are residing at a temporary shed near the construction site. In Aland taluk, vast tracts of agricultural fields were flooded and standing crops destroyed. According to sources, Mataki, Hebali, Jeerahalli, Shakapur and other villages in the taluk were the worst hit. The large tank in Mataki is overflowing. The bund of the tank, which had breached in 1992, has again breached now creating panic among villagers. In Kalaburagi city, major roads and many houses in low-lying residential localities remained flooded throughout Tuesday-Wednesday night. Venkatesh Nagar, Godutai Nayar, Panchasheel Colony, Darshanapur Layout, Puja Colony and other areas are among the worst hit. In Chincholi town, houses at Harijanwada, Mominpur and other localities were flooded. People in some of these localities said that they had spent the whole night in rainwater. According to India Meteorological Department, rainfall recorded till 8.30 a.m. Wednesday in Kalaburagi district stood at 72 mm. Kalagi taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 95 mm followed by Shahabad with 90 mm, Kalaburagi 88 mm, Kamalapur 84 mm, Chittapur 77 mm, Afzalpur 73 mm, Aland 71 mm, Chincholi 65mm and Jewargi (64 mm).
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to Centre on same-sex couples’ pleas||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Union government to respond to two separate petitions by same-sex couples seeking to declare that the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and the Fore-ign Marriage Act (FMA) ought to apply to all couples regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon remarked that they had no doubts as to the maintainability of the petitions, but wanted answers on whether the definition of marriage under the customary law also needed to be challenged going forward. The Bench said both the Acts did not provide for what was marriage. ‘Marriage not defined’ “Marriage is not defined... When something goes agai-nst what an authority in India has been seeing for his/her entire life, they won’t accept it... sur doubt is that you [petitioners] would encounter this difficulty later during the proceeding,” the Bench said. Marriage under Indian law is customary, not statutory, it said. “Because there was no inter-faith, we came up with a special statute,” it said, adding that once the concept of marriage was understood as including ‘same-sex’, it would be followed in other statutes as well. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, for the petitioners, argued that multiple judgments of the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court had said that sexual orientation could not be grounds for discrimination. She stated that the petitioners were challenging the constitutionality of the reading of the statutes. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on January 8 next year. One of the petitions filed by two women said they had been a couple for eight years, lived together and shared the highs and lows of life. They sought a direction to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kalkaji, to register their marriage under the SMA. The other plea has been moved by two men who got married in the United States but their marriage registration was denied under the FMA as it excluded same-sex marriages. The two women in their petition stated that lack of a legal structure around their relationship became increasingly stark when they tried to bring each other on as nominees in financial plans. The two men sought for legal recognition of their status as a married couple, to be able to secure the rights and benefits for each other, appurtenant to the legal recognition of marriage in India.   Marriage under Indian law is customary. Because there was no inter-faith, we came up with a special statute Delhi High Court Bench
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,||16 killed after overnight rain wreaks havoc in Hyderabad||As many as 16 people lost their lives in the rain that pounded Hyderabad on Wednesday. With the latest deaths, the toll till Wednesday night rose to 24, including eight members of two families who died after a boundary wall collapsed on their houses in Chandrayangutta late on Tuesday. Night-long rain laid siege to Hyderabad city, with hundreds of localities submerged and stranded by Wednesday morning. This prompted the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Army and the State police to rescue the affected people from the inundated areas. The main roadway link between Hyderabad and Bengaluru, National Highway 44, was snapped on Tuesday night, after water from an overflowing lake swept away a few vehicles as well as the road in the Gaganpahad area. The same road connects the city to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. Record since 1891 While the road stretch has disappeared for nearly 200 metres, the flood waters damaged a portion of the under-construction flyover. In what is being termed by the Meteorological Department as the highest in the month of October since 1891, the city has received an average of 17 cm rainfall. The IMD station at Begumpet recorded 19.2 cm, double from the previous highest of 9.8 cm recorded in 2013. In a tragic incident, the flooding in Ali Nagar, a neighbourhood in the Mailardevpally police station limits, swept away nine persons, including minors, of the same family.
15 October 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru’s popular tourist places to remain closed||Major tourist destinations in Mysuru, including Mysuru palace and Mysuru zoo, besides the temple atop Chamundi Hills and the Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud will remain closed when the city celebrates the annual Dasara, starting October 17. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, during a Facebook live session on Wednesday to share information on the COVID-19 situation said the decision to close the temples and tourist sites had been taken as a precautionary measure. This step is expected to avoid crowding as the festive season usually attracts tourists to Mysuru. The public had been requested to cooperate, she said. Ms. Sundhuri said the Mandya district administration would also be requested to close tourist sites such as Brindavan Gardens, Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary, Srirangapatna monuments and other sites, besides the Sri Nimishamba temple ahead of the festivities. She, however, said the temple rituals on Chamundi Hills and at Nanjangud would be carried out as usual without public entry. The Dasara inauguration atop Chamundi Hills would be conducted as per the suggestion of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, with limited participants. In view of restrictions on public gathering for the inauguration and Jamboo Savari besides the cultural events, all events would be telecast live for the public.
15 October 2020||Srinagar,||Abdullahs meet Mehbooba, to discuss Gupkar pact today||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday met People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, released from detention after 14 months on Tuesday, and extended an invitation to hold on Thursday a meeting of all the signatories of the Gupkar Declaration, a pact to fight for the restoration of J&K’s special status. The Abdullahs, once considered arch rivals of the Muftis, arrived at the residence of Ms. Mufti at Gupkar on Wednesday afternoon. Party sources said the leaders discussed the situation in Kashmir and “agreed on the need to put up a joint front”. Mr. Omar Abdullah, who described the meeting as a courtesy call, said: “It was only after the Supreme Court’s intervention that Ms. Mufti was released. “Our visit today has nothing political about it. We met to find out how she was doing,” Mr. Omar Abdullah said. Ms. Mufti thanked the Abdullahs. “It gave me courage listening to him [Dr. Abdullah]. I am sure together we all can change things for the better,” Ms. Mufti said.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ delegation boycotts Central meet||A delegation of farmer leaders from Punjab walked out of talks with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal on Wednesday, tearing up copies of the controversial farm market reform laws in front of Krishi Bhavan, which houses the Agriculture Ministry. They raised slogans against the BJP government and called for repeal of the laws. The farmer leaders were angry that they were not granted a meeting with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, or a Group of Ministers (GoM) empowered to negotiate their demand to repeal the laws passed by Parliament last month. The 29 farm unions driving the widespread protests and rail blockades across the State now plan to meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss their future course of action and how to intensify the agitation. This is their second rejection this month of the Centre’s efforts to initiate dialogue to end the protests roiling the State. “We asked the Secretary why we had been called for a meeting in Delhi while the BJP Ministers are busy in Punjab spreading false propaganda about the new laws and telling people that the farmer unions are being misled by other political outfits,” said Krantikari Kisan Union state president Darshan Pal, a member of the delegation. “The Secretary gave us a speech about how the government is pro-farmer. We asked why the double standards that Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary is holding virtual meetings in Sangrur and Barnala districts today, but is not available to meet us. Mr. Tomar is also not available. The Secretary is not the person who is empowered to discuss these laws,” he said.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ delegation boycotts Central meet||A delegation of farmer leaders from Punjab walked out of talks with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal on Wednesday, tearing up copies of the controversial farm market reform laws in front of Krishi Bhavan, which houses the Agriculture Ministry. They raised slogans slamming the BJP government and called for the repeal of the laws. The farmer leaders were angry that they were not granted a meeting with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, or a Group of Ministers (GoM) empowered to negotiate their demand to repeal the laws passed by Parliament last month. The 29 farm unions driving the widespread protests and rail blockades across the State now plan to meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss their future course of action and how to intensify the agitation. This is their second rejection this month of the Centre’s efforts to initiate dialogue to end the protests. “We asked the Secretary why we had been called for a meeting in Delhi while the BJP Ministers are busy in Punjab spreading false propaganda about the new laws and telling people that the farmer unions are being misled by other political outfits,” said Krantikari Kisan Union state president Darshan Pal. “We asked why the double standards that Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary is holding virtual meetings in Sangrur and Barnala districts today, but is not available to meet us. Mr. Tomar is also not avai-lable. The Secretary is not the person empowered to discuss these laws,” he said.
15 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Tanishq store in Gujarat puts up apology note over withdrawn ad||A Tanishq jewellery outlet in Gujarat’s Gandhidham in Kutch put up a note on its door apologising to the Hindu community in the district over the brand’s controversial TV advertisement that has been withdrawn but shared widely on social media platforms, making it among the top trending topics on the Internet. The handwritten note in Gujarati also condemned the TV commercial, which sought to promote the brand’s new jewellery range ‘Ekatvam’. “We apologise to the Hindu community of Kutch on the shameful advertisement of Tanishq which is running on media,” the handwritten note read. Notice removed It was pasted at the entrance of the outlet on October 12 and has since been removed. According to sources, the notice was posted after a few persons came to the store and demanded that the manager “apologise to the Hindus over the ad”. Photos of the apology note have also gone viral on social media. The showroom also received several calls regarding the ad. The showroom manager and the local police rubbished media reports that the showroom was attacked by some people angry with the advertisement, but police officers said patrolling was stepped up in the area. “No such attack has occurred. It’s fake news,” said Kutch range IG J.R. Mothalia. He said the Superintendent of Police, Gandhidham, visited the place.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi,||Red alert in coastal, parts of north-interior Karnataka||While rain lashed parts of north and coastal Karnataka on Wednesday and threw life out of gear, people of the region will have to brace for more showers as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a red alert for Thursday. The forecast from the IMD has said that Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada will receive extremely heavy rainfall on Thursday. A red alert has also been given for Bagalkot, Belagavi, and Vijayapura. Parts of north-interior Karnataka and south-interior Karnataka have also been given an orange alert (very heavy rainfall). On Wednesday, the districts of Kalyana Karnataka, including Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Raichur, witnessed heavy rains from Tuesday night to Wednesday morning, disrupting normal life. Inundation kept residents of several residential localities across the district awake at night. Overflowing rivers, rivulets, tributaries, and streams have cut connectivity between several villages and towns. Many of the bridges across the Kagina, including those near Malkhed, Kachur, and Dandoti, were submerged, cutting key connectivity, including between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad. In Yadgir and Raichur districts there are reports of rainwater entering around 200 houses.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC introduces 12-hour shift to cut operational cost||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which is losing crores of rupees every day because of poor riderhip, has cancelled traditional eight-hour shifts for conductors and drivers as a cost-cutting measure. Instead, it has asked the bus crew to follow a 12-hour shift with one break for as long as three to four hours. Drivers and conductors are not happy with the new rules as it means they will have to forgo overtime pay. However, BMTC officials have justified the decision on the grounds that services have reduced drastically. Prior to the lockdown, over 35 lakh people used to travel in buses every day, but this has reduced to around 15 lakh. “Schools and colleges have remained closed and companies are allowing employees to work from home. This has resulted in lower demand for our buses during morning hours. Earlier, our conductors and drivers worked in two shifts, such as 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. Now, we have introduced a general shift of 12 hours from 6 a.m. or 7 a.m. depending on the routes,” said a BMTC official. Arguing that the longer shift will have a negative impact on their efficiency, drivers and conductors have asked the management to reconsider its decision. “Earlier, anything beyond eight hours would be considered as overtime, and we would get paid extra. But now they have extended the general shift to 12 hours without any overtime,” an employee said. Another BMTC driver said the three-hour break is counterproductive. “Spending three to four without doing anything will not help. I am hoping that once everything gets normalised, the management will bring the old shift back,” he said. Refuting claims that long shifts are against the rules, a senior BMTC official said the new system was introduced as per the Motor Transport Workers’ Act.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre allows Tamil Nadu to borrow an additional Rs. 9,627 crore||The Finance Ministry on Wednesday granted Tamil Nadu permission to raise an additional Rs. 9,627 crore through open market borrowings after the State formally communicated to the Centre its acceptance of the latter’s proposal that the States borrow from the market to meet the shortfall in GST compensation cess collections this year. “With today’s permission, 21 States have been granted permission to mobilise Rs. 78,542 crore so far,” the Finance Ministry said, stressing that the permission granted “is over and above” the approvals needed to enable the States to raise Rs. 1.1 lakh crore and meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. GST Council The Centre’s nod to Tamil Nadu comes two days after extended negotiations in the GST Council on the borrowing proposals failed to deliver a consensus, with several Opposition-ruled States demanding that the Centre borrow to bridge the shortfall in the GST cess to compensate the States. On Tuesday, the Expenditure Department in the Finance Ministry allowed 20 States to raise Rs. 68,825 crore from the market. These States had picked the first of the two options offered by the Centre — letting the States to borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore of the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore estimated shortfall in GST cess collections in 2020-21 without having to worry about principal and interest repayments. The second option allowed States to raise Rs. 2.35 lakh crore while bearing the interest costs. It found no takers. The Centre had argued that Rs. 1.1 lakh crore was the amount that the States would have lost due to GST implementation, and should get full compensation for, while the rest of the shortfall was due to exigencies resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Apart from Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir have also decided to exercise the first option. A special window is being created to facilitate GST-related borrowings, while the present nods for additional borrowing pertain to the additional borrowing flexibility of 0.5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) that had been offered to States who opted for the first option for GST compensation. “Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, States are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50% of GSDP out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Government of India, under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on 17th May, 2020,” the Finance Ministry said.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||GST compensation: State may move SC||Kerala may move the Supreme Court against the decision of the Union Finance Ministry to allow 20 States to borrow from the open market as per Option I of borrowing to meet the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. The move comes in the wake of the Ministry’s decision on Tuesday to allow borrowing from the open market even as the GST Council failed to arrive at a decision on the vexed issue after three meetings. Kerala was the first to oppose the Centre’s option to provide a special borrowing window to States in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India to provide Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate and meet the entire GST compensation gap of Rs. 1.35 lakh crore this year itself after consulting the central bank. “The Union government is trying to divide the States permanently as those agreeing to the proposals for GST compensation and those opposed to them,” Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told The Hindu . “They have the majority and if they take a decision, it will be binding for the minority-opined States. Instead, they are pushing for consensus and forcing everyone to accept their opinion. They want to discriminate due to the unilateral decision taken by them and it is totally unacceptable.” Meet tomorrow The Chief Minister is holding a meeting on Friday with the Law Department and other officials and other States are also preparing to approach the Supreme Court. Dr. Isaac said the court cannot put it aside like the habeas corpus of Kashmir as nine States would approach it. The majority of the nine States that are opposing the proposals are ruled by the Congress and Kerala by the Left Democratic Front. “We have no problem in going with Congress-ruled States jointly to the Supreme Court. We are preparing and we will ensure that all of us move on the same ground,” Dr. Isaac said. Coming down heavily on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Dr. Isaac said she was “destroying the GST Council”. Dr Isaac said a GST Council decision was required for Option I because it involved postponement, deferment of the compensation payment made beyond five years.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hathras victim’s family given full security: U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh government has said it is “committed” to providing “complete security” to the family of the 19-year-old who died in a Delhi hospital days after she was brutally assaulted and allegedly raped in Hathras. In an affidavit before the Supreme Court, it detailed the security arrangements made for the victim’s family members. It said there would be “no intrusion to the privacy of the victim’s family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want”. The affidavit came in response to a petition filed by Satyama Dubey, represented by advocates Sanjeev Malhotra and Pradeep Kumar Yadav, seeking a fair probe into the crime. “The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to providing complete security to the family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation,” the affidavit said. The State had deployed “adequate forces to ensure protection” to the family, which includes the parents, the two brothers, a sister and the grandmother, it noted. A “three-fold protective mechanism” had been put in place at the village and the house.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds 2011 Madras HC order on elephant corridor in Tamil Nadu||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the Tamil Nadu government’s authority to notify an elephant corridor and protect the migratory path of the animals through the Nilgiri biosphere reserve. The reserve is the largest protected forest area in the country, spanning across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. A three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, said it is the State’s duty to protect a “keystone species” like the elephant, which is immensely important to the environment. The corridor is situated in the ecologically fragile Sigur plateau, which connects the Western and the Eastern Ghats and sustains elephant populations and their genetic diversity. It has the Nilgiri hills on its southwestern side and the Moyar river valley on its northeastern side. The elephants cross the plateau in search of food and water, depending on the monsoon. Nomadic mode “Elephant corridors allow elephants to continue their nomadic mode of survival, despite shrinking forest cover, by facilitating travel between distinct forest habitats... These corridors play a crucial role in sustaining wildlife by reducing the impact of habitat isolation,” Justice S. Abdul Nazeer, who wrote the judgment, observed. The Supreme Court judgment came on 32 appeals filed by resorts/private land owners, including Bollywood actor Mithun Chakraborty, against a Madras High Court decision of July 2011. The Madras High Court had confirmed a State government order of August 2010, notifying the elephant corridor. The court set up a three-member inquiry committee, comprising former Madras High Court judge K. Venkatraman; Ajay Desai, consultant to the World Wide Fund for Nature - India; and Praveen Bhargava, trustee of Wildlife First. Appellants can approach the committee in four months with their complaints against the action taken by the Nilgiris Collector, which included sealing of their buildings, and allegations about the “arbitrary variance in acreage of the elephant corridor”. The court had made its empathy for the pachyderms clear even during the hearing of the case. “The elephant is a gentleman and man should give way for the elephant,” Chief Justice Bobde had said before reserving the case for judgment on January 22. The court had taken serious note of a report filed by amicus curiae, advocate A.D.N. Rao, to seal or demolish 821 buildings, except tribal houses, within the areas marked as elephant corridor by the Tamil Nadu government. Mr. Rao had suggested a rehabilitation plan for 186 households belonging to Scheduled Caste, Backward Caste and Most Backward Caste people. Chief Justice Bobde had refused to go into individual grievances raised by private land owners against the August 2010 notification under the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forest Act of 1949. When some of the resort owners had proferred their view that elephant and man do co-exist, Chief Justice Bobde had wryly replied that, “It is because the elephant is a gentleman… Why do you have to go inside the forest?” In 2011, the High Court had held that the government was authorised by the Centre's ‘Project Elephant’ to earmark the corridor since there was no impediment in the Wildlife Protection Act. It had held that the State government’s action to identify the corridor was in complete obligation to its duties under Article 51-A(g) of the Constitution, which said it was the duty of every citizen to protect and improve the natural environment, including wildlife. The Supreme Court appreciated the efforts of advocate ‘Elephant’ Rajendran, whose petition under ‘In Defence of Environment and Animals’ sought protection for the free movement of elephants.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||New discharge policy for COVID-19 patients||The Health Department has yet again revised the discharge policy for COVID-19 patients, making the discharge criteria uniform for asymptomatic Category A and Category B patients. The State has, however, taken a conscious decision not to discharge patients without ensuring that they test negative for COVID-19, even when all scientific experts have tried to impress upon the government that this follow-up test is unnecessary and may be avoided as the system is already overburdened. Available data indicate that persons with mild to moderate COVID-19 remain infectious no longer than 10 days after symptom onset. Persons with more severe to critical illness or severe immuno-compromised state are not likely to remain infectious for longer than 20 days after symptom onset. Category B retest If earlier the first follow-up test for Category B (moderate illness) patients before discharge used to be conducted on the 14th day from the onset of symptoms, the test will now be conducted four days earlier, on day 10, just as it is done in the case of asymptomatic or Category A patients. In case symptoms are persisting even after 10 days, the first follow-up test will be conducted for Category A and B patients one day after the resolution of symptoms. They can be discharged if the rapid antigen assay is negative, provided they have completed 10 days since the onset of symptoms; they have had no symptoms in the last three days and if they are clinically stable and not experiencing excessive fatigue or exertional desaturation. However, if the first follow-up test done on the tenth day of onset of symptoms continues to be positive, then the patient will be retested repeatedly every alternate day till the test is negative.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hathras victim’s family given full security: U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh government has said it is “committed” to providing “complete security” to the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital days after she was brutally assaulted and allegedly raped in Hathras. In an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court, the government detailed the security arrangements made for the victim’s family members. It said there would be “no intrusion to the privacy of the victim’s family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want”. Plea for fair probe The affidavit came in response to a petition filed by Satyama Dubey, represented by advocates Sanjeev Malhotra and Pradeep Kumar Yadav, seeking a fair probe into the crime. “The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to providing complete security to the family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation,” the affidavit said.
15 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Munirathna’s assets rise to Rs. 78 cr., from Rs. 43 cr. in 2018||The assets of BJP candidate for the R.R. Nagar bypolls, Munirathna, has seen a jump from Rs. 43,71,87,506 in 2018 to over Rs. 78 crore now. In 2013, his assets stood at Rs. 28,83,01,637. He appears to be the richest of all the candidates who have filed nominations so far in the Assembly constituency, with assets to the tune of Rs. 78,03,13,591, while his wife has assets of Rs. 11,10,34,286. He also has liabilities to the tune of Rs. 42,03,47,501. His declaration shows that five criminal cases are pending against him. His statement of assets and liabilities run into 70 pages, which states that Mr. Munirathna owns a fleet of 30 vehicles worth Rs. 1,31,68,666. Mr. Munirathna, who contested from the Congress in 2018, is among those who shifted loyalties to the BJP, bringing down the Congress-JDS coalition government. According to the statement of assets and liabilities filed, Mr. Munirathna’s movable assets total Rs. 26,11,16,191 as against Rs. 40,97,286 of his wife.
15 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Heavy rain inundates low-lying areas in city||Heavy rain that pounded Dakshina Kannada district throughout Tuesday inundated low-lying areas in Mangaluru and other parts by Wednesday morning. Storm-water drains were overflowing with rainwater in many areas, including Kottara, Malemar, Bangrakulur, Jeppinamogaru and surrounding areas in the city. People had to wade through knee-deep waters as the day broke. The Meteorological Department has forecast very heavy rain in the coastal area till Thursday morning. The district administration has kept rescue teams on alert to attend to flooding in the district.
15 October 2020||Kalaburagi,||Woman gives birth in school||A 22-year-old woman, who was taking shelter from rain in a government school, was delivered of a baby girl there at Nagaidlai village of Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. The woman, Geeta Venkat Helavar, and other villagers had moved in to the school building after heavy rain lashed their village. Just as she reached the building, villagers said that Ms. Helavar developed labour pains and her great grandmother Nagamma, said to be 100 years old, took the initiative and delivered her of the baby. Both the mother and the newborn are doing well. They were later shifted to the primary health centre at Salebeernalli in the taluk.
15 October 2020||MYSURU,||‘Don’t delay in getting tested’||Delayed testing leading to complications was the reason for most COVID-19 deaths in Mysuru, according to Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. She said here on Wednesday that the COVID-19 deaths’ audit was done and the main reason attributed for the fatalities was delaying testing despite having symptoms. She said 10 per cent of deaths in the State had been reported from Mysuru and an average of 500-600 cases were being reported here daily. Testing was a key to minimising complications and the spread, and therefore steps had been taken to scale up the testing across the district.
15 October 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||PIL in Calcutta HC to stop Durga Puja celebrations||With puja fever gripping West Bengal, political parties too are gearing up to connect with the people. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday virtually inaugurated several Durga Pujas in north Bengal from the State Secretariat. She also visited and inaugurated two big budget Durga Pujas in Kolkata. The State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party is organising pujas at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre in Salt Lake which is likely to be virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 22. Meanwhile, a public interest litigation filed at Calcutta High Court has sought deferment of Durga Puja celebrations. The petition referred to how festivals in Kerala and Maharashtra, resulted in a spike in cases. The matter will be taken up on Friday. The Kolkata Metro authorities meanwhile, said there would be no overnight services during pujas. The number of trains will be increased and the last available service has been pushed by half an hour. “152 daily services will be run at an interval of 8 minutes in the morning and evening peak hours instead of 146 services at present,” the authorities said in a press statement.
15 October 2020||Mumbai,||State allows Metro services to resume; no stamping at airport, stations||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to allow Metro trains in Mumbai to operate from October 15 in a phased manner under its Mission Begin Again. Soon after, the Mumbai Metro One Private Limited (MMOPL), which operates the Versova- Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor said the services on the route that were suspended since March, will resume from 8.30 a.m. on October 19. All State-run and private libraries will also open from Thursday, and will follow COVID-19 protocols, as per the guidelines issued by the State. It also allowed business-to-business exhibitions from Thursday outside the containment zones. Local weekly bazars have also been allowed to reopen outside containment zones. To reduce crowding, markets and shops can remain open for two additional hours till 9 p.m. Significantly, the government has also decided to do away with stamping of indelible ink for domestic passengers arriving at different airports after COVID-19 testing. The health check up and stamping of passengers at railway stations will also be stopped.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bypolls: Now, cover your finger to vote||Those voting in the bypolls to R.R. Nagar in Bengaluru and Sira in Tumakuru district will be encountering many firsts in the “new normal” situation amidst the pandemic. For one, they will be wearing a small rubber cover on their finger to press the EVM button to ensure there is no contact spread of COVID-19, said Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar in an interview with The Hindu . “For the first time, a nodal heath officer has been appointed to coordinate between the Election Commission and the State Disaster Management Authority,” said Mr. Kumar.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Power cuts make WFH tough for IT workforce||Their sense of relief at working from home (WFH) as heavy rain pounded many places in the city on Tuesday turned out to be short-lived for many in the IT workforce since little work was possible amid the accompanying power cuts. Night shift operations were impacted, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Bharani Kumar Aroll said, estimating 10% of those WFH were not able to work. The impact of the rain on the work in IT companies during the day was not much, but things changed by the evening, he said, referring to the findings of a sample data collected by HYSEA from IT companies of varying sizes. Power outage was not the only issue as water logging also came in the way. Many of the IT employees, however, ensured WFH by shifting to another location where power supply was available. “This morning, we worked with government on getting the power up and running [and] getting update that power was restored from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.,” he said on Wednesday. The power cuts also saw some WFH taking to social media to highlight their plight. A resident of Madhuranagar in Yousufguda, tweeted to TSSPDCL, saying: “Hello, There is an outage even after the rain has stopped. We don't have power since last night 7 p.m. Please come and fix it. Its really difficult since I am working from home I need power to work.” Another person asked how to work from home? No light for five hrs. There is lot of pressure from company to complete work, he said in his tweet to the power utility about the power outage in Bagh-e-jahara. For those with access to stable power connection, WFH proved to be a boon. “One big consolation is that because of Work from home, the horrors of being stuck in and around Hitech city for hours has been avoided this monsoon,” another tweet said.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Heavy rains: Jagan asks officials to be on high alert||Expressing concern on the impact of heavy rains, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday told officials to use the opportunity for filling reservoirs, particularly in the Rayalaseema region, and to brace for another likely spell of rain. He sought a report on the crop loss and damage to property in a week to facilitate speedy remedial action. In a video-conference with the District Collectors on the situation arising from heavy rains, Mr. Jagan called for a high alert in view of the massive inflows into the Srisailam dam, Prakasam barrage and other river systems. He instructed the Collectors of Guntur and Krishna districts to be prepared for any contingency and to take care of the families displaced by Krishna river in Vijayawada. The Chief Minister ordered that due priority be accorded to power restoration works, plugging breaches to canals and repairing roads. Road works should be carried out on a war-footing, he said. He told the officials to pay ex gratia to the families of 10 persons who died in various districts, at the earliest. Ministers Mekathoti Sucharitha and Botcha Satyanarayana and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney were present.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Modi speaks to Jagan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on phone on Wednesday and enquired about the impact of heavy rains that lashed the State in the last few days. According to an official release, Mr. Jagan told the Prime Minister that normalcy was returning in the wake of the crossing of the deep depression off the coast at Kakinada and that the government was taking necessary relief and rehabilitation measures.
15 October 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||Rajput case: ED searches office of producer||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday conducted searches at the premises of a film producer in connection with its money laundering probe linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said. The office and residential premises of Dinesh Vijan in Mumbai were raided under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Some of his transactions with Rajput are under the agency’s scanner and the raids were conducted to obtain more information and evidence, they said.
15 October 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||WB adds 3,677 new COVID-19 cases, 64 deaths||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 3,677 COVID-19 cases taking the total tally to 3,05,697. With 64 deaths in the past 24 hours, fatalities in the State touched 5,808. The active cases increased to 31,505 while the discharge rate remained at 87.79%. As many as 42,549 samples were tested taking the total to about 38.18 lakh. Kolkata recorded 12 deaths and North 24 Parganas 14 and Howrah district accounted for nine deaths. Kolkata also saw 794 new COVID-19 cases and North 24 Parganas 752.
15 October 2020||Kolkata,||Babul, mahua||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday quashed criminal proceedings against Union Minister Babul Surpriyo on the basis of charge sheet filed by Kolkata Police in an FIR lodged by Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on grounds that “charge-sheet does not disclose commission of any offence under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code.” However, the court, observed that utterance by the Minister was “defamatory statement within the meaning of Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code” and added that Ms Moitra was “at liberty to take any action, according to law, if available to her against the petitioner before the appropriate forum and in such case”. The case pertains to developments in January 2017, during a debate on a news channel when Mr .Supriyo, the BJP MP from Asansol, said, “Mohua, are you on mohua?” alluding to the liquor drunk in tribal areas. Ms Moitra, was then a Trinamool Congress MLA.
15 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Delete ineligible names: Assam NRC official||Assam’s district heads have been asked to submit the list of ineligible people whose names have been included in the National Register of Citizens published in August 2019. State NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has written to officials, directing them to issue speaking orders for the deletion of such names.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court reserves order on shifting M.J. Akbar case||A Delhi court on Wednesday remarked that the entire trial in former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani gets vitiated if the magisterial court trying the case for about two years did not have the jurisdiction. The court reserved the order on transfer of the case to another court.
15 October 2020||Lucknow,||Man arrested on charge of acid attack on 3 sisters||The police in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday said they had arrested a man for allegedly throwing acid on three girls when they were sleeping in their house. Gonda SP Shailesh Kumar Pandey said the eldest daughter suffered 30% burns, while the other two suffered 20% and 5-7% burn injuries in the attack.
15 October 2020||New Delhi/GURUGRAM,||Ban on diesel generators in Delhi, NCR from today||A ban on diesel generators, except for emergency purposes, will come into force in Delhi and neighbouring cities from Thursday as part of the Graded Response Action Plan to control air pollution. The AQI of Delhi is likely to stay at the higher end of ‘poor’ or lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Thursday.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Over 1,200 municipal doctors to go on strike||Doctors and nurses of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital on Wednesday continued their protest over non-payment of salaries. The stir is likely to intensify as over 1,200 doctors working in other hospitals run by the civic body have given a notice for a strike from October 19.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court reserves order on shifting M.J. Akbar case||A Delhi court on Wednesday remarked that the entire trial in former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani gets vitiated if the magisterial court trying the case for about two years now did not have the jurisdiction. The court reserved the order on transfer of the case to another court.
15 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||Tanishq store in Gujarat puts up apology note||A Tanishq jewellery showroom in Gandhidham in Gujarat’s Kutch district put up a note on its door, apologising to Hindus in the district over the brand’s controversial TV ad, police said on Wednesday. The handwritten note in Gujarati condemned the TV commercial, which has been withdrawn after being viciously trolled across social media platforms. “We apologise to Hindu community of Kutch on the shameful advertisement of Tanishq,” the note read. It was pasted on the showroom’s door on October 12, and has since been removed, police said. Photos of the apology note have gone viral on social media. Police said some persons had asked the store owner to put the apology note in Gujarati so that more people could understand it. The showroom manager and police rubbished reports that the showroom was attacked and the owner threatened by people angry with the ad.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||2.5 lakh acres identified as panchami land||Approximately 2.5 lakh acres in the State are said to have been identified as panchami land, according to officials involved in the exercise.
15 October 2020||Chennai,||2.5 lakh acres identified as panchami land||Approximately 2.5 lakh acres in the State are said to have been identified as panchami land, according to officials involved in the exercise.
15 October 2020||Hassan,||Five hunters with weapons arrested||The Chitradurga forest officials have arrested five people who were set to hunt wild animals armed with sophisticated weapons in Gowdanahalli Reserve Forest in Hiriyur taluk.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Multiplexes to welcome movie buffs with PPE kits||Large multiplexes are leaving no stone unturned to tempt movie buffs back to the big screen. Some of the elaborate arrangements include distributing PPE kits and disposable 3D glasses.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Tahsildar caught with Rs. 1.10 cr. ends life in prison||Former tahsildar of Keesara mandal on Hyderabad outskirts, Erva Balraju Nagaraju, who was lodged in Chanchalguda prison in a corruption case, ‘ended his life’ by hanging himself in the early hours of Tuesday Mr. Nagaraju had been at Chanchalguda central prison for the past two months following his arrest by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on this August 14.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||2.5 lakh acres identified as panchami land||Approximately 2.5 lakh acres in the State are said to have been identified as panchami land, according to officials involved in the exercise.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Schools experiment with exam format||Many private schools in the State, which have midterm examinations online, have tweaked the testing pattern this academic year.
15 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘SWR performance on safety consistent’||General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh has said that the zone has been performing consistently well on safety front and has asked the railway employees to continue the good work with the motto of “Safety first and safety always”. Speaking at the virtual celebrations of the 65th Railway Week in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Singh listed out the various accomplishments of the railway zone and the new initiatives taken. Mr. Singh said that as a green initiative, the zone had switched over to 100 % LED lighting at all stations and with extensive harnessing of solar energy, some of units such as the Mysuru Workshop had become carbon neutral.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||HC dismisses Rajini’s plea against tax demand||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition filed by actor R. Rajinikanth, against the demand of property tax, to the tune of Rs. 6.50 lakh, by the Greater Chennai Corporation, for his Raghavendra Mandapam located in Kodambakkam.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||2.5 lakh acres identified as panchami land||Approximately 2.5 lakh acres in the State are said to have been identified as panchami land, according to officials.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad plunges into darkness post rains||Several areas in the southern parts of the city continue to remain in darkness even on Wednesday night after the power supply was stopped to them as a measure of precaution mostly due to inundation of residential areas and power installations from Tuesday evening, although it has been restored in many other areas. According to the authorities of Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd, they have restored power supply from all the 15 sub-stations in the city that were affected due to heavy rain on Tuesday but power supply in the areas served by 15 feeders and some distribution transformers were yet to be restored. Besides, 63 out of 312 electrical poles that were damaged due to tree fall, washing away and other reasons were also yet to be attended. Officials of the Southern Discom explained that power supply under a total of 686 feeders was affected but it was restored under 671 of them already as there has been respite from rain and heavy wind since Wednesday morning. Power supply to residential colonies and apartments which were inundated but yet to be cleared of rainwater completely was also yet to be restored. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Transco and Genco D. Prabhakar Rao appraised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that power utilities were on high alert across the State following heavy rains and flash floods and the restoration work was completed wherever rainwater has receded or has been cleared. Power utilities have suffered huge damage/loss at several places in the State and the staff were attending to the work despite the adverse weather conditions, Mr. Rao explained to the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister instructed the CMD to keep people informed about the situation of breakdown in supply and restoration work on regular basis. The power generation and transmission utilities were on high alert through the night on Tuesday as the demand slipped to little over 2,700 MW from the regular of about 6,000 MW even during rains. It was the lowest ever demand recorded since formation of the State, the authorities said adding that the thermal stations were completely backed down to maintain the grid frequency.
15 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab calls special House session to counter farm laws||The Punjab government has decided to convene a special session of the Assembly on October 19 to bring in legislation to counter the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, according to an official statement. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier announced that his government would fight the new agriculture sector laws through legislative, legal and other routes. A Cabinet meeting chaired by Capt. Singh also gave the nod for 33% reservation for women in direct recruitment in Punjab Civil Services. The meeting approved the Punjab Civil Services (Reservation of Posts for Women) Rules, 2020, to provide such reservation for women for direct recruitment to posts in government, as well as recruitment to boards and corporations in Group A, B, C and D posts.  Employment plan The Cabinet also approved a State Employment Plan 2020-22, to fill vacant jobs in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased manner. The recruitment will be done on Central government pay scales, in line with the earlier Cabinet decision to this effect, said the statement. The Cabinet also gave approval to notify the Rules of the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act 2020 for the purpose of giving proprietary rights of land to slum dwellers, thus ensuring basic amenities for them, it added. It was also decided to allow production of quality seed potato through tissue culture-based technology, using aeroponics-net house facilities, along with the certification of seed potato and its successive generations. The Cabinet approved the Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Bill, 2020, to meet the demand of potato farmers for quality seed potato, and enable the development of the State as export hub for seed potato in the country, said the statement.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rain leaves a trail of destruction in Telangana||Although the depression over Telangana moved west-north-westwards and was lying over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra and Telangana, the heavy downpour during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday had thrown normal life out of gear across Telangana. According to the Met department, there was over 10 cm rain at over 60 places across Telangana. Extremely heavy rain (over 20.4 cm) occurred at isolated places in Rangareddy, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Sangareddy districts, very heavy rain (over 11.5 cm) occurred at most places in Medchal-Malkajgiri, Yadadri, Hyderabad and Sangareddy districts, at a few places in Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Nalgonda and Medak and at isolated places in Jangaon districts. Heavy rain (over 6.4 cm) occurred at most places in Siddipet and Jangaon, at a few places in Warangal-Rural, Karimnagar and at isolated places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Warangal-Urban, Kamareddy, Mahabubabad, Suryapet Khammam and Rajanna-Sircilla district. Roads were damaged in many districts. Standing crops were submerged. “Over 700 minor irrigation tanks suffered breaches due to heavy inflows. Of the 43,412 tanks, nearly 24,200 were discharging surplus water and water in another 12,000 were near the full tank level,” irrigation authorities said.  In Andhra Pradesh, the Polavaram left main canal in the Godavari irrigation system at Jaggampeta in East Godavari district developed a breach in the early hours of Wednesday owing to huge inflow of rainwater into it. Krishna river once again is in spate since Tuesday night bringing in woes of flooding to thousands of families residing in the low-lying areas downstream of Prakasam Barrage in the district. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Wednesday said the Ministry of Home Affairs was closely monitoring the situation in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the wake of heavy rainfall. Mr. Shah tweeted that “the Modi government is committed to provide all possible assistance to the people of both the States in this hour of need. My thoughts and prayers are with those affected.”  (With inputs from   Vijayawada bureau)
15 October 2020||Patna,||Many Bihar ‘strongmen’ receive ticket bounty||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar may have been reiterating in his campaign meetings that the rule of law has been established in the State in the last 15 years of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) regime, but come election time and Bihar appears to be backk in the 1990s — when bahubalis (strongmen) made headlines. In this election too, almost all the parties have fielded such characters or their wives to add numbers to their winning tally. In the first phase of polls to 71 seats on October 28, out of 353 candidates, 164 have a tainted image, with serious criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, rape and kidnapping arrayed against them. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) tops the list, followed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and the Janata Dal(U). The RJD candidate from the Mokama Assembly constituency, Anant Singh, faces as many as 38 criminal cases of murder, extortion, kidnapping, and possession of illegal weapons. He is currently lodged in jail and had won the 2015 Assembly election from Mokama as an Independent candidate. Earlier, he had represented the constituency in 2005 and 2010 on JD(U) ticket. Not willing to take the risk of his disqualification on any grounds, his wife, Neelam Devi, has filed her nomination from the same seat as an Independent candidate. Similarly, the RJD surprised everyone by giving the Danapur ticket in the last hour to Ritlal Yadav, who faces 33 criminal cases of murder, extortion and money laundering. He is the main accused in the murder of former BJP leader Satyanarayan Sinha in 2003. Sinha’s widow, Asha Singh, has won the Danapur Assembly seat for the last three consecutive terms on BJP ticket, and this time she will be facing Ritlal. He was released from Patna’s Beur jail in August, after being granted bail by the Patna High Court. The RJD candidate from the Atri Assembly constituency, Ajay Yadav, and the JD(U) candidate from Belaganj, Abhay Kumar Singh, face 14 criminal cases each. Proxy candidates However, many of the dons facing serious criminal cases and unable to get party ticket to contest the polls have switched to proxies by projecting their wives as candidates. “This is a dangerous trend in democracy but not a new phenomenon for the Bihar elections,” said political analyst Ajay Kumar. Vibha Devi, wife of former RJD MLA and rape accused Raj Ballabh Yadav, has been given the party ticket to contest polls from the Nawada seat, while Kiran Devi, wife of absconding sitting RJD MLA Arun Kumar Yadav, has been given the RJD ticket from Sandesh constituency. Both former MP Lovely Anand and her son Chetan Anand got RJD ticket for the Saharsa and Sheohar Assembly constituencies. Lovely Anand is the wife of imprisoned don-turned-leader Anand Mohan Singh, who is serving a life sentence in the Saharsha jail in connection with the murder of a District Magistrate G. Krishnaiah in 1994 in Muzaffarpur town. The ruling JD(U), too, has fielded the spouses of several bahubali s like Manoranjan Singh Dhumal, Awadhesh Mandal and Bindi Yadav from the Ekma, Rupauli and Atri Assembly constituencies, respectively. The JD(U) has also given ticket to Manju Verma from the Cheria-Bariyarpur seat — Ms. Verma had to resign from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet as Social Welfare Minister after she, along with her husband Chandrashekhar Verma, was sent to jail in connection with the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home abuse case. The BJP has fielded Aruna Devi, wife of Akhilesh Singh, from the Nawada seat. Singh faces 27 criminals cases.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers boycott Central meet||A delegation of farmer leaders from Punjab walked out of talks with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal on Wednesday, tearing up copies of the controversial farm market reform laws in front of Krishi Bhavan, which houses the Agriculture Ministry. They raised slogans slamming the BJP government and calling for the repeal of the laws. The farmer leaders were angry that they were not granted a meeting with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, or a Group of Ministers (GoM) empowered to negotiate their demand to repeal the laws passed by Parliament last month. The 29 farm unions driving the widespread protests and rail blockades across the State now plan to meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss their future course of action and how to intensify the agitation. This is their second rejection this month of the Centre’s efforts to initiate dialogue to end the protests roiling the State. “We asked the Secretary why we had been called for a meeting in Delhi while the BJP Ministers are busy in Punjab spreading false propaganda about the new laws and telling people that the farmer unions are being misled by other political outfits,” said Krantikari Kisan Union state president Darshan Pal, a member of the delegation. “The Secretary gave us a speech about how the government is pro-farmer. We asked why the double standards that Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary is holding virtual meetings in Sangrur and Barnala districts today, but is not available to meet us. Mr. Tomar is also not available. The Secretary is not the person who is empowered to discuss these laws,” he said. After an hour-and-a-half meeting, the leaders walked out of Krishi Bhavan. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar downplayed it. “Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar have already held talks with many of the unions. If anyone else wants to meet, we are always open to meet everyone. Today, Mr. Tomar had a programme, so he went for that,” he told presspersons.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Pakistan exchange barbs||India and Pakistan sparred at a Commonwealth Foreign Affairs Ministerial meeting on Wednesday, after Pakistan raised the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and accused India of “targeting” its religious minorities. “For a state to hypocritically preach about religious minority groups elsewhere, while trampling upon the rights of its own indigenous minorities, was indeed most regrettable, and a blatant misuse of this august platform,” said Secretary (West) at the Ministry of External Affairs, Vikas Swarup, in response to what he called a “rant” by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi at the Commonwealth meet, held via videoconference, although he didn’t name Pakistan directly. In his speech, Mr. Qureshi had also not named India directly but accused “a state” in South Asia of “targeting religious minority groups”. “It has transgressed rights and freedoms of millions and fanned hyper-nationalism to engineer illegal demographic change in a disputed territory,” he said, in an apparent reference to the government’s move to reorganise Jammu and Kashmir and dilute Article 370 in August 2019. Disputed territory “The only dispute left in what it alleged today as a ‘disputed territory’ is its own illegal occupation of certain parts, which sooner or later, it would have to vacate,” Mr. Swarup replied, referring to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan. He also accused Pakistan of “genocide” during the liberation of Bangladesh and of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations. The latest exchange between the two countries comes two days after Mr. Yusuf claimed that India had sent a “message” to Pakistan earlier this year, exploring the possibility of a “conversation”, and set what he called Pakistan’s terms for any bilateral engagement. “We have got a message for a desire for conversation,” Mr. Moeed Yusuf said in an interview to The Wire news portal but refused to provide further details, saying Pakistan wished to talk to India about Jammu and Kashmir and terrorism. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on Mr. Yusuf’s claim but is expected to issue a full statement in response on Thursday. No talks have been held between the countries since Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Lahore to meet former Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif in December 2015, and the government has maintained that Pakistan must end cross-border terrorism before talks can be held.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre to release tur dal to States||In a bid to cool down the recent hike in pulses prices, the Union government plans to release 40,000 tonnes of tur dal from its buffer stock into the retail market in small lots. Five States have expressed an interest in buying one lakh tonnes of the dal from the Central buffer stock at MSP (minimum support price) rates to sell at subsidised prices, according to the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA). Several major consuming centres of urad (black gram) and tur dal have seen a 20% spike in prices over the last two weeks alone. At an all-India level, the average retail prices of urad have shot up almost 40% in comparison to last year, while the average retail prices of tur dal have increased almost 24%, says an official statement. Last month, the DoCA introduced a mechanism to use the buffer stock of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED), which procures pulses from farmers at MSP rates, to moderate retail prices by supplying pulses to the States and the Union Territories. The States are supplied pulses either in bulk or in retail packs for supply through the ration shops of the Public Distribution System, or through milk and vegetable outlets run by the government or cooperatives. “Till date, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Bihar and Tamil Nadu have placed their requirements for tur for a total quantity of over approximately 1,00,000 metric tonnes. More States are expected to come forward in the near future,” said the statement. For such retail intervention, offer prices are fixed on the basis of MSP itself, or the Dynamic Reserve Price, whichever is lower. Tur is being offered for Rs. 85 a kg, while urad dal from the 2018 season is being offered at Rs. 79 a kg and that from the 2019 season for Rs. 81 a kg. This move will also help clear NAFED’s existing stock to make way for procurement from this season’s harvest, due to arrive in markets soon. “Apart from this retail intervention, the DoCA has also decided to release 40,000 metric tonnes of tur from the buffer stock in Open Market Sale [OMS] in small lots so that the releases may reach the retail market at a faster pace and help in cooling off rising prices,”the statement stated.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||A sister born to save ailing brother||India’s first ‘saviour sibling’ experiment is a success, say doctors. A one-year-old sibling has saved her brother’s life by donating her bone marrow. Kavya was conceived by her parents through invitro fertilisation to save her brother, Abhijeet Solanki, who was born with Thalassemia. Thalassemia is a disorder where the haemoglobin count is low in blood and such persons require frequent blood transfusions. Abhijeet was born in November 2013 but unlike normal babies he did not achieve growth milestones. The parents learned that Abhijeet had Thalassemia major. Abhijeet required blood transfusion every 25 days and the gap between two transfusions reduced as he grew. By the age of six, Abhijeet had undergone 80 transfusions, recalled his father Sahdev Singh Solanki. The only way to save him was through a bone marrow transplant. The family was willing to donate their bone marrow but the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) of the family, including that of his older sister, did not match. The Solanki family consulted many doctors. Mr. Solanki’s research led him to the ‘saviour sibling’ concept, following which he sought out Manish Banker, medical director of Nova IVF Fertility in Ahmedabad. Dr. Banker said Mr. Solanki’s research and the science behind it was known but nobody had approached him with such a request before. Reproductive therapy Dr. Banker started the assisted reproductive therapy, called pre-implantation genetic testing, for monogenic disorder with HLA matching. The couple underwent three cycles of IVF and 18 embryos were created. Of this only one perfectly matched Abhijeet’s HLA. The embryo was implanted in Apla Solanki, who delivered a baby girl a year ago. “We had to wait for the baby to grow. She had to weigh 10 kg before we could draw bone marrow,” said Deepa Trivedi, programme director of Sankalp Bone Marrow Unit, CIMS Hospital, Ahmedabad, where the transplant was carried out. Pointing out that the best therapeutic option for Thalassemia major patients is bone marrow transplant from an HLA-identical donor, Dr. Banker said, “We are extremely thrilled to be part of reproductive history in India to create the first-ever ‘saviour-sibling’ through ART. We used pre-genetic diagnosis and screening test, an established method for conceiving a child who may donate cord blood or hematopoietic stem cells for transplantation to save a critically ill sibling.” Mr. Solanki said the transplant was done on March 17. Since then Abhijeet has not needed any blood transfusion, indicating that he had been cured of the disorder. His haemoglobin count was 11.3, Dr. Trivedi said.
15 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Delete ineligible names: NRC official||Assam’s district heads have been asked to submit the list of ineligible people whose names have been included in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) published in August 2019. They have also been told to write speaking orders for deletion of such names from the list of citizens. In a letter to every Deputy Commissioner and district registrar of citizen registration on October 13, State NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma said some names of ineligible people belonging to the “categories of DF/DV/PFT along with their descendants have found entry to the NRC”. The DF, DV and PFT stand for “declared foreigner”, “doubtful voter” and “pending in Foreigners’ Tribunal”. Mr. Sarma pointed out that the local registrars of citizen registration had prepared and published the supplementary list of names after disposal of claims and objections while the “Registrar General of India is yet to publish the final NRC as per Clause 7 of the Schedule of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003”. He cited other clauses of the same Rules necessitating verification of names of such persons and recording of the reasons for their inclusion or exclusion. “As such, you are requested to write speaking orders for deletion of such names... after specifically ascertaining the identity of the person. The verification would mandatorily require the correct identity of the person so that no ambiguity arises in future,” the letter said. A speaking order mentions the reasons for leaving out people’s names from the final NRC. Based on such an order, the NRC authority issues a rejection slip to an ineligible person. “You are, therefore, requested to submit the list of such persons who are not eligible for having their names in the NRC along with speaking order justifying reasons for each case for necessary action for deletion of such names,” Mr. Sarma wrote.  More than 19 lakh people of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the final NRC. Those left out would have to appeal to the Foreigners’ Tribunals within 120 days of receiving the rejection slip from the NRC authority.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala cases drop, T.N. reports less than 6,000||In a sharp drop, Kerala on Wednesday recorded 6,244 COVID-19 cases, when 50,056 samples were tested. The test positivity rate, which was 18.16% the previous day, plunged to 12.4% on Wednesday with no explanation. Last week too, the State’s case graph had dived mid-week, only to go up the next day and the shift was attributed to a statistical aberration. With 20 more deaths from previous weeks being added to the official list, the State’s cumulative deaths stood at 1,066. Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six deaths each, two deaths each were reported from Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode while Kollam and Kannur reported one death each. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 9,265 new cases while 75 new deaths were also added to the toll. The day’s positivity rate stood at 8.14%, and Case Fatality Rate touched 0.81%. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,574 cases and 27 of the 75 deaths. Over a 24-hour period, 1,13,771 tests were conducted including 39,111 rapid antigen tests. Telangana recorded 1,446 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. On October 13, the number of tests stood at 40,056 and 1,446 tested positive. Eight more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases included 252 from Greater Hyderabad, 135 from Rangareddy, 131 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 74 from Karimnagar, and 58 from Nalgonda. From March 2 to October 13, a total of 36,64,152 tests were conducted and 2,16,238 were detected with coronavirus. For the third day in a row, new coronavirus infections dipped marginally in the State as 4,462 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. While 5,083 persons were discharged, the deaths of 52 more persons were registered. As of date, 42,566 persons, including 13,488 in Chennai, were under treatment in the State.        (With inputs from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
15 October 2020||KOCHI,||Gold smugglers linked to D company: NIA||The links of two accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case with the gang of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim need to be probed, feels the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Rameez and Sharafuddeen had smuggled gold from Tanzania to the UAE and from there to India. The Dawood gang is active in both Tanzania and the UAE. Feroz, a person of south Indian origin and a member of the gang, is based at Tanzania. The photos of the visit of the accused to Tanzania were obtained from one of the gadgets seized. Hence, the connection needs to be probed, said the NIA while opposing the bail application of the accused. Rameez was earlier booked for smuggling 13 rifles of 0.2 bore. The methodology adopted by the accused in the case and the fact that many of those who invested money for the smuggling did not collect profit from the illegal activities raises serious concerns about terror funding.  The agency said it could obtain the mirror images of 22 of the 99 gadgets seized from the accused and relied mostly on the pictures extracted from it. These included the pictures of currency notes and Islamic speaker Zakkir Naik found from the gadget of Swapna Suresh, pictures of gold biscuits being packed for smuggling and its unpacking and fake and forged documents, draft letters, airway bills, and copies of passports of some of the employees of the UAE consulate. The court will pronounce its order on the bail applications on Thursday.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Kerala Congress faction led by Jose K. Mani decides to join LDF||Ending weeks of uncertainty over the political position of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] faction led by Jose K. Mani, the party on Wednesday announced its decision to align with the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Announcing the decision after an emergency parliamentary party meeting here in the morning, Mr. Mani declared that he would step down as Rajya Sabha member in line with the principles of political morality. Barring a few months of association at the Kottayam district panchayat in 2017, the party's decision to join the LDF marked a major shift in its political course after nearly four decades. The regional party, under the leadership of K.M. Mani, had joined the LDF in 1979 along with the A.K. Antony-led Congress (U), but returned to the United Democratic Front (UDF) later in 1981. Elaborating on the decision to join the LDF, Mr. Mani asserted that the switching of sides was unconditional and discussions with the LDF would soon begin. “This is a decision that is going to change the political landscape of Kerala forever,’’ Mr. Mani said. Political stance According to him, the party took its political stance by taking into account the approach of the LDF towards the proclaimed policies of the KC(M) favouring farmers and the common man. “A meeting of the party State committee decided to finalise our political stance based on the proclaimed slogans of the KC(M), which vary from protection of farmers, secularism, and the vision for a brand new Kerala. The LDF government has been so effective in keeping the communal forces at bay. Moreover, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also responded favourably to KC(M)’s request to revive the crisis-ridden agriculture sector,” he said. On the occasion, Mr. Mani launched a scathing attack on the Congress and the UDF for indulging in `political vulturism.' “A few within the Congress unleashed a personal attack on me and extended support to P.J. Joseph for hijacking the KC(M). As a party founded on the principles laid down by K.M. Mani, we could not stand this for long and hence decided to exit the UDF,” Mr. Mani said. Ever since its suspension from the UDF in June this year, the Mani group had adopted an independent stance till now.
15 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Kin of Hathras victim quizzed||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Boolgarhi, Hathras, summoned her two brothers and father to its camp office on Wednesday and questioned them for around seven hours. The elder brother was taken to the temporary office, created in the office of Deputy Director, Agriculture, Hathras, on Tuesday as well. He told presspersons later that he was not interrogated and was only made to sit and sign on the list of evidence collected from the village on Tuesday. He said the evidence included soil from the scene of the crime, ashes and pieces of bones that the family collected from the cremation spot, the slippers of the victim and the cane that the family collected from the site of the cremation. It could help the investigation agency find out what material was used to cremate the victim. Interestingly, the cane was still with the family. Brahm Singh, the investigating officer (IO) before the SIT took over the case, said they collected whatever they could find. “You should remember, I was not the first IO in the case,” he said, referring to Ram Shabd who was suspended after the preliminary report of the SIT. It was Mr. Singh who recorded the statement of the victim at the J.N. Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh and added the sections on gang rape to the FIR. Child raped Meanwhile, a four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a relative in the Sasni area of Hathras district on Tuesday, the police said. Ruchi Gupta, Circle Officer, Hathras, told reporters that the accused is the cousin of the victim and had been arrested under the relevant sections of the IPC. The family took the girl to the Community Health Centre. She was referred to the district hospital, where doctors confirmed rape.
15 October 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in south Kashmir||Two militants were killed in south Kashmir and two security personnel have gone missing along with service rifles from two different locations in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Wednesday. The police suspect that one of the two missing security personnel may have joined the militant ranks. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said, “The two militants were killed during a joint cordon and search operation, launched after a specific input in Shopian’s Chakura area.” Arms and ammunition were recovered from the site. Police sources said Special Police Officer (SPO) Altaf Hussain Bhat was reported missing from his camp along with two AK-47 rifles in Budgam’s Chadoora area. Preliminary reports suggest the SPO was a resident of Qazipora in Chadoora and was working with the police for the past five years. “Two AK-47 rifles and three AK-47 magazines were also missing,” the sources said. In the other incident, a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) constable has been reported missing from Nagam area of Budgam. The constable, who is from Rajouri, left the camp two days ago. “The missing of an SPO is of concern. We are trying to locate him and bring him back. We are investigating if the SSB man has gone on an unauthorised leave,” Mr. Kumar said.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approval for school education reform project||The Union Cabinet has approved a project partially funded by the World Bank to carry out a reform agenda in the governance of school education, and improve data and assessment systems at the national level, as well as teaching and learning outcomes in six States, especially for early childhood and vocational education. The project includes an emergency response component to help the government respond to disaster situations which lead to school closures and loss of learning, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, according to an official statement issued after the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The Strengthening Teaching-Learning and Results for States (STARS) project will have a total project cost of Rs. 5,718 crore, with the World Bank’s support amounting to about Rs. 3,700 crore ($500 million), said the statement. A major component of the project is the establishment of PARAKH ((Performance Assessment, Review, and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic Development) as a National Assessment Centre. Included in the National Education Policy 2020, this autonomous institution under the Union Education Ministry will set norms for student assessment and evaluation for all school boards across the country, most of which currently follow norms set by State governments.  At the State level, the project seeks to improve education outcomes and school-to-work transition strategies for better labour market outcomes in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha. A similar project to be funded by the Asian Development Bank will cover Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Assam and every State will partner with one other State to share best practices, said the statement.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wear masks or pay fine, say Railways||Passengers travelling on trains without masks or not following social distancing on railway premises may now need to pay fine or even face jail terms as per new guidelines that seek to protect the spread of COVID-19 during the upcoming festive season. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has issued detailed guidelines for travellers asking them to desist from acts such as not wearing a mask or wearing a mask improperly, not maintaining social distancing, coming to railway area or station or boarding a train after having declared COVID positive or when results are awaited. In addition, “spitting or wilful ejection of body fluid/waste in public area” or any other act or omission likely to aid in spread of the virus have been deemed unlawful. Acts or omissions endangering or likely to endanger the safety of travellers can be punished with imprisonment and/or fine under Sections 145, 153 and 154 of Railway Act 1989, according to the RPF. The announcement comes as the Railways gears to run 392 festival specials between October 20 and November 30. These will be in addition to about 300 trains that it is operating.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||The Hindu, Roof and Floor to host webinar||The Hindu along with Roof and Floor will host a webinar on ‘Virtual Sales and Realty Tours-The High-Tech Future of Home Buying’ on October 17 between 11.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. Hosted as part of TrueView, a virtual property fair powered by The Hindu , the session will be chaired by Thejaswi Udupa, CTO product, Roof and Floor. The panel members include Rahul Phondge, CBO, Residential Services, Anarock Property Consultants; A. Shankar, Chief Operating Officer, Strategic Consulting, JLL; and Nikilesh, Managing Partner, NG Developers. TrueView is a month-long virtual property fair aimed at providing an unique platform to showcase wide spectrum of projects across Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and Hyderabad. Fair on till Oct. 31 Presented by Casagrand, the property fair would be held online till October 31. To register for the webinar, potential buyers may visit http://bit.ly/RandFTV or scan the QR Code.
15 October 2020||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC quashes criminal proceedings against Babul Supriyo||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday quashed criminal proceedings against Union Minister Babul Supriyo on the basis of a chargesheet filed by the Kolkata Police in an FIR lodged by Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on the grounds that the “chargesheet does not disclose commission of any offence under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code...” However, the court observed that the utterance made by the Minister was “defamatory statement within the meaning of Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code” and added that Ms. Moitra was “at liberty to take any action, according to law, if available to her against the petitioner before the appropriate forum and in such case”. The case pertains to developments in January 2017, during a debate on a news channel Mr. Supriyo, the BJP MP from Asansol, made the comment.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||16 killed as rain wreaks havoc in Hyderabad||While the road stretch has disappeared for nearly 200 metres, the flood waters damaged a portion of the under-construction flyover.  In what is being termed by the Meteorological Department as the highest in the month of October since 1891, the city has received an average of 17 cm rainfall. The IMD station at Begumpet recorded 19.2 cm, double from the previous highest of 9.8 cm recorded in 2013. 9 of family swept away In a tragic incident, the flooding in Ali Nagar, a neighbourhood in the Mailardevpally police station limits, swept away nine persons, including minors, of the same family. Mohammed Abdul Taher Qureshi, the inconsolable sole survivor, too was washed away in the strong current, but his younger brother saved him in the nick of time, before himself being swept away. He is currently reported as missing.  Mother, daughter die In separate cases, a mother and daughter — Suvarna (45) and Shravanthi (15) — were killed in Ibrahimpatnam, on the outskirts of Hyderabad, after their house collapsed due to incessant rain. Lakes across the city overflowed, sweeping into homes and apartment complexes, while storm water drains breached onto roads in several localities across the city. With Himayatsagar reaching the full tank level (FTL), surplus water was released into the Musi river.
15 October 2020||siddipet,||Centre sanctioned Rs. 285 cr. for Dubbak: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Bandi Sanjay said that the Central government had sanctioned Rs. 285.15 crore for the development of Dubbak Assembly constituency under various schemes and the amount was diverted by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and others. Addressing a public meeting after nomination was filed by party candidate M Raghunandan Rao for Dubbak byelection on Wednesday, Mr Sanjay said the Centre had brought new acts only to get better price for farm produce.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Hathras victim’s family given full security: U.P.||The State had deployed “adequate forces to ensure protection” to the family, which includes the parents, the two brothers, a sister and the grandmother, it noted. A “three-fold protective mechanism” had been put in place at the village and the house. It consists of armed constabulary, civil police personnel of guards, gunners and shadows and CCTV cameras to cover the surroundings of the victim’s place. Female guards had also been posted, it stated. The government suggested that the court should seek a fortnightly status report from the CBI, which could be filed by the U.P. police chief. The State said the victim’s brother had written to the police that advocates Seema Kushwaha and Raj Ratan had been appointed as private lawyers of the family in the case. The Supreme Court had emphasised on the protection of the family and assured them of a fair investigation. The CBI had taken over the probe on a request made by the State.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Storm may strengthen after crossing coast||The sub-cyclonic system or “deep depression” that inundated Telangana and Andhra Pradesh is likely to peter out in a day, but will regain in strength again once it crosses the Maharashtra coast on October 16, according to a weather update from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). October and November are cyclone months with several storms originating in the Bay of Bengal. Most that gain enough energy to become full-fledged cyclones eventually dissipate once they make landfall in a day or so into what are called ‘well-marked lows’. However, it’s rare for a storm that never became a cyclone to manage a crossing across India’s east and west coasts. Moisture from the sea imparts energy to tropical storms and can make them stronger. “There was a similar situation in 2009,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director General, IMD, “But this happens because active monsoon conditions are still prevailing and they give energy to depressions.” Monsoon withdrawal Though the monsoon has officially ended, monsoon-like conditions continue to prevail into October and a full withdrawal was unlikely at least until October 26, he added. Only storms that whip up wind speeds greater than 62 kmph are classified as cyclones and the current disturbance is hovering over north Karnataka and Maharashtra with wind speeds of 30-40 kmph. Cyclones Gaja (2018) and Vardah (2016) were both storms that originated in the Bay of Bengal and crossed over all the way into the Arabian sea. The seas would be extremely rough and fisherfolk ought not to be venturing out,” according to the IMD’s Wednesday bulletin.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K, Ladakh women to benefit from rural scheme||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved changes in the criteria to extend benefits under the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Rashtriya Aajeevika Mission to over 10.58 lakh women in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. An allocation of Rs. 520 crore has also been made for the next five years. The scheme is aimed at providing livelihood to women in rural areas. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said due to some technical reasons, very few women in J&K and Ladakh were eligible for the programme. Therefore, certain changes in the criteria were approved by the Cabinet to ensure that 10.58 lakh women in the two Union Territories benefited from the special package. Help for self-help groups Mr. Javadekar said there were 63 lakh self-help groups comprising seven crore women members in the country. They had been granted Rs. 3 lakh crore in loans and the non-performing assets amounted to only 2.3%. The outstanding loans were to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh crore. The Central government planned to take the scheme to 10 crore women, said the Union Minister.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to Centre on same-sex couples’ pleas||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Union government to respond to two separate petitions by same-sex couples seeking to declare that the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) ought to apply to all couples regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon remarked that they had no doubts as to the maintainability of the petitions but wanted answers on whether the definition of marriage under the customary law also needed to be challenged going forward. “Marriage is not defined...When something goes against what an authority in India has been seeing for his/her entire life, they won’t accept it...Our doubt is that you [petitioners] would encounter this difficulty later during the proceeding,” the Bench said. Marriage under Indian law is customary, not statutory, it said.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Nagaland govt. calls meeting on peace talks||The Nagaland government has called all civil society groups for a consultative meet in Kohima on Thursday to discuss the ongoing peace talks and the political issue. The National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isaak-Muivah) and the seven Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) that are in talks with the Government of India for signing the final peace deal have not been invited to the meeting. An official said this meeting would only focus on the civil society groups such as church bodies abd Naga HoHo and prominent persons. Assam Minister and North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma told presspersons on October 13 in Guwahati, “On October 15, Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio has called a meeting with all the social organisations... Now people of Nagaland know the position of the Government of India. A series of meetings have been conducted and now we know each other’s position. Things will be much better now. We are not negotiating the agreement. We are there only to see that the boat is sailing. I don’t think there will be any issue in the northeastern States as the Government of India is taking all the States into confidence.” The Naga talks hit rough weather after the NSCN(IM) leadership refused to hold any dialogue with Naga interlocutor R.N. Ravi who is also Nagaland’s Governor. A team of Intelligence Bureau officials have been deputed to hold forth the discussions with the NSCN(IM). Mr. Ravi and the NSCN(IM) had signed a framework agreement on August 3, 2015 in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The NSCN(IM) has been demanding a separate constitution and flag for the Nagas and the assimilation of all Naga-inhabited areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur.
15 October 2020||Bhopal,||Register FIRs for holding large meetings: M.P. HC||The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed the Datia and Gwalior District Magistrates to register FIRs against members of congregations violating COVID-19 norms and against those at whose behest they were organised. A Division Bench of Justices Sheel Nagu and Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava, while hearing a petition filed by lawyer Ashish Pratap Singh, on October 12 ordered the Superintendents of Police of both the districts to file compliance reports before the next date of hearing. The court also directed the Central and State governments and the Election Commission of India to respond before the next date of hearing to the petitioner’s prayer of staying the relaxation made in relation to the permissible size of congregations. The petitioner placed a report before the court highlighting that meetings reportedly having between 300 and 500 participants were held on October 3-6.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.M. Krishna sets to tune Emperor Ashoka’s edicts||Renowned Carnatic musician T.M. Krishna had his hands full these past few months digging into the works of Emperor Ashoka. Wednesday saw the online premier of the first part of his Edict Project, in association with Ashoka University, where he set to tune four edicts of Emperor Ashoka to the ragas — Kapi , Shubhapanthuvarali ,Mohanamand Desh . “All my people are my children. I yearn for their welfare, why,” goes the meaning of the first song that begins Munise Paja, which  Mr. Krishna sings to the accompaniment of just his tambura .  “The songs were recorded during the lockdown so there were no instruments, just my tambura. Through the Edict Project, I hope to re-imagine the emperor’s edicts in a musical format. To my knowledge, this is the first time they are being sung. I have rendered four edicts in a raga-tala-malika composition,” he said. “The underlying message in all of Ashoka’s edicts is love and compassion. Ashoka himself symbolises the possibility of transformation. A person who believed in expanding, consolidating and ruling his empire through violence and war changed into one who made an ethical order the governing principle of his empire and personal life. Our world today is filled with hate, anger, bigotry and polarisation. In this context, the words of Ashoka are precious. We need to rediscover and re-imagine them, and let them inspire us to look within as individuals and communities,” he said. The project was launched on the day B.R. Ambedkar, the father of the Indian Constitution, embraced Buddhism. The introductory text to the video, which is available on YouTube, Facebook and Instagram, is by former West Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi. The research for the project was conducted by Shravasti Dhammika, and the sound and visuals were done by Ritvik Raja.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Loan borrowers’ Deepavali in your hands, SC tells govt.||Mr. Mehta said the scheme was itself proof of the government’s concern for the common man. “We have already considered the plight of the common man. That is why we have brought this scheme... We would not gain anything by delaying it. There are complexities involved. November 15 is the outer limit,” he explained. To this, Justice Shah said the court welcomed the step taken by the government to “take care” of the common man. “We welcome it, but you need to implement it soon”, Justice Shah said. Mr. Mehta replied that certain “modalities” need to be worked out. Justice Bhushan observed, “Modalities will take a month? If you had issued a circular to the banks, they would have taken steps... Till now you have not. You have only told the court”. Mr. Mehta said the government had detailed the scheme on an affidavit in court. It would not go back on its word. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for the Indian Banks Association, assured the Bench, also comprising Justice R. Subhash Reddy, that the scheme would be “worked out and done”. He submitted, “It has to be done. Everything the government has said on affidavit has to be done. There is no question about it”. He said a month’s time may be necessary because there were a large number of borrowers under the Rs. 2 crore category. Mr. Mehta said the calculation of interest would also vary. Chidambaram’s plea Senior advocate P. Chidambaram, appearing for the Shopping Centres Association of India, said the court seemed to want a clear “statement” from the government and the banks. “Mr. Chidambaram, we don’t want any statement, we want a circular”, Justice Bhushan reacted. Mr. Chidambaram then said a message had to be then sent from the court. “Sorry, but a message has already been given by the government [about its intention to help the small borrowers],” Mr. Mehta interjected. Senior advocate Rajeev Dutta, for petitioner Gajendra Sharma, sought “one line from the Bench to assure the common man”. But the Bench refrained from passing any formal order. Instead, the court scheduled a hearing for November 2. The Bench said it would evaluate the steps taken by the government then.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Abdullahs meet PDP chief, to discuss Gupkar pact||In an indicator of cementing relations between the two major regional players, Mr. Abdullah said Ms. Mufti has accepted an invitation to attend the meeting of the Gupkar Declaration at his residence around 4 p.m. on Thursday. “All the signatories of the Declaration will be meeting. The future course of action will be decided jointly,” Mr. Abdullah said. The Declaration was signed by six political parties, including Congress, on August 4 last year just a day before the abrogation of J&K’s special status. It called for a joint fight to “safeguard J&K’s special status, Article 370 and 35A”. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone, a signatory of the Declaration, also met Ms. Mufti on Wednesday. In an audio uploaded online, Ms. Mufti, toughening her stand, said the struggle will continue to get back what “the Delhi Darbar has snatched away by unconstitutional and undemocratic means” and sought resolution of the Kashmir issue. “People also need to keep struggling for the solution of Jammu and Kashmir, which has led to sacrificing thousands of lives,” Ms. Mufti said.  Describing the August 5, 2019 “black day”, Ms. Mufti said: “No one among us will forget the humiliation of the day Article 370 was abrogated. No one among us can ever forget the robbery and the insult.”
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||JD(U) rebel Sharad Yadav’s daughter joins Congress||Janata Dal(U) rebel Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav joined the Congress party on Wednesday. Her father was expelled from the JD(U) for opposing Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s move to return to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Mr. Nitish Kumar resigned as Bihar Chief Minister in July 2017, less than two years after he had joined hands with his arch enemy Lalu Prasad to form the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ government in the 2015 Assembly polls. He returned as Chief Minister after he rejoined the NDA. Sharad Yadav, who opposed this move, spoke publicly against it on many platforms and was expelled for anti-party activities. The Congress is likely to field Ms. Yadav from the Bihariganj Assembly segment in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections, which falls under Madhepura Lok Sabha seat. Her father, Sharad Yadav, has represented the Madhepura Lok Sabha seat four times in the past. She joined the Congress at the party headquarters, 24 Akbar Road, in the presence of Bihar State unit chief Madan Mohan Jha. Speaking to The Hindu minutes after joining the party, the 30-year-old Ms. Yadav said that this election was not about holding any personal grudges or avenging her father. “This election is only about development and bringing about a change in the State,” Ms. Yadav said. Along with her, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and former MP Kali Pandey also joined the party. Mr. Pandey shifted loyalties from the LJP five days after the death of LJP patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Power cuts make WFH tough||In the IT hub of Hyderabad, primarily Gachibowli and neighbouring areas there was not much impact of the rain, except for power cuts. The compound wall of Indian Immunologicals campus was damaged at least in two places. In nearby Kondapur, the rain compounded the misery of road users already grappling with bad roads. Serilingampally MLA Gandhi Arekapudi also tweeted pictures of his visit to many rain affected areas, including the Serilingampally division, to monitor the flood relief measures. The government had declared October 14 and 15 as holiday for government offices, private institutions, including banks and financial institutions, except for staff and offices engaged in relief and emergency services.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Farooq’s remark totally unacceptable: Karan Singh||Senior Congress leader from Jammu and Kashmir Karan Singh has said that Dr. Farooq Abdullah’s recent remark on Article 370 is “totally unacceptable.” Dr. Singh said in a statement that his old friend Dr. Abdullah had made an astounding statement that Article 370 would be restored with China’s support. “I can understand his rage and frustration at recent events... However, his recent articulation is totally unacceptable. It will tend to once again provoke totally unrealistic expectations among the people of Kashmir,” Dr. Singh stated.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi set to address many rallies in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address at least 12 campaign rallies in Bihar over four days between October 23 and November 3. Senior sources in the State BJP involved in firming up plans for these rallies told The Hindu that Mr. Modi would address at least three or four rallies a day at various locations. “The venues have also been decided and include Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, and Darbhanga,” said a source. The rallies will be a hybrid of real and virtual with physical attendance in some and others via smartphones, computers and tablets in possession of BJP workers. The Bihar election the first big one to be held under COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Election Commission. The Assembly polls in the State will be held in three phases starting from October 28, with the results to be out on November 10.
15 October 2020||Lucknow,||Man arrested on charge of acid attack||The police in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday said they had arrested a man for allegedly throwing acid on three girls when they were sleeping in their house. Shailesh Kumar Pandey, SP Gonda, had said the eldest daughter suffered 30% burns, while the other two suffered 20% and 5-7% burn injuries. The accused, identified as Ashish alias Chotu, who lived in the same village in Parsapur as the victims, was arrested late on Tuesday after an alleged exchange of fire, said Additional SP Mahendra Kumar.  Police fired in self defence and Ashish, who is said to have used an illegal weapon, suffered a firearm injury on his right foot, according to sources
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army chief to visit Nepal in November||Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane will visit Nepal in November, the Nepal Army has announced. The visit will be keenly watched as it will take place months after Nepal revised its political map and claimed the strategically important region of Kalapani-Lipulekh-Limpiyadhura in the Pithoragarh district of India. “General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of the Army Staff, Indian Army will visit Nepal in November this year. The visit was approved by the Government of Nepal on 3rd February 2020 but was postponed due to lockdown in both the countries,” a Nepal Army spokesperson said in a statement.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. election panel holds meeting||The Central Election Authority (CEA) of the Congress party met on Wednesday to discuss organisational issues such as updating the list of All India Congress Committee members. The CEA is in charge of holding organisational elections and AICC members make up the delegates who elect the Congress president. “It was a routine meeting to discuss organisational issues,” said a member. At the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24, it was decided that the party would hold an AICC session and elect a new president within six months, if the COVID-19 situation allowed it. The panel is also learnt to have discussed issues such as new membership from different States. The CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and members include Arvinder Singh Lovely, Jothimani and Krishna Byre Gowda.
15 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Tanishq store in Gujarat puts up apology||A Tanishq jewellery outlet in Gujarat’s Gandhidham in Kutch district has put up a note on its door, apologising to the Hindu community in the district over the brand’s controversial TV ad that has since been withdrawn but was shared on social media platforms. “We apologise to the Hindu community of Kutch on the shameful advertisement of Tanishq,” the handwritten note read. It was pasted at the entrance of the outlet on October 12 and has since been removed. According to sources, the notice was posted after a few persons came to the store and demanded that the manager apologise to the Hindus over the advertisement.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Crucial times ahead: Health Minister||The next two-and-a-half months were going to be crucial in India’s “fight against COVID-19 because of the winter season and the festival season,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said at a meeting to review activities under a ‘Jan Andolan’. The virtual meeting was to review the activities taken on “COVID-19 appropriate behaviour” and involved the Minister as well as the heads of AIIMS and Central government hospitals, on Wednesday. COVID-19 appropriate behaviour includes wearing face-covers, masks, and observing physical distancing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the ‘Jan Andolan’ earlier this month to alert people on appropriate behaviour ahead of the festive season.  India’s total recovered cases stood at 6,301,927 on Wednesday.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Advocates slam Jagan’s letter to CJI||The Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association (SCAORA) has issued a statement condemning a letter written by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy against a sitting Supreme Court judge. The SCAORA said the judge was the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India. Justice N.V. Ramana is the next in line as CJI as per seniority.  The contents of the letter, dated October 6, and its release to the media in a press conference lacked propriety and tended to “scandalise and breach the independence of the judiciary,” the SCAORA said in a resolution on Tuesday. The Delhi High Court Bar Association has also condemned Mr. Reddy’s statements as an affront to independence of judiciary.
15 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Dalit unit chief held without warrant: Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday claimed that the chairperson of its Uttar Pradesh Dalit unit was arrested without a warrant late on Tuesday. Alok Prasad, chairperson of the U.P. Congress Scheduled Castes department, was ‘arrested’ in the middle of the night without a warrant, said party State president Ajay Kumar Lallu. “The Yogi government is staging conspiracies to hide its failures. It is incessantly oppressing Dalits and the deprived,” said Mr. Lallu on Twitter. The police is yet to issue a statement or confirm if and why Mr. Prasad was detained or arrested. He was reportedly detained over the self-immolation bid by a woman.
15 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||Tanishq store in Gujarat puts up apology note||A Tanishq jewellery outlet in Gujarat’s Gandhidham in Kutch put up a note on its door apologising to the Hindu community in the district over the brand’s controversial TV advertisement that has been withdrawn but shared widely on social media platforms, making it among the top trending topics on the Internet. The handwritten note in Gujarati also condemned the commercial, which sought to promote the brand’s new jewellery range ‘Ekatvam’.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,||For Briefs/ Mobile vegetable vans||With heavy rain leading to shortage of vegetables, particularly after retail mobile vendors were forced to remain indoors, the agricultural marketing department has decided to arrange sale through mobile vans for the next few days. According to officials, mobile vans were pressed into service for sale of vegetables in over 100 localities in the city on Wednesday. A total of 56 vans were used as mobile Rythu Bazaars and the number would be increased on Thursday.
15 October 2020||Kochi,||HC seeks govt. response on plea for anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday sought the State government’s response to the anticipatory bail pleas by dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi and activists Diya Sana and Sreelekshmi Arackal in a case relating to assaulting YouTuber Vijay P. Nair.
15 October 2020||Kolkata,||Nadda to visit West Bengal ahead of Durga Puja||BJP president J.P. Nadda will visit West Bengal next week ahead of the Durga Puja festivities. According to BJP leaders, Mr. Nadda will be in Siliguri in north Bengal on October 19. The BJP leadership, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Mr. Nadda, have been holding virtual meetings and rallies in the State for the past few months. After the BJP’s impressive showing in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, Mr. Shah addressed supporters at the Netaji Indoor Stadium.
15 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Special Punjab Assembly session to bring legislation to counter Centre’s farm laws||The Punjab government has decided to convene a special session of the Assembly on October 19 to bring in legislation to counter the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, according to an official statement. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier announced that his government would fight the new agriculture sector laws through legislative, legal and other routes.
15 October 2020||Lucknow,||Chairperson of U.P. Dalit unit arrested without a warrant, says Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday claimed that the chairperson of its Uttar Pradesh Dalit unit was arrested without a warrant on Tuesday night. Reports said Alok Prasad, chairperson of the U.P. Congress Scheduled Castes department, was detained over the self-immolation attempt by a woman outside the BJP office in Lucknow on Tuesday. “The Yogi government is incessantly oppressing Dalits and the deprived,” tweeted State president Ajay Kumar Lallu.
15 October 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata inaugurates virtual Durga Pujas||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday inaugurated several Durga Pujas in five districts of north Bengal virtually from the State Secretariat. During the inauguration, Ms. Banerjee urged people to maintain the COVID-19 protocol and also directed the police to release funds to different clubs for organising Durga Puja. The government has decided to pay Rs. 50,000 to about 37,000 clubs in the State that organise Durga Puja.
15 October 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Revolt against Dalit president||A day after the president of Erugaiyur Panchayat Dakshinamoorthy (50), who belongs to Scheduled Caste, staged a dharna in front of the T. Palur Panchayat Union Office complaining of discrimination, ward members turned up at the same spot on Wednesday to revolt against his ‘high-handed’ approach. They slammed Mr. Dakshinamoorthy for his ‘whimsical’ action of letting his son, a government employee, take control of the local body administration. The seven ward members alleged that Mr. Dakshinamoorthy was ‘intentionally provoking’ caste feud by his actions, and raised slogans demanding a full-fledged enquiry. The BDO of T. Palur Sridevi and a police team from the T. Palur Station prevailed upon the ward members to disperse after receiving a petition from them.
15 October 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose solar power plant plan||Scores of farmers and villagers around Nandhikundu staged a road blockade on Virudhunagar-Kalkurichi highway near Mallankinaru protesting against an entrepreneur “attempting” to block supply channels and common pathway to farmlands on Wednesday. The protest was led by Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary V. Murugan. The farmers along with their tractors blocked the road. “An individual from Dindigul has bought around 40 acres of land in the western side of Nandhikundu. He has proposed to set up a solar power plant which our farmers have been protesting for more than a month,” he said. Stating that around 200 acres of farmland was behind the proposed power plant site, the villagers said that on fencing the land, their pathway to the farms and a temple would be blocked. Besides, the waterway draining rainwater from Azhagiyanallur to Nandikundu tank and ooranis in Melathulukkankulam and Keezhathulukkanlukam would be blocked. Aruppukottai Town Inspector of Police Balamurugan and Kariyapatti Tahsildar R. Dhanakumar held talks with the protesters. “The entrepreneur has just submitted his application for setting up the power plant. We have advised him not to take up any construction till he gets his plan approved by the Nandhikundu panchayat,” the Tahsildar said. All the six cement pipelines that were laid to construct a small culvert over a supply channel were removed. Mr. Murugan said that a dispute over the land transaction within the 40 acres was pending in court.
15 October 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC issues guidelines for conducting post mortem||Passing a series of directions with respect to conduct of post mortems and issue of certificates, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ruled that doctors should follow Article 621 of the Tamil Nadu Medical Code by sending the post mortem certificate, as soon as it is over, to the judicial magistrate concerned. A copy of the certificate should be sent to the head of the department on the same day, failing which departmental proceedings should be initiated against them, the court said, and directed the Health Secretary to issue a circular directing the doctors to strictly follow Article 621. The court directed the State government to appoint Scientific Officers at all Government Medical College Hospitals for providing assistance. Biometric attendance for staff should be followed at hospitals. A web-based medico-legal examination and post mortem reports system should be followed at all hospitals from January 1, 2021, the court said. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R.M. Arun Swaminathan, who complained of lacuna in the procedures followed in conducting post mortem at government hospitals. There was no transparency and the procedure prescribed under the Tamil Nadu Medical Code was not followed, he said. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar took cognisance of the fact that there were several irregularities in the conduct of post mortems, and sometimes even unauthorised people were conducting them. Also, preparation of the certificate was not in the format prescribed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The court said there was a failure on the part of the doctors and forensic experts to send the post mortem certificates immediately to the Judicial Magistrate and to the head of the department. These were the reasons to suspect malpractice and meddling with the findings of the autopsy at the instance of third parties. Besides, these post mortem reports were handwritten and not legible. Unless they were legibly written, it would not be possible for non-medical people to understand the writings of the doctors and forensic experts. The certificates had to be read and understood for conducting investigation and deciding cases, the judges said. The court said the NHRC format should be followed in issuing post mortem certificates. The post mortems should be videographed whenever requests were made by families or friends of the deceased, it said.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses Rajini’s plea against property tax demand||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition filed by actor R. Rajinikanth, 70, against the demand of property tax, to the tune of Rs. 6.50 lakh, by the Greater Chennai Corporation, for his Raghavendra Mandapam (marriage hall) located in Kodambakkam. Justice Anita Sumanth accepted a memo filed by the actor’s counsel, agreeing to withdraw the case. The memo was filed after the judge warned of imposing costs on the petitioner for rushing to the court without giving sufficient time for the officials to consider his plea for tax remission. ‘Wastage of judicial time’ The judge told the counsel that she had been telling time and again to all litigants before the court not to waste judicial time by filing cases immediately after sending representations to officials concerned. She said litigants must send reminders as well to the officials, if required. Justice Sumanth further said the actor should have pursued the matter with the Corporation on the basis of a representation made by him, seeking “vacancy remission”, under Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919, and convinced the officials about his eligibility. In his affidavit, Mr. Rajinikanth had stated that he was the owner of Raghavendra Mandapam and he had been paying property tax, regularly, for the hall. The second half-yearly tax for 2019-20 was paid on February 14. Thereafter, the pandemic broke out and there was a nationwide lockdown since March 24. The Centre extended the lockdown for quite some time, and, thereafter, the State government continued it, as far as Tamil Nadu was concerned.  Consequently, Raghavendra Mandapam was not let out to anyone since March 24 and it has remained vacant. Advance payments received for bookings after March 24 have also been returned to the people concerned, on the basis of the instructions issued by the State government, he stated. Despite all these developments, the actor received a tax invoice from the Greater Chennai Corporation on September 10, asking him to pay Rs. 6,50,660 towards property tax for the marriage hall, for the half-yearly period from April to September. On September 23, the actor sent a “notice” to the Corporation, claiming that he was entitled to vacancy remission on property tax. He also cited Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 to support his claim. The particular Section provides for remission of tax if a building has remained vacant for more than 30 days, he said, insisting that the benefit be accorded to him. Stating that his plea was not considered, he approached the court seeking a direction to dispose of his “notice”. He also urged the court to restrain the Corporation from levying 2% penalty, with interest, for the non-payment of property tax before October 15.  The memo was filed after the judge warned of imposing costs on the petitioner
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.5 lakh acres identified as panchami land in State||Approximately 2.5 lakh acres in the State are said to have been identified as panchami land, according to officials involved in the exercise. Pointing out that the figure is only provisional, the officials say there is a lack of consensus within the bureaucracy on the matter. As there is a view that the real extent of panchami land is higher than what has been arrived at, reconciliation is under way with regard to land database in the districts, the officials add. Non-SCs Of the identified land, nearly 30% is reported to have been occupied by persons other than Scheduled Castes (SCs). On this aspect too, there seems to be no unanimity among officials. Originally, when the British administration devised the scheme of assignment of panchami land in the late 19th century, it gave away 12 lakh acres to landless SCs in the Madras Presidency, which included Andhra Pradesh and parts of Kerala, Karnataka and Odisha, apart from Tamil Nadu. The exact figure of the current extent of panchami land in the State has been an elusive matter. Following a government order issued in July 1991, the authorities reportedly found 85,000 acres of panchami land, after which the exercise was abandoned. In 2006, the Office of the Commissioner of Land Administration (CLA) told an RTI (Right to Information Act) petitioner that around 1.26 lakh acres of panchami land were available, of which about 10,620 acres were held by non-SCs. Acknowledging that the retrieval of land held by non-SCs will be a bigger challenge than the identification of land, officials say the work on drafting a law is still under way. Referring to the constitution of a panel by the State government in 2015 for land identification, I. Pandiyan, a Madurai-based activist and founder of Witness for Justice, a rights-based organisation, says what is required is a special cell for expediting the work. In addition to the perusal of existing documents, the cell can hold regional-level hearings and collect information, he says. Reclassification of castes As for the issue of the re-categorisation of six castes, now included in the SC list as Devendra Kula Vellalar, officials point out that a committee constituted in March 2019 is yet to submit its report. At the same time, they feel that if the castes — Kudumban, Pallan, Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Pannadi and Kalladi — are to be given the generic name of Devendra Kula Vellalar, the consent of the Central government is required as this will involve an addition to the list. The officials explain that the given case cannot be equated with that of Arunthathiyars. In respect of the latter, there was no addition to the Schedule, and seven castes were clubbed in 2009 under the term Arunthathiyar, one of the castes in the SC list, for the purpose of providing 3% reservation within the overall 18% quota.  Retrieval of land held by non-SCs will be a bigger challenge than the identification of land and the work on drafting a law is still under way Officials
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol bomb hurled at house in Teynampet||Miscreants hurled petrol bombs at a house in Teynampet belonging to a person who informed the police about ganja smokers near his home. Six motorcycles, two bicycles and a portion of the house were torched in the incident. Two suspects have been apprehended and the police, after registering a case, are searching for their accomplices. The police said complainant Ashok Kumar, 28, a chef in a star hotel, was living in Thiru Vi Ka Kudiyiruppu in Teynampet. He used to encounter a gang that loitered around Dr. Thomas Road and smoked ganja. On Tuesday, he spotted them near his residence and reprimanded them for trespassing. This resulted in a scuffle, and the gang manhandled him. Mr. Kumar was rescued by neighbours; later, he informed the Teynampet police about the gang.  Angered by this, the gang returned and threw petrol bombs at Mr. Kumar’s home in the early hours of Wednesday. Six bikes, two bicycles and the front door were damaged. Alerted by neighbours, Fire and Rescue Services personnel arrived and put out the fire, while the police apprehended two suspects, Abi and Joshuva, and are searching for five others. Ganja sellers held In another incident, the Anna Salai police arrested Hussain, 40, of Chemmanchery, for carrying ganja in an auto. A special team, which was conducting routine checks at the junction connecting Amir Mahal Lane and Perumal Mudali Street, intercepted the vehicle and recovered 1.1 kg ganja. The Korukkupet police arrested three persons near Kannan Road for possessing and using narcotics. They arrested Narendran alias Thappa Narendran, 27, Sathish Kumar alias Thadi Sathish, 28, of Korukkupet, and G. Srikanth, 24, of Andhra Pradesh. The police said they were in possession of nitrazepam and tapentadol tablets, syringes, mobile phones and knives.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State continues to see a dip in cases||For the third day in a row, new infections dipped marginally in the State, with 4,462 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. While 5,083 persons were discharged, the deaths of 52 more persons were registered. As of date, 42,566 persons, including 13,488 in Chennai, are under treatment in the State. As many as 6,17,403 persons have been discharged and 10,423 have died so far in Tamil Nadu. The State has been witnessing a marginal dip in fresh cases in the last three days. Wednesday’s cases took the tally to 6,70,392. In Chennai, 1,130 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking its tally to 1,85,573. The city’s toll climbed to 3,452, with the death of 11 more persons. Coimbatore reported 389 cases, while Chengalpattu accounted for 272. Salem and Tiruvallur had 274 and 207 cases respectively. Six districts had 100-plus cases. Tiruppur had 168 cases, while there were 148 in Kancheepuram and 140 in Namakkal. As many as 26 districts had less than 100 cases, with Tenkasi and Perambalur having the least number of cases at six and eight respectively.  As many as seven persons in their 40s succumbed to the infection. This included a 48-year-old woman from Ranipet who had no co-morbidities. She was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for 10 days on October 8. She died on October 13 due to acute respiratory syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 95,538. Till date, 85,84,041 samples have been tested in the State. One more private laboratory — the Molecular Virology Lab at the Madha Medical College and Hospital in Kancheepuram — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. There are 66 government testing facilities and 126 private laboratories in the State.
15 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Start-up makes coding game for children||GUVI, a start-up that has been teaching engineering graduates computing in regional languages, has launched a game for schoolchildren to teach coding. HackerKID has been specially designed for children to make coding fun. Quite a few features are offered free of cost to students. GUVI was incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras and has worked with over 1,200 children in the Netherlands, the U.S., Australia and India to develop features and designs that went into its product. Virtual background The product comes with a virtual playground. Students learn to drag and drop blocks or chunks of coding instructions, which make it simpler for them to learn the foundations of programming flow and computational thinking compared to conventional classroom teaching. The beginner’s level of Turtle Module is being offered free and features include points, rewards, badges for each activity in block-based programming. There is also a leader board. The module prepares children for the international block coding olympiad scheduled to be held shortly. S.P. Balamurugan, co-founder and chief executive officer of GUVI said though children learn to code easily it is not easy to assimilate concepts of computer science. According to him, the current players in the market are failing in the practice part, an essential to learn coding. Parents can sign up athttp://www.hackerkid.org. GUVI also permits bulk registration for schools by placing a request atreach@hackerkid.org. Students are taught using ‘play-to-code’ method to enable them master the flow in programming. A students can choose to be an individual or group player. Also, the modules are aligned with the academic curriculum for grades, making it easy for them to relate what they learn with what they play. Arun Prakash, founder and chief technical officer of GUVI, said children who practise HackerKID understand the coding world better as they develop skills such as problem solving, creative thinking, persistence, communication and collaboration.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More powers delegated to local bodies||In a significant development, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday expanded the powers already delegated to local bodies (except Chennai), allowing them to grant planning permission for residential buildings with a built-up area of up to 10,000 sq ft. Earlier, the limit was 7,000 sq ft. The local bodies, barring Chennai, can clear building plans for up to eight dwelling units, not exceeding 12 m in height, up to stilt + 3 floors or ground + 2 floors. However, the existing delegation of powers to local bodies, in case of commercial buildings, will continue, according to a G.O. issued on October 13 and made available to The Hindu . The G.O. asked the Director of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) and the Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, to implement the new rule. The Housing Department’s decision follows the proposal of the DTCP to grant more powers to local bodies. The DTCP had stated that the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Tamil Nadu, had, in a representation, sought more powers for local bodies “to simplify the process of granting planning permission for small buildings”. The DTCP said the existing process for commercial buildings could be continued. On February 4, 2019, the State government framed the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, which has been implemented since. As per the rules, local bodies (except Chennai) can grant building permission for residential buildings if their total built-up area is up to 7,000 sq ft, with up to eight dwelling units not exceeding 12 m in height and up to stilt + 3 floors or ground + 2 floors. Building plans for commercial use can be approved for a built-up area of up to 300 sq m, not exceeding 12 m in height for other local bodies within the Chennai Metropolitan Area, and for 2,000 sq ft and up to stilt + 2 floors or ground + 1 floor for others.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Is there a remote possibility of reopening schools by year-end?’||The Madras High Court on Wednesday wanted to know from the State government whether there was even a remote possibility of reopening schools, at least by the end of the year. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed Special Government Pleader (Education) C. Munusamy to obtain instructions on the query raised by him, regarding the reopening of schools, from the School Education Department, and report to the court by November 11. The judge said he might consider permitting private schools to collect some more fees from parents, apart from the 40% that he had permitted to be collected through an order passed on July 17, if the institutions are not allowed to reopen this year. He said this after senior counsel Father Xavier Arulraj and advocates Hema Muralikrishnan and E. Vijay Anand, representing various private schools, reported to the court that nearly 50% of parents had not remitted even the 40% of fees that the court had permitted to be collected. The lawyers said the schools were struggling to maintain the institutions and pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff due to a paucity of funds, since several parents had not paid even the court-fixed fees, despite their children continuing to attend online classes. Since the July 17 order had stated that schools could collect another 35% of the fees, only after the institutions reopen, the counsel urged the court to modify the order and permit them to collect more fee, since finances were dwindling and there was no sign of reopening. After deciding to take a call on their grievances next month, the judge directed School Education Department officials, in the meantime, to conduct an inquiry against 33 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools, accused of collecting more than 40% fees. Advocate G. Nagarajan, representing CBSE, said the regional officer had received complaints against the 33 schools. All complaints had been forwarded to jurisdictional chief educational officers and district educational officers for appropriate action. The judge directed the CEOs and DEOs to conduct an inquiry into the complaints by hearing all parties concerned and file a report in the court so that suo motu contempt of court proceedings could be initiated against the erring institutions. As far as the contempt proceedings which the judge had already initiated against eight schools were concerned, four of the institutions entered appearance on Wednesday through their counsel and sought time to file detailed affidavits explaining their stand. Justice Venkatesh accepted their plea and adjourned the hearing on the contempt petition as well to November 11. He directed the registry to issue fresh notices to four other institutions that had not entered appearance so that they could also be heard next month.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||800 will not hurt the sentiments of Eelam Tamils, say producers||After actor Vijay Sethupathi was subjected to strong criticism on social media for agreeing to star in a movie titled 800 , a biopic on Sri Lankan cricketer Mutthiah Muralitharan, the film’s producer, Dar Motion Pictures, said the film is “purely a sports biography”. The first look of the film was released a couple of days ago. In a statement, the production house said the film did not make any political statement favouring any community. “This film is intended to be an inspiration for the younger generation to achieve their dreams irrespective of the difficulties they come across in their journey. We, as the producers, assure that this film will not showcase any scenes that will belittle the struggles of Eelam Tamils in Sri Lanka or hurt their sentiments in any way,” the statement said. “On a positive note, the film will engage the Tamil film community in Sri Lanka, providing the artists and technicians a platform to showcase their talents on a global stage,” it said. Sympathisers of the ethnic Tamil struggle took to social media, tagging Mr. Sethupathi, urging him not to star as the cricketer “known to be a supporter of Mahinda Rajapaksa”, accused of presiding over a war in which thousands of Tamil civilians were killed.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kushboo apologises for remarks||Following strong criticism from disability rights organisations regarding her remark that the Congress had no “mental development”, actor and BJP functionary Kushboo Sundar on Wednesday evening apologised for the comment. Earlier in the day, disability rights’ groups had filed online police complaints against her. “We have lodged an online complaint against her and we have requested that an FIR be registered against her under Section 92 (a) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, as also under other provisions of the IPC,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of all types of Differently-abled and Caregivers. Following this, in a statement, the actor-politician apologised for the “incorrect” use of a few phrases, which she said were used “in a moment of hastiness, deep distress and anguish”. According to her, she had not just been sensitive to the diversity among people, but had also valued it and gained hugely from it. “I realise that leaders in the past have also made similar references, and as much as I am disappointed by the inadvertent distress that I have caused many, I am now equally determined to ensure that I do not repeat this, ever, whatever the motivation maybe. I also dedicate myself to ensure that the voices of those with psychosocial disabilities are valued and heard, as they should be,” she added. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) and the December 3 movement too said that the terms she used had been insensitive. “While Kusbhoo Sundar has every right to politically take on her opponents, usage of terms that invoke a negative portrayal of disability is unacceptable. Time and again, people holding public offices have invoked such negative terms to tarnish the image of political opponents, lending them legitimacy,” said Muralidharan, general secretary, NPRD.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on improving primary healthcare to detect cancer early, says expert||Strengthening of primary healthcare in the country, taking the message of prevention and early detection of cancer to people and focusing on the common cancers so that there could be cost-effective manoeuvres for early diagnosis are among the focus areas for Anil K. D’Cruz, director, Oncology Services, Apollo Cancer Centre, who has been elected as president of the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC), Geneva. Largest voice Dr. D’Cruz, who was on UICC board of directors for six years, according to a press release, is the first Indian oncologist to be directly elected by member organisations as its president. He said the UICC was the largest voice of cancer control and has 1,200 members across 172 countries. Various academic institutions, agencies and NGOs were part of UICC, which works to unite and support the community reduce the global burden of cancer, promote greater equity, improve control and see that the disease continues to stay on the world health and developmental agenda. “We must realise that cancer is growing in our country. We now have figures of about 100 to 110 per 100,000 population as opposed to the developed world where it is about 350 per 100,000 population. But we must realise that our population pyramid is so structured that the majority of our countrymen are less than the age of 30. As our population grows older and lifestyles improve, the incidence of cancer will increase,” he told reporters on Wednesday. “While a lot of high-end hospitals are coming up, which is important to treat our patients, I believe we also have to strengthen primary healthcare. We must put emphasis on early detection, prevention and this should straddle all non-communicable diseases (NCD) and not just cancer in isolation. If NCDs can be screened early, we can prevent a lot of problems,” he said. He said the three commonest cancers in India were those of the head and neck, breast and cervix. “About 30% of the cancers are head and neck, predominantly because of tobacco use,” Dr. D’Cruz said. “Unfortunately, 80% of patients at present are in stage-3 and stage-4. If we have patients coming at an early stage, the success rate of the cure is upwards of 90%. These three cancers are preventable if early detection is accessible,” he added. Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group, highlighted the need to create infrastructure in the country which was on a par with the rest of the world so that people need not go abroad for treatment. Noting that NCDs such as heart diseases, cancer, diabetes and stroke accounted for 80% of deaths, he stressed on early detection to save lives. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group, spoke on the occasion.  As our population grows older and lifestyles improve, the incidence of cancer will increase Dr. D’Cruz, Apollo Cancer Centre
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vidya Sagar invites applications for B.Ed admissions||Vidya Sagar has invited applications for its two-year B. Ed in Special Education — multiple disabilities and inclusive education programme. The course is affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University and recognised by the Rehabilitation Council of India. Through the course, Vidya Sagar, which has been a pioneer organisation in the city working with persons with disabilities aims to impart and spread the knowledge and expertise gained over the years and to create multifaceted professionals equipped to work with persons with disabilities in all settings. For details, candidates can contact 9840035203 /9444412388 or mailhrd@vidyasagar.co.in
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel told to visit sensitive coastal areas in T.N.||The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment has suggested that a sub-committee visit sensitive coastal areas of Tamil Nadu for examination before coastal protection measures envisaged under the Comprehensive Shoreline Protection Management Plan are implemented. The EAC also said that the shoreline change maps prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) and the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) be used as the basis for implementing any shore protection schemes in the State, as suggested by a team of experts from IIT-Madras in its report to the EAC. “The detailed shore protection measures should be as per CRZ Notification 2011 and subsequent amendments thereon. Implications of Coastal Economic Zone (CEZ) development under Sagarmala needs to be taken care suitably while preparing detailed coastal protection measures,” the report had said. The team had also suggested that the government of Tamil Nadu circulate the plan to neighbouring States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and union territory of Puducherry as implementation of the plan might have implications there as well. The EAC in May 2019 had sought comments and suggestions from the neighbouring States and wanted the T.N. government to make them available. The EAC was informed at a recent meeting that the Tamil Nadu government in July this year had requested the MoEF to approve the plan pending comments from the neighbouring States. The EAC said the Ministry may send a reminder to these neighbouring States to provide their views within three months, on or before December 2020 and posted the matter for further consideration after these comments are received.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 students will get free education at SRM||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology will provide free education to 300 meritorious students. This is the second consecutive year that the institute’s founder-chancellor Paarivendhar announced the decision. Mr. Paarivendhar was elected MP from Perambalur in 2019. A formal letter will be sent to each student, and the names of selected students will be displayed on the SRM website as well. The MP met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and sought a railway line via Ariyalur-Perambalur-Thuraiyur-Namakkal. He also met Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who said the first survey for the railway line would be taken up shortly.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders condole death of CM’s mother||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and other political leaders condoled the death of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s mother Thavusayammal, who passed away in Salem on Monday. Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and former Tamil Nadu Governor Rosaiah conveyed their condolences over phone, a press release stated. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal and senior leaders visited Salem district on Wednesday to pay their respects. Government officials continued to visit the CM’s native place on Wednesday to pay their floral tributes, it said. Dr. Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson of The Hindu Group Publishing Private Limited, and Manoj Kumar Sonthalia, Chairman and Managing Director of Express Publications (Madurai) Private Limited were among representatives of media organisations who conveyed their condolences over phone. The Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali also sent a message of condolence to Mr. Palaniswami.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Secy. honoured||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan was conferred with the Professor K.V. Thiruvengadam Award 2020 instituted by Rotary Club of Madras East and Kauvery Hospital. After receiving the award, he said, “We see the same spirit of Dr. K.V. Thiruvengadam through numerous doctors and healthcare workers who have been quietly and relentlessly working during this crisis. In the challenging times we have been living in, it is humbling to receive the award.”
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secy. gets another three-month extension||The Centre on Wednesday extended the services of Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam for three more months, till January 31, 2021. An official communication from Delhi to authorities in the State government said the Centre had approved the extension of the services of the official, from November 1 to January 31, 2021.  The Hindu had, last week, reported that the Tamil Nadu government had approached the Centre for approving the extension of the official’s services, again. The 1985-batch IAS officer assumed charge as the Chief Secretary on June 30, 2019, and was set to retire in July, initially. Following a request from the government, the Union Department of Personnel & Training had, in June, extended his services till October 31.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Double standards on reservation exposed’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said the revelation of the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu government did not press for the implementation of reservation for Backward Classes, in medical seats surrendered to the central pool, was shocking. “It is shocking and has exposed the double standards of the AIADMK government. It shows that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will sacrifice anything for an alliance with the BJP,” he said in a statement. He said the High Court had ordered the implementation of the reservation for OBCs on a petition filed by the DMK and had directed the State government to constitute a committee to study the issue. “But when the petition filed by the Tamil Nadu government for implementing reservations came up for hearing at the Supreme Court, it was revealed that the State had not made any demand for its implementation from the current year,” Mr. Stalin said. He said DMK MP and senior counsel P. Wilson made out a case for implementing the existing 27% reservation and the court had directed the government to find a way to implement the same. “Though the AIADMK government went to the Supreme Court for its implementation, it has changed its stand in the committee meeting for its feared action in the gutkha case and irregularities in National Highway projects,” Mr. Stalin said. Procurement centres Mr. Stalin also demanded the opening of more direct procurement centres for procuring paddy from farmers, without a ceiling. In a statement in Chennai, he said the government’s failure to fully procure produce from farmers had resulted in the destruction of 50,000 paddy sacks in the Kollidam area. “All procurement centres buy only up to 1,000 sacks and the policy has caused enormous hardship to farmers. It is highly condemnable that the government remains indifferent to the problems of the farmers,” he said. “The policies give room for suspicion whether both the Centre and the AIADMK government are deliberately doing this to create a hopeless situation for farmers. The governments should give up their anti-farmer policy,” he said.
15 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Panel to examine sensitive coastal areas in TN: EAC||The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment has suggested that a sub-committee visit sensitive coastal areas of Tamil Nadu for examination before coastal protection measures envisaged under the Comprehensive Shoreline Protection Management Plan are implemented along the coast of Tamil Nadu. The EAC also said that the shoreline change maps prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) and the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) be used as the basis for developing any shore protection schemes in the State, as suggested by a team of experts from IIT Madras in its report to the EAC. “The detailed shore protection measures should be as per CRZ Notification 2011 and subsequent amendments thereon. Implications of Coastal Economic Zone (CEZ) development under Sagarmala needs to be taken care suitably while preparing detailed coastal protection measures,” the report had said. The team had also suggested that the Government of Tamil Nadu circulate the plan to neighbouring States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Union Territory of Puducherry as implementation of the plan might have implications there as well. The EAC in May 2019 had sought comments and suggestions from the neighbouring States and that these be made available by the TN government. The EAC was informed at the recent meeting that the State government in July this year had requested the MoEF to approve the plan pending comments from the neighbouring States. The EAC said the Ministry may send a reminder to these neighbouring States to provide their views within three months, on or before December 2020 and posted the matter for further consideration after these comments are received.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI books energy firm for defrauding bank||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against a city-based energy firm and its directors/former directors in connection with an alleged fraud that caused the Punjab National Bank losses to the tune of Rs. 15.46 crore. Acting on a complaint lodged by PNB’s assistant general manager Surinder Kumar Sethi, the agency’s Anti-Corruption Branch registered a case on charges of criminal conspiracy and cheating, read with provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against Infinitas Energy Solutions Pvt. Ltd., its directors N. Ramkhumar Narasimhan and Poorani Nagarajan, former directors Ramakrishnan Srinivasan, Vathsala Ranganathan and Anantha Rama Krishnan — all residents of Chennai — and other unknown associates, private persons and public servants. The company, promoted by VRONCE Energy (a subsidiary of Shriram Auto Finance), represented through its directors, had availed itself of a fund-based loan of Rs. 1 crore and a non-fund based facility of Rs. 30 crore in 2011. The CBI said the accused defrauded the bank by diverting and siphoning off public funds to the tune of Rs. 15.46 crore, apart from interest. Though the liquidation process was on, a forensic audit revealed indications that fraudulent transactions had taken place in the account. It was alleged that the company represented by its directors prepared and submitted forged documents as genuine for diverting funds. The account was declared as fraud by the bank.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poongothai lodges ‘fake news’ complaint||Former Minister and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna on Wednesday described as “shocking and baseless” the reports on social media that she was joining the BJP. “I would not join the fascist BJP even at a gunpoint” she told The Hindu when asked about the reports. Ms Aladi Aruna said the fake news was posted by a BJP supporter from Tenkasi and he later apologised for his action after she filed a complaint at Kadayam police station. “I have already registered a complaint with the Cyber Crime wing and spoke to the DGP today (Wednesday) about the issue,” she said, and alleged that a Coimbatore-based website was behind spreading the news. “I am actively enrolling members for my party through the internet campaign. I have explained the situation to the party high-command too,” she said. She belonged to the Dravidian stock and believed in the ideology of secularism, social justice and self-respect, she added.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge accorded a virtual farewell||Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu, who had apologised to freedom fighter V. Gandhi in 2018 for the bureaucratic delay in granting him pension, retired from service on Tuesday. The court accorded him a virtual farewell due to COVID-19, with many judges and lawyers attending the event through videoconference. “I think I have created history by being the first judge of this court to be accorded a virtual farewell. Let me be the first and last judge to have had a virtual farewell and let the difficulties posed by the pandemic vanish soon,” he said on the High Court’s YouTube channel.
15 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SRM plans free education for 300 students||SRM Institute of Science and Technology will provide free education to 300 meritorious students. This is the second consecutive year that the institute’s founder-chancellor Paarivendhar has announced the decision. It was one of his poll promises in 2019. Mr. Paarivendhar was elected as MP from Perambalur subsequently. A formal letter would be sent to each student and the names of selected students will be displayed on the SRM website as well. The students will be admitted to programmes of their choice – be it engineering, agriculture, or arts and science. The MP has also met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and sought a railway line via Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thuraiyur and Namakkal. He has also spoken to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal who has responded that the first survey for the railway line would be taken up shortly. Mr. Paarivendhar has also sought a railway bridge at Kulithalai-Manapparai stretch.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ponnaiyan chairs virtual workshop||The Vice-Chairperson of the State Development Policy Council C. Ponnaiyan on Wednesday chaired a virtual workshop on ‘Access and equity to economic resource ownership – property rights, wages and inheritance laws’. The event was organised to understand the dimensions of inequalities which are more critical to peoples’ well-being and how to overcome challenges and obstacles in implementing inclusive pro-equity policies, an official release stated. The Vice-Chairperson, in his concluding remarks, stated that the outcome of the discussions held in the workshop will be forwarded to the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister for policy-based interventions.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||FIR against two Scripture Union staffers||The Ayanavaram police have filed an FIR on a complaint from Scripture Union against two suspended staff for sending inappropriate text messages to school girls. J. Joshua Kirubaraj, national director, Scripture Union & Children Special Service Mission Council of India, lodged a complaint with the Police Commissioner last week. The complainant said on August 4, they had received an oral complaint from a girl and her father from Vellore about inappropriate text messages that one of their field staff, Samuel Jaisunder, had allegedly sent her.  Upon investigating, the organisation learned that Jaisunder and another staff member, Reuben Clement, had both sent inappropriate messages to girl students on social media. Both were suspended from the organisation. The Ayanavaram police booked a case against them under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act.
15 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not joining BJP: Poongothai Aladi Aruna||Former Minister and DMK MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna on Wednesday described as “shocking and baseless” reports on social media that she was joining the BJP. “I would not join the fascist BJP even at gunpoint,” she told The Hindu when asked about the reports. Ms. Aladi Aruna said the fake news was posted by a BJP supporter from Tenkasi, and he had subsequently apologised for his action after she filed a complaint at the Kadayam police station. “I have already registered a complaint with the Cyber Crime Wing and have spokes to the DGP today (Wednesday),” she said and alleged that a Coimbatore-based website sympathetic to the BJP was behind spreading the news.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln owners asked to ensure basic amenities for workers||The Forest Department has urged the owners of brick kilns operating near Thadagam reserve forest area to ensure that the workers have basic amenities, including toilets, attached to their accommodation. The Department on Monday convened an emergency meeting with brick kiln operators after a 22-year-old man from Assam, a worker attached to a brick kiln at Periyathadagam, was killed in the attack of a wild elephant late on Sunday. The worker Saritul Islam was killed by a wild elephant when he ventured out to attend nature’s call. Another worker from Assam who was working in a brick kiln at Periyathadagam namely Babul Hussain (30) was killed in the attack of a wild elephant on August 8 this year. The Department and experts on elephants advised brick kiln operators to ensure that the workers have toilets attached to their accommodation, lighting on the premises of brick kilns, solar fencing to keep the workplace safe from elephants and the premises free from bushes. In the meeting, elephant experts and Department officials advised brick kiln operators not to employ workers after 6 p.m. as elephant movement is high in the locality after sunset. Forest officials instructed brick kiln operators to provide torch light to every worker as a temporary safety measure. They also instructed brick kiln owners to keep boards in workplaces regarding the movement of elephants and ask employees to stay in their quarters from evening to morning.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MP demands assurance on alternative housing||Coimbatore MP P.R Natarajan has sought assurance on alternative housing to residents of Sungam Erimedu area who will lose their houses because of the flyover work on Trichy Road. The MP and some of the residents submitted a petition to Coimbatore District Revenue Officer T. Ramadurai Murugan on Wednesday and had a discussion with him in this regard. Nearly 160 families have been asked to shift to alternative facilities to make way for the flyover work on Trichy Road that will have a ramp from Sungam bypass road. The residents were told that they will be given houses in Ukkadam Pullukadu. The water supply connection to these houses were also cut off recently. The residents said that not all of them have resources to move to rental houses till they get houses at Pullukadu. The DRO assured that houses at Pullukadu will be given to 48 families immediately. They should shift at the earliest. For the remaining families, they will be given six months time when the houses will be provided to them. These families can stay at Erimedu till then. Tokens will be issued to them immediately. Similarly, drinking water will be supplied through lorries to these families, the MP said.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Caseload and population density decide number of swab samples for test: Corpn.||Civic body determines who should be tested and how many samples should be lifted from a house or an area, depending on the number of COVID-19 cases, density of population in the affected person’s neighbourhood and a few other factors, say sources in Coimbatore Corporation. The Corporation then collects the samples and sends them to various government establishments for testing.  Private labs Earlier, when it gave the samples to authorised private laboratories for testing, it was the civic body that determined the number of samples to be collected for testing. Therefore, there was no question of private laboratories determining the number of samples to be lifted from an affected person’s neighbourhood. And, even if they were to do so, they would not get reimbursement without a Corporation or Department of Public Health doctor authorising the test. So, the question of private laboratories arbitrarily increasing number of samples for higher refund was ruled out, the sources explained. Senior Corporation officials rubbished claims of the civic body charging people in quarantined areas for barricading the place. The Corporation Commissioner had determined Rs. 3.50 a sq.ft. a day for the sheets and it was the civic body that paid the contractor engaged for placing the barricades. The Corporation has not received any such complaints of people being charged for barricading a house or houses or streets., they said The Corporation officials ruled out the possibility of affected person’s family members choosing not to get tested. Contacts It was, again, the Corporation that determined who the primary and secondary contacts were and how many of those should get tested, they added.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: efforts on to control the spread||Even as businesses in the district are gearing up for the festive season and workers are returning to factories, efforts are on to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 is contained. “There are a lot of messages that are passed on through social media, resulting in lack of clarity among businesses and the public regarding testing, quarantine, etc. The Central Government issues broad guidelines whenever there are relaxation of lockdown restrictions and the State government modifies these according to the prevailing situation in the State. The local officials need to explain the procedures and systems so that there is no confusion among the public,” says a trader here. District Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu that the government and the district administration are working towards bringing the total number of positive cases a day in the district to less than 100, the testing-positive ratio to below5 % and the death rate to less than 1%. Currently, 5,500 to 6,000 samples are tested a day. The district administration held talks with industry associations and has advised the trade and industry to quarantine workers returning from other States for 14 days before allowing them inside the factories. If any worker is showing symptoms, he or she should be tested. Tests are done at private laboratories apart from government facilities. A few private hospitals also test patients who come to their campus. Those who have insurance can claim for the testing too. The officials have held talks with the testing laboratories to ensure there are no issues. The district administration has not asked any hospital or laboratory to stop testing, he said. “We are repeatedly telling hospitals to admit COVID positive people so that the patients are not put to any difficulty,” he added. Regarding complaints about higher charges collected by some hospitals, he said that it is being monitored. Three or four hotels have also opened their doors to hospitals to quarantine and test patients with moderate or mild symptoms. The family members of those who test positive can quarantine at home and observe if there are symptoms or can get tested. He said the co-ordinated efforts are on to control the spread of the disease in the district. He urged the public not to believe false messages and interpretations.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SIHMA seeks withdrawal of notices issued to hosiery manufacturers||The South India Hosiery Manufacturers Association (SIHMA) has appealed to the State government to withdraw notices issued recently to hosiery units that had paid 1% tax for inter-State trade when Central Sales Tax (CST) was in force. In a memorandum to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the association president A.C. Easwaran said the hosiery units started regular production recently after nearly six months disruption due to the spread of COVID-19. Though the government has extended supportive measures to help the industry revive, the Commercial Tax Department issued notices to several units recently regarding CST that was implemented nearly 15 years ago. Mr. Easwaran explained that since 2004-2005, hosiery manufacturers who were into inter-State sales were paying 1% CST. Since 2007, after Value Added Tax (VAT) was introduced, when there were reports that C-form was not available, many units paid just the 1% tax. Though notices were not issued in the last 10 years, the Department has sent notices to the units now. Not all the units have the documents of 10 or 15 years to prove that they have paid the CST. The association said the units should be permitted to pay just the 1 % tax for the period when C-form was required and the notices issued to those who had already paid the tax should be withdrawn.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Calf killed in leopard attack in Valparai||A calf was killed in the attack of a leopard near Valparai in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. Sources with the Forest Department said that the calf belonging to a farmer named Ramar was killed by a leopard in the early hours of Wednesday. According to Forest Department officials, Ramar, a resident of Kamarajar Nagar near Savarangadu tea estate in Valparai, found that the calf was missing from the cow shed on Wednesday morning. Three of his cows were in the shed. He found the carcass of the calf, partially eaten by the carnivore, near the cow shed. The man informed the incident to the Valparai forest range office and Forest Department officials visited the spot. Compensation The officials have assured compensation to the farmer.
15 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Primary contacts testing only if they develop symptoms’||Family members of proven cases of COVID-19 have to undergo a test only if they develop symptoms, a senior public health official has said. But, they should remain in quarantine for 14 days, the official said. In the initial stages of the pandemic, the Health Department used to subject the family members and close contacts to testing even if they did not have symptoms. According to the Health Department, 15 facilities in the district are offering COVID-19 testing. Of these, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital are the only Government facilities. On rumours on social media that government agencies and private laboratories get paid for more COVID-19 tests, officials clarified that private laboratories did not get any incentive from the Government for conducting more tests. As private laboratories were supposed to enter the details of tested persons in the Government portal, room for manipulation of results was very less, they said. Meanwhile, allegations have been levelled against certain private hospitals that they asked about the salary and profession of COVID-19 patients before admitting them. Sources with a few private hospitals said that details such as the profession of the patient were collected as part of preparing the patient registry and hospital record but income or salary of patients was not asked as part of admission procedure. Joint Director of Health Services P. Krishna did not respond on whether private hospitals were supposed to ask the salary of patients before admission.
15 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 care centre launched||A COVID-19 care centre managed by two private hospitals was launched at Ram Nagar recently. The centre was launched at Hotel ESS Grande Venue at Nehru Street in Ram Nagar and was managed by Sowmiya Hospital and SPT Hospital, a press release said. For further details, contact 98946 34431. Donated Happykin, a Coimbatore-based start-up involved in sales of sanitary napkins, donated the napkins in collaboration with Rotary Club of Coimbatore Monarks at the tribal settlements in Anaikatti. Those interested may visithttps://happykin.inor contactcare@happykin.in.
15 October 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||‘Home of Dhoni fan’ lifts CSK spirit||In an explicit display of his passion and love towards the Chennai Super Kings and its captain M.S. Dhoni, a die-hard fan from Arangur near Thittakudi in Cuddalore district has painted his house yellow, the team’s colour. R. Gopikrishnan, a forex trader working in Dubai, has been a fan of Dhoni since 2008. Though he is staying close to the stadium in Dubai where the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches are being hosted, Mr. Gopikrishnan could not watch the matches due to the pandemic and the ban on spectators. “I realised that I will not be able to cheer Dhoni and the home team during the matches. I returned to my hometown Thittakudi dejected,” he told The Hindu . “I was renovating my house and that’s when I decided to paint my house yellow — in the CSK’s colours. My parents, who are also cricket fans, agreed immediately,” Mr. Gopikrishnan said. “A number of fans were criticising and making adverse remarks about Dhoni for his performance in the ongoing IPL. With a view to ensuring that all the negative comments were nullified and to spread positivity, I decided to paint the house in the colour,” he said. Mr. Goprikrishnan contacted his friends and searched across the district to find an artist who could paint the house. The ardent fan also downloaded photos of Dhoni and the CSK logo from the Internet and handed them over to Selvaraj, an artist from Thittakudi. Mr. Gopikrishnan spent Rs. 1.5 lakh to paint the house yellow. Dhoni’s photos were painted on the front, while the CSK logo has been painted on the side walls with the message ‘#Home of Dhoni Fan’ at the entrance. The work was completed in two days, and has now grabbed the attention of local residents. Chennai Super Kings took to Twitter to share pictures of the house. “Super Fan Gopi Krishnan and his family in Arangur, Tamil Nadu call their residence Home of Dhoni fan and rightly so. A super duper tribute that fills our hearts with #yellove,” the tweet said.
15 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Amputated limb of patient found dumped on riverbank||In a shocking incident of improper disposal of biomedical waste, the amputated limb of a diabetic patient was found dumped on the banks of Gedilam river in Cuddalore on Wednesday. Residents found the amputated left lower limb lying in the open on the riverbank, behind a private hospital on Bharathi Road. A police officer said the limb was found behind the hospital. Though the hospital authorities have denied dumping it, investigations revealed that the limb was amputated from a diabetic patient undergoing treatment in the hospital. When contacted, a senior Health Department official said a private agency was entrusted with the task of collection and disposal of medical waste from hospitals in the district. If the hospital was found to be at fault, the Department would send a notice for gross negligence in disposal of medical waste. Strict action Strict action would be initiated against the hospital under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act, 1997, he said. Further investigation is on.
15 October 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases cross 22,000-mark in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district crossed the 22,000-mark in terms of total number of COVID-19 cases reported so far, with 108 persons testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. The total number of cases in the district stood at 22,040. Of this 20,710 have recovered while 904 were active cases. According to a bulletin of the Health Department, two persons succumbed to the disease on Wednesday, taking the toll to 257. Villupuram district reported 79 fresh cases, taking the total to 12,792. A total of 39 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the number of cases to 9,789.
15 October 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri Collector urges people to be cautious||Marking the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction, Collector S. Malarvizhi urged the public to exercise caution during the northeast monsoon here. According to the Collector, the monsoon is expected to stretch till December. Administering the oath on disaster risk reduction, the Collector said the current pandemic was by itself a period of disaster and that it was incumbent on the people to observe the same precautions during the monsoon. Calling upon the public to ensure that they exercised personal restraint ahead of the festival season and prevent crowding in public places and during shopping for the festivals. According to the administration, irrespective of the lockdowns or their relaxations, public will have to act responsibly. In the wake of the onset of the rain, children should be restrained from venturing into water bodies. Earlier, a drill was organised by the District Fire and Rescue Services on disaster rescue and relief in times of heavy rain, fire and accident rescue and first aid among others. The public are also urged to contact the district administration’s toll free number 1077, and the emergency number 101. Earlier, a handbook on disaster risk reduction on behalf of the district disaster management agency was released on the occasion.
15 October 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Minister rules out re-opening of schools anytime soon||Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan ruled out the possibilities of re-opening schools anytime soon. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event here, Mr. Sengottaiyan said as long as the pandemic continued there was no possibility of re-opening schools. Citing the Andhra Pradesh experience of re-opening schools causing infection to over 26 students, the Minister said any plan of re-opening schools will be a consultative and a collective decision at a later stage. According to the Minister, 60% of the syllabus was being covered through online classes without any glitches.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people get work under MGNREGS for the first time||Residents of Malliamman Durgham, whose main source of income is through selling of guava, will soon have a stable income as they were allotted works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for the first time in their hamlet. The hamlet is located in the dense forests of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Kadambur hills that can be reached after taking up the eight-km non-motorable road from Kadambur. As per 2011 revenue records, the settlement had 159 families. However, in the absence of road connectivity, lack of access to healthcare facilities and poor income, many families had moved to Kadambur as currently 82 families are residing in the hamlet that has only solar lighting systems. Guava harvested in the hamlet from August to October and sold at Kadambur is the only source of income for the families while finger millet, broad beans, maize and tapioca harvested from their small holdings fulfils their own needs throughout the year. A week ago, work began to dig a 10-metre deep well at the hamlet at an estimated cost of Rs. 9.08 lakh. A total of 54 persons were involved in digging the well that will help in storing the rain water and surplus water in the hamlet. With the two existing wells serving the water needs of the people, the new well will have a 5 HP solar water pumping system to serve them. M.K. Subramani of the hamlet said that for the first time works were executed under the scheme and people are eager to receive their wages in the coming weeks. “There is no scope for jobs and the only income for us by selling guava also did not yield results this year due to COVID-19 pandemic”, he said. Kaliappan of the hamlet said that ensuring regular work under the scheme will enable many families to return to the hamlet and wanted a motorable road facility for the hamlet.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Relay Kollampalayam bypass road before onset of monsoon’||The delay in relaying Kollampalayam bypass road that was dug for various works is affecting the residents and road users who say that monsoon will turn the road condition to worse. The road connects Erode Main Road near Railway Colony Municipal Higher Secondary School with Karur Bypass Road. The Corporation had in March this year begun underground sewerage scheme works and later water pipelines were laid for the dedicated water supply scheme. Later on, house service connections were also given and the condition of the road turned from bad to worse. Though all the works were completed in July, tar-topping the road is yet to be done in the stretch affecting the motorists and residents. “Gravels protrude from the road surface making it difficult for us to operate our vehicles”, said M. Sharath of Solar. He said that the trench on one side of the road was not closed properly as vehicles from Karur Bypass Road to Kollampalayam faced much hardship. “The road had turned completely non-motorable”, he said and expressed fear that the ensuing monsoon would turn the condition of the road to be much worse. Since four-wheelers were allowed to use the stretch from the school to bypass road, two-wheelers found it difficult in operating their vehicles leading to frequent traffic congestion. “The road is very narrow and four-wheelers should not be allowed to use the stretch”, said another motorist S. Ram of Pudur. When rain water stagnates on the damaged road, operating two-wheelers is a challenging one, he said and wanted relaying works to be done before the onset of the monsoon.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Plus Two original marksheets begins in Erode||Distribution of original marksheets for students of Class 12 who took up their examination in March commenced at all higher secondary schools in the district here on Wednesday. A total of 22,431 students from 218 schools appeared for the examinations in which 21,755 students passed. Later, during the examination held on July 27, a total of 26 students who were unable to write their examination on March 24, appeared for the exam. Students wearing mask and after sanitising their hands were allowed inside the schools to receive their marksheets. Students, who have cleared all the subjects in class 11 and 12 board examinations, were given two separate original marksheets while students who did not clear subjects in either class were given a joint marksheet. Private candidates also received their marksheets from the exam centres where they took up the exams. After receiving the mark sheets, registering the qualification with employment exchange was done at the respective schools by the teachers in the portal. The Department of Training had provided training to teachers to make online entries for registration.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex fixes Rs. 2.70 crore festival target in Erode||Collector C. Kathiravan inaugurated the Deepavali special sale at the Co-optex Vasantham showroom here on Tuesday. Silk saris from Kancheepuram, Coimbatore, Arani, Thanjavur and handloom dhotis, saris, towels, bed-spreads from various parts of the State, pillow covers, cotton saris, readymade shirts and special saris are displayed for sale. Mr. Kathiravan said that the Tamil Nadu Handloom Development Corporation had fixed a sales target of Rs. 2.70 crore for the festival season, while a special rebate of 30% is offered for every purchase made from Wednesday. He said that the Co-optex was marketing various products across the country for the past 85 years, thereby improving the livelihood of weavers. Mr. Kathiravan said that during Deepavali 2019, a sales volume of Rs. 2.29 crore was jointly achieved both by the showrooms in Erode and at Gobichettipalayam. “For the current season, a sales target of Rs. 2.70 crore has been fixed for the two showrooms”, he said.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco advisory ahead of monsoon||Ahead of Northeast monsoon, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has issued an advisory to the general public to avoid electrocution and other electric-related incidents. A press release from the Superintending Engineer, Erode Electricity Distribution Circle, said that people were asked not to touch power cables or conductors that have snapped and were asked to immediately alert Tangedco office without delay. They should not dry clothes and place advertisement materials in the electric posts or touch the lines passing through their terrace, the release warned. The release asked the public to use only electrical goods with ISI mark and wiring should be done by the contractors authorised by the electricity board. The release said that only three socket pins should be used for refrigerator, grinder and other household appliances to connect with the switch boxes. All the plugs should be in a place that children cannot reach, the release added. The board has also asked the people to stay away from pillar boxes or distribution structures and also away from electrical and electronic appliances during lightning. If people come across snapped wire or other electric related issues, they should contact, 94458-57205/6/7/8 or contact the WhatsApp helpline number 94458-51912, the release added.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Despite protest, idol removed from forest area||Tension prevailed for a while at Arapalayam Junction in Hasanur on Tuesday when the Forest Department attempted to remove a stone idol at the Pisil Mariamman temple, which was opposed by the local people. Motive questioned The temple is located inside the forest area coming under the Hasanur Division of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) where special puja is being held on Mondays and people from nearby hamlets visit the temple. The tribal people said that they were offering prayers at the temples for many generations and questioned the motive behind removing the idol. Talks held Personnel told the people that they had received instructions to remove all idols placed without structures and in the open . As people continued to oppose, K.V. Appala Naidu, District Forest Officer, Hasanur Division, and Deputy Director, STR, and Hasanur Panchayat Union president Subramani arrived at the spot and held talks with the people. Officials said that people need to obtain permission from the Forest Department for visiting temples located inside the forest areas and added that idols kept in open spaces would be removed. Later, the idol was removed and taken to the forest office.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Weavers demand cash assistance||Urging the State government to immediately release cash assistance of Rs. 2,000 as relief during lockdown that was announced in May, members of the Erode District Handloom Weaving Workers’ Association staged a demonstration outside Chennimalai bus stand here on Wednesday. Led by C. Kannnusamy, AITUC Chennimalai Union president and S. Chinnasamy, AITUC State Secretary, members said the government announced that weavers, who have not registered as members in the handloom weaving workers welfare board, will be given assistance of Rs. 2,000. Three months have passed, the workers are yet to receive the assistance.
15 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tiger found dead at STR||An eight-year-old male tiger was found dead in Bhavani Sagar Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here on Tuesday. Officials said that during patrolling, personnel found the carcass at Bannari beat in Thurugamalai area and alerted the higher officials. On Wednesday, a team led by Assistant Wildlife Veterinary Surgeon at STR, carried out an autopsy on the carcass. Later, the carcass was cremated at the spot. Officials said that the post-mortem report revealed there were no external injuries and teeth and nails were intact. Preliminary investigation shows the tiger could have died due to internal haemorrhage. Samples were lifted and sent for laboratory analysis.
15 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI/DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Date extended for applying licence to set up cracker shop||In view of the Deepavali festival, those seeking to set up temporary fireworks shops here are required to apply for the same under the Explosives Rules 2008. According to an administration release, the date for submission of applications for license has been extended up to October 23. According to the administration, the applications may be uploaded at the e-seva centres along with an identity proof that may include voter ID, PAN card, Aadhaar card and passport size photograph of the applicant.
15 October 2020||KRISNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||PM-Kisan scam: Rs. 2.29 crore recovered||In the crackdown on the fake accounts that had dogged the PM-Kisan scheme here in the district, the administration has so far recovered Rs. 2.29 crore from 6,130 accounts as of October 13. According to an administration release, 8,097 accounts of beneficiaries unrelated to farming had benefited from the scam. Of these, funds from 1,731 accounts remained to be recovered. Five persons have been arrested from here.
15 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu startup policy promises to establish IOT, AI, says Minister||The Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy 2018-2023 promises to establish, support infrastructure and strengthen existing mechanism in thrust areas such as internet of things (IOT) and artificial intelligence (AI), according to Revenue, Disaster Management & IT Minister R.B. Udayakumar. Inaugurating the ITCA Academy of TN Global Technology Forum 2020 through video-conference at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, he said the State was a leader in the country in e-governance, IT and BPM exports, presence of globally recognised software as a service (SAAS) companies, attracting investments and creating jobs. Even during a pandemic, the State government signed MoUs worth more than Rs. 20,000 crore and launched block chain policy, ethical AI and cyber security policy to ensure safety of digital mode. Mr. Udayakumar said the commissionerate of e-governance had taken a few initiatives in the State including Arasu e-seva centre, Makkal number and Amma e-grammam. Lauding the Centre of Excellence in Emerging Technologies (CEET), the Minister said detecting internal bleedings under CEET from CT scan, identification of pest, diseases and nutrient deficiency of crop using AI, computer vision based attendance system, State family database, creating a chatbot for facilitating delivery of government services to the citizens were some of the projects undertaken. The CEET was created only in January 2019 and, within a short period, the government had been able to penetrate into key areas. The objective was to bridge the knowledge gap between development and application of emerging technologies in various government departments. The Minister also said the State government was the first to sign an MoU and collaborate with a premier research institute like the IIT Madras for harnessing the power of AI and block chain technology in areas of health, education and agriculture. ICT Academy of TN head Lakshmi Narayan presided. HansRaj Verma, additional chief secretary, IT Department, M. Sivakumar, CEO, ICT Academy of TN, among others, addressed technical sessions. The five-day conference was expected to deliberate on upcoming IT policies and give impetus to e-governance initiatives in government departments, officials said. In a brief interaction with media persons, Mr. Udayakumar said the north-east monsoon was set to begin on October 20. All 38 districts in the State had been instructed to take measures, and Collector-level preparedness meetings had been held. “The official machinery is geared to tackle emergencies that may arise out of the monsoon,” he responded to a specific query. He said there was an additional 24% rainfall from the south-west monsoon, which had greatly benefitted agriculture operations in many districts across the State. The water bodies that were desilted would be able to conserve water for irrigation and drinking purposes. The government had formed zonal-level groups to handle the situation. The weather forecast suggested that there would be moderate rainfall in southern parts of the State and heavy to very heavy rain in some northern parts of Tamil Nadu. All hill stations were also being closely watched, Mr. Udayakumar added.
15 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai-Rameswaram cycle yatra to stress safety precautions||Collector T.G. Vinay flagged off a cycle yatra here on Tuesday, in which the youth club members of Nehru Yuva Kendra would cycle from Madurai to Rameswaram to create awareness of COVID-19. Inaugurating the yatra, the Collector said that people must strictly follow COVID-19 safety precautions to further bring down the positive cases in the district. “If people display any symptoms, then they must immediately get themselves tested,” he said. The district administration was taking several measures to spread awareness of COVID-19 safety precautions, Dr. Vinay added. S. Senthil Kumar, Assistant Director of Nehru Yuva Kendra, Madurai, said that a total of 31 youth volunteers and 10 facilitators took part in the cycle yatra. A total of 167 km would be covered in three days. The yatra would conclude at Abdul Kalam Manimandapam in Ramanathapuram district on October 15. State Director of Nehru Yuva Kendra M.N.Natraj said the youth club members played an important role during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown period. They created awareness of COVID-19 safety precautions in villages and supplied food, medicines and essentials to vulnerable sections. “They were the bridge between the district administration and those who were under home isolation,” he added.
15 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage protest over man’s murder near Usilampatti||Scores of villagers on Wednesday refused to allow the police to take the body of S. Chelladurai, 43, who was hacked to death at Soolapuram near Usilampatti the previous night, to hospital for postmortem. The victim’s wife, Malarkodi, said they were waylaid while returning home after offering worship at Chellandiamman temple in their village. An armed gang attacked her husband and murdered him near Santhanamariamman temple at Ulaipatti around 8 p.m. As soon as news of the murder spread, scores of villagers gathered at the spot and staged a protest demanding arrest of the accused who belonged to a rival group. According to police, after a stone-pelting incident reported at the temple festival last year, Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer V. Rajkumar called for a peace meeting in which caste Hindus and SC members participated. While the SC members demanded that they be allowed inside the temple during the festival to offer worship, the caste Hindus objected. The RDO denied permission to hold the festival. Only the ritual of madhu kudam was allowed as villagers feared that stopping the ritual might bring bad omen to the village. Tuesday’s murder took place in this backdrop. Malarkodi accused over 10 persons, including N. Thangappan of the SC community, for the murder, police said. After police officials pacified the villagers, the body was taken to government hospital in Usilampatti. However, the villagers said they would not allow postmortem till a family member of the victim was given a government job and they were paid compensation.
15 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs CBI to file counter affidavit||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a counter affidavit from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the bail petition filed by suspended Sub-Inspector of Police P. Raghu Ganesh, involved in the case of custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks at Sattankulam. Directing the CBI to file its counter affidavit, Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan adjourned the hearing till November 3. Raghu Ganesh has been remanded in judicial custody in Madurai Central Prison. The premier investigative agency had filed the charge sheet against the then Inspector S. Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamidurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai, in September. Special Sub-Inspector of Police Pauldurai, an accused in the case, died after he contracted COVID-19.
15 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Entries invited for Aarambam contest||Entries are invited from students and mainstream entrepreneurs for the sixth edition of Aarambam — the startup contest organised by Young Indians (Yi) in association with Nativelead Foundation. Speaking to reporters, Yi chairman G. Kalyana Sundaram said the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) was encouraging youngsters to come up with innovative ideas that could be put to use in industry and gave them identity as entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship vertical chair Sharmila Devi said the contest, conducted since 2015, was aimed at encouraging students, on the one hand, and entrepreneurs, on the other, as they could move on to the next level. Aspirants should send their entries towww.aarambam.inbefore October 31 with their business ideas. The selected entries (both students and mainstream) would be invited for virtual evaluation on November 20. The prize winners would get Rs. 25,000 (first), Rs. 15,000 (second) and 10,000 (third) prizes. R Sivarajah of Nativelead foundation said the nation was poised towards ‘new age entrepreneurship’, and technology coupled with innovation were the main features. A venture fund would be started from Madurai. Poornima Venkatesh, co-chair Yi Madurai chapter, said Aarambam would be a great platform for students as they could showcase their ideas, and if they worked out, they could move forward with an entrepreneur tag swiftly. The speakers also recalled the success story of Happy Hens, a startup initiative which Aarambam had encouraged a few years ago. Hence, the idea and mental preparedness were important.
15 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘We are yet to trace accused’||Madurai District Police are yet to trace the accused in two murder cases reported in rural district limits in the last few days, SP Sujit Kumar said here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Sujit Kumar said police had vital clues in the double murder of Kunnathur panchayat president R. Krishnarajan and pump operator A. Munisamy on Monday. A case of rioting had been booked against 20 persons who ransacked the house of former panchayat president Tirupathi and secretary Palpandi alias Veeranan suspecting them to be behind the double murder. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes has sought a report on the case. On the murder at Soolapuram, the SP said though locals alleged it to be the handiwork of people belonging to another caste, investigation was still going on. On Anaikaraipatti villagers’ demand for action against police officials for ‘custodial death’ of a youth last month, he said re-post-mortem had been done and the report would be sent to the High Court. On revocation of the suspension of two Sub-Inspectors accused in the case, the SP said punishment would be based on the outcome of the investigation.
15 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks State’s response on quota for govt. school students||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought the State government’s response on the decision taken with regard to implementation of 7.5 % horizontal reservation for government school students who cleared National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in medical admission. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that a decision had to be taken with respect to implementation of the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020. The court said the Bill was passed by the Legislative Assembly unanimously on September 15 and sent to the Governor for his assent on the very same day. However, it had been pending for one month without any decision being taken on it. A decision had to be taken at the earliest, the judges said. The judges pointed out that as per the data available only three, five and six students from government schools got admission in medical colleges in 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 respectively. NEET results were to be published on October 16. If no decision was taken with regard to reservation for government school students, definitely less number of students would get admission and the interests of the students of government schools would be affected, the judges said, and directed the State to respond on October 16. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions which sought a direction to the State to implement horizontal reservation for government school students as recommended by the commission headed by retired High Court Judge P. Kalaiyarasan.
15 October 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases in Perambalur district lowest in State||Perambalur district recorded the lowest number of COVID-19 cases among all districts in Tamil Nadu over the last six months. Senior officials attribute it to intensive testing and low population density. With a population of around 6.41 lakh, personal distancing is practised, said V. Santha, Collector. “We do not have to force people to follow the norms as the number of people per square km is markedly low,” she said. The COVID-19 testing facility can process up to 800 samples, and while at least 400 to 500 are being lifted per day, the cases have not crossed the 20-mark in six weeks, she added. As on Wednesday, a total of 2013 patients had tested positive. Among them, 1911 have been discharged and only 82 active cases remain. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Geetharani said that while in larger districts, apartments, gated communities and congested areas were causes for spread of the viral infection, Perambalur did not have any such contributing factors. Of the 1209 returnees from other countries, only one person had tested positive. After attending the single-source event in New Delhi, only one man and three of his contacts tested positive in the district. People who had been working at the Koyambedu market and tested positive on return accounted for 130 cases. However, since quarantine norms were in place, the spread was significantly controlled. “We had the infrastructure in place since March,” Dr. Geetharani said. While the positivity rate was as high as 13% between July and August, it has fallen to 1.3% since September. “The biggest challenge was a large manufacturing company with over 5,000 employees. To keep a check on spread of the infection, a team of health officials should conduct a screening test at least once a month,” Dr. Geetharani said. A special 50-bed quarantine facility has also been kept ready there. A total of 13 medical camps, all Primary Healthcare Centres and the four government hospitals are fully equipped to handle it, in case another spike is recorded, she said adding- “Through close monitoring of the Influenza-Like Illnesses, Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and 10 other factors, we can easily predict the spike or drop in COVID-19 cases. Each PHC, private hospital provides this data, which is regularly monitored,” she said.
15 October 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Four ‘kalasams’ stolen from Ekambareshwarar Temple||Four ‘kalasams’ were reportedly stolen from the Sri Ekambareshawar Temple at Elumur a few days ago. The ‘kalasams’ atop the shrines of Amman, Chandikeswarar, Vinayagar and Nandhi Mandapam were found missing. The temple is under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. Based on a complaint from Akila, Executive Officer, Sri Abaratharakshagar Temple, at S. Aduthurai in Kunnam taluk, the Mangalamedu Police have registered a theft case.
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi has a vengeful attitude towards fishermen: Minister||Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao has accused Lt Governor Kiran Bedi of adopting a “vengeful,” attitude towards the fishermen community in the Union Territory. In a letter to Ms. Bedi on Wednesday, the Minister said the “vengeful” attitude of the Lt Governor had resulted in the stalling of the disbursal of an enhanced pension scheme for the elderly in the community, the trawling ban assistance and the implementation of employment-oriented schemes in the fishing sector. Mr. Rao, who also holds the fishing portfolio, said the Cabinet had decided to enhance the pension for elderly fishermen. After much delay, the Lt Governor cleared the proposal in March this year and accordingly the pension was disbursed for April. When the file was presented again to her for sanction to implement the enhanced pension after presenting a full budget, the Lt Governor refused to give permission citing funds crunch. She wanted the government to revert to the earlier pension scheme. The decision of the Lt Governor had affected the life of around 7,855 fishermen families, the Minister said. Many fishermen are yet to receive the ban relief assistance due to various restrictions imposed by the Lt Governor, he said. The government of India had proposed to establish a fish processing units in Puducherry and Karaikal region for exporting products. But the Lt Governor refused to give permission and instead suggested setting up of dairy and honey production units. The suggestion was not feasible as there was already a shortage in milk production and there was lack of availability of honey, the Minister said. “This shows her intentional vengeance towards the fishermen community,” he alleged. Stating that he had decided not to collect a salary or any allowance as a measure to bring down expenditure, the Minister requested the Lt Governor to cut down the expenditure of Raj Nivas too.
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No question of concealing facts, says Bedi||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said there was no question of her concealing facts regarding medical seats admission or Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) as she was only citing the judiciary in one issue and the settled policy of the Union Government in the other. Responding to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy’s remarks at a press conference the other day accusing her of not disclosing the full facts on these issues, Ms. Bedi said she had stuck to the truth in pointing to the clarity of the note from the Ministry of Home Affairs issued on October 6 that the Government of India policy was to provide benefits by DBT mode only. “It was received from the MHA on clarification sought. Hence there is no question of anything personal in this. This is the truth. As regards the medical seats orders, it is the Judiciary’s decision. This too is the truth,” Ms. Bedi said. The Lt. Governor went on to list the advantages of the DBT such as it did away with transmission loss, bills, contracts, tenders and complaints about distribution. The system also eliminated complaints of quality, pilferage and delay in delivery and provided the consumer, the choice of time and quality. So, when a system works for the people, why should it disturb people’s representatives? Ms. Bedi sought to know. “The deciding authority for the Union Territory is MHA. The office of the Lt. Governor works as an Administrator and a link between the Centre and the Government of Puducherry to ensure that the interests of the people are safeguarded in the most honest and transparent manner,” Ms. Bedi said. “And medical seats order is of the Judiciary. So where is the question of lies?”, she asked.  The office of the Lt. Governor works as an administrator and a link between the Centre and the Government of Puducherry to ensure that the interests of the people are safeguarded
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre has no plan to merge U.T. with T.N.’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has assured a BJP delegation that the Centre has no plan of merging the Union Territory with Tamil Nadu. Mr. Reddy made this clear to a delegation, led by nominated legislator and president of BJP V. Saminathan, that met him in New Delhi on Tuesday evening. The party, in a statement, said the delegation had requested the Minister to take appropriate action against Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy for making false allegation that the Centre was planning to merge the Union Territory with Tamil Nadu. The Centre had never thought of merging the Union Territory with Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister’s statement was false, Mr. Saminathan said.
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Teams to check on patients post recovery’||The Health Department would form teams to undertake door-to-door visits on patients, who had been discharged after treatment for COVID-19, to follow up on their health post recovery, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said on Wednesday. Addressing newsmen, Mr. Rao said the team would document their findings and this would help determine if COVID-19 left long-term effects and also identify persons in need of follow up care. The Union Territory, which had undertaken tests on 2.46 lakh samples, had covered approximately 18 per cent of its population, the Minister said. Meanwhile, Puducherry recorded 246 new COVID-19 cases from 4,521 tests and a sole death on Wednesday. A 36-year-old man with chronic renal ailment succumbed to coronavirus at the MGMCRI in the capital. With this, the COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory aggregated to 568. Puducherry accounted for 471 deaths, followed by Karaikal (51), Yanam (42) and Mahe (four). The overall tally stands at 568 deaths, 4,525 active cases, including 2,885 patients in home quarantine, a cumulative caseload of 32,245 and 27,152 recovered patients. The test positivity rate was 5.44%, case fatality rate 1.76% and recovery rate 84.21%. According to a bulletin from S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, among the new cases, 189 were from Puducherry, 41 detected in Karaikal, six in Yanam and 10 in Mahe region. The Director said that 2.46 lakh samples have been tested so far of which 2.10 lakh samples were negative.
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Mettupalayam||A 40-year-old man was hacked to death by a gang in Mettupalayam on Wednesday. Labour dispute Police identified the deceased as Jeeva, a labour contractor, working in the Mettupalayam Industrial Estate. The murder could be the result of some labour dispute in the estate, police said.
15 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Conservator of Forests booked||The Orleanpet police have registered a case against Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Dinesh Kannan in connection with a sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman officer. Based on a complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 354 A (punishment for attempting to outrage modesty of women) and 354 D (punishment for stalking) against the officer. Mr. Kannan was recently posted in the Union Territory. The woman officer had complained to the police that she was facing harassment ever since he joined duty.
15 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Project Shield launched to protect women and children||Project Shield, a unique initiative of the Tiruchi Range Police Department, aimed at combating crimes against children and women and creating a safe and violence free community, was launched here on Wednesday. The police will involve various stakeholders working for welfare of women and children. Collector P. Uma Maheswari spoke. Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan said 25 hot spots where crimes against women and children were found to be increasingly reported would be identified. They would concentrate in those hot spots to ascertain the causes and the support required. Awareness programmes would be conducted involving women self help groups to drive home safety-related messages. The project is being implemented in all the five districts of the Tiruchi Range: Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur.
15 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man in freezer: case of negligence registered against brother||The Salem City Police on Wednesday registered a case against a 70-year-old man for his negligent act in keeping his brother in a freezer box for over 12 hours. Balasubramania Kumar (74) of Kandampatti was placed in a freezer box by his brother Saravanan on Monday and his family who presumed him to be dead. However, when the persons from the company, who placed the freezer box, came to collect the box, they found Balasubramania Kumar to be alive on Tuesday. Suramangalam police were alerted and he was admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Based on a complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 287 (negligent conduct to endanger human life) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code against Saravanan.
15 October 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Congress MP criticises Kushboo||Like the Olympics event, which is held once in four years, actor Kushboo hopped from one party to another, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that anyone may get an impression that the actor was not engaged in politics on principle. “When a person, who had vehemently opposed the BJP all these years, it would not be just possible to join the party now. The ideologies of Congress and the BJP were different on very many issues...” he noted. On NEET, the MP said that he initially welcomed, but later realised that a majority of the students from rural backgrounds had difficulties in sailing through the examination. Hence, the State government should ensure that Tamil Nadu got exemption and scrapped the NEET.
15 October 2020||T.K Rohit,TAMIL NADU||Sub-committee to examine sensitive coastal areas in T.N.||The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment has suggested that a sub-committee visit sensitive coastal areas of Tamil Nadu for examination before coastal protection measures envisaged under the Comprehensive Shoreline Protection Management Plan are implemented in Tamil Nadu. The EAC also said that the shoreline change maps prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) and the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) be used as the basis for developing any shore protection schemes in the State, as suggested by a team of experts from IIT-Madras in its report to the EAC. “The detailed shore protection measures should be as per CRZ Notification 2011 and subsequent amendments thereon. Implications of Coastal Economic Zone (CEZ) development under Sagarmala need to be taken care of suitably while preparing detailed coastal protection measures,” the report had said. The team had also suggested that the Tamil Nadu government circulate the plan to neighbouring States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Union Territory of Puducherry as implementation of the plan might have implications there as well. The EAC in May 2019 had sought comments and suggestions from the neighbouring States and that these be made available by the Tamil Nadu government. The EAC was informed at the recent meeting that the Tamil Nadu government in July this year had requested the MoEF to approve the plan pending comments from the neighbouring States. The EAC said the Ministry may send a reminder to these State to send their views by year-end and posted the matter for further consideration after the comments are received.
15 October 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Be guarded while handling people during pandemic times’||Appealing to officers and executives from industrial organisations to continue to be guarded while handling people in the covid-19 pandemic times, Collector M Pallavi Baldev said on Wednesday that the standard operating procedures should be adhered to strictly in all public places. Interacting with senior officers and representatives from the trade and industry body, she said that workers engaged in industries, including agro-based ones and in construction activities, should be thoroughly screened/scanned prior to permitting them inside the campuses. By adhering to the SOP, the virus can be distanced. Moreover, people could swiftly revive and reconstruct the economy, if they were healthy, Ms. Baldev said and recalled the crucial times experienced by the officials, doctors and frontline workers some three months back. Thanks to the efforts, the district has been facing a declining trend, but she underlined that the administration wouldn't relax, but be more vigilant for the next 100 days. Ramanathapuram Echoing similar views, Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said that over the last two months, they had tested 94,724 people out of which 5,797 had tested positive. So far, the district had discharged 5,489 till date and only 186 were active cases of covid-19. The Collector, while speaking to reporters after inaugurating the Cooptex sale for the ensuing Deepavali, said that the sustained efforts by the teams facilitated in bringing down the positive cases. The feedback collected from patients in the isolation wards in hospitals helped to rectify and improve in the functioning of the administration. The containment plans too worked well as the fever cases or other ailments were identified much earlier, Mr. Rao said and added that the northeast monsoon may be another testing time for the officials. He appealed to residents to adhere to physical distancing norms when they moved out of their houses.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp drop in cases, deaths in central region||The central region on Wednesday recorded a sharp drop in COVID-19 cases with 416 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Seven deaths, two each in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur and one each in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Nagapattinam were recorded. In Thanjavur, a 65-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, and a 72-year-old man with a history of diabetes died of COVID-19. A 61-year-old man with a history of bronchial asthma, and a 64-year-old man with a comorbidity of diabetes succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruvarur. A 70-year-old man from Tiruchi with a history of obstructive pulmonary disease, a 29-year-old woman from Ariyalur who suffered from anemia and thrombocytopenia and a 73-year-old man from Nagapattinam with a history of systemic hypertension succumbed to COVID-19 according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. While Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of COVID cases amongst the central districts, the total number of cases recorded per day fell below 100 with 97 patients testing positive on Wednesday. Tiruvarur recorded 80 fresh cases for the viral infection while Tiruchi recorded 68 of whom many were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, a total of 37 patients, of whom 28 were treated at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, and nine, at the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovery from the viral infection. All other districts recorded a drop in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. In Pudukottai, 52 cases were reported, among which were local index cases, patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their primary contacts. Nagapattinam recorded 46 new COVID-19 cases, among which were inter-district travellers, primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses.In Karur, 35 fresh cases were recorded, among which were residents of Valluvar Nagar, Kattuputhur among other localities. Interdistrict travellers from Tiruchi and Dindigul also tested positive. A total of 30 patients tested positive in Ariyalur while, in Perambalur, eight patients tested positive. Of the eight, three hailed from the Perambalur block, two from Veppanthattai, one from Veppur and two from Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, 459 COVID-19 test samples were lifted at the various Primary Healthcare Centres and the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital and sent for testing.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur art plates: a vintage mix of multiple skills||At his home in Nanayakarar Chetty Street, Thanjavur, which doubles up as his workshop, M Paramasivam, 72, covers a brass kodam (water pot) with ornate etchings of floral motifs, using a tiny chisel. Paramasivam, who started working at the age of 16, is one of a dwindling number of old-school artisans who specialise in what used to be known as ‘Thanjavur kalai’ (an umbrella term for an art that incorporates embossing, etching, engraving and filigree on metallic surfaces). ‘Thanjavur kalai’ requires the skills of a metalworker, jeweller and a designer of not just patterns, but also tools. That is why it is quite common to see four or more people work on each step of an artefact. “I am the last in five generations of my family in ‘Thanjavur kalai’; I hope the glory days of our craft will come back in my lifetime,” says Paramasivam. Patronised by Maratha ruler Serfoji II (1777-1832), ‘Thanjavur kalai’ craftsmen were kept busy with orders for royal gifts, mostly decorative salvers, jewel boxes and vessels like water pots and ewers. In its contemporary version, the craft has been commercially reinterpreted as ‘Thanjavur kalai thattu’ or Thanjavur Art Plate, a ceremonial platter made with silver, copper and brass layers in three stages: the base plate with alternate copper and silver panels, a bigger embossed silver motif on the central section, and the setting of globular jigna or sequins in the secondary relief. Thanjavur Art Plate was given a Geographical Indications (GI) tag in 2007, as a proof of its long heritage. Once prized as the pinnacle of artistry in Tamil Nadu, it was often presented to visiting dignitaries by the State Government. In 1980, for instance, an elaborately embellished Thanjavur Art Plate was gifted by the then-Governor Sadiq Ali to Britain’s Prince Charles during his visit to India. With prices fixed according to size, Thanjavur Art Plates can fetch anywhere upwards of Rs. 4,000. “Every Thanjavur kalai piece is unique, because the artisan will customise the design to suit the surface. It is a pity that it has become confined to a single product,” says N Paramasivam, president of the district-level Thanjavur Art Plate Artisans’ Welfare Association. The recently-formed industry body has 200 members. “We formed the welfare association mainly to protect the authenticity of our products,” says PGA Babu, the secretary. “While a genuine 10-inch Thanjavur Art Plate in the Government-run Poompuhar showroom costs Rs. 4,500, you can find something similar with fake metal adhesive strips for as less as Rs. 700 just a few shops down the road. Customers should respect the workmanship, and patronise only genuine outlets for buying our plates,” he says. Watching the artisans work requires several trips to the home-based pattrais (workshops) in the Therku Veedhi area in Thanjavur, where plates travel from hand to hand in different stages of completion. Traditional artisans tend to buy old brassware from shops because their thicker gauge allows them to work on intricate designs from scratch. A hot paste of pungaliya tree resin and brick powder or red sand is poured into orifices of vessels which solidifies as it cools, allowing the artisan to work on the outer surface without denting the base. Once the design is finished, the solid paste is carefully removed from the interiors. A similar waxy background fixes plates firmly to the work surface until the embellishment is over. While religious motifs such as Ashtalakshmi (eight avatars of Goddess Lakshmi) and Dasavatharam (10 incarnations of Lord Vishnu), are commonly used on Thanjavur Art Plates, designs can be varied to include corporate logos and Nature themes. Aided by lathes, iron tools and ground-level forges, the artisans also create lead dies for the motifs from scratch, transferring paper patterns to copper and silver foil by punching tiny dots through the diagram. “Artisans of my father’s generation worked long hours to keep up with orders. There was a healthy competition among peers to see who would come up with the prettiest product,” says Babu. The cottage industry has been witnessing a slow decline despite its protected status. Once employing over 200 artisans and their families in Thanjavur, today there are only around 60 people still active in this art form. Many artisans feel that the concentration on plates has left little scope for them to work on other items like vessels and devotional images that used to be valued both as artefacts and for religious worship. “I used to participate in workshops held by handicraft emporia across India, and also send products to the bigger cities. But for the past 15 years, the market for other items bearing Thanjavur kalai embellishments has died out,” says artisan Paramasivam. “If art lovers and artisans both return to the heritage roots of the craft, it will definitely flourish again.” Poompuhar, the State Government-run handicraft emporium, is the sole authorised source for genuine Thanjavur Art Plates, and so, saw a steady demand that kept sales as high as Rs. 6-10 lakh per month. The recent lockdown changed that. “The orders have stopped because of the restrictions on public meetings, especially Government functions where our plates are usually given away as mementoes,” says K Arun, the showroom manager. To encourage revival, the authorities are planning to open a dedicated unit to produce Thanjavur Art Plates. “The machines will be available in our common workshop, which can be used by artisans for a nominal charge,” says Arun. “We may be able to draw a younger crop of artisans to this craft if we use technology to ease some of the hard physical labour involved in plate production.” To create a genuine Thanjavur Art Plate, artisans need to develop a high level of artistic skill that requires knowledge of mathematics, geometry and metallurgy, besides drawing. Many of the older artisans achieved this despite never having attended school. “The young people in our community are getting educated these days, to find better-paying jobs. I hope education will inspire them to reinvigorate our profession,” says Babu.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit girl from Anitha’s native village to pursue medical course||Three years after S. Anitha of Kuzhumur in Ariyalur district ended her life, unable to get an MBBS seat through the National Eligibility- cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the dream of another girl hailing from the village of studying medicine has become a reality. Daughter of daily wage earners Shankar and Dhanalakshmi, S. Soundarya will fly to the Philippines to pursue medical education, free of cost, at the Davao Medical Education School Foundation, thanks to a private sponsor. Besides the expenditure for her education, her boarding, food and transport expenses during the period of her study will be sponsored by Transworld Educare Private Limited. Soundarya’s ambition to become a doctor came to be known to Anitha’s brother S.A Manirathnam, who is running a charitable trust in memory of his sister at the village. “The medical institute’s office at Mahabalipuram near Chennai, which wanted to help a poor girl pursue medicine in memory of Anitha, got in touch with me. That was when I told them about Soundarya’s ambition and her poor economic background,” said Mr. Manirathnam, managing trustee of Dr. Anitha Memorial Charitable Trust. A representative from the institute in Chennai came to Kuzhumur a few days ago and interacted with Mr. Manirathnam and Ms. Soundarya to ascertain the girl’s wish. Ms. Soundarya, who had completed Plus Two in a higher secondary school at Kuzhumur with 410 out of 600 marks, said she was sceptical about her chance of studying medicine owing to her economic background and she might be at a disadvantage because of the NEET. Soundarya’s family runs on the wages earned by her parents and her elder brother, who works in Chennai as a labourer after completing Plus Two. Her elder sister is pursuing electrical and electronics engineering at a private college near Tiruchi. “I had almost decided to take up law or some other degree course when this opportunity came knocking at my door,” she said, thanking Mr. Manirathnam for the help and motivation. “I see an Anitha in Soundarya and want her dream of becoming a doctor is realised,” Mr. Manirathnam said. A ‘Free Education Certificate’ from David K Pillai, founder and CEO, Transworld Educare Private Limited, was handed over to Ms. Soundarya a few days ago. Mr. Manirathnam said the trust that he runs has been extending financial support to a girl student from Jayamkondam in Ariyalur district, who is studying medicine, and to a few others.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Festival sale launched in Tiruchi||A sales target of Rs. 3.3 crore has been set for the two Cooptex outlets in Tiruchi this year for the Deepavali festival season. Launching the special 30 % discount sales on Wednesday at the Pothigai Co-optex outlet, Collector S. Sivarasu said the makers of the handloom products including silk sarees, cotton sarees, shirts, nighties, bed spreads, pillows and carpets State-wide had kept pace with the emerging technologies and designs.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons fatally knocked down by freight train||Vijay (25) and Santhosh (20), both of Kumbakonam, were fatally knocked down by a freight train between Darasuram and Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Tuesday. Government Railway Police said they were crossing the railway track when they were fatally knocked down. The bodies were sent to the Government Hospital in Kumbakonam for post mortem. The police have registered a case.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for track doubling||The Thanjavur District Railway Users Association has urged the DMK Rajya Sabha member M. Shanmugam to prevail upon the Railway Board to approve doubling of the Thanjavur - Villupuram mainline section for operation of more trains in this route, its secretary in-charge A. Giri said in a memorandum submitted to him recently. The section was one of the important stretches in the Tiruchi Railway Division. Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai were important revenue generating stations with high levels of passenger patronage and footfalls. They also have regular outward freight consignments of sugar and rice and inward consignment of fertilizer and cement. The traffic capacity on the Thanjavur - Villupuram section had reached the saturation level with 104 % in Mayiladuthurai - Villupuram section and 95 % in the Thanjavur- Mayiladuthurai stretch. Passengers on the mainline section were deprived of required long distance trains as the stretch was a single line. Travelling public, trade bodies and consumer organisations have been consistently demanding doubling of the section which serves an alternative route to the chord line stretch from Tiruchi to Villupuram via Srirangam, Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam. Stations in the very old mainline section such as Thanjavur, Papanasam, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Chidambaram and Cuddalore fetch good revenue for the railways. Amid repeated pleas for doubling the Thanjavur - Villupuram section, the railway authorities had conducted a survey for track doubling.
15 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New mode of festival advance criticised||The All India Defence Employees’ Federation has criticised the Union Finance Ministry for its announcement that Rs. 10,000, recoverable in 10 monthly instalments, will be paid as festival advance. The ministry said the festival advance in the form of Rupay Card from State Bank of India will be available only up to March 31, 2021. ‘The announcement, to infuse spending, was similar to the Rs. 20 lakh crore COVID-19 relief package,’ its general secretary C. Srikumar said lamenting that the demand of the central government employees for restoration of the festival advance equal to one month basic pay has not been considered so far. The Seventh Pay Commission has abolished many recoverable advances available to the Central Government employees including festival advance, he said. The central government has impounded three instalments of Dearness Allowance which was a compensation for price rise for employees and pensioners, and has saved nearly Rs. 40,000 crore. The LTC cash packages must be without any conditions. Under the LTC Special Cash Package, one gets reimbursement of only less than 50 % of the amount spent. Moreover, purchase of products or services must be made from registered vendor through digital mode entailing 12 % GST payment. The voucher indicating the GST number and the amount paid has to be produced. ‘Therefore it is amply clear that the package will benefit business houses and the government will collect GST and IT from the central government employees, he said. The government should release the impounded DA instalments, withdraw the National Pension Scheme, revise bonus payment ceiling, revise central government group insurance scheme and sanction appointments on compassionate grounds for dependants of deceased employees, he said.
15 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Good pisanam paddy season expected||Farmers of the district are hopeful of having good harvest in the ‘pisanam’ paddy season this year as the northeast monsoon is likely to start in October-end or the first week of November even as all prime dams of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts have decent storage level. Though the northeast monsoon would start in mid-October, there is no sign of the monsoon starting before the end of this month after a low pressure in the Bay of Bengal disturbed the ‘weather system’ usually forms before the onset of the monsoon. Unexpectedly, unseasonal rain drenches the areas close to the Western Ghats for the past two days even as other parts of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts are desperately waiting for good showers. Consequently, the dams in both the districts have started receiving good influx of water. As the catchment areas of Papanasam dam experienced decent rainfall of 64 mm on Wednesday, the reservoir had an influx of 4,893 cusecs to jack up the dam’s water level from yesterday’s 89.15 feet to today’s 94.30 feet against the maximum capacity of 143 feet. The relatively small Servalar dam’s water level rose from 102 feet to 113 feet against its maximum capacity of 153 feet. However, water level in Manimuthar dam did not witness any significant rise on Wednesday as the catchment area had the precipitation of only 17 mm. After the 52 mm rainfall in its catchment areas, the Adavinainar dam at Maekkarai in Tenkasi district reached 132.10 feet against its maximum capacity of 132.22 feet on Wednesday even as it was getting 179 cusecs of water. Moreover, water level in other dams in Tenkasi district such as Gadana, Ramanadhi and Karuppanadhi are just a few feet away from the maximum capacity even as all the 3 dams are getting decent influx of water heralding that these reservoirs would reach the maximum storage level within a day or two. All waterfalls in Courtallam – Main Falls, Old Courtallam, Tiger Falls and Five Falls – were flowing menacingly since Tuesday afternoon following rain along the Western Ghats. Since the tourists are not allowed ever since COVID-19-induced lockdown was clamped, Courtallam is wearing a deserted look now.  Rainfall in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts (in mm): Papanasam Dam – 64, Kodumudiyar Dam – 60, Adavinainar Dam – 52, Servalar Dam – 42, Ramanadhi Dam – 40, Tenkasi – 31, Gundar Dam – 27, Manimuthar, Karuppanadhi and Gadana Dams – 17, Shencottai – 11, Aayikudi – 10.40, Radhapuram – 10, Kalakkad – 6.20, Moolaikkaraipatti – 5, Nanguneri – 4, Ambasamudram – 3, Cheranmahadevi – 2.40, Sivagiri, Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai – 1. Water level in dams (in feet – maximum capacity in brackets): Gadana – 76.70 (85), Ramanadhi – 76.50 (84), Karuppanadhi – 68.02 (72), Gundar – 36.10 (36.10), Adavinainar – 132.10 (132.22).
15 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||10-year-old elephant found dead near Manimuthar dam||A 10-year-old female elephant, which was spotted roaming along the periphery of the forest near Manimuthar dam in the Western Ghats for a couple of days, was found dead in a private farm at South Pappankulam on Wednesday. When the farmers of Pottal and Therkku Pappankulam near Manimuthar dam in the district spotted the elephant roaming close to their now empty ranches near the reservoir on the lap of the Western Ghats a couple of days ago, they alerted the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) officials. After assessing the animal’s condition from close quarters, the KMTR team placed food stuffed with medicines in the areas where the elephant was moving around. Since the pachyderm could not walk fast and did not take food or water, the animal’s condition deteriorated further. The elephant was found dead in the farm of Sudalaikannu of Therkku Pappankulam on Wednesday. On getting information, the KMTR officials, including Deputy Director of KMTR’s Ambasamudram Division Kommu Omkaram arrived at the spot with forest veterinarian Manoharan to conduct on-the-spot post-mortem to ascertain the cause of the death. Mr. Omkaram told The Hindu that a team of KMTR personnel had been deployed in Pottal and Therkku Pappankulam area on getting information about the elephant sluggishly moving near the now empty paddy fields. Though the food stuffed with medicines was placed at several points, the animal did not take any food. “There is no possibility of starvation death as food and water are abundantly available in this region. We, during the post-mortem, could see the elephant, having infection in the mouth, had consumed palm fruits, but could not digest it. The infection in the digestive system might have caused the death. Anyway, we can come to a conclusion only after getting the post-mortem report,” said Mr. Omkaram. He added that the organs of the animal were intact and the pathologist, who was part of the post-mortem team, alone could identify the type of infection that had caused the death. The Deputy Director also ruled out the chances of the animal being poisoned for having invaded into the fields, saying that all the paddy fields in this region were empty now as harvest had been completed.
15 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Forum orders Tangedco to pay compensation to consumer||The District Consumer Redressal Forum has ordered the Tamil Nadu Generation Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) to pay Rs. 22,277 for failing to repay the excess amount collected from a consumer after fitting faulty meter in his house. When the TANGEDCO fixed new meter in the house of R. Abubucker Siddique, 32, of Kodeeswaran Nagar in Tirunelveli Town, the new meter showed 1,000 units even when it was installed in March, 2019. As the first reading from the new meter was taken in May, 2019, the TANGEDCO staff marked the reading as 1,358 even as the consumption was only 358 units. When Mr. Abubucker pointed out this error to the TANGEDCO’s Assistant Engineer, Pettai, he reportedly admitted to the error after cross-checking the consumer’s version with the computer readings in his office. Though the official assured to fix the technical issue, it was not resolved forcing the consumer to approach the Executive Engineer (Tirunelveli Urban) and then the Superintending Engineer in search of a remedy. Meanwhile, the consumer was asked to pay Rs. 3,496 before October 17, 2019 and he had to pay the amount in a bid to save the power connection to his house. Though Mr. Abubucker had to run from pillar to post for five months, no official from TANGEDCO was prepared to help him out, forcing him to approach the district consumer redressal forum. Even after the legal notice was served, the Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineer and the Assistant Engineer, Pettai, replied that they would confirm first that if the meter was really faulty and adjust the amount in the subsequent months. Though the faulty meter was replaced by another meter, the issue remained unresolved. When the case came up before the forum, none from TANGEDCO turned up forcing the forum to decide the case based on the evidence submitted by the aggrieved petitioner. Accordingly, the forum directed the three officials to pay the compensation of Rs. 15,000, Rs. 2,277 towards the excess charge collected from the consumer and Rs. 5,000 as cost.
15 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 infection tally crosses 14,000-mark in Kanniyakumari||COVID-19 infection tally of Kanniyakumari crossed 14,000-mark to stand at 14,009 with the addition of 82 cases on Wednesday. The number of active cases is 744 after 105 patients were discharged from hospitals. With one fresh fatality, the death toll of the district rose to 237. Madurai had 74 new cases, which took its tally up to 17,710. There were 61 discharges from hospitals in the district. Tirunelveli, with the addition of 50 cases, marked a total case count of 13,680, with 644 active cases. Even as 79 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district lost one more patient to register a total of 205 fatalities. Theni reported 49 fresh cases to have a tally of 15,799. There were 60 discharges from hospitals. Forty-eight new cases raised Virudhunagar’s tally to 14,973. After 51 people were discharged, the district has 260 active cases. The district’s death toll remains at 215. A total of 45 people tested positive in Thoothukudi, taking the district’s tally up to 14,282. After the discharge of 47 people, the district has 534 active cases. The death toll remains at 125. Dindigul’s tally went up to 9,446, as 37 new cases were added on Wednesday. Hospitals in the district discharged 63 people. Ramanathapuram registered 20 new cases and its tally rose to 5,797. There were 22 discharges. Sivaganga recorded 14 fresh cases to have a tally of 5,557. There were 30 discharges reported in the district. Tenkasi, which saw the discharge of 20 people, reported six fresh cases to mark a total case count of 7,669, with 178 active cases. The district has so far lost 148 lives to the viral infection.
15 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Liquid oxygen tank installed at Tiruppur GH||A liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 3.5 kilolitres (kL) was recently installed at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital to ensure better oxygen supply for patients amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the hospital’s Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, the tank supplied by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) became functional from October 5. “We initially asked for a 10 kL capacity tank, but the tank with 3.5 kL capacity was immediately available,” she said, noting the efforts of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to ensure the early installation of the liquid medical oxygen tank at the hospital. The liquid oxygen from the tank is converted into gaseous oxygen, which is then supplied to patients requiring oxygen support. The requirement of oxygen supply for patients at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital had increased nearly 10 times between February and October due to the admission of COVID-19 and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) patients, Dr. Valli said. At the intensive care unit (ICU), 26 beds comprising 11 beds for COVID-19 patients and 15 beds for SARI patients are available and the new tank ensures better oxygen supply for the patients at the ICU, she noted. Staff and student nurses, hospital workers and anaesthesiologists monitor the liquid oxygen tank and refill it once in every two days. A second liquid oxygen tank will likely be installed soon at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, according to Dr. Valli.
15 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Experts welcome SC verdict||Conservationists have welcomed the Supreme Court’s verdict on the notification of the Sigur elephant corridor in the Nilgiris. Mudumalai Tiger Reserve field director K.K.Kaushal appreciated the “stellar role being played by the Indian judiciary in conserving the forests and the environment.” “It is imperative that the landscape is protected, as the corridor is important for elephants moving between different regions of the Sigur plateau,” said Mr. Arunsankar from the Tamil Nadu Green Movemen.  Tribal rights’ activists voiced concerns over implications the order might have for tribal communities living on the corridor.
15 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. schools will not reopen now’||Schools in Tamil Nadu will not be reopened now and any decision in the matter will be taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan in Vellore on Tuesday. The Minister was speaking at an event held in Vellore to distribute renewal and recognition extension certificates to 275 matriculation and government-aided schools in Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupathur and Tiruvannamalai districts. The Minister said that before schools reopened in Andhra Pradesh, a few students had tested positive for COVID-19. Hence, a report on reopening of schools will be prepared by the Education, Revenue and Health Departments and submitted to the Chief Minister, he said, adding that Mr. Palaniswami will take a decision on the same. “When schools reopen, safety measures will be ensured and they will be monitored,” he said. NEET questions Stating that nearly 174 of the 180 questions in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) were taken from the Tamil Nadu State Board textbooks, he emphasised the quality of the syllabus prepared by the State. “In Tamil Nadu, students have to just switch on their televisions and they can learn through Kalvi channels. They don’t need mobile phones for online learning. A total of 15.5 lakh students have joined State-run schools after this government took over. This is because our education methods have changed for the better,” he added. The School Education Minister also pointed out that over 1,000 students are undergoing free CA (Chartered Accountancy) courses and over 500 auditors are teaching them. “We will be introducing smart classes in 7,600 schools and smart boards will be introduced. Atal Tinkering Labs will be started in 982 schools in the coming year,” he added. The Minister added that the demand for the creation of Gudiyatham as an education district is being discussed with the Chief Minister.
15 October 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC team raids TNPCB official’s house||A team of sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) wing conducted a search at the rented premises of a joint chief environmental engineer of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) in Vellore. Sources say that over Rs. 2 crore, along with gold and silver, were found at M. Panneerselvam's house at Valayapathi street in Ranipet; Rs. 33.73 lakh cash was seized on Tuesday night. ‘Case to be filed’ According to DVAC sources, the sleuths also searched t the car of the accused. A case will be registered against the accused under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, they said. Sources added that the official was using the rented premises for collecting bribes. The official is in charge of six offices in Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Hosur, Vaniyambadi, Villupuram, and Vellore, and is responsible for providing approval for pollution-related clearances. Further investigation is on in the case.
15 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 112 new cases of COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 16,615, with 112 new cases reported on Wednesday. A total of 15,631 patients have been discharged and the number of active cases is 705. The deaths have touched 279. Ranipet recorded 32 new cases, taking the total to 14,136. In Tirupathur, the total number of positive cases stood at 5,903 with 63 new cases. In Tiruvannamalai, 53 new cases were recorded, taking the total to 16,78, of which 15,871 have been discharged and 669 are active cases.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 389 cases, five deaths||Salem district on Wednesday reported 274 new cases taking the tally to 24,195. While 327 persons were discharged, 2,220 continue to be under treatment. Two died, raising the toll in the district to 380. Namakkal reported 140 cases taking the tally to 7,565. As many as 250 persons were discharged, while 960 continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district on Wednesday had 389 new cases of COVID-19 while 452 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from different hospitals. The district’s tally reached 38,115 on Wednesday and the death toll touched 507. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, five COVID-19 patients from Coimbatore district succumbed to the disease on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. As many as 4,703 COVID-19 patients from the district were undergoing treatment at different treatment facilities as of Wednesday, said the Health Department. Tiruppur district reported one COVID-19 death and 168 cases, taking the overall tally to 10,537 cases. A 78-year-old man died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday, the media bulletin said. Out of the 10,537 cases, 8,982 have recovered and 1,394 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 161 deaths in total. On Wednesday, 104 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery from COVID-19. In Erode, 127 new cases were reported taking the tally to 8,648. While 131 persons were discharged, 1,022 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 98 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 5,727. The death toll increased from 31 to 32 on Wednesday while 731 are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 81 new cases and Dharmapuri reported 91 positive patients.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,000 samples being tested a day in Tiruppur, says official||With the number of COVID-19 positive patients increasing, there are several rumours, too, on social media regarding testing, facilities available, etc. The officials clarified to The Hindu on some of these. A senior official from the district administration said that around 3,000 swab samples were being collected and tested every day in Tiruppur. The samples are collected at all government hospitals and primary health centres in the district. No private laboratories are conducting COVID-19 tests in Tiruppur district. If a person tests positive for COVID-19, it is mandatory that their family members must also be tested as per the State government protocol, the official noted. No complaints were received, so far, regarding local bodies or private hospitals allegedly mobilising more persons for testing or regarding private hospitals enquiring the salary details of COVID-19 patients before admission. However, the officials are maintaining vigil, he said. According to a Corporation official, tin sheets are no longer used as barricades for houses with COVID-19 positive patients. “Earlier, we were barricading only those houses that had three or more positive cases, but now there are no such houses (in Corporation limits),” he said. Rumours dismissed He also dismissed rumours that the public were allegedly being forced to pay money for barricading entrance of houses with tin sheets. as the Corporation used its own funds to erect the barricades.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre permits T.N. to borrow extra Rs. 9,627 cr.||These States had picked the first of two options offered by the Centre — letting the States borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore of the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore estimated shortfall in GST cess collections in 2020-21, without having to worry about principal and interest repayments. The second option allowed the States to raise Rs. 2.35 lakh crore while bearing the interest costs. It found no takers. The Centre had argued that Rs. 1.1 lakh crore was the amount the States would have lost due to GST implementation, and should get full compensation for, while the rest of the shortfall was due to exigencies resulting from the pandemic. A special window is being created to facilitate GST-related borrowings, while the present nod for additional borrowing pertains to the additional borrowing flexibility of 0.5% of Gross State Domestic Product that had been offered to the States which opted for the first option. “Under Option-1, besides getting a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the States are entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.5% of GSDP, out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Government of India under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on 17th May, 2020,” the Finance Ministry said.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC upholds HC order on T.N. elephant corridor||Appellants can approach the committee in four months with their complaints against the action taken by the Nilgiris Collector, which included sealing of their buildings, and allegations about the “arbitrary variance in acreage of the elephant corridor”. The court made its empathy for the pachyderms clear even during the hearing of the case. “The elephant is a gentleman and man should give way for the elephant,” Chief Justice Bobde said before reserving the case for judgment on January 22. The court had taken serious note of a report filed by the amicus curiae , advocate A.D.N. Rao, to seal or demolish 821 buildings, except tribal houses, within the areas marked as elephant corridor by the Tamil Nadu government. Mr. Rao had suggested a rehabilitation plan for 186 households belonging to the Scheduled Caste, Backward Caste and Most Backward Caste people. Chief Justice Bobde refused to go into individual grievances raised by private landowners against the August 2010 notification under the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forest Act of 1949. In 2011, the High Court had held that the government was authorised by the Centre's ‘Project Elephant’ to earmark the corridor since there was no impediment in the Wildlife Protection Act.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 MBA students of MKU get placement||Twelve Masters in Business Administration students of Madurai Kamaraj University got placed in ICICI Bank at a campus recruitment. A total of 40 students attended the recruitment process. Three levels of evaluation process — an online exam, group discussion and personal interview — were held. Twelve students were selected, a release said. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan congratulated the students and gave away offer letters to them. V. Chinnaiah, Professor and Head, Department of Management Studies, MKU, thanked the bank for conducting the campus recruitment. Nodal Placement Officer P. Kannadas and other faculties of MBA department coordinated the conduct of the recruitment process.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spruced up||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Resource wasted||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New lease of life||
15 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Manik Sports Academy to train youth||Sports Authority of India (SAI) has granted recognition and accreditation to Bidar-based Manik Sports Academy under Khelo India Talent Development Programme for athletics, basketball, badminton and swimming. “SAI has said that accreditation is for four years during which the sports academy will train young men and women in these sporting disciplines. They will utilise the modern facilities of the academy in the guidance of trained and certified teachers. Selected candidates will receive free education in Manik Public School. The sports academy will also scout for talent in Kalyan Karnataka region and admit students free in the academy,” president Anandraj Manik Prabhu said in a release. The sports academy’s board has eminent sports personalities such as cricket player Praveen Amre, badminton player Aparna Popat apart from a Council Member of World Athletics Adille Somariwalla.
15 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rain subsides in Belagavi; damage seen elsewhere||Though rainfall subsided in Belagavi district, there were a few reports of damage in Bagalkot and Vijayapura districts. A low-lying bridge in Hadaginal village in Vijayapura district was submerged in rainwater. Connection to seven villages was cut off due to this, officers said. In Devara Hipparagi in Vijayapura district, a farmer Janesab Hebbal complained to the officials that 15 of his sheep were washed away in a stream that was overflowing due to rain. Farmers in Muddebihal and Talikoti complained to officers that there was large scale damage to their crops.  Farmers in Hukkeri and Ramdurg in Belagavi district also complained of damage to crops.
15 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Put off visit to temple, devotees advised||As the government of Maharashtra has decided to keep the Tulja Bhavani temple closed till November 1, Belagavi Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has appealed to devotees to put off their visit to the temple till then. It is a practice among devotees, especially those from rural areas, to walk to the Tulja Bhavani temple in Osmanabad district in Maharashtra, as part of the Navaratri Jatha celebrations. The distance of about 350 km is covered in 10-12 days. However, this year, the Deputy Commissioner of Osmanabad has issued an order prohibiting the entry of visitors to the temple till November 1 with a view to containing the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Hiremath said in a release.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ahead of Dasara, Mysuru has most number of active cases||Ahead of the 10-day Dasara festival scheduled to start from October 17, Mysuru tops the district-wise chart on the number of active COVID-19 cases and deaths per million population in Karnataka. Bengaluru, however, was not part of the analysis carried out by Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, a management consulting firm, with the support of Public Health Foundation of India and Indian Medical Association. As on October 10, exactly a week before Dasara festivities, the number of active cases per million population stood at 2,449 and the deaths per million population stood at 292. In comparison, the number of active cases and deaths per million across the State (excluding Bengaluru Urban) stood at 1,088 and 128, respectively. In terms of active cases per million population, Mysuru was closely followed by Hassan with 2,408 and Bengaluru Rural with 2,306 cases. Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad came a close second and third in terms of deaths per million population with 287 and 280. Though the State government has curtailed the Dasara celebrations by cancelling most of the events and imposing severe restrictions on the gathering even for the few programmes that are being held, Mysuru is considered to be one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the State with the district figuring in the third position in terms of positive cases per million population. With 13,836 positive cases per million population on October 10, Mysuru is next only to Udupi (16,328) and Ballari (13,946). Also, the number of positive cases in Mysuru had increased from 25,086 on September 12 to 41,523 on October 10, which accounted for a moving growth rate of 66% against 50% in the rest of the State. Similarly, the number of persons who had died due to COVID-19 in Mysuru had risen from 576 on September 12 to 875 on October 10, indicating a moving growth rate of 52% compared to 38% for the rest of the State. Medical infrastructure In view of the COVID-19 projections, convener of Jeevan Raksha Mysore Sanjeev pointed out to the demand for medical infrastructure that the rising number of cases will bring. “When the number of positive cases go up, leading to more active cases, the mortality will also go up in the absence of medical infrastructure to meet critical cases,” he said. Along improving the medical infrastructure, Mr. Sanjeev said there should be effective containment management by deploying enough manpower to “trace, test and isolate.”
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools experiment with exam format||Many private schools in the State, which have midterm examinations online, have tweaked the testing pattern this academic year. Some, for instance, have included multiple-choice questions, while others are changing the objective of the assessment. Rather than testing students’ knowledge across the length and breadth of chapters, more emphasis will be on if students have understood core concepts. Manju Balasubramaniam, principal of Delhi Public School, Bengaluru North, said the aim of the examination is to understand where children stand after months of online teaching and learning. “We want to use the examination as a diagnostic tool to figure out where students are going wrong, so that remedial classes can be held,” she said. Dakshayani Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, Bengaluru, said they have introduced analytical questions that are open book. Students can refer to any notes to answer them. “More weightage, around 40 marks, has been given for multiple-choice questions and less emphasis on essay-type questions. We have allotted 20 marks for internal assessment and 20 for questions that require students to answer in the essay format,” she said. In the past, multiple-choice questions were allotted only 20 marks, while essay questions collected 60 marks. DPS Bengaluru North is following an objective assessment for primary school students, while high school students have 60% objective and 40% summative questions. No clarity yet Initially, many schools considered doing away with the midterm assessment, but decided to go ahead with it as they were yet to get clarity on how their respective boards are planning to assess students for the 2020-2021 academic year. For the most part, parents have approved the altered formats. Monica S., whose daughter is in class five, said: “Conducting assessments as rigorously as the previous year would be unfair on the students. We want the respective boards to declare the 2020-2021 academic year as a zero-examination year.” However, some schools have stuck to traditional formats. B. Gayatri Devi, principal of Little Flower Public School, said they have regular assessments so that high school students are better prepared for the board examination.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 6,000 BMTC staff yet to report for duty||Though pandemic-related restrictions have eased considerably, transport corporations are yet to recover not just in terms of ridership and revenue, but also staff strength. More than 6,000 drivers and conductors with the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) are yet to report back for duty after the outbreak of COVID-19. Sources said that there are around 27,000 drivers and conductors, but only around 21,000 have returned to work. “After the imposition of the lockdown, many conductors and drivers had returned to their home towns. They are yet to come back,” said a BMTC official. One of the reasons he cited was the rising number of COVID-19 cases. “Or perhaps they are facing pressure from their families. Among the absentees, around 2,300-2,500 employees are older. They may have stayed back due to health reasons.” 957 tested positive According to sources, to date, 957 BMTC employees — including drivers, conductors and technical staff — have tested positive for COVID-19. Around 808 people are already discharged and the remaining are either in home isolation or being treated at hospitals. Despite the shortage of manpower, BMTC officials said that operations remain unaffected. One of the reasons is poor ridership. With a majority of citizens avoiding public transport, BMTC is operating only 4,700 of its 6,100 buses. Air-conditioned buses, for the most part, are still off the roads: only 50 AC buses out of a total of 860 are currently running. Drop in revenue This has badly affected the transport corporation’s revenue. Prior to the lockdown, the BMTC was generating Rs. 5 crore per day, but it has since dropped to Rs. 1.8 crore. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, too, is operating only 5,300 buses though its fleet is 8,250 strong.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: Munirathna, others file nomination papers, declare assets||As BJP candidate in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly segment, Munirathna seems to have emerged as the richest candidate so far in the byelection fray, his Congress opponent, Kusuma H., a novice to the electoral contest, has declared assets worth Rs. 2.5 crore. While she does not own any vehicle or agricultural land, Ms. Kusuma has declared 1.1 kg of gold jewellery that has been gifted, and Rs. 1.37 crore worth of immovable assets. She has a liability of Rs. 20.48 lakh. Ms. Kusuma declared an income of Rs. 3.67 lakh during 2019–20. She holds an MS degree from the University of Massachusetts, and works as an assistant professor. The JD(S) candidate in R.R. Nagar, V. Krishnamurthy has declared his family assets worth about Rs. 19 crore. He is an agriculturist by profession, and holds a bachelor’s degree in arts. The Janata Dal (Secular) candidate in Sira, Ammajamma — wife of JD(S) legislator B. Satyanarayana, whose demise caused the vacancy — has declared assets worth about Rs. 5.48 crore that includes assets of her deceased husband. Ms. Ammajamma, who has studied up to class 5, has a 30-year lease in her name for quarrying grey granite and has 1.2 kg of gold jewellery. The former Minister and senior Congress leader T.B. Jayachandra, who is contesting from Sira, has declared assets — movable and immovable — worth about Rs. 22.43 crore, which includes assets in the name of his wife G.H. Nirmala. Mr. Jayachandra had declared assets of about Rs. 20.4 crore during 2018 when he was defeated by the late Satyanarayana. The couple together has a liability of about Rs. 1.62 crore. He faces a defamation case for allegedly giving a defamatory statement against advocate profession. While the former Minister does not own any agricultural or non-agricultural land, he owns residential and commercial assets worth Rs. 13.1 crore. He has termed himself as a “social worker and non-practising advocate” whose income is through rent and pension. During 2019–20, he had declared an income of Rs. 68.01 lakh while Ms. Nirmala had declared income of Rs. 11.69 lakh. The affidavits of B.M. Rajesh Gowda, the BJP candidate in Sira, was yet to be made available to the public on the Election Commission website at the time of going to the press.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cost of conducting elections is likely to be 50% more than average’||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Karnataka is set for elections to four Legislative Council seats and byelections to Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira Assembly constituencies. While the Election Commission is making arrangements, there have been misgivings in political circles about the conduct of elections during these testing times. In an interview, Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar explained the precautions being put in place and said that it is a “challenging task to conduct elections keeping everyone safe”. Excerpts:  What measures are being initiated by the Election Commission amid the pandemic? Apart from having thermal scanners and sanitisers at every booth, we are identifying bigger rooms that have enough natural light and air to have polling stations. EVMs and VVPAT units will be sanitised. The number of voters in each polling booth has been reduced from 1,500 earlier to 1,000 now to limit crowding. Will there be new systems in place? Low-cost pens that can be discarded after single use will be used in the Council elections as ballot papers are still used. In the byelections, a small rubber cover for the finger to be used to press the EVM button will be distributed. All these to reduce contact spreading of the pandemic. For the first time, a nodal heath officer has been appointed to coordinate between the EC and the State Disaster Management Authority. How will a COVID-19 positive vote? The last one hour of voting will be reserved for COVID-19 positives and those suspected to have the infection. Tokens will be issued if a person is found to have above normal temperature during the thermal scanning and they can vote in this hour. Polling officials will wear the personal protection equipment (PPE). Additionally, in the byelections, persons with disabilities, those aged above 80 and COVID-19 positives have been given the provision to exercise postal ballot, provided they register within five days after the notification is issued. How will political party workers be monitored for COVID-19 safety? The number of vehicles in a convoy has been reduced from 10 to five. Election meetings should adhere to State and EC guidelines. For outdoor political rallies, officials will mark the places for people to stand by maintaining distance. Online nomination facility has been extended. Has the cost of conducting elections gone up owing to various measures? The election cost is likely to be 50% more than the average cost. On average, about Rs. 2 crore was spent on each constituency in 2018. The cost has increased as there will be more polling booths, more rooms for counting votes as there will be only seven counting tables per room, more people to conduct elections, more vehicles, and additional expenditure on the PPEs, among others. Despite these efforts do you expect a good turnout of voters? This is an unexplored area and depends on the political mobilisation. We are expecting normal voting.  The last one hour of voting will be reserved for COVID-19 positives and those suspected to have the infection. Tokens will be issued if a person is found to have above normal temperature during the thermal scanning and they can vote in this hour. Polling officials will wear personal protection equipment.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: Two city MLAs questioned by NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the violence at D.J. Halli and K.J. Halli on August 11, questioned Chamrajpet MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan and Shivaji Nagar MLA Rizwan Arshad on Tuesday. “This is a part of the procedure. We are questioning witnesses who were present at the spot and tried to help the police contain the situation,” said an NIA official. On August 11, the night of the violence, the police had called both MLAs to the spot to try and pacify the mob that had gathered to protest a derogatory social media post against Islam by Naveen Kumar, nephew of Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy. “We are probing what exactly happened and how the MLAs perceived the situation. Their statements were recorded,” said the NIA official. Mr. Arshad said they went to the spot to help the police defuse the situation. “We did what best we could to contain the situation. It was a big risk for us, but we saw it as our responsibility to ensure peace,” he said. The investigation agency is also questioning senior police officials who were at the spot as well as prime suspect former mayor Sampath Raj and former Pulakeshinagar councillor Abdul Rakhib Zakir, both of whom have been named in the chargesheet filed by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police. They have been accused of conspiracy and mobilising the mob to carry out attacks on the house MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy due to alleged political rivalry. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that the Congress had no role in the violence and accused the ruling BJP of creating fear among party leaders and inducting them into the saffron party. Congress leaders will not fear the blackmailing tactics of the BJP, he told mediapersons. Soon after taking over the case, the NIA on September 24 arrested Syed Sadiq Ali, 44, a recovery agent with a private bank for his alleged role as a key conspirator. Officials suspect Sadiq of being in touch with many accused who were a part of the conspiracy to create a law and order problem on a large scale.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Multiplexes set to welcome movie buffs with PPE kits||Large multiplexes are leaving no stone unturned to tempt movie buffs back to the big screen. Some of the elaborate arrangements include distributing PPE kits and disposable 3D glasses. While the choice of protective gear has raised eyebrows with many arguing that PPE kits should be reserved for doctors, nurses and those at the frontline fighting COVID-19, citizens themselves are unsure of whether they would like to watch a film masked and gowned. Both the Union and State governments have permitted cinemas to resume operations from October 15 onwards, with 50% seating capacity. Multiplexes, including INOX and PVR, are making PPE kits available at counters for customers, who will have to shell out extra for them. “Wearing of PPE kits is optional. We have also put in place amenities to ensure that the kits are safely disposed of once used,” said one multiplex owner. Safety measures  Other measures put in place include sanitising of seats after every show and daily mandatory health screening for all employees who will be in protective gear. To avoid crowding, staggered and different entry and exits, extended interval time, QR code and mobile-based food ordering system, dedicated food ordering and pick-up counters, contactless payment system and encouraged online bookings have been put in place. A senior representative from INOX said that they will resume screenings at Lido Mall and Brookfield Mall from Thursday. Other INOX screens will gradually resume within the next 10 days. PVR Cinemas will have “goodwill screenings” for company employees, health workers, police force and others on Thursday, and will open to the public from Friday. Arun Kumar B.S., owner of Santosh Theatre and past president of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), said that positive experiences from cinema goers will be the game changer. Santosh theatre is all set to resume operations from Friday with the screening of the late Chiranjeevi Sarja starrer Shivarjuna . “All the precautionary measures, according to government guidelines, are in place. We are trying our best to provide a safe movie watching experience,” Mr. Kumar said. Uday Garudachar, owner of Garuda Mall chain, said elaborate arrangements have been made to welcome customers. “With this, we are expecting business to pick up by Dasara and Deepavali, after which we will have Christmas and New Year. Let us hope that by that time, COVID-19 subsides,” he added.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residential dementia care centre on NIMHANS Sakalavara campus soon||A first of its kind government-run residential dementia care centre will soon come up on the Sakalavara Community Mental Health Centre campus of NIMHANS. While the centre will be constructed with financial assistance from REC Foundation, the CSR arm of Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd., New Delhi, C.R. Chandrasekhar, former Professor of Psychiatry at NIMHANS and founder of Samadhana Counselling Centre in Bengaluru, has contributed Rs. 1 crore towards the operational expenditure of the centre. The project was launched on Wednesday. Dr. Chandrashekar said he has made the donation in memory of his wife the late D.S. Rajeshwari Chandrashekar. “More philanthropists apart from the State and Central governments should come forward and donate funds for running the centre. As this is the only government residential care centre for dementia, it will benefit those from the underprivileged section of society,” he said. P.T. Sivakumar, Professor of Psychiatry and Consultant in Geriatric Psychiatry Unit in the Department of Psychiatry at NIMHANS, said there is a need for residential care in at least 33% of patients with dementia. “However, less than 1% are able to afford and access residential care as there are hardly 20 dedicated dementia care centres in the country. All of them are private facilities or those run by NGOs,” he said. In the first phase, the centre will have 40 beds. This will later be upgraded to a 100-bed facility. The centre will not just provide care to patients but will also train caregivers and mental health professionals in dementia care. “Training of family and professional caregivers for dementia care is also important. There is a need to develop a complete range of care systems that are affordable and accessible for those with limited economic capacity on priority,” he said. Once operational, the centre will also provide hands-on training to those doing various geriatric mental health care courses and fellowship programmes at NIMHANS.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWM rules: KSPCB pulled up for not prosecuting officials||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday deplored the failure of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to prosecute public servants for not implementing the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, framed under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi said that the Board had not set criminal law into motion for failure of the officials to enforce rules governing the handling and disposing of municipal solid waste for the last 20 years. The Bench directed the Board’s member-secretary to file an affidavit explaining the reasons for the failure of the Board in prosecuting the officials of the local authorities for their failure. The order was passed during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions related to failure of municipal authorities and the government to dispose municipal solid waste as per the norms. While terming the conduct of the KSPCB as shocking, the Bench said the Board appears to not be aware of the notification, issued several years ago by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change under Section 19 of the Environment Protection Act authorising designated officers to launch prosecution. Neither the Board nor the State government are bothered about the implementation of the SWM Rules by the local authorities though many of them are illegally dumping waste in an unscientific manner and contrary to the manner prescribed in the SWM Rules, the Bench observed. But for intervention of the court, city corporations like the BBMP would not have even bothered to take steps for implementation of the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000, which has been replaced by SWM Rules, 2016.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In Sira constituency, seers may have a big say in voters’ choice||With the announcement of byelections to two Legislative Assembly constituencies in the State, candidates have started hopping from one mutt to another seeking blessings of seers belonging to various castes/communities. In Sira constituency, besides seers of Sri Siddaganga Mutt, those of nearly a dozen mutts in Tumakuru district and the neighbouring Chitradurga district are expected to play a key role. Political analysts say that each mutt owing allegiance to a particular community — Vokkaliga, Lingayat, Kuruba, Madiga — sometimes openly, but mostly wielding the influence behind the scenes, would help in garnering votes. In fact, some political leaders too have been openly identified with a particular mutt. All the three major political parties have fielded candidates belonging to the Vokkaliga community in the constituency — T.B. Jayachandra (Congress), Rajesh Gowda (BJP), and Ammajamma (JD-S) — and they are vying for support of seers to ensure victory in election scheduled for November 3. Nanjavadoota Swamy of Pattanayakanahalli in Sira, Hanumanthanatha Swamy of Yelerampura, Koratagere, and Shantaveera Swamy of Hosadurga, all belonging to the Vokkaliga community, are expected to play an important role swaying voters. There are an estimated 58,000 voters belonging to the Vokkaliga community and the three candidates would fiercely compete to get the community support, said sources in the Congress. To influence voters Two seers belonging to the Madiga community — Madara Chennaiah Swamy, Chitradurga, and Markandeya Swamy, Hiriyur, — are expected to influence voters belonging to the Scheduled Caste (Left). The community has an estimated 31,000 voters. There are about 7,500 voters belonging to the SC (Right). Candidates would also seek blessings of seers belonging to Bhovi, Kuruba, and Golla communities too. Bhovi community seer Immadi Siddarameshwara Swamy of Chitradurga would wield influence over about 4,500 members of the community. Eshwaranandapuri Swamy of Hosadurga, representing the Kuruba community, is expected to influence about 17,000 voters of the community. The Golla community voters would be seeking directions from their seer Yadavannada Swamy of Chitradurga. The community has an estimated 20,000 votes. Members of the Sathya Sai Seva Organisation, which runs a residential school in Sira, too are expected to plays a role in the elections. Unlike many other constituencies, the dominant Lingayat community has fewer number voters — an estimated 4,000 — in this constituency, sources said.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition within BJP comes to the fore||The opposition within the Bharatiya Janata Party to the party’s decision to field former MLA Munirathna as its candidate in the bypolls came to the fore on the day of his filing of nomination papers on Wednesday. Several party workers, who called themselves “committed workers of the BJP”, publicly raised objection at a party meeting in the constituency against the party’s decision to field Mr. Munirathna, who migrated from the Congress. They shouted slogans in favour of party leader Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous elections against Mr. Munirathna. The vociferous BJP workers alleged that the party leadership had “let them down” by not consulting local workers before deciding on the ticket. Traditional rivalry It may be noted that the BJP had traditional political rivalry with Mr. Munirathna as he was the political opponent in the constituency for more than a decade. Also, Mr. Gowda had fought for getting party ticket till the last minute. However, the party top leadership finally preferred Mr. Munirathna as he had quit his Assembly membership he won on the Congress ticket to help the BJP come to power in the State. The BJP workers’ opposition to Mr. Munirathna is being seen in political circles as an indication of the tough task that lies ahead for the party leaders to make the cadre fall in line in the constituency.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines issued for festival season||For combating COVID-19 in the festival season, the government on Wednesday came out with a set of guidelines to limit the number of people to 100 for any Dasara festivities in the State. The guidelines issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar also put guidelines for Deepavali celebrations. It said that only licensed shops would be allowed to sell firecrackers from November 1 to 17 at prescribed places. Shops should be set up by maintaining distance of six metres to ensure free flow of air, it said. The permission granted by authorities should be displayed for public view by owners of shops. Shop owners must provide sanitizers and thermal scanning for the visiting public, it said. For Dasara, the guidelines said that all programmes that cannot maintain social distance are banned. In Mysuru, famed for Dasara festivities, only 200 people, including the Chief Minister, dignitaries, officials and media personnel, would be allowed at the inauguration of the Dasara at Chamundi Hills on October 17. The public has been banned from attending the programmes during Dasara in Mysuru and arrangements have been made for virtual watch of the programmes. The cultural programmes would be held for eight days from October 17 in front of the palace for two hours in the evening. Maximum number of 50 artists would be allowed to participate in the programme a day. The prominent places in Mysuru city would be beautified with lighting from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for 10 days from October 17. For the famous Jamboo Savari, only 300 people, including police, officials and media personnel, would be allowed, the guidelines said. RTPCR test has been made mandatory for all.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Award for KSRTC projects||KSRTC’s initiatives Sthree Toilet and Mobile Fever Clinic bagged the National Public Undertakings Award under the category CSR for Social Development. At the award presentation in Mumbai on Wednesday, KSRTC MD, Shivayogi C. Kalasad, said the projects had been built using unused buses. Mr. Kalasad dedicated the award to the staff, specially those who have lost their lives to COVID-19.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 held for assaulting police, BBMP marshal||The Jalahalli police on Tuesday arrested three people for allegedly assaulting two policemen and a BBMP marshal who were enforcing social distancing and pulling up people not wearing masks. The incident took place near Gokula Layout.. The accused – Carl Marx, 25, from R.T. Nagar; Shivakumar, 54, from Vidyaranyapura; and Babu, 40, from Manorayanapalya – were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. According to the police, Constable Guru Jambagi, Assistant Sub-inspector Ashwathayya and BBMP mashal Muniraju stopped a person near the Gokula bridge for not wearing a mask. While they were talking to him, the three accused approached and started demanding that they let the person go.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Only packaged food allowed’||The State government issued an SOP for resuming screening of movies. It has asked cinema halls to maintain humidity range from 40-70% with temperature setting of all the air conditioning devices from 24-30 degrees Celsius. “Recirculation of air must be avoided to the extent possible and cross ventilation should be adequate,” the SOP read. According to the SOP, only packaged food and beverages should be allowed inside the cinema hall.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 9,265 cases, 75 deaths||The State on Wednesday reported 9,265 new cases taking the total number to 7,35,371. With 75 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,198. This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. A total of 8,662 people were discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,11,167. Of the remaining 1,13,987 active cases, 925 patients are being monitored in the Intensive Care Units. While positivity rate for the day stood at 8.14%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.81%. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,574 cases taking the tally to 2,93,4051. With 27 of the 75 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,417. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 65,045. A total of 1,13,771 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 39,111 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 62,50,992.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Campaign on COVID-19||A campaign called ‘Remain safe and keep others safe’ on creating awareness on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour amongst the public was launched by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) here on Wednesday. High Court of Karnataka Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka launched the campaign on the High Court and the City Civil Court premises. He also flagged off the rally by the volunteers of the KSLSA, who later moved around different parts of the city in vehicles till 8.30 p.m. carrying posters, placards and giving information on safety measures to be adopted by the public to prevent spread of the infection.
15 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut||There will be no power supply on October 15 and October 17 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the areas coming under Nandini MUSS and N.G. Halli MUSS.
15 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold water adalat on Thursday between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. According to a BWSSB release, the adalat will be held in the offices of the Assistant Executive Engineer in the following sub-divisions: South East 6: B.T.M. Second Stage. East-2-2, Doorvani Nagar; East village-2, Kadugodi STP, near Whitefield Railway Station. South Village-1, Anjanapura. West-3, M.C. Layout, Vijayanagar. South West-3: Basavanagudi. South East 3, Swami Vivekananda Road, Halasur. North West-6: Pipe Line Road, Sunkadakatte. Central-3: Netaji Road, Frazer Town. North West 3: 5th Block, Nagarbhavi. North 3: BEL Layout, Vidyaranyapura, and North East-2: Central Street.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mental health centre for elderly||NIMHANS will launch “Vayo Manasa Sanjeevani” to promote mental health and well-being of older adults on October 16. Being taken up as an Initiative for the Decade of Healthy Ageing (2020-2030), it will involve training of lay counsellors and senior citizens to coordinate telecounselling through NIMHANS.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t ban gutka, pan masala’||A task force on arecanut headed by Araga Jnanedra, BJP MLA, on Wednesday called upon Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and urged him not to take steps to ban the manufacture and sale of pan masala and gutka in the interest of arecanut growers. The task force informed the Chief Minister that the ban would affect the price of arecanut in the market. Mr. Yediyurappa said that he himself was an arecanut grower and the question of ban would not arise.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Recognise women as farmer’||Nammura Bhoomi Namagirali Vedike on the occasion of Women Farmer’s Day on October 15 demanded that the State government recognise women engaged in land-related activities as a farmer and be given the Kisan card.
15 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five hunters arrested with sophisticated weapons||The Chitradurga forest officials have arrested five people, including a minor, who were set to hunt wild animals armed with sophisticated weapons in Gowdanahalli Reserve Forest in Hiriyur taluk. The officers, working on a tip-off, took into custody Ikshu Dhanva, 50, of Shivamogga, Pratap, 42, Vinod, 38, Vasudeva Shetty, 42 of Bengaluru, and a minor, on October 11. Ikshu Dhanva is a son of the late Prafulla Chandra, noted progressive farmer of Shivamogga. The minor has been sent to juvenile custody. Others are in judicial custody. Two more people are absconding. The officers were stunned when they got to know that the team had telescopic guns, a pistol, archery set, fishing kit, and knives among others. The weapons and three vehicles belonging to the arrested were also seized. K. Chandrashekhar Nayak, Deputy Conservator of Forests of Chitradurga, told The Hindu: “It seems they were all prepared to go on a hunting expedition when our team reached the spot. They all had highly sophisticated imported weapons. We have registered a case under the Wildlife Protection Act.” The officers suspect that the team must have visited the place in the past to hunt wild boars. It is said they had hired a farmhouse near the forest area to stay during their visit to the place. One among the absconding is a resident of Hiriyur taluk, who provided them with shelter. “The arrested are right now in judicial custody. We will seek their custody so that we can collect further information from them. Our team did not find animal carcass from them. It seems they visited the place earlier for hunting expeditions,” the DCF said. The officer said the case about possession of arms would be handed over to the police.
15 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man kills toddler, born out of wedlock, to protect career||A man allegedly murdered his two-year-and-eight-month-old baby born out of an extramarital affair to avoid tarnishing his political image in Chitradurga district. The police arrested the accused and exhumed the baby’s body at Guttidurga in Jagalur taluk on Tuesday. Ningappa, 33, a resident of Guttidurga, was in a relationship with Shashikala. He had three children from his first marriage and a baby girl from his relationship with Shashikala. Neither her parents nor his family was aware of the affair and the baby. As Shashikala’s parents put pressure on her to get married, she forced Ningappa to accept her as his wife in the presence of relatives so that everybody would know about their relationship. However, Ningappa was not ready for it. With a plan to contest in the gram panchayat elections, he thought any revelation about his affair and the child would spoil his political career. Chitradurga SP G. Radhika told The Hindu that over the last few days, Ningappa convinced Shashikala to get separated, assuring her that he would hand over the baby to an orphanage. Though Shashikala was reluctant initially, she consented later. On September 7, the accused took the baby and asked Shashikala to return to her native place. A week later, she called him to enquire about the baby. He repeatedly misled her about the baby’s whereabouts. Eventually, he told her that he had killed the baby. “Shashikala filed a complaint with the Women’s Police Station in Chitradurga on October 9. Later, the police took Ningappa into custody. He admitted to have strangulated and smothered the baby before burying her in his farm,” the officer said. The police exhumed the body and took samples for a DNA test. The SP said the accused wanted to get rid of the relationship ahead of the GP elections. Ningappa had been in a relationship with Shashikala even before his marriage. Both were from the same caste and wanted to get married. However, they faced opposition from elders in the families as both belonged to the same sub-sect within the case and it would mean they are brother and sister, as per the community’s understanding. The accused was worried that if his relationship was made known to people of his community, they would not stand by him in the election.  The police have taken Ningappa into custody. He has admitted to strangulating and smothering the baby before burying her in his farm.G. RadhikaChitradurga Superintendent of Police
15 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Adherence to poll code, COVID-19 advisory is mandatory, says Regional Commissioner||Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer for the elections to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency Amlan Aditya Biswas has said that it was mandatory for candidates and representatives of various political parties to strictly follow the model code of conduct and also the COVID-19 advisory issued by the Election Commission of India. Speaking at a meeting of candidates contesting the elections and representatives of political parties in Dharwad on Tuesday, Mr. Biswas said that it was the duty of everyone to ensure free and fair elections and to see that the process is gone through in a transparent manner. He told them that steps had been taken for issuing permission for public campaigning, vehicles, publicity material and others at the respective Deputy Commissioner offices in Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts. Political parties and candidates could get the requisite permission for campaigning and related issues in the four districts from the Deputy Commissioners who were also Assistant Returning Officers, he said. He clarified that only a specified number of people should go on door-to-door campaigning and that only a specified number of people would be required to participate in indoor meetings. Use of masks, sanitisers and adherence to social distancing norms were mandatory, he said. Flying squads Mr. Biswaas said that to prevent any type of election malpractices and violations of model poll code of conduct, three flying squads had been constituted for each one of the legislative Assembly segments in the Legislative Council constituency. The general public can the helpline Ph: 1077 for registering complaints regarding violations of poll code and for giving other information. For any other complaint regarding violations and malpractices, Chief Executive Officer of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat (Ph: 9480864000) or the Assistant Commissioner (Ph: 9731008189) could be contacted. Complainants or informers are required to provide their names, address and telephone numbers, he said. 146 polling booths Mr. Biswas said that a total 146 polling booths were being set up in the constituency and each one of the booths would have health staff, security staff and poll officials and employees. “It is mandatory for voters to wear masks and their health condition would be checked as per COVID-19 advisory. Voters with symptoms of cough and fever will be given time during the last one hour of the polling to exercise their franchise,” he said. Route map He said that steps had been taken to deliver voter slips to the electorate and it had also been planned to provide information on COVID-19 advisory and polling details. This apart, they were planning to provide route map of polling stations to voters using mobile applications with the permission of the Election Commission of India, he said. Clarifying that there was no limit on poll expenditure for the Council polls, he said that the Election Commission had, however, asked them to monitor publicity material, public campaigning and other related issues. Any violation of the poll code and guidelines would be dealt with strictly, especially in cases of misuse of permission, objectionable comments against communities and spreading fake news, he said. Assistant Returning Officer and Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Nodal Officer for Model Code of Conduct Susheela, Assistant Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna and other officials were present. 75,774 voters There are a total of 75,774 eligible voters, including 48,580 male and 27,183 female and 11 of the third gender. Dharwad district has 22,646 voters, Gadag 16,013, Haveri 23,888 and Uttara Kannada 13,227 voters. 11 candidates There are now 11 candidates in the fray for the council polls. None of them whose candidature was declared valid after scrutiny, withdrew their nomination papers before the deadline ended on Monday leaving all of them in the fray. They are: R.M. Kuberappa (INC), Shivashankar Kallur (JD-S), S.V. Sankanur (BJP), Shivaraj Kamble (Karnataka Rashra Samiti), Somashekhar Umrani (Shiv Sena) and Independents Dasharath Chandrahas Rangareddy, B.D. Hiregoudar, Basavaraj Gurikar, Basavaraj N. Teradal, Mohammed Shafiuddin S. Nagarkatti and Shivakumar Talawar.
15 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘South Western Railway performance on safety front has been consistent’||General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh has said that the zone has been performing consistently well on safety front and has asked the railway employees to continue the good work with the motto of “Safety first and safety always”. Speaking at the virtual celebrations of the 65th Railway Week in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Singh listed out the various accomplishments of the railway zone and the new initiatives taken. “South Western Railway achieved track renewal of 193 km, 67 numbers of level crossing gates were closed, six railway overbridges and 77 railway underbridges/subways were constructed last year. South Western Railway achieved loading of 36.9 million tonnes (MT), which is slightly less than that of the last year due to reasons beyond control. On the passenger sector, South Western Railway has carried more than 185.46 million passengers in the previous year. The originating passenger earning is Rs. 2116 crore, which is 2.33 % higher than previous year,” he said. Mr. Singh said that as a green initiative, the zone had switched over to 100 % LED lighting at all stations and with extensive harnessing of solar energy, some of units such as the Mysuru Workshop had become carbon neutral. In the zone, Hubballi and Mysuru workshops had received ISO certification along with 31 railway stations, he said. On the occasion, Mr. Singh presented various efficiency shields and awards. The Bengaluru Railway Division won the “Overall Efficiency Shield” for 2019-20. The best maintained station (major) was won by Mysuru Railway Station and the best railway station (minor) was won by Nittur Railway Station in Bengaluru Division. Hubballi Division won the efficiency shields for Accounts and Mechanical.
15 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP Kalaburagi Yuva Morcha reorganised||Shivaraj Patil Raddewadagi, Kalaburagi Rural district president of the BJP, reorganised the Kalaburagi district (Rural) Youth Morcha with several new faces. Prominent among those who occupy the different posts of office-bearers are Raghavendra Chinchanasur, Naveen Rathod and Shivu Ashtagi (all vice-presidents) and Vinay S. Vallyapure and Veerendra Patil Rayakod (general secretaries). “I thank my party leadership for recognising my organisational capabilities and giving me the responsibility. I would try to live up to the expectations by strengthening the youth wing of the party in the district,” Mr. Shivu Ashtagi told The Hindu .
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mayor pays surprise visit to beef, mutton stalls in Urwa||In the light of the recent seizure by the police of vehicles said to be used for illegal transportation of cattle, Mayor Diwakar, on Wednesday, accompanied a team of councillors and officials from Mangaluru City Corporation, for surprise checks of beef and mutton stalls in Urwa Market and Urwa. They also visited the abattoir in Kudroli. In a statement, the Mayor said that stalls that were found operating in an unauthorised manner were warned of action. The Mayor told reporters that no animal was found in the abattoir at the time of their visit. The team then visited the place in Kavoor where traders were illegally operating on corporation land. There was commotion when corporation personnel started to vacate the traders from the area. While one trader sat on the ground to obstruct the work, others questioned the action by the corporation. The city police took away the trader and cleared the crowd to enable the corporation complete the evacuation exercise.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone laid for RGUHS regional centre||The foundation stone for construction of the Mangaluru regional centre of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) was laid here on Wednesday. This regional centre will come up in the two-acres land adjoining the office of Department of Excise (Abakari Bhavan) in Mary Hill. The RGUHS will also have regional centres in Davangere, Kalaburagi and Belagavi. The regional centre in Mangaluru will serve students from more than 70 affiliated institutions in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts. "There are good number of colleges in these districts. With this regional centre, the RGUHS comes close to these students," said Y. Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA and Vice President of Dental Council of India. This regional centre, Mr. Shetty said, will have Dental Research Centre, which will be first of its kind in country. It will also have simulation centre, online library, digital evaluation centre and physiotherapy rehabilitation centre. A 250-seater auditorium for indoor sports, training and other activities will also be built, he said. Shiva Sharan K, the Syndicate Member of RGUHS, said the Mangaluru regional centre will have finance, admission and students welfare departments of the RGUHS to meet the needs of students and institutions from the region. Officers of the rank of Deputy Registrar and Assistant Registrar will be posted at this regional centre, he said. The RGUHS has proposed to build a new academic building at the regional centre in Davangere. The regional centre in Belagavi will have a cultural centre that would be used of University's cultural programmes. Syndicate member U.T. Ifthikar Ali was present.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Helping entrepreneurs share their experience||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) conducted series 2 of "Entrepreneurial Insights" interaction recently at Manipal wherein two entrepreneurs in different fields shared their experiences recently. Manohar Shetty, Managing Director of Sai Radha Groups of Companies, Udupi, and Dinesh Karnik, Managing Director of Prueba India Software Pvt. Ltd., were the panellists for this series, said a release from MAHE. Mr. Shetty, a serial entrepreneur who is at the helm of affairs of multiple businesses including medicals, real estate development, pharma, automobile dealership, heritage resort and hotels, shared views on mitigating risks by diversifying the areas of investment. His personal narrative on fund raising from banks, marketing philosophy, success and setbacks were well received by participants. Another panellist Mr. Karnik, after spending more than 10 years in Australia, relocated to Manipal and established an IT start-up, setting an example for brain gain in the region. Although there is a fierce competition in IT space, his start-up overcame all initial hurdles and successfully started servicing international clients on software testing, development and operations, web development, Android/iOS development, etc., he said. He shared experiences on customer satisfaction, risk mitigation and employee engagement in the highly interactive session. The panel discussion was a part of the ongoing series to bring entrepreneurs to MAHE platform to share their experiences with MAHE and local community. Shrihari Upadhyaya, CEO of Manipal Universal Technology Business Incubator (MUTBI), and Raviraja N S, Director- Corporate Relations, MAHE, were present.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CHD Group wins award||CHD Group, a public health organisation based in Mangaluru, has won the ASSOCHAM NGO Award 2020 for its work carried out as part of COVID-19 emergency relief activities. CHD Group won the award under the category of “Excellence in demonstrating speed in decision making and supporting time critical needs of the community”, said a statement from the group. It worked remotely during the lockdown in Karnataka, Odisha, Chhatisgarh and Telangana to provide relief and rehabilitation to distressed people and support farmers as well as farm workers during harvest season. .
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rlys. to run Jamnagar-Tirunelveli bi-weekly special||The Railways will operate a special train between Jamnagar and Tirunelveli via Mangaluru in coordination with Western, Konkan and Southern Railways from November 6. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., here said Train No. 09578 Jamnagar - Tirunelveli Bi-Weekly Special Express will leave Jamnagar at 9 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays from November 6 to reach Tirunelveli at 10.10 p.m. the third day. Train no. 09577 Tirunelveli - Jamnagar Bi-Weekly Special Express will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. every Monday and Tuesday from November 9 to reach Jamnagar at 5.15 a.m. the third day. The train will have 23 coaches in all, including one 2-Tier AC, five 3-Tier AC, 11 Second Sleeper, four second-seating and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.
15 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arrested||The Konaje police on Wednesday arrested Mohammed Ashraf (30) for his alleged involvement in the murder of 53-year-old Kusuma in Belleri near Hoohakuvakallu on September 26. The police said Kusuma, a spinster living alone, did not answer the phone call of her brother on September 26. Concerned over the situation, he called Kusuma’s neighbour, who rushed to the house and found her dead. The body had been set ablaze. Working on the clues from the spot and some technical evidence, the police traced Ashraf, who worked in farms in the locality. Ashraf reportedly admitted to the crime.
15 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ahead of Dasara festival, Mysuru sees more recoveries than active cases||For the first time after a long pause, Mysuru, the State’s second COVID-19 hotspot after Bengaluru, is seeing more discharges than active cases, bringing a brief succour to the people fighting the pandemic for many months. After an alarming spike, driving the frontline healthcare workers into a combat mode to contain the spread, the number of discharges are surpassing the number of active cases. And, in even a bigger relief, the fatalities – second highest after Bengaluru - too have seen a drop in the last two days. On Tuesday, the number of discharges crossed the 35,000-mark, thanks to remarkable improvement in patients’ recovery, increasing the discharge rate. As on Tuesday, 35,050 infected patients had been discharged in Mysuru. The active cases were 416 but the discharges were 693 on Tuesday. On Monday, the active cases were 309 and the discharges were 728. Barring Sunday which saw more active cases – 541 active cases and 331 discharges, the active cases dropped again on Saturday with 569 patients discharged amidst 465 active cases. The fatalities in Mysuru were a larger concern for the administration since the mortality rate was 3.9 per cent (for a brief period), which was higher than the global COVID-19 death rate. Minister for Medical Education and Health K. Sudhakar had said here recently that Mysuru was once a model for COVID-19 management in the State but is now registering a mortality rate at 1.9 per cent whereas the national mortality rate was at 1.6 per cent, State at 1.5 per cent besides the global death rate at 3.5 per cent. Three deaths In Mysuru, three deaths were reported on Tuesday and seven on Monday. Eleven and 13 deaths were reported on Sunday and Saturday respectively. The government’s primary aim is to bring down the death rate to less than one per cent. The total number of deaths in Mysuru was 896. In terms of disease burden and fatality, Mysuru comes next after Bengaluru, according to M.K. Sudarshan, chairman, COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, Bengaluru. In his recent report, he had said that the COVID-19 fatality rate in Mysuru was 2.1 per cent and test positivity rate is 17 per cent (as on October 8). Taking up the challenge of reigning in the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who took charge recently, immediately ramped up the testing, achieving more than 100 per cent test target. Last Wednesday, 124 per cent testing was achieved in Mysuru, the highest since a long time. Special testing teams had been constituted and many officers had been posted here as well as in various places in the district for coordination and successful testing. Mysuru has now been divided into four zones for COVID-19 management and senior officers are monitoring the situation with the help of field teams. As against the target, 45 per cent testing was done in September in Mysuru, asserting that Mysuru was in immediate need of carrying out more testing considering the positivity rate, and containing the spread of the infection in the community.
15 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Housing scheme: 6,800 people to benefit in K.R. segment||Nearly 6,800 applicants will stand to benefit from the PM’s Housing for All Scheme in the K.R. Assembly segment in the city This is against nearly 48,000 people from across Mysuru who had evinced interest during a demand survey conducted by the local authorities in 2015. However, the project is set to take off only in K.R. constituency while it is yet to make any progress in assembly segments due to paucity of land. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde said on Wednesday that the project for K.R. constituency will be implemented at Lalitadripura where a cluster of multi-storeyed and high-rise apartments will come up under the scheme. He was speaking after launching a web portal to enable the eligible persons to apply online for housing. The scheme entails the beneficiary to meet 25 per cent of the unit cost of the house and the rest would be subsidised by the Centre and the State governments respectively. The government will also arrange for long-term housing loans from banks for the beneficiaries so as to enable them to meet their share of the cost. Mr. Hegde said the new project design of the high-rise apartments planned under the Housing for All scheme will include all modern amenities that are normally found in apartments constructed by private players. “There will be ample space for parking, parks, play areas, library etc., to provide quality housing’’, said the Commissioner. In order to weed out bogus claimants and people who have obtained housing benefits from other schemes, the government will link each beneficiary with his or her Aadhaar number. This will ensure transparency in the system and ensure that only the genuinely needy persons are identified and allotted the house. S.A. Ramdas, MLA, Mayor Tasneem and others were present. Senior officials in the MCC said the project has made some headway in K.R. constituency owing to availability of land at Lalitadrinagar.
15 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MP’s appeal on layouts||Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha met Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj in Bengaluru on Wednesday and urged him to include 77 revenue layouts in the city under Mysuru City Corporation’s (MCC) jurisdiction. Pointing out that Mysuru was growing at a very fast pace, Mr. Simha said a total of 77 revenue layouts had come up in the city, having a large population. But, the layouts have been deprived of basic amenities such as roads, drinking water, and underground drainage. Hence, he urged Mr. Basavaraju to bring these revenue layouts under the purview of MCC as part of the Akrama Sakrama scheme. When these areas are included under MCC and their khatha records are created, the civic body can earn the much-needed revenue, he said. Also, such a move will help realise the Prime Minister’s plans to ensure shelter for all by 2022 and help people get the benefits under Prime Minister Awas scheme. Providing Mr .Basavaraju ward-wise details of the 77 revenue areas in a letter submitted to him, Mr. Simha sought necessary directions to the officials to act in this regard.
15 October 2020||Shankar Bennur,KARNATAKA||Swab tests cross 2 lakh-mark as testing ramped up||Even as Mysuru is gearing up for the low-key Dasara fete amidst the COVID-19 fear, the testing ahead of the festivities has been stepped up and the number of swab tests in government-run labs, including the District Hospital and the MMCRI’s K.R. Hospital, has crossed the 2 lakh-mark. Until Tuesday, 2,03,101 samples had been tested in Mysuru’s COVID-19 labs. Also, the number of tests in the private labs is inching closer to the 30,000-mark. Till Tuesday, 28,004 samples had been tested in the private labs across Mysuru. The Mysuru district administration had sought two-weeks’ time to show results in reigning in the pandemic whose cases had been spiralling since the past few days, with cases ranging between 800-1,000 a day. On the government’s order, it identified the focus area - stepping up testing and isolating the contacts of the infected persons within the specified time as the majority of cases reported daily involve them – for stopping the infection from spreading to the larger community. If the Mysuru COVID-19 figures of the last three days are analysed, the daily tests were on the rise in the government labs but they are within 4,000 per day. The number of tests done on Tuesday was 3,970 while it was 3,347 and 3,014 on Monday and Sunday respectively. The testing in private labs seems picking up as 636 tests were done on Tuesday and 633 on Monday. The tests include RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs). Meanwhile, the info shared on beds by the private hospitals following a meeting here recently has perhaps helped the district administration and the Department of Health and Family Welfare in tackling the pandemic situation, especially the fatality rate. The details of beds, including occupied and vacant, in private hospitals are now being updated daily after the government and the district administration directed them to set aside 50 per cent of beds for treating COVID-19 patients. The data was shared with the district health officer (DHO), and hospitals cannot say “no beds” to patients since the department can question them for denying the beds when they are available as per their assertion. As on Tuesday, out of 875 beds in private hospitals for COVID-19, 685 beds had been occupied and 190 were vacant. All put together, the total number of beds available in Mysuru, including government and private facilities, was 3,231, and 1,691 beds had been occupied till Tuesday with 1,540 beds vacant. Majority of asymptomatic patients are home isolated. Those facing problems in home isolation are opting to stay in Dedicated COVID-19 Health Care Centres and COVID-19 Care Centeres (CCCs). The active cases in Mysuru stand at 6,843 and nearly 80 per cent of the cases are in home isolation (5,049 cases). As many as 681 patients are being treated in private hospitals and about 512 patients are in government-run COVID-19 Care Centres. As many as 179 patients are in private CCCs. Plans are also afoot to set up new swab collection centres, including mobile labs, for increasing the number of tests to an additional 3,000 to 4,000 a day.
15 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Torrential rain wreaks havoc in Yadgir, Raichur dists.; Krishna, Bhima swollen||Torrential rain has wreaked havoc in Yadgir and Raichur districts. It started raining on Tuesday night and continued to lash the districts even on Wednesday evening. Several hundreds of houses have partially collapsed and large areas of agricultural fields are inundated. Standing crops such as paddy, cotton, green chilli and red gram crops have been destroyed. Rainwater gushed into nearly 200 houses in the two districts. Several hundreds of houses are surrounded by rainwater. Temples, schools, tandas in Yadgir district are surrounded by rainwater. Sindhanur, Maski, Lingsugur, Raichur taluks in Raichur district, Shahapur, Surpur, Gurmitkal and Wadagera taluks in Yadgir district have been affected badly by incessant rain. The Krishna and the Bhima are swollen after officials started releasing water from the Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanpur in Yadgir district and the Sannati Barrage in Sannati of Kalaburagi district. People in villages on the river banks have been alerted as there is a possibility of floods hitting these villages. As many as 27 villages in Shahapur and Wadagera taluks are facing the threat of floods and are likely to be the most affected if water level increases in the rivers. According to sources, 1.61 lakh cusecs of water is being released into the Krishna from the Basavasagar reservoir, while the inflow was put at 1.62 lakh. As many as 22 gates have been opened to discharge water. The water level standsat 491.73 m against the full reservoir level of 492.25 m. Besides, 1.55 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from the Sannati Barrage, while the inflow there was 1.55 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, a search operation to trace Channabasava, who was washed away in a flowing stream near Maski, continued. He was washed away three days ago. Chandrabanda, Sarjapur, Kadagamdoddi, Yapaldinni, Hunasihak Huda villages in Raichur district have been badly affected by rain. The rainfall recorded is as follows: Deodurga 21 mm, Manvi 13 mm, Lingsugur and Raichur 22 mm, Sindhanur and Maski 18 mm and Sirwar taluk 17 mm in Raichur district; Hattikuni 48 mm, Yadgir 36 mm, Saidapur, Dornahalli, Konkal and Balichakra 32 mm in Yadgir district.  As much as 1.61 lakh cusecs of water is being released into the Krishna from Basavasagar reservoir
15 October 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner says complete work on IIIT||Deputy Commissioner of Raichur R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed the department and agencies concerned to complete the balance work on the proposed Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) enabling students to attend classes as early as possible. After visiting the Government Engineering College campus where the IIIT is going to be established, Mr. Venkatesh Kumar attended a meeting of officials meeting on Wednesday. A couple of months ago, a team of officials visited the site and told officials concerned that basic needs be provided before could be started. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar suggested to the officials to provide facilities such as WiFi, UPS, television, geyser, street lights, road, generator set, basketball, football and volleyball stadia, drinking water and name boards immediately. He said that all facilities should be ready before a team from Hyderabad visited the campus for inspection in 15 days. The Deputy Commissioner also inspected the hostel rooms and kitchen.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chamundi Hills to be out of bounds for general public||Ahead of the start of Dasara celebrations, the district administration has issued orders banning public entry to Chamundi Hills as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19. According to the orders by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, the Chamundi Hills and the Chamundeshwari temple will remain out of bounds for public from the midnight of October 14 till the midnight of October 18, and again from 5 a.m. on October 23 till the midnight of November 1. The ban orders had been issued in view of the possibility of a large number of devotees visiting the temple during the period. Apart from banning public and private vehicles, the order has also prohibited entry to Chamundi Hills from the steps leading to the hilltop. However, invitees to the inaugural programme on October 17 will be permitted. Also, vehicles carrying officials and employees engaged in preparation for the inaugural programme are exempted from the ban orders. The COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, which had visited Mysuru, had recommended that no more than 200 people should be allowed to gather for the inaugural programme. Cardiologist C.N. Manjunath will be opening this year’s Dasara celebrations. The orders have also banned preparation and distribution of prasada on the days on which entry and congregation of people has been banned on Chamundi Hills. However, permission has been granted for carrying out of the daily rituals in the temple by the priests and work by other employees. The ban orders have been issued by the Deputy Commissioner under Rule 12 of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulations 2020 and provisions of Disaster Management Act 2005 to prevent spread of COVID-19. Venue shifted The Mysuru district administration’s decision to prohibit entry of general public to Chamundi Hills has derailed the plans chalked out by Mahisha Dasara Organising Committee to celebrate Mahisha Dasara in memory of Mahishasura. Chaipersons of the Committee and former Mayor Purushotham said they had planned to celebrate Mahisha Dasara atop Chamundi Hills on October 15 by offering floral tributes to the statue of Mahishasura. In view of the district administration’s refusal to permit them to celebrate Mahisha Dasara atop Chamundi Hills, the committee has decided to shift the venue to Ambedkar Park in Ashokapuram, Mr Purushotham said.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Transport corpn. turns to solar energy to recoup losses||Reeling under losses from lockdown-induced lack of operations and lower passenger count due to COVID-19, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is looking to improve its finances from other sources. The transport corporation is likely to run some of its offices by harnessing solar power, which is expected to save a substantial amount of money on its electricity bills. Savings of Rs. 20 crore Arun K., Director, Security and Vigilance, BMTC, told The Hindu that conservative estimates were of the transport corporation saving around Rs. 20 crore a year. “Technical evaluation is under way for the feasibility of the project. We want it to be viable for both us as well as the agency installing solar infrastructure. In this case, while we will save on power bills, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) will be able to generate additional power,” he said. Saptak Ghosh, Research Scientist, CSTEP, which is conducting the feasibility study, said they are assessing the feasibility of 75 major bus stations, TTMCs, workshops and depots. “Around 3 MW will possibly be installed by Bescom under their 13th finance commission project on 10 buildings. For the remaining 65 buildings, third-party developers will lease the roof from BMTC and sell all the generated electricity to Bescom,” he added. “In the first case, BMTC gets free electricity while Bescom gets surplus generation for free. In the second case, BMTC gets a certain amount from the third-party as rent for the roof while Bescom gets clean power to fulfil RPO obligations,” he explained, adding that CSTEP is using CREST to prepare DPRs for both the cases. Assessing the potential CREST-CSTEP’s Rooftop Evaluation of Solar Tool was launched virtually recently, enabling consumers to assess their rooftop’s potential to generate solar energy for their own consumption, as well as to supply additional power generated to Bescom. BMTC Chairman N.S. Nandiesha Reddy said the corporation wants to implement solar power in all its buildings once the technical details are worked out. “We are looking at big numbers in savings as we have all kinds of properties – offices, buildings that house tenants, TTMCs and depots,” he said.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Implement SOPs strictly to control COVID-19: CM||Increasing IEC (Information, Education and Communication) activities and strict implementation of SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) will help control COVID-19 in the city, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at a review meeting on Wednesday. The CM, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Health Minister K. Sudhakar, and Ministers in-charge of various zones reviewed the measures taken in the city to control the spread of COVID-19. Plaints about middlemen One of the issues addressed was complaints about middlemen charging exorbitant sums from those who have tested positive for COVID-19 seeking beds in hospitals and fake bills being submitted in the name of patients under home quarantine/isolation. Officials concerned were directed to check this and take corrective action immediately. Nearly 55% of the people who have tested positive for COVID-19 are under home isolation. BBMP officials were also directed to improve contact tracing. However, they reported that either the addresses of many primary and secondary contacts were incorrect or their mobile phones were switched off. Directions have already been issued to increase the number of RT-PCR tests and reduce RAT. Nearly 47,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the city every day, and so far, over 20 lakh tests have been performed in the city, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said and added that more tests were being conducted in four zones. He told The Hindu that there were many panchayat areas under the Bengaluru Urban district. With difficulty in coordination, the zonal coordinators had suggested that BBMP be the only source of command for all areas. “The government responded positively in this regard,” he said. The BBMP was also directed to reduce the positivity rate and case fatality rate in the city. Dr. Sudhakar directed officials to monitor patients in the backdrop of cases of reinfection. He also said that with 525 Intensive Care Unit beds available in the city hospitals, there is a need to increase ventilators and ICU beds.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Funds for building foot-bridges||K.S. Gurumurthy, chairman of Malenadu Area Development Board, has said the board will give priority to construction of foot-bridges in remote areas of the hilly region. Speaking at a press conference in Shivamogga on Wednesday, he said he was aware of the problems faced by people in remote villages. The board would utilise its funds for the construction of foot-bridges so that people could cross rivers easily. The board consists of a vast area, represented by 86 legislators. An action plan would be worked out to take up development works in the region. “Many works have remained incomplete for many years. This financial year, we have decided to complete 1,278 works. We have submitted a proposal to the State government seeking additional funds”, he said.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||213 new cases in Hassan||As many as 213 people tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Hassan district on Wednesday. One person died of the infection, increasing the death toll to 385. So far 22,118 confirmed cases of the infection have been reported in the district. Among them, 17,882 have been discharged and 3,851 are undergoing treatment. Of them, 51 are in the intensive care unit. Of the 213 fresh cases reported on the day, 16 are from Alur, 41 from Arkalgud, three from Arsikere, 10 from Belur, 49 from Channarayapatna, 73 from Hassan, nine from Holenarsipur.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wards increased to 243||The State government, on Wednesday, issued a notification on increasing the number of wards under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to 243. Until now, there were 198 wards in the city. The Legislature Joint Select Committee, headed by C.V. Raman Nagar MLA S. Raghu, took into account the 2011 census and population projection reports to decide that 35,000 should be the average population of each ward. Of the 45 new wards, around 35 will be in the five outer zones of Mahadevapura, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bommanahalli, Yelahanka and Dasarahalli. The government has also constituted a Delimitation Commission with four members. According to a notification issued in this regard, the commission will be chaired by BBMP Commissioner. The other members will be the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban) district and Commissioner of Bangalore Development Authority. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Revenue) will be the member secretary. The term of this commission will be six months.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s popular tourist sites to remain closed||“We cannot allow the public when COVID-19 cases are unending. It’s going to be a virtual Dasara fete this year. Taking all precautions, the traditions associated with the festivities will be carried out.” She said this year’s Dasara illumination had been scaled down. Ms. Sindhuri said the palace cultural events had been reduced to two hours a day and the live streaming of the programmes for the benefit of music lovers was being arranged. Earlier, during a meeting with senior officials here on Wednesday, Ms. Sindhuri appealed to the people of neighbouring districts not to visit the places of tourist importance in and around Mysuru this festive season. Not advisable “It’s not advisable for tourists to visit Mysuru which has over 6,800 active cases. If people turn up here in multitudes, it can result in spreading of the infection. In this connection, the tourist sites had been closed down,” she stated. Police Commissioner Chandra Gupta, Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyanth, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, ZP CEO D.Bharati, Mysuru zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni and others were present.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drama begins||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mental health centre for elderly||NIMHANS will launch “Vayo Manasa Sanjeevani”, a programme for promoting mental health and well-being of the elderly on Friday. Being taken up as an Initiative for the Decade of Healthy Ageing (2020-30), the programme will involve training of lay counsellors and senior citizens to coordinate telecounselling through NIMHANS.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farm activity||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. issues SOP||The State Government on Wednesday issued an SOP for resuming screening of movies. It has asked cinemas to maintain humidity range from 40-70% with temperature setting of all the air conditioning devices from 24-30 degrees Celsius. “Recirculation of air must be avoided to the extent possible and cross ventilation should be adequate,” the SOP read. According to the SOP, only packaged food and beverages should be allowed inside the cinema. To avoid crowding at the ticket counters, the SOP has asked the ticket counters to be opened throughout the day though online transactions should be the most preferred mode. Providing phone numbers while buying or booking tickets has been made mandatory.
15 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||456 positive cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 456 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, as many as 426 patients contracted the virus locally and the source of infections of another 18 people remain undetected. Twelve people who had arrived from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Two COVID-19-related deaths were reported in the district, taking the official tally to 68. The deceased were identified as a 69-year-old woman from Cherthala and a 69-year-old man from Pallana. They died on October 11. The 456 new cases include 114 reported from Alappuzha municipality and 24 from Cherthala South grama panchayat. Cherthala (23), Chennam Pallippuram (20), Punnapra South (16), Mavelikara (15), Thrikkunnappuzha (13), Pattanakkad (13), Champakulam (12), Cheppad (12), Mararikulam North (12), Pathiyoor (11), Ambalappuzha North (11) and Kayamkulam (10) registered double-digit case count. Meanwhile, 574 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 6,144. The police registered 63 cases and arrested 53 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 307 people for not wearing face masks, 1,446 for not maintaining physical distance and two persons for violating the home quarantine norms. Another 12 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC.
15 October 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Idukki water above blue alert level||With the district experiencing heavy rainfall on Wednesday, the water level in the Idukki reservoir continued to be above the blue alert level. The Malankara and Kallarkutty dams have already been opened. All other dams except the Mullaperiyar dam, upstream of the Idukki reservoir, are nearing the full reserve level, as per the data available on Wednesday evening.  Cheruthoni dam The dam safety wing of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) may recommend opening of the Cheruthoni dam if the rainfall continues at this level after October 15. The water level in the Idukki reservoir on Wednesday was 2,392.02 ft, over one ft above the blue alert level. The dam safety wing on Tuesday issued the blue alert when the water level reached 2,391.18 ft. The blue alert level for Wednesday as per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission was 2,390.85 ft. The power generation at the Moolamattom powerhouse of the Idukki reservoir was raised to 7.04 million units on Tuesday as decided at a power position meeting. A KSEB official (Transmission, System Operation) said the dam safety wing was monitoring the situation and water would be released from the reservoir if needed. Earlier it was decided to surrender power from the central pool and make use of the extra power generated at Moolamattom. “Now we have got a better option to sell the extra power and it is being taken,” he said, adding that four of the six generators were being operated. Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam on Wednesday was 127.25 ft. Despite Tamil Nadu drawing water more than the normal level, the water level rose from the previous day following heavy rainfall. The maximum water level as per a Supreme Court order is 142 ft.  The district received an average rainfall of 34.12 mm in the past 24 hours. Peerumade taluk received the highest rainfall of 54.2 mm.
15 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Mani faction should resign all seats: Joseph||Kerala Congress (M) Joseph faction leader P.J. Joseph on Wednesday said the Jose K. Mani faction should resign all seats it had won as part of the United Democratic Front (UDF). He said Mr. Mani had joined hands with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) which did not allow party chairman K.M. Mani to present the State Budget and attacked him on all fronts. The UDF had stood firmly with him, which Mr. Mani had now conveniently forgotten. ‘‘Worse still, he is joining them without reaching any consensus over the Pala and Kanjirappally seats,” Mr. Joseph said.
15 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Encounter: court dismisses plea||The District and Sessions Court here dismissed the application of the police to release the weapons that were used in the encounter with Maoists at a private resort at Lakkidi in Wayanad district on March 6 last year. C.P. Jaleel, 25, a suspected Maoist activist, was shot dead in the incident. The Superintendent of Police (Operations), Kerala Anti-Terrorist Squad (KATS), had filed an application for release of the weapons, including eight AK-47 rifles, one TAR rifles, two INSAS rifles, and one GLOCK pistol, as the forensic examination of the weapons was over.
15 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul to open school building||Rahul Gandhi, MP, will inaugurate the newly constructed Plus Two section of the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School at Mundery here at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday through videoconferencing.C.K. Saseendran, MLA, will preside over..
15 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||COVID protocol: sector magistrates register 528 cases in Kannur||Sector magistrates appointed at the local body level to intensify measures against the spread of COVID-19 booked 528 cases in the district on Wednesday. Cases were registered against 272 persons who did not wear masks properly, while 118 shops were found without visitor registers. As many as 55 cases were registered for failure to maintain physical distancing, 29 for illegal gatherings, and 25 against shops that did not provide masks and sanitizers. District Collector T.V. Subhash directed the sector magistrates to expand their inspections in the coming days and take strict action against those violating rules. There are 93 sector magistrates, including four in Kannur Corporation, in the district. The Collector had issued a prohibition order under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code until October 31 as part of measures to check the spread of COVID-19.
15 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Residents seek action against DSC personnel||Residents near the Kannur Cantonment area have demanded legal action against Army personnel for carrying out house survey and collecting details without prior intimation. They lodged a complaint with the civil and military authorities, including the District Collector, on Wednesday. They said Kannur DSC personnel had arrived in military uniform at Aiyakkara-Kilashi, Anchukandikunnam and Thavakkara areas of the Kannur Corporation with out informing them in advance. The complainants expressed apprehension that the information documented would be used against them.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||AI, Data Science turn most popular courses at MGU||The growing demand for professionals in the areas of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science has reflected in the new-generation interdisciplinary programmes proposed by government and aided colleges under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) for the academic year 2020-21. The university had invited applications from higher educational institutions based on the government directive that such courses could be launched from November 1. The Higher Education Department had asked universities to initiate steps to launch new undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in innovative areas. They included four- and five-year programmes recommended by an expert committee set up by the government. The integrated M.Sc programme in Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) figured top among the innovative programmes proposed by the affiliated colleges. The postgraduate programme in Data Analytics and the integrated M.Sc course in Basic Science were the other courses that caught the attention of the colleges. Among the integrated M.Sc programmes in Basic Sciences, the managements mainly opted for courses in Statistics, Chemistry, Physics, and Biology. The postgraduate programme in Statistics had considerable demand, mostly buoyed by the demand for skilled professionals in fields like banking, analytics, finance, and software development. The colleges also opted for B.Sc in Psychology and Behavioural Sciences. The postgraduate courses proposed in interdisciplinary areas included MA in Archaeology and Material Cultural Studies, Space Science, and Economics. Among the undergraduate programmes in humanities, the colleges opted for BA in Econometrics, BA in Foreign Languages (English, French, German), and Bachelor in Sports Management. More than 100 innovative programmes were available for the colleges to choose from for the new academic year. The university has appointed an expert member and a representative of the Syndicate to assess the academic and infrastructural capabilities of the colleges that had applied for the courses. An expert committee headed by MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas had recommended the formation of a State-wide monitoring committee to oversee the implementation of the new programmes.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Open spaces in city to come under CCTV blanket||Come February, most public spaces under the Kochi Corporation will be covered by a surveillance blanket provided by 465 closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at 125 locales as part of the Integrated City Surveillance System (ICSS) of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). They will cover walkways, parks, junctions and other key locales. The Rs. 42-crore cloud-based video surveillance system project, work on which is under way, will have video-analytical capabilities like detection of littering on streets, vehicle licence plates and no-helmet recognition, detection of intruders and those who vandalise public properties. This would lessen the burden on the police and the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD), which would be able to keep tabs on criminals and rule violators from the confines of the integrated city command and control centre (IC4), CSML sources said. This will be a game changer in law enforcement, becoming a deterrent for rule violators and a reassurance to citizens, since it is expected to prevent and reduce crimes in the city. The system, being readied by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), will also come in handy to assist emergency services. BEL will also be vested with its upkeep for three years. On the blink At present, most CCTVs along arterial roads and other public spaces in the city, installed by the police and the Motor Vehicles Department, are defunct. The malfunctioning cameras will be replaced with modern ones and integrated with the project. The 125 areas where the cameras will be installed were decided in tandem with the police, the sources added. The data collected will be primarily used by the police and the MVD, to bring to book miscreants and rule violators. On its part, it will help the Kochi Corporation to report offences related to littering and illegal dumping of waste. Traffic discipline The cameras will be capable of zooming into a person’s face, aiding his detection. The data thus gathered will be used by the police to identify the person. Apart from ensuring safety and security of members of the public, the system will help garner evidence that will come in handy before courts for criminal and civil cases. It is also expected to help improve traffic discipline and in managing large-scale events. In addition, emergency call boxes and public address systems will be installed at 50 and 20 locations respectively. They too would be linked to the command and control centre, the sources added.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Rent waiver not for SmartCity Kochi tenants’||The Kakkanad-based SmartCity Kochi has claimed that the State government’s order earlier this month clarifying that it is not a government IT park has absolved it of granting rent waiver and deferment of payments, which, it argues, is applicable only to IT and ITeS companies operating out of buildings owned by government IT parks. The government had on April 27, in view of the lockdown, had called for waiver and deferment of payments to IT and ITeS companies. In a release issued on Wednesday, the company claimed that the rationale of the order dated October 6 on a representation by four defaulting tenants of SmartCity Kochi clarified the matter beyond doubt. “It is important to note that the building in SmartCity Kochi where tenants operate from is not owned by the Government IT Parks. The Government IT Parks-owned projects are Technopark, Infopark, and Cyberpark, and the order of April 27 is not even applicable to buildings owned by private developers in these parks, even though the parks are master-planned, owned and developed by the government,” the release said. SmartCity Kochi is of the view that the order of October 6 will also be applicable to all its tenants, since the rationale at arriving at the Government Order remains unchanged. Payments withheld It termed as “unfortunate” the alleged unilateral decision by some of its tenants to withhold payment of both rent and maintenance charges disregarding the rent deferment options provided for an extended period until September 2020. Since the company was providing all facilities to its tenants, the latter ought to reciprocate by fulfilling their contractual obligations such as timely payment of rent and maintenance charges, said SmartCity Kochi, which further claimed that it had accommodated requests by tenants seeking deferment due to financial crisis in view of mutual coexistence in such times.  The government had on April 27, in view of the lockdown, called for waiver and deferment of payments to IT and ITeS companies
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Saving city’s strays at night||A stray dog rifling across a road in the dead of the night startling motorists and leaving either or both of them grievously injured or even dead has not been rare on the city roads. The death of two strays and injury to another in similar incidents in her neighbourhood at Marine Drive during the lockdown prompted a Mumbai-based entrepreneur temporarily settled here to kick-start a campaign to put reflective collars on strays. The Instagram-based campaign, CollarUpCochin, has since then become popular among animal lovers and communities feeding stray dogs. “It is actually an initiative to support a project called Silver Lining being run by a Delhi-based 15-year-old boy named Samarth Sarin whereby reflective collars are put on stray dogs, making them visible during nights. I buy these nylon ribbon-like collars with a clip and stretchable buckle from him at Rs. 20 a piece,” said Radhika Wakharkar, who also runs an animal welfare NGO in Goa. So far, she has distributed 600 collars, thanks to the donations of her friends and supporters while another 700 are being awaited. Ms. Wakharkar has committed to donating 100 such collars a month to Animal Birth Control for Dogs (ABCD) programme of the Kochi Corporation since it undertakes many monthly surgeries. “We sedate the animals for undertaking surgeries and therefore it is easier to put it on them. The collar is comfortable on the skin and is very effective at nights. But since strays are not accustomed to such alien objects, we found many of them to have shaken it off before long,” said Sonika Sathish, veterinary surgeon, ABCD. Ashwini Prem, who runs an NGO, Oneness, is actively collaborating with the campaign and hopes that the collars would bring about a positive change in the attitude of people towards strays and create the impression that there are people who care for them.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District records more recoveries than positive cases||A total of 793 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. While 714 people contracted the infection through local contact, the source of infection in 76 patients remains unknown. Two health workers were newly infected on Wednesday. Vengola recorded the maximum number of positive cases on the day, with 56 persons testing positive. After a brief period of respite, Chellanam has seen another surge in cases, with 25 persons testing positive. Thripunithura, Koovapady, Cheranalloor, Kalady, and Edathala registered more than 20 positive cases each on Wednesday. Positive cases of infection were also reported from Mattancherry, Palluruthy, Thrikkakara, Perumbavoor, Thevara, Elamakkara, Kaloor, and Kalamassery. The district saw more recoveries than positive cases on Wednesday, with 823 people testing negative. As many as 30,991 people are in quarantine, and 12,224 people are currently being treated for the disease. A total of 225 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 49 at PVS Hospital, 1,041 at first-line treatment centres, and 174 people at second line treatment centres. At private hospitals, 731 people are being treated, while 9,031 people are recovering at home. For testing, 4,784 samples were collected. The figure is up from 3,290 samples collected on Tuesday. Sector magistrates, 119 gazetted government officials tasked with enforcing COVID-19 protocol in the district, have registered 454 cases for violations of protocol. The magistrates, who have been visiting public places, including bus stands, are authorised to collect fines from people who are found violating the protocol.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Turning fish vending into a vibrant experience||After more than four decades fighting the vagaries of the ocean, Ummar, a 58 year-old fisherman from Edavanakkad, is now realising the significance of technology to his trade. With the pandemic wrecking havoc on the functioning of harbours and markets too often, youngsters like his son Mujeeb Ummar has turned to the social media to reach out to potential markets. The largely WhatsApp-based initiative, now four months old, that has turned fish vending into a cultural experience of sorts for buyers is increasingly turning popular. Rather than restricting his posts to different kinds of fishes and their prices, Mujeeb, instead, broadcasts alerts about impending arrival of boats, followed by videos of their arrival and the separation of catch from the nets through multiple groups. This effectively is an invite for interested buyers to experience the whole affair. They may even try a hand at the art of handling massive fishing nets and return not just with fishes but even selfies, of course, in keeping with social distancing norms. “The response to our initiative has been overwhelming, and one day we sold around 1,000 kg of fish. Catch from a few big canoes operated mostly by our relatives at Edavanakkad-Chathangad beach is being sold this way now, while door delivery is restricted to the immediate neighbourhood, though it may be further widened considering the increasing demand from far-off places,” said Mujeeb who was forced into to fish vending from interlock tile laying work by the pandemic. It is a win-win situation, as fishermen get to sell their catch without intermediaries, and buyers get fresh fish at much reduced prices. Since canoes cannot always venture into sea, they also sell river fishes, which are brought to Mujeeb’s home during early mornings. “They also generate jobs for people hit by the pandemic. For instance, two widows are engaged for cleaning fishes, while some youngsters help when canoes returns to the shore,” said Bejoy, a local resident who is also a regular customer. “We cannot let this pandemic crush us but find ways to ovecome it,” said Mujeeb who is also an active social worker.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cops transferred with immediate effect||Three days after the alleged assault on a group of youngsters by the Fort Kochi police, three officers were transferred with immediate effect on Wednesday. Among those who were transferred were Sub Inspector C.R. Singh, who was hardly 10 days in his post, and civil police officers Sunil Kumar and Gireesh. Additional Commissioner (Kochi City) K.P. Philip issued the order transferring them to Thoppumpady, North and Elamakkara stations respectively, said sources. Mulavukad Sub Inspector K.P. Manesh has been roped in as a replacement. Fort Kochi Station House Officer G.B. Manuraj had submitted a report on the incident to Mattancherry Assistant Commissioner G.D. Vijayakumar who in turn forwarded it to Mr. Philip with his own take. All the three transferred officers were part of a police team accused of beating up a group of youngsters who had assembled at a ground adjoining a closed godown near Customs Jetty at Fort Kochi on Sunday evening. There was a public revolt against the alleged police brutality after five youngsters had to be admitted to hospital leading to a protest march to the Fort Kochi police station on the night of the incident. The protesters left after Mr. Vijayakumar assured them of appropriate action against the officers concerned. Just like in the immediate aftermath of the incident in which both the victims and the alleged perpetrators presented contradictory versions — while victims claimed that they had assembled for playing cricket and were brutally beaten up by the police without warning, the police dubbed the youngsters anti-social elements and attributed injuries to be sustained while trying to flee them — neither party seems satisfactory about the purported punitive action either.
15 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||School reopening: IAP for district-level decision||The Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) has recommended that the decision on school reopening be taken by each district administration and not at the national or State level. The proposal figures among the latest guidelines drafted by a committee set up by the IAP on school education amid the COVID-19 scenario. Schools can be be reopened only when the local epidemiological parameters are favourable. The district administration has to be equipped with adequate infrastructure and health-care facilities and the stakeholders (teachers, students, parents, and support staff) are prepared for the new normal, it said. “The district administration has to ensure that the number of new cases of COVID-19 detected in the district concerned should be steadily decreasing for two weeks preceding the date of school reopening. The number of new cases in the district per lakh population per day should be less than 20 in the past two weeks,” says S. Sachidananda Kamath, former national president of the IAP and a member of the committee that drafted the guidelines. The guidelines The guidelines prescribe that schools should open in batches with older students joining first. The students should be divided and called in different batches, shifts/alternate days and in staggered times. Schools should be ready with the new norms of the infrastructure, training of the staff and health and hygiene facilities. Suggesting that the academics this year should be made as stress-free, Dr. Kamath recommends that the educational boards concerned undertake 50% trimming of the syllabi for all subjects of all classes. The curriculum needs to be revised, with focus on revision and core contents.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A few puffs and some quick bucks||Can a few puffs and samoosa bring in quick bucks? As improbable that may sound, two youngsters nabbed by the Mulanthuruthy police last week had allegedly hatched such a plan and were successfully implementing it. One of the co-accused remains yet to be grabbed. The plan was a rather tried and tested one and used in umpteen Malayalam movies to evoke a few guffaws. “They used to drop in at a bakery where they had some snacks and then bought a few as parcel. In an hour or so, they returned all worked up over a dead lizard in the parcel box. They then put up quite a show with one of them even feigning to double up in pain with stomach ache,” said E.V. Raju, Mulanthuruthy Assistant Sub Inspector. When the bakery owner offered to take them to the hospital, they rather demanded compensation not to make the incident public. The accused allegedly used to demand Rs. 50,000 though they settled for much less exploiting the anxiety of bakery owners scared over a potential blot on their shop’s reputation. They successfully pulled off the ploy and usurped Rs. 23,500 from a bakery and Rs. 3,500 from another. Emboldened, they could have probably gone on with it, if not for a local merchants’ meet in which one of the victims shared his experience only to realise that someone else had been fooled the same way. Wasting no more time, they lodged a petition with the Mulanthuruthy police. Shortly thereafter, the police tracked down one of the accused and then feigned as a bakery owner willing to pay more to keep them quiet to nab the other. “It emerged that they had used the same modus operandi to cheat around Rs. 20,000 from another bakery owner at Thripunithura and two bakeries at Vaikom from where two of the accused hail,” said Mr. Raju.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Job-oriented programmes losing sheen||Lack of qualified faculty members and adequate infrastructure has taken the sheen off ‘job-oriented’ self-financing programmes sanctioned by Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) earlier. The demand for most of these tailor-made courses has declined, according to the varsity authorities, owing to shortcomings in academic and infrastructural requirements. The expert committee appointed by the government for proposing innovative courses had mentioned in its report that the existing new-generation programmes like B.Sc Microbiology, Biotechnology, Biochemistry, Biostatistics, Bioinformatics, Hotel Management, and Bachelor of Tourism Studies and Management were mostly offered in the self-financing sector. Employment Since job opportunities for these programmes as projected initially have not been the same when it comes to reality, the demand came down to near zero in many colleges, and some courses have been wound up for want of applicants. The failure of the proliferation of specialised courses like those in biotechnology remains a point to be noted while recommending new programmes, the committee had said. It found that many of the ‘skill-oriented’ programmes had failed to meet the expectations of job providers. Hence, a majority of students who cleared such courses could not find a job. One of the reasons behind it is the lack of consultation with the industry and non-consideration of requirements of job providers, which affected the quality of education offered, it said. Teachers in various social science disciplines had cited the inadequacy of the curriculum followed in many universities in Kerala to understand the most recent developments in the discipline as a major lacuna in achieving the desired results.
15 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sabarimala: HC reserves order||The Kerala High Court reserved its order on reports filed by the State government and the Sabarimala Special Commissioner on arrangements to be made at Sabarimala in view of the COVID-19 pandemic during the coming Mandalam-Makaravilakku season. The commissioner suggested that COVID-19 negative certificate be made mandatory while applying for virtual queue slots for darshan. It had also been recommended that pilgrims above 60 years and below ten years of age and with co-morbidities be restrained from undertaking the pilgrimage. The number of devotees permitted to visit could be fixed at 1,000 on weekdays and 2,000 during weekends.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||85.5% mask use in capital: study||About 20% of 4,500 people surveyed across all districts in the State were not protected by face masks, either because they did not wear them or wore them improperly, according to a study by the Global Institute of Public Health, Thiruvananthapuram. The study found that 96% of people wore masks, but 16% of them improperly, without covering the nose or mouth. Proper mask use was highest in Malappuram district (85.8%), which was also coincidentally classified as a “high zone” (district with a cumulative caseload of over 8,000 till August 28). Thiruvanthapuram, also categorised as a high zone, had mask use of 85.5%, while Idukki, categorised as a “low zone” had the lowest mask use at 62.4%.  Photo-epidemiology The study was conducted between August 28 and September 5. Using the method of photo-epidemiology, over 1,400 photographs were taken. The study found that crowding was higher in the high zone districts of Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram. “Eighty per cent proper mask use is not bad, but it is not enough, since Kerala is densely populated,” said S.S. Lal, head of public health at the Global Institute of Public Health.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Income Tax officials to intensify stir||A Joint Council of Action comprising Income Tax Employees Federation and Income Tax Gazetted Officers Association, together forming around 97% of the workforce, is intensifying its agitation from Thursday maintaining that they had not been consulted before the Prime Minister announced the Faceless Assessment and Appeal Schemes. In a statement issued here, the officials going on strike also said that major issues affecting the career prospects of officers and other staff under the Central Board of Direct Taxes had been neglected by the board. The issues, they said, included promotions to the grade of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax (ACIT), Principal Administrative Officer, Income Tax Officer, and Group C grades. There was also a delay in granting senior time scale to promotee ACsIT and regularisation of ad hoc promotions to ACIT and below, they alleged. The protesting officials, to be on hunger strike in Kerala as part of the all-India strike, will take out a lunch-hour demonstration in major officers, quit all official WhatsApp groups, will not adhere to deadlines set by the CBDT in handing over charges and issue of statutory notices, will not participate in official meetings, and will desist from submitting statistical reports called by the CBT, the protesters said.
15 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||BIS holds webinar||The local branch of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) held a webinar on Wednesday to celebrate World Standards Day 2020. N. Prashant, managing director, Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation, spoke on the growing importance of standards and certification in daily life. Objectives The day, celebrated to raise awareness among regulators, industry, and customers about the importance of standardisation to the global economy, had technical sessions on environment management, air and water quality, and energy management.
15 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||551 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 551 new cases of COVID-19, 625 recoveries and one death on Wednesday. Among the patients are 527 contact cases, 22 people with no known source and two health workers. The Department also confirmed that the death of an 80-year-old Kavanad resident is due to COVID-19. The district currently has 19,389 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,71,554. While 2,544 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 59,139 primary and 7,220 secondary contacts of the positive cases. With the last few days recording a considerable surge in caseload, the Health Department has ensured extra facilities in both government and private facilities in the district to handle the situation. Along with the increasing number of new patients, spike in Category C was another major challenge faced by the department. According to Health officials, emergency measures have been activated and the district is fully equipped to manage with its own resources. “Around 10 private hospitals in the district have now started admitting COVID-19 patients and more COVID-19 Second-line Treatment Centres (SLTC) will opened soon. All SLTCs will be attached to taluk hospitals so that COVID-19 hospitals can focus more on Category C. Local bodies have expressed their willingness to start ward-level SLTCs,” says Deputy DMO R.Sandhya. The Department has also arranged special provisions for expectant mothers and patients who require dialysis. Pregnant woman and those with gynaecological emergencies will be admitted at Ramarao Memorial Taluk Hospital, Nedungolam if they test positive. Surge “If there is a surge, the hospital is prepared to take more patients,” she says. In order to manage dialysis cases, the department has started extra shifts at the units in some government facilities. “Now the non-COVID-19 patients can depend on these hospitals and even if the situation aggravates we will be able to manage,” she said The Department has also instructed private hospitals to encourage Category A patients to remain in home care. If the patients in home care develop any complications, the COVID-19 corners in taluk hospitals will handle them. “Patients can go to all empanelled private hospitals with a referral letter from the department to get free treatment. Doctors can refer them to hospitals with vacant beds as COVID-19 Jagratha portal will have all the updated details,” says Dr.Sandhya.
15 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four harbours in Kollam to be renovated||Four harbours in the district will be given a facelift with financial aid from the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) allocated by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). As part of the Rs. 54.56-crore project, harbours at Neendakara, Sakthikulangara, Thangassery and Azheekkal will be renovated. NABARD has sanctioned Rs. 32.7 crore for the Sakthikulangara harbour, while Rs. 9.5 crore will be spent on reconstructing the buildings at the Neendakara harbour. A sum of Rs. 7.4 crore has been set aside for constructing and extending docking facilities at Azheekkal and Rs. 4.8 crore will be spent on Thangassery. The wharf and auction hall at Neendakara will be modernised and geobags will be placed there in order to prevent sedimentation in the harbour. CCTV surveillance  A new toilet block, approach road, well, overhead water tank, shopping complex and CCTV surveillance will also come up in the harbour. Apart from dredging, the Sakthikulangara harbour will get a string of new facilities including finger jetty, net mending shed, kiosk, entrance gate and gate house. A compound wall around the harbour will be constructed while parking area and auction hall will be renovated. An auction hall and a 100-metre wharf will be built in Azheekkal to expand landing facilities. The construction of the wharf will be done in such a way as to ensure the safety of fishers and hassle-free fishing. Thangassery will have a modern auction hall, separate building for shops and net-mending shed. Heritage value The entire construction activities will be in accordance with the historical relevance and heritage value of Thangassery. Ice plants and treatment plants are also included in the project and the harbours are expected to receive ISO certification with the completion of works. “Maximising export possibilities and increasing market value of various products through branding are other objectives. The renovation works will help in strengthening the marketing network by bringing all harbours in the district under a single cluster and providing extra cold storage facilities,” said Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma.
15 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Biofloc fish farming launched||The Kadakkal grama panchayat on Wednesday launched biofloc fish farming in connection with Subhiksha Keralam project of the State government. “While the project offers a good income to farmers, it will also help the panchayat to attain self-sufficiency in fish production,” said panchayat president R.S.Biju, who inaugurated the project. At present 13 families have been selected for biofloc farming that is considered a very sustainable and eco-friendly method. Farmers to get subsidy The farmers will get a subsidy of Rs. 36,000 from the panchayat and Rs. 12,000 from the Fisheries Department. Biofloc farming system is used as a low-cost alternative for intensive fish production as the technology converts waste organic matter into fish feed. The culture period of the farming is six months while the normal stocking capacity is 1,000 per tank. Expected production of each unit is 1,500 kg. Panchayat members Shajahan, Shyamala Somarajan, Ashok R Nair, Binumol and Sujeesh Lal were also present on the occasion.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kappan welcomes KC(M) faction to LDF||On a day when the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] led by Jose K. Mani announced its decision to join the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Mani C. Kappan, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator from Pala, appeared nuancing his position by extending a wholehearted welcome to the regional party. Addressing mediapersons here on Wednesday, Mr. Kappan sought to dismiss the rumours about him holding any discussions with the United Democratic Front (UDF) in view of Mr. Mani's entry into the Left coalition. The ongoing discussions over the Pala seat were hypothetical as Mr. Mani himself had clarified that the KC(M)'s decision was unconditional. “The NCP’s position has been consistent with the LDF and my victory in Pala was the collective effort of coalition workers,” Mr. Kappan said. Mr. Kappan had earlier responded that there was no question of giving up the seat to anyone and for anything, even for a Rajya Sabha seat. Mr. Kappan, who had unsuccessfully contested in Pala against KC(M) supremo K.M. Mani for three times on a trot, emerged victorious in the byelection necessitated by the death of Mani last year.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Many hurdles for KC(M) to go along with LDF||The decision by the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani to align with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) means that the alliance is no longer as unthinkable as once it made out to be. But the move, it seems, has also left many a question unanswered. For instance, it is still unclear whether Mr. Mani would be inducted into the LDF before the upcoming local body election. According to sources, the performance of the KC(M) during the local body elections would have a great bearing on the regional party’s power to bargain within the LDF and hence the first major challenge before Mr. Mani is to show his strength at the grassroots, at least in Kottayam. Workers’ confidence Similarly, restoring the confidence of workers at the grassroots in him also appears to be a major challenge for the party as its pro-UDF workers in different local bodies across the region have already begun quitting the party to join the rival faction led by P.J. Joseph. Though there are reports that Mr. Mani, who quit the Rajya Sabha seat he had won as a UDF candidate, will get the same berth from the LDF, no formal announcement has been made in this regard. With the KC(B) and the KC (Skaria Thomas) already in its fold, the Left coalition expects to make considerable advance in the Central Travancore region during the upcoming Assembly elections. While the LDF counts on the association with the Mani group to help consolidate the Christian voter in its favour, the Mani group hopes to maintain its dominance in as many as 12 seats with the Left support. Arithmetical majority “Though no overarching trend is discernible, there may be an arithmetical majority when the KC(M) joins hands with the LDF. But whether the mandate of the Left parties and the KC(M), which predominantly has a UDF voter base, can be allied without contradictions remains to be seen,” observed a senior Congress leader. Of these, finding a way to get the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the CPI agree on the Pala and Kanjirappally seats respectively will prove to be the biggest challenge. No talks yet on Pala Despite asserting that the party is yet to initiate discussions regarding the seats, Mr. Mani, however, has made it clear time and again that Pala always remains pivotal to its political project. The LDF too is learnt to have responded positively to this particular demand. But at the same time, it is learnt to have not given any such assurances with regard to Kanjirappally, the sitting seat of N. Nayaraj, a close associate of Mr. Mani.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Woman, son found dead||The police have launched a probe into the incident in which a man committed suicide allegedly after strangulating his mother to death. The deceased were identified as Karthyayani and her son Biju, natives of Chembu near Vaikom.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||350 cases in Kottayam||Kottayam on Wednesday reported 350 fresh COVID-19 cases and 141 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 344 people including four health workers contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 27 people were yet to be identified. With 41 cases, Kottayam led the tally, followed by Changanassey with 38 and Aymanam with 37 cases. Cases were also reported from Erattupetta- 20, Vazhappally-17 and Madappally 14.. With 141 recoveries, the district currently has 5,678 active cases.
15 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ease norms for Sabarimala pilgrims: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has sought to ease some of the restrictions for those visiting the Sabarimala temple during the upcoming annual pilgrim season. In a statement here on Wednesday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair urged the authorities concerned that the worship rights of pilgrims should not be treated as a source of income alone. The pilgrimage to Sabarimala was intended to help each pilgrim blend with Lord Ayyappa and hence the regulations should match the spirit of the pilgrimage. Holy dip in Pampa “Each pilgrim should be given the opportunity to take a holy dip in the Pampa and carry out the `neyyabhishekam' after offering a darshan at Sabarimala. Any restrictions without taking these into account do not match the existing traditions and customs,'' the statement said. Other demands The other demands raised by the community organisation included permission to lay `viri' at the sannidhanam in line with the COVID-19 protocol and relaxing the ban on assembly of five or more persons for the pilgrims in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts. The statement further pointed out that the instruction to wear face masks while taking up the trek from Pampa might cause severe health problems to the pilgrims.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Finally, KIIFB nod for slaughterhouse project||Tender proceedings for the proposed state-of-the-art slaughterhouse of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation may begin in a month’s time as the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has finally given nod to the project. The KIIFB had earlier returned the proposal seeking further clarification in the detailed project report (DPR), and a soil test report. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said that most of the hurdles before the much awaited project had been cleared and that it could be implemented soon. The Rs. 9.5-crore slaughterhouse project at Kothi was included in the Kozhikode Corporation’s project Plan for the year 2019-20 and was also part of the corporation’s Mission 360, a set of projects that the present council is expected to complete within its tenure. The Kozhikode District Committee of the All Kerala Meat Merchants’ Association had earlier protested against the delay in implementing the project. The association had been demanding the slaughterhouse for over a decade as the city lacked proper and hygienic slaughter facilities. Even though corporation councillors were supportive, the project hit a roadblock when people at Kothi, known for their love for football, launched a protest against the corporation’s takeover of their football ground for the project. However, the corporation offered to provide another playground and settled the issue. Mr. Francis said that the project now needed only a few approvals including building permit and fire permit besides an MoU with Impact Kerala.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beach hospital to get a makeover||A sum of Rs. 86.8 crore has been allocated from the Kerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for the development of the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode, popularly known as ‘beach hospital’ due to its location near the Kozhikode beach. A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, said in a release on Wednesday that a high-tech hospital building had been proposed which would help the common people, including the fisher folk, in the coastal part of the city. A surgical block, administration block, and amenity block would come up in the building. The surgical block would be spread over eight storeys. The ground floor would have the casualty, MRI scan, CT scan, emergency operation theatre, stroke intensive care unit, a 12-bed observation ward, and mortuary. The complex would have 240 beds and 36 pay wards. The sixth floor would be completely for ICU wards. Two ICU units with 10 beds each for men and women would be built. The surgical block on the seventh floor would have six operation theatres. The post-operative wards would have 10 beds and bystanders would have dormitory facility. The eighth floor would have labs. There would be six lifts in the building. Dermatology outpatient section and other facilities had been proposed in the administrative block. Mr. Pradeep Kumar said that the amenity block would have a supermarket, food court, Neethi medical store, and Karunya medical store. The existing old building would be renovated along with this, the MLA added.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Intellectually challenged students being deprived of hi-tech facilities’||Hi-tech status of government schools in the State is being celebrated. But how far is the claim genuine, when the facilities available for normal students are being denied to students with intellectual disabilities? Under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, intellectually challenged students are to be provided with the same facilities that normal students enjoy at schools. While normal students have access to facilities like laptop computers and smart classrooms in hi-tech schools, intellectually challenged students do not even get their rightful resource rooms, according to the State unit of Parivar under the National Confederation of Parents Organisations (NCPO) for the welfare of intellectually challenged persons. “Our children still wait for the mercy of non-governmental organisations for simple requirements such as adaptive and sensory devices,” said Thekkayil Rajan, district president of Parivar. He added that though schools had become hi-tech, social justice is non-existent as far as intellectually challenged students are concerned. Parivar claimed that online sessions for intellectually challenged students were deplorable. “The classes are so boring, as teachers are not updated enough to use technology to make the sessions interesting. While virtual reality and visual aids are being used for normal students, intellectually challenged students get no such treats,” said M.P. Karunakaran, State president of Parivar. “Complaints have been raised about the standard of special educators. We do not even have permanent posts for special educators. Those we have now have been appointed under some projects,” Mr. Karunakaran added.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Respite as fresh cases dip to 661 in Kozhikode||It was a day of relative respite for Kozhikode district on Wednesday when fresh COVID-19 cases dipped to 661. For the past many days, the district has been reporting around 1,000 cases almost every day. There was a decline in test positivity rate too as the percentage of those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 was reported to be 7.07% when 9,282 samples were subjected to lab tests. On Monday it was 18.01% and Tuesday 9.06%. As many as 836 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases now is 10,865. A total of 6,730 people are in home isolation. Locally acquired infections continue to dominate fresh cases with 651 people figuring on the list on Wednesday. Kozhikode Corporation alone had 232 cases, Koduvally 43, Vadakara 36, and Thalakkulathur 29. The source was unknown in six persons. The district administration has strengthened containment steps in the coastal areas. More awareness sessions would be held there, a release said. Deaths Meanwhile, two deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. They are a 57-year-old man from Vadakara and an 82-year-old woman from Chevayur in Kozhikode. A medical bulletin from the hospital said five other persons had died on Tuesday and one on Monday.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dean appointment: Calicut varsity to approach govt.||Calicut University will approach the State government to clear the confusion if the Dean, Students’ Welfare, is an academic or an administrative post. P.V. Valsaraj, the incumbent, retires on October 31, and the Syndicate on September 9 had decided to issue a notification for appointment to replace him. The move had led to criticism that the university was violating its own statues and the Kerala Public Service Commission should have been informed about it. “There is some confusion if it is an academic or an administrative post. The government will be informed about it and the air will be cleared,” M.K. Jayaraj, Vice-Chancellor, told The Hindu . An advertisement calling for applications would be placed only after that, Mr. Jayaraj said, adding that the university would stick to the rules. It has been pointed out that Ordinance 3, Chapter XV, Scales of Pay, Qualification etc. of Various Posts in the University of Calicut, and the University First Ordinance, 1978, say that the post is a non-teaching one with the scale of pay fixed under University Grants Commission stipulations. The Kerala Public Service Commission (Additional Functions as Respects the Service Under the Universities) Act, 2015, says that the public service commission should prepare the select list for the appointment to the posts of non-teaching staff by direct recruitment of employees. Member’s dissent Citing a government letter dated February 19, 2013, Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed claimed that the Registrar and Controller of Examinations were the only non-teaching posts to which Syndicate can make appointment. In a letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Mr. Ahammed pointed out that the university could have reported the vacancy to the KPSC to prepare the list. He claimed that the Syndicate resolved to notify the vacancy despite his note of dissent. Mr. Ahammed said that this was a violation of the above Act which mandated consultation with the KPSC on all matters related to the method of recruitment of non-teaching staff. Mr. Ahammed urged the Governor to annul the Syndicate resolution in line with provisions of 7(3) of Calicut University Act, 1975. He also alleged that an attempt was being made to appoint people favourable to the university authorities to the post.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode bypass expansion project likely to solve several traffic problems||Kozhikode city is expected to undergo a change in its urban landscape with the completion of the expansion of the Kozhikode Bypass project, for which Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation on Tuesday. The expansion of the 28.4-km stretch will, to a huge extent, solve the traffic problems on the Vengalam-Idimuzhikkal stretch. The total cost of the project has been pegged at Rs. 1,853.42 crore. At present, massive traffic blocks are experienced on the corridor though two flyovers were opened recently at Thondayad and Ramanattukara. The stretch witnessed an increase in the volume of traffic following the demolition of the bridge across the Korapuzha river on the Old National Highway 66. The conversion of the Kozhikode bypass into a six-lane carriageway will also solve traffic problems at Malaparamba, Thondayad and Ramanattukara and improve traffic movement from the Vadakara side and Kozhikode mini bypass as well, said Public Works Department (PWD) sources. A statement issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said that National Highway 66 was the lifeline of Kerala, connecting it to Tamil Nadu and to Karnataka, which is a part of the Kanyakumari-Mumbai corridor. It is also one of the important economic corridors in the country. As a pivotal part of the Kanyakumari-Mumbai corridor, it will boost economic prosperity of the State. Partial access-controlled six lanes will ensure decongestion of traffic, and faster and hassle-free inter-State connectivity. The other benefits include better synergy between road and port transportation and furthering of “port-led development”. The project will be a major stride towards strengthening the tourism sector of the State, and will generate a large number of employment opportunities. M.K. Raghavan, MP, said the project was one of the biggest in the history of Kozhikode and it would be beneficial to future generations.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Registration for IITs, NITs ends today||The first round of seat allocation for admission to IITs, NITs, IIITs, and other GFTIs will be published on the website of Joint Seat Allocation Authority ( JoSSA) on Saturday. The registration and online choice filling which began on October 6 will end at 5 p.m. on Thursday. Already the results of the second round of mock allotment of JoSAA, a counselling meant for candidates who have cleared the Joint Engineering Entrance (JEE), have been announced on their website josaa.nic.in. Mock allotment is conducted before the actual seat allocation to help candidates to know their chances on the basis of their rank and preference at an institute. This will also help candidates to modify their selected choices of institutes and branch of study. Sunil Jacob John, chairman, UG Admissions and centre in-charge of Central Seat Allocation Board Verification Centre at National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) said that first round of online reporting, fee remittance, document upload and seat acceptance would be held from October 17 to October 19. Six rounds There would be a total of six regular rounds of seat allocation and online reporting, sources said. The candidates will have three options to choose – floating, freezing and sliding. The floating option is for those candidates who wish to accept the offered seat but also are looking for a seat in a better or higher preferred college or course. The freezing option is for candidates who has accepted the allotted seat and do not wish to participate in further rounds. The sliding option enables candidates to accept the allotted seat but are willing to upgrade if admissions are open in a better course at the same institute. Detailed schedule A detailed schedule of all rounds is available on the JoSAA website. Candidates getting allotment in each round should report for online document verification and seat acceptance on the dates specified in the counselling schedule failing which the allotted seat will get forfeited and will be re-allotted to other eligible candidates in the subsequent rounds. Candidates who have accepted their seats in any of the six rounds should attend the allotted institute on the dates specified in schedule. For admission to the NIT-C, the schedule is from November 9 to 13. Prof. John said that the Ministry of Education has not taken a final decision on the physical presence of the candidates at the admitting institute. The NITC website has an admission link as well. The Help Centre at NITC ( phone: 0495-2286118, 2286110, email: ugadmission@nitc.ac.in) will function during office to assist the candidates in registration and choice filling.  The candidates will have three options to choose – floating, freezing and sliding
15 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Public urged to join ‘Prathishedha Jwala’||A collective of women’s organisations and individuals working for human rights in the State has called upon the public to be part of a protest titled ‘Laksham Prathishedha Jwala’ on November 1, the day of Kerala Piravi, across the State. The protest is being organised as a response to sexual crimes against women, and violence against Dalits, tribespeople, sexual minorities and other minority communities across the country. The event is being organised against the backdrop of the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh recently. M. Sulfath, one of the organisers of the event, pointed out that the mother of the two girls who were raped and murdered in Valayar last year was still seeking justice on the streets. “Girls who are attacked even at schools are further subjected to administrative violence when they seek justice. Even when attacks against Dalits and adivasis are on the rise, the police help culprits escape,” she said in a press release. The ‘Prathishedha Jwala’ will be organised in adherence to COVID protocol from 6 p.m. onwards.
15 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Several fall in police net in Malappuram||Two persons wanted in connection with alleged murder attempts, a man wanted in an abkari case, and several others involved in theft cases were arrested during raids on suspected hideouts in the district on Wednesday. The raids, code-named ‘Operation Ranger’, were simultaneously held in Thrissur and Palakkad districts. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said two men wanted in connection with alleged murder attempts were picked up from Perumpadappu and Tirur. Three swords were recovered from the house of a man involved in crimes at Koottayi near Tirur. The man wanted in the Abkari case was picked up from Kadampuzha. A double-barrel gun illegally kept by a man at Nilambur was also seized in the raids. Mr. Kareem said a notorious burglar wanted in connection with 70-odd theft cases was also picked up during the raids. Rasheed Vellattuchola, nicknamed ‘Cutter Rasheed’, was arrested from Areekode. The police said he was behind five theft cases in recent months in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. He had stolen gold jewellery worth six sovereigns from a house at Therattammal in May. He gained the nickname Cutter Rasheed, as his modus operandi involved cutting jewellery from women while they slept, they added. He had been released on bail a fortnight ago after his arrest at Kalpakanchery in connection with a theft case. A cutter, a stolen scooter, and other tools he used for housebreaking were recovered from him.
15 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram heaves a sigh of relief||Malappuram district heaved a sigh of relief when 1,519 infected persons recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday. The district saw 1,013 fresh cases on the day. Health officials said that 934 of the new cases were infected through direct local contact. The source of infection could not be traced in 58 cases. While 16 cases came from other States, two came from abroad. There are 8,556 active cases currently under treatment across the district. Nearly 50,000 people were quarantined, and most of them were at their respective homes. In Kannur A total of 303 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Wednesday. Among them, 281 contracted the virus through local transmission. Twelve health workers were among the infected. Of the total active cases in the district, 4,897 are in home isolation and the remaining 957 are being treated at various hospitals and FLTCs.  In Kasaragod Kasaragod reported 224 more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of these, 213 are local transmission cases. The district also reported 353 recoveries. A total of 4,624 people are under observation, In Wayanad As many as 84 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,096. Of the new cases, 83 were infected through local contact and one person came from Karnataka.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,KERALA||Elephant deaths: SC to hear plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to hear a petition which has raised issue of killing of elephants in Kerala, including the one in which a pregnant animal had died after being allegedly fed pineapple stuffed with explosives in May this year.
15 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Operation Ranger against criminals||In a surprise move aimed at quelling the increasing crimes committed by criminal gangs, the police raided hangouts of people with criminal history in Thrissur, Palakkad, and Malappuram districts on Wednesday. The raids codenamed Operation Ranger was supervised by Inspector General S. Surendran (Thrissur Range). As many as 119 people wanted in connection with multiple crimes across Thrissur, Palakkad and Malappuram were arrested in the raids led by District Police Chiefs in their respective districts. Several arms, including a gun and crude bombs, and drugs were seized from the hideouts of the goondas. Mr. Surendran said the rowdy list was revised and 78 people were added to it. He said all persons with criminal history would be constantly monitored. “We are assigning a policeman each for every criminal to keep track of their movements and their behaviour both online and offline. The monitoring will be done at different levels in the districts, and we will make sure that the people enjoy a peaceful life unperturbed by the gangs and goondas,” Mr. Surendran told The Hindu.  Those with criminal history had been categorised into three groups. When the first group is made up of those who are actively involved in crimes, the second group contains those with passive criminal history. The police said the second group could involve in potential crimes and, therefore, would be monitored strictly. The third group was that of people involved in crimes in the past but currently leading a normal life. A 24-hour control room would function at IG Office at Thrissur for monitoring the crimes. People had been encouraged to pass on information about criminals and potential crimes. Mr. Surendran said confidentiality would be maintained. Assisted by bomb squads and dog squads, 170 police personnel raided the hideouts from early morning. “Many were caught by surprise. However, we did not have any resistance or issues,” said Mr. Surendran. When 45 were picked up from Thrissur, 74 were arrested from Malappuram and Palakkad. The police will continue the Operation Ranger scheme by not only monitoring the criminal movements but also following up on people with potential criminal background.
15 October 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Shutters of Pothundi dam to be raised||Shutters of the Pothundi dam will be opened at 8 a.m. on Thursday as water in the reservoir is nearing the capacity level following rain in the catchment area on Wednesday evening. Water level in the dam touched 106.99 metre at 7 p.m. on Wednesday. The dam’s capacity is 108.204 m. Officials warned the people living on the banks of the canals to maintain vigil.
15 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||169 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 169 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, nine cases had landed from abroad while 145 contracted the virus through local contact. Fifteen people had come from other States. Among the local bodies, Kallooppara and Thiruvalla reported 11 cases each while Pandalam and Aranmula reported nine cases apiece. Meanwhile, the contact source of 31 people were yet to be traced. With 310 recoveries the district currently has 2,993 active cases.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mani’s Left turn all set to churn State politics||The decision of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) to work in league with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) “without setting any prior condition” appears to be a harbinger of further political realignment ahead of the local body elections in Kerala. Mr. Mani set the potential political shifts in motion by severing his party’s 39-year-old association with the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has welcomed Mr. Mani’s decision and said the LDF would meet to discuss the future of the arrangement. The CPI, which had expressed reservations about Mr. Mani’s admission to the LDF earlier, has not reacted to the development openly. Political heft The CPI(M) calculates that Mr. Mani’s “political heft” in central Travancore could tip the scales in its favour in the local body elections and later during the Assembly polls in 2021. The party also felt that Mr. Mani’s abandonment of the UDF had accelerated the political decline of the coalition in the crucial election year. The growing hope of an LDF entry has reportedly helped Mr. Mani to prevent desertions from his group and close ranks against his KC(M) rival P.J. Joseph. However, Mr. Mani’s move to relinquish the Rajya Sabha seat he had won on the UDF ticket could spell trouble for the LDF.  The settlement has triggered speculation that Mr. Mani would make a pitch for the Pala Assembly seat now held by the present MLA Mani. C. Kappan of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a long-time LDF ally. The UDF felt that a row over the Pala seat would sow seeds of disaffection in the ruling front and cause Mr. Kappan to defect to the Congress-led Opposition front. UDF attempt UDF convener M. M. Hassan attempted to make hay out of the perceived restlessness in Mr. Kappan’s camp by stating that the NCP leader had sought an accommodation with the alliance and parleys were in progress with Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala.  The BJP has also sensed an opportunity in Mr. Mani’s defection. Party president K. Surendran said Mr. Mani’s exit had weakened the UDF and left the field open for an electoral battle between the NDA and LDF in central Travancore.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 581, capital sees another dip||At 581 cases, the district’s daily COVID-19 caseload witnessed yet another encouraging drop on Wednesday. The number of recoveries stood at 871. As on Wednesday, 11,184 persons were under treatment for the disease in the district. Meanwhile, the death toll rose to 311 with six more recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included a 76-year-old man from Kovalam; 62-year-old man from Anchuthengu; 80-year-old man from Fort; 68-year-old woman from Aryanad; 67-year-old woman from Vallukal; and a 61-year-old woman from Parassala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had indicated on Tuesday that the disease-transmission rate appeared to be on the decline in the district, although a number of areas such as markets continued to be a cause for concern. 508 through contact Of the 581 cases reported on Wednesday, 508 persons contracted the infection through local transmission. In 47 cases, the source of infection was not immediately known. One person had arrived from abroad, health officials said. The caseload included 266 women and 315 men. Fifty-one children below the age of 15 and 91 persons aged above 60 were diagnosed with COVID-19. Twenty-one health workers also tested positive, according to health officials. As many as 2,432 persons were quarantined on the day. Meanwhile, the City police booked 16 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for non-compliance with COVID-19 restrictions. Action was taken against 251 others for not wearing masks and failing to maintain proper physical distance in public. Containment zones More containment zones were declared in the district on Wednesday as part of preventing local transmission: Puzhanadu and Kunnanadu in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat; Vittiyam in Vilappil panchayat; Pullayil in Pulimath panchayat and Kalayil in Aryancode panchayat are the new containment zones. People residing in neighbouring regions also have been instructed to be careful. The following areas have been excluded from the list of containment zones: Thycaud (except Mettukada, Elankom Nagar and Kannetumukku) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Mulluvila (except Puthenkada) in Parassala panchayat; Vattaparambu, Kuravara and Valikode in Ottasekharamangalam panchayat; RRV and Kilimanoor panchayat and Kovoor in Chemmaruthi panchayat.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CERC regulations hold grave portent for State||The new regulations notified by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) for interstate power transmission charges payable by the States can have serious financial implications for Kerala, officials of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) say. Under the CERC (Sharing of Interstate Transmission System Charges and Losses) Regulations, 2020 — to be effective from November 1 — the charges payable by the State are likely to shoot up to around Rs. 1,500 crore a year from the present Rs. 550 crore. Ultimately, this financial burden will reflect in power tariffs. It is estimated that the tariff can go up by 50 paise a unit, says an official. The KSEB is planning to challenge the regulations in the High Court. “We have already informed the CERC and the Union Power Ministry of the State’s apprehensions regarding the regulations,” KSEB Chairman and Managing Director N.S. Pillai said. States such as Tamil Nadu, Odisha, and West Bengal also are likely to experience a hike in transmission charges, while it will significantly dip for several other States. The reason is that the new regulations seek to change the manner in which the charges for underutilised interstate transmission lines are calculated. Underutilised lines “Many interstate lines constructed in recent years by the Power Grid Corporation Ltd (PGCIL) remain underutilised. The utilisation of many high-capacity transmission lines is below 30%. At present, the entire charges for these lines are borne by States through which these lines pass through, as they are the ones who use them,” says another official. “The CERC issued the new regulations after those States currently burdened by the underutilised lines lodged complaints. However, instead of taking steps to realise the relinquishment charges from private power generation companies [originally drawn for them], the CERC is shifting the burden from existing user States to States such as Kerala,” they say. The new regulations also contradict the tariff policy which require transmission charges to be calculated on the basis of usage. Under the new regulations, however, the charges are segregated into ‘usage’ and ‘balance’ components. The usage component comes to only 22% of total charges. The balance component of 78% is distributed among the States irrespective of whether they are using the lines or not, they say.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Navaratri idols start journey||The procession bearing the Navaratri idols set out from the Padmanabhapuram Palace near Thuckalay, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday. Minister for Devaswoms Kadakampally Surendran accepted the ceremonial sword from Archaeology Director E. Dinesan at the Uppirikka Malika at the palace. He handed over the sword to Anbumani, Joint Commissioner, Devaswom (Kanyakumari). Former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, Palace charge officer C.S. Ajith Kumar, Kanyakumari Superintendent P.V. Badri Narayanan and Sub-Collector Sharanya Ari were present. The idols The idols of Goddess Saraswati, Munnoottinanga, and Kumaraswami are being taken in a grand procession to Thiruvananthapuram for the Navaratri festivities. The procession will arrive at the Sree Krishna Swamy temple, Neyyatinkara, on Thursday night. The procession will arrive in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday evening. The Navaratri Puja will begin at the Navaratri Mandapam in the city on Saturday night.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Steep drop in case burden at 6,244||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph did another unusual turn on Wednesday when it recorded a steep drop in daily case burden to 6,244 cases when 50,056 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. For the second time in the week, the number of recoveries reported on the day exceeded the new cases, as 7,792 people were discharged from hospitals. The test positivity rate, which had reached 18.16% the previous day, inexplicably plunged to 12.4% on Wednesday.  Statistical aberration Last week also the State’s case graph had plunged low mid-week, only to go up again the next day and this had been attributed to a statistical aberration. The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of the State now stands at 3,10,140. The total number of recoveries till date being 2,15,149, the number of active cases in the State is 93,837. Of these patients, 715 are critical and being treated in ICUs with another 166 put on ventilator support.  With 20 more deaths that occurred in the State in the previous weeks being added to the official list of COVID-19 deaths, the State’s cumulative death toll now stands at 1,066. Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six deaths each, two deaths each were reported from Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode while Kollam and Kannur reported one death each.  98.4% local transmission Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 6,145 cases (98.4%) are locally acquired infections, which include 364 cases wherein the source of infection is yet to be traced. These also include infections reported in 36 health-care workers. Among districts, Malappuram reported the maximum number of cases at 1,013, Ernakulam 793, Kozhikode 661, Thrissur 581, Thiruivananthapuram 581, Kollam 551, Alappuzha 456, Palakkad 364, Kottayam 350, Kannur 303, Kasaragod 224, Pathanamthitta 169, Idukki 114, and Wayanad 84 cases.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel wants schools to slash fee by 25%||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked schools in the State to allow a 25% reduction in the existing fee this year in the wake of COVID-19. Besides public schools, the direction will be applicable to CBSE and ICSE schools too, a full bench of the commission comprising chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar and members K. Nazeer and C. Vijayakumar has said. Online classes The commission’s direction comes on a complaint by parents of students of ACE Public School, Manjeri. Though the school had allowed a relaxation of Rs. 500 in fee except for the months of June and July, students who did not pay fee were not allowed to take part in online classes, the complaint alleged. With all sections of society facing difficulties caused by the pandemic, the school management’s argument that fee could not be reduced was not acceptable, the commission said. Parents should pay 25% reduced fee. The school should not deny students who remit the reduced fee the opportunity for education, and the CBSE Regional Director should ensure this, it said. The commission said private schools had the right to levy fee on students but at least a 25% relaxation was necessary to ensure that education was not disrupted. Many institutions had announced a fee cut on their own. Many complaints of denial of education owing to non-payment of fee had arisen. Issue govt. order Following the verdict of the High Court of Kerala that the government could take a policy decision on fixing the fee for CBSE schools, it should issue an order making the fee reduction applicable to them too. Schools that had allowed a 25% reduction need not grant it again. A decision on doing away with the reduction could be taken once the situation caused by the pandemic changes for the better, the panel said.  At least 25% relaxation is necessary to ensure that education is not disrupted in these pandemic times.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guidelines for pooling resources in critical care||With the number of those requiring critical care for COVID-19 on the rise, the Health Department has formulated new guidelines for the efficient management of its pool of intensivists and critical care specialists so that no COVID-19 patient requiring intensive care is denied services. Accordingly, all districts have been asked to create its pool of available intensivists and those experienced in critical care management, irrespective of where they work. This district pool will also include postgraduates in critical care medicine, anaesthesiology, and pulmonology. All districts have also been asked to engage with the private sector and facilitate the voluntary involvement of critical care specialists in private hospitals. All major hospitals managing critically ill COVID-19 patients should ensure round-the-clock services of at least one intensivist/critical care specialist. In districts where the availability of such specialists are scarce, additional appointment of human resources or outsourcing of services of intensivists for a fixed fee may be done. Telecare services The Health Department has proposed that hospitals devise an in-house tele-critical-care monitoring room with central monitors, closed circuit television screens, and an alarm system. Acute care monitors should be connected to the tele-critical-care monitoring room so that every patient in the ICU can be monitored continuously.   Hub-and-spoke model Government Medical College, Thrissur, has proposed a tele-ICU care service model, which envisages a tele ICU command centre manned round the clock by intensivists, trained nurses, and critical care experts. One such command centre would be able to provide tele-ICU services for one or two districts in a hub-and-spoke model. This means that doctors in one command centre will be able to treat patients in different hospitals.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Thiruvananthapuram wins laurels for its greening efforts||The capital district has become the first Pachathuruthu (green islet) district in the State. The district registered the achievement by creating the maximum number of green spaces in the State as part of an afforestation programme being spearheaded by the Haritha Keralam Mission in association with local self-government institutions. Of the 1,262 green lungs created across the State, 256 are in the district. Seventy-eight local bodies in the district now have these mini-forests set up to combat the ill-effects of climate change. Fallow land ranging from half a cent to acres of land in various panchayats and the city Corporation limits are now green, courtesy fruit-bearing trees, creepers, bushes, and medicinal plants. The Perunkadavila grama panchayat alone has 9.4 acres of land under Pachathuruthu. In Parassala, plants have been grown on 5.05 acres, in Kilimanoor 4.35 acres, and in Neyyattinkara municipality 2.3 acres, taking the total area under the project in the district to 36.7 acres. Nearly 20,000 plants have been grown, making it the first time that such a large extent of fallow land has been greened as part of a project. Most in Kilimanoor Kilimanoor block panchayat has the distinction of having the most number of these green islets – 76. Chirayinkeezhu block panchayat has 24 Pachathuruthu, Parassala 21, Vamanapuram 15, Vellanad 13, Varkala 12, Nemom 10, Perunkadavila nine, Nedumangad seven, Athiyannoor and Pothencode six each, Varkala municipality 22, Neyyattinkara municipality 17, Attingal municipality 10, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation six, and Nedumangad municipality two. Kilimanoor also achieved the tag of the first completely Pachathuruthu block panchayat in the State. All eight panchayats in the block limits have realised these green spaces.  Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers are in charge of taking care of them. Ponds and facilities such as swings have been arranged in these spaces. Largest at Neyyar Dam The biggest Pachathuruthu has been created near Neyyar Dam in Kallikad grama panchayat on eight acres of land. The Karavaram grama panchayat has been declared the first Haritha Samriddhi panchayat as part of the project and the first fallow land-less panchayat in the Attingal Assembly constituency. The Pangode police station is the first station to have created a Pachathuruthu.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A new chapter in high-end medical research in State||Inauguration of the first phase of the Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV) here on Thursday is expected to open a new chapter in high-end medical research in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the first-phase activities via videoconference at 10.30 a.m. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi will preside over the function. Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, K.K. Shylaja and Kadakampally Surendran will speak at the function. At the helm Akhil C. Banerjee, who was serving as Emeritus Scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, has taken charge as the director of the virology institute, the government said on Wednesday. Mohanan Valiyaveetil has taken charge as Senior Principal Scientist. Located at the Bio 360 Life Science Park at Thonnakkal in the district, the IAV has been established under the Kerala Biotechnology Commission. It is equipped with labs and diagnostic facilities for high-end research. Eight divisions The IAV will have eight scientific divisions dealing with various aspects of virology research. The divisions on clinical virology and viral diagnostics will go operational in the first phase. They will function in a 25,000 sq ft pre-fab building. Working closely with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the IAV will also have the opportunity to associate with leading virology institutes across the world.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSSP seeks steps to end illegal construction on beaches||Local self-government institutions and the Environment Department should urgently intervene to end illegal construction activities occurring close to the shoreline and protect the beaches along the Thiruvananthapuram coast, a Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) study has stressed. The recently released study report, ‘Coastal erosion and management along the Thiruvananthapuram coast,’ noted that a number of such building projects on the beaches were being carried out with the knowledge of local religious leaderships. Coordinated action by government departments/agencies was key to checking unauthorised and unscientific construction along the coast, the study said. It cited the example of Adimalathura where a local religious leadership had allegedly divided up a section of newly formed beach into plots and sold it to fishermen families. The KSSP team which visited the region as part of the study was informed about the monetary transaction by the buyers. The government departments concerned should investigate how public land was sold off by a group. Places of worship Similarly, a place of worship had already come up on the wide expanse of beach that formed recently south of the Muthalappozhi harbour. Another place of worship had come up on public land on the northern side of the harbour some time ago. The study also cited the example of a bali mandapam constructed on the Papanasam beach in Varkala. According to the study report, the walkways along Shanghumughom, the Lighthouse beach in Kovalam and the western side of the Vettucaud church encroach upon beaches. The park built in the Vettur panchayat too encroached on the beach, it said. The study stressed the need for discouraging the construction of houses close to the shoreline. “The situation is bound to turn more severe unless there is urgent intervention by local self- government institutions and the Environment Department to stop such activities,” the KSSP study said. Coordinated efforts It stressed the need for a robust mechanism and coordinated effort by government agencies, including the Departments for Irrigation, Harbour Engineering and Fisheries and the agencies under them to protect the coast from encroachments. “The approach should be founded on the realisation that a naturally formed beach is the best coastal protection,” it said.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mani has forsaken his father’s legacy: Cong.||The defection of the Jose. K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) to the LDF appears to have caused a profound sense of betrayal in the Congress leadership here. The development has arguably left the UDF a diminished coalition. However, it also seems to have infused a sense of determination to fight back. UDF convener M.M. Hassan fired the first salvo by demanding the resignation of Kottayam MP Thomas Chazhikadan who won the seat on the coalition ticket. The UDF also wanted two MLAs aligned with Mr. Mani’s faction to quit their posts. Pala seat The UDF was not opposed to accommodating Mani. C. Kappan, MLA, of the National Congress Party (NCP) whose Pala seat was at stake given Mr. Mani’s “claim” over the constituency. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committe president Mullapally Ramachandran said Mr. Mani had forsaken the legacy of KC(M) founder K. M. Mani by aligning with the LDF. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that Mr Mani had stabbed the UDF in the back. His misplaced machinations had cost the coalition the Pala seat in the byelection that followed the death of K.M. Mani. He said Mr. Mani always had coveted membership in the LDF and worked for it secretly. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy termed Mr. Mani’s exit from the UDF as unfortunate. He said Mr. Mani appeared to have forgotten his father’s sufferings at the hand of the LDF.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Swapna, Sandeep go into COFEPOSA detention||Sandeep Nair and Swapna Suresh, two main accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, commenced their one-year preventive detention period under the provisions of the COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) here on Wednesday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested them on the charge of imperilling the economic security of the country under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in July from Bengaluru by illegally importing gold in diplomatic cargo marked to the UAE consulate here. The accused had spent much of their days since their arrest by the NIA in judicial remand or in the custody of Central law enforcement agencies, including the Customs (Preventive) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Customs had invoked the provisions of the COFEPOSA after the period of detention of the suspects ended recently. The NIA and the ED had opposed their bail.  ‘Probe to be affected’ The NIA told the court that granting bail to the main accused would deter the progress of the probe. Moreover, the investigators felt that Sandeep Nair, who had given a voluntary confession about the crime under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to a magistrate, was vulnerable to threat and physical assault given the possibility that his deposition could bolster the NIA’s case against the accused. Jail wardens from Kochi escorted Sandeep Nair to the Central prison here. They admitted Swapna, who was in a sub-jail for women in Ernakulam, to the preventive detention block of the Women’s Jail at Attakulangara here. As COFEPOSA prisoners, the accused would have relatively more freedom and a relaxed time table compared to their term as remand prisoners. The Customs suspect the accused had conducted 21 successful runs during the 2018-2020 period.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Inland fisheries Act in for change||The Kerala Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, 2010 will be amended so as to enable conservation of species, scientific breeding, and a sustainable livelihood for the fishing community. The proposed amendments also seek to introduce better control over ornamental fisheries and fish species introduced into the State. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to recommend to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to promulgate an Ordinance to facilitate the amendment. The amendment seeks to regulate the fishing of species with low populations during their breeding seasons. A minimum legal size will be determined for the fish that can be caught, as was done in the case of 58 marine varieties to protect juvenile fish. Aquaculture will be made more scientific so as to enable the State to achieve self-sufficiency in fish production. The amendments seek to scientifically organise aquaculture methods followed in the State. To check foreign species An important aim is to check the introduction of foreign species and their marketing and breeding in the State. Breeding of species potentially harmful to local varieties will be checked. Further, there would be better controls over the marketing and exhibition of ornamental fishes. No person without a valid licence will be allowed to sell ornamental varieties on an industrial scale or exhibit them for more than 30 days by selling tickets. However, this does not apply to the sale of fish from a production unit or displaying them in houses. Further, the display and sale of banned species will not be allowed. Regional fisheries management councils and aquaculture development agencies will be formed with fisher representatives as members. Constructions will not be allowed in any notified rivers, backwater stretches, or lakes that obstruct natural flow and fish breeding.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors to boycott extra duties from today||The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has declared that government doctors will stay away from all additional duties from Thursday, in protest against the government’s apparent lack of concern about the plight of health-care workers who are overworked and fatigued, fighting on the front lines for the past nine months. The KGMOA has, however, made it clear that while declaring non-cooperation, COVID-19 care and disease containment activities will not be disrupted. In a statement issued here, the KGMOA said that apart from ignoring the KGMOA’s repeated demand for deploying additional human resources in COVID-19 care activities, the government’s decision to take away the leave given to health-care workers after continuous COVID-19 duty was something that defied all principles of fairness. This was totally unacceptable, the KGMOA said here. The statement said that medical officers in primary health centres were working round-the-clock, supervising the care of COVID-19 patients as well as fulfilling other COVID-19-related administrative work and managing non-COVID-19 OP care. Brunt The brunt of the government’s decision not to deploy additional human resources was being borne by these doctors, many of whom had been contracting the disease and were physically and mentally down. The KGMOA has demanded that the government deploy additional human resource immediately for COVID-19-related activities and that the leave after COVID-19 duty be restored immediately. They also demanded that block-level call centres be set up by including doctors from the private sector to provide care to those in home care. Plea to govt. The government has been asked to set aside salary deferment and to provide risk allowance to health-care workers.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest official arrested||The Museum police have arrested a Forest Department official who has been accused of trespassing into the Armed Reserve Camp, Nandavanam, and assaulting a police officer, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay has said. The police identified the accused as Prashok of Sakthikulangara, Kollam district, who is attached to the Aryankavu division of the Forest Department. The police have registered a case against him for trespassing into the camp ignoring the warning of the officer on duty, assaulting him and obstructing him from carrying out his duty.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anganwadis to admit kids in 2-3 age groups||The Women and Child Development Department has decided to pilot a project for admitting children in the 2-3 age group to anganwadis in the State. The project will first be launched at Ithikkara in Kollam district. All anganwadis under the Ithikkara Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) will admit students in the 2-3 age group along with preschool children in the 3-6 age group. Department officials said many parents inquired about letting two-to-three-year-old children stay in the anganwadis. This was especially the case if both parents were working and there was no one to take care of the children. While some anganwadi workers and supervisors did permit the children, others did not. Also, such children could not be registered in the anganwadis. Children not admitted to anganwadis were left in day-care facilities, and were likely to continue there for the next few years. However, if children in the 2-3 age group could be admitted to anganwadis, they would stay on there. Separate register Department officials said a separate admission register would be maintained in anganwadis for children in the 2-3 age group. At present those below the age of three were provided Amritham ‘nutrimix’ as take-home ration. However, when these children attended the anganwadis, more funds would be needed to provide them three meals similar to other anganwadi children. The Ithikkara panchayat had agreed to set aside more funds for this supplementary nutrition programme, they said. After reopening The project will be implemented after anganwadis reopen as part of the phased unlocking of public activity. Directions will be given to the Child Development Project Officer to make preliminary arrangements for rolling out the project then. Depending on its success, the project will be extended to other districts this fiscal.  Many parents seek permission to send two-to-three-year-old children to anganwadis.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Classes for Little KITEs on Victers every Saturday||Training for the Little KITEs IT club members in 2,060 schools in the State will be conducted through KITE VICTERS channel at 11 a.m. every Saturday. The clubs function under the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) as part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission. Suitable for all Though the VICTERS classes are targeted at 55,627 class 9 students this year, these have been so arranged that they can be viewed by all students interested in information technology (IT) and the public too. Like the First Bell classes, these will be available on YouTube too. The classes will give practical training in animation, graphic designing, and Python programming. Schools have been directed to make available laptops available with them to students so that they can take up further activities and prepare digital products, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath said. As the government has allowed grace marks in the SSLC examinations for the Little KITEs members from last year, KITE masters have to make arrangements to receive assignments and so on. The biggest IT collective for students in the country, the Little KITEs clubs have 1.2 lakh students from classes 9 and 10.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala temple opens today||The Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will open at 5 p.m. on Thursday for the five-day rituals in the Malayalam month of Thulam. In the presence of tantri Kandararu Rajeevararu, melsanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri will open the sanctum sanctorum and light the lamp. Devotees will be allowed to the temple only from 5 a.m. on October 17 when the temple opens for the pujas. The draw of lots for the new melsanthi of the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram temple will be held at 8 a.m. on October 17 in the presence of Travancore Devaswom Board president N. Vasu, board members and officials. The priests will take charge on November 15. Only 250 devotees will be allowed daily during the five days.
15 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennai train’s coaches get detached near Sasthamcotta||The rake of Thiruvananthapuram Central-Dr. MGR Chennai Central Superfast Special (02624) got detached on Wednesday between Sasthamcotta and Karunagapally railway stations while the train was running, creating panic among passengers. The fifth and sixth coaches of the train that left Thiruvananthapuram at 3 p.m. got detached near Kalali area around 4.36 p.m. The locomotive and five coaches went 300 m ahead towards Karunagapally side and came to a halt after the locopilot noticed the ‘uncoupling’ of the coaches. The ‘ball and socket engagement’ was immediately rectified by the railway personnel and the train resumed the journey after a delay of 45 minutes. Railway officials were tight-lipped about the incident. The Chennai Mail is running using the rakes with LHB coaches, sources said. Railways are yet to announce an inquiry to find out the reason for the uncoupling.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on cleft lip and palate||The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) is organising an online seminar on ‘Comprehensive pre- and post-surgical care in children with cleft lip and palate’ on October 17. The proceedings will be streamed live for the registered participants from the NISH campus at Akkulam from 10.30 am. Those who are interested can register at http://nidas.nish.ac.in/be-a-participant/  For details, visit: http://nidas.nish.ac.in/ or contact: 0471- 2944675.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited for fashion designing course||The Government Institute of Fashion Designing has invited applications for the two-year certificate course in fashion designing. The application form and prospectus can be downloaded fromwww.sitttr.kerala.ac.infrom Thursday. Applications will be received up to October 27. For details of government institutions offering the courses, visitwww.dtekerala.gov.inorwww.sitttrkerala.ac.in.
15 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ordinance to amend headload workers’ Act||The Cabinet on Wednesday recommended the Governor to promulgate an Ordinance amending the 43rd clause in the Kerala Headload Workers’ Act, 1978, to grant retirement benefits with retrospective effect for members of the Kerala Headload Workers’ Welfare Board. The Ordinance also seeks to reduce the maximum permissible weight to be borne by headload workers from 75 kg to 55 kg and 35 kg for women and teenagers in accordance with the recommendations of the ILO.
15 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||581 test positive in Thrissur||Thrissur district on Wednesday recorded 581 COVID-19 cases, while 631 people recovered from the disease. There are 8,948 active cases and 150 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 24,366 active cases have been reported in the district and 14,964 have recovered. According to the official statistics, 580 people contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. In all 6,166 people are under home care. Antigen tests were conducted for 4,063 people.   In Palakkad Displaying signs of optimism, 449 people recovered from COVID-19 in Palakkad district when 364 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. District officials said 320 of the new cases had contracted the virus from direct local contacts. However, there were 27 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. When 12 cases came from other States, five came from abroad. Officials said 6,521 active cases were currently under treatment across the district. Besides them, 57 people from Palakkad were under treatment in Ernakulam, 46 in Malappuram, 17 in Kozhikode, 12 in Thrissur, three in Alappuzha, two in Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Kannur and Kottayam districts. More than 16,000 people were quarantined in their homes across the district.
15 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||355 hideouts raided in Thrissur||Against the backdrop of recent murders in Thrissur district, the police have initiated Operation Ranger, a combing operation against anti-social elements and criminal gangs. Led by DIG S. Surendran, the police raided 335 hideouts of gangs under 20 police station limits under the Thrissur City Police. In all 592 criminals were interrogated. Preventive steps were advised against 105 criminals under CrPC Sections 107,108 and 40 new rowdy history sheets were opened. Intelligence gathering Under Operation Ranger, the criminals were classified on the basis of severity of crimes. Intelligence system was strengthened to monitor the activities of gangs and other criminals. Cybercells would monitor the movements of the criminals. List of cases under investigation and the accused in the cases would be prepared. Special teams would be formed to find people jumping bail. Assistant commissioners would lead the investigation in cases involving criminal gangs. Surveillance would be strengthened against sand and quarry mafia. There were allegations that the law and order situation had collapsed in the district. Weapons were seized from a deserted compound at Ollur. The police also found several syringes.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Water cruise||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New home||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rules thrown to the wind||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready to roll out||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For priest’s release||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Riding on hope||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for action||
15 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DA case: Treasury staffer taken into ACB custody||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials are interrogating treasury employee Manoj Kumar, the main accused in a disproportionate assets case, in which he and his driver were remanded to judicial custody. The ACB DSP (Tirupati) V. Allabaksh, who is in-charge of Anantapur district too, said they had taken the accused into the custody for three days. The accused were questioned on Tuesday and Wednesday. Manoj Kumar will be interrogated on Thursday. The Anantapur police recovered six iron boxes containing Rs. 15.55 lakh in cash, 2.42 kg gold ornaments, three 9-mm gas pistols, an air gun, 18 blank rounds, 84.10 kg silver articles, bank deposit papers worth Rs. 49.10 lakh, promissory notes worth Rs. 27.05 lakh and handed them over to the ACB. Two SUVs, seven two-wheelers including three Enfield, a Harley Davidson bike, and four tractors were also seized from Manoj Kumar.
15 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two girls attempt suicide||Two daughters of Hindupur I Town Head Constable Ranganayak allegedly attempted suicide by consuming poison on Wednesday and are battling for life in a hospital in Anantapur. Ranganayak had died of COVID-19 a month ago and his eldest son-in-law too died of COVID. According to the Hindupur police, Bala Maddileti, 20 and another 14-year-old daughter of the constable allegedly consumed some poison at 4 p.m. Neighbours rushed them to a local hospital and they were later shifted to the KIMS Saveera Hospital in Anantapur for better treatment. The health condition of both girls is said to be serious.
15 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH, RDT to be denotified as COVID hospitals||The district administration on Wednesday decided to convert the Government General Hospital and RDT Bathalapalli Hospital into non-COVID ones in a phased manner following a request made by Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy to the District Collector to denotify the GGH as a District COVID Hospital so that more number of patients with other ailments could be treated. The number of persons testing positive for coronavirus has been coming down for some time, and only 1,871 patients are getting tretament in the 12 designated hospitals as on Wednesday. The GGH is the only government referral hospital in the district and several other services were hit due to accommodation provided to the COVID-19 patients, the MLA pointed out. Super Speciality Block of the GGH currently has 300 beds and the Cancer Care Centre another 200, which can be enhanced and the GGH can be dedicated to patients of other ailments, he opined. As of Wednesday, the district was in third place in the State in the cumulative number of coronavirus cases at 61,610 and the toll rose to 532 with two deaths on Wednesday. Kurnool district, which had one of the highest numbers of infections in the State, now has 1,322 persons getting treatment. The tally rose to 58,433 with 104 cases reported on Wednesday. The toll in the district is 479.
15 October 2020||ANNAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annavaram temple to allow weddings from October 18||The authorities of Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy Devasthanam at Annavaram in East Godavari district have decided to allow weddings on the temple premises from October 18. The shrine was closed on March 21 as part of the the lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and opened reopened recently for darshan, with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols and restrictions on the entry for the elderly people and children below the age of five years of. COVID-19 protocols “We have made the arrangements for allowing weddings on the temple premises. A maximum of 30 persons will be allowed to attend the wedding, with the all the precautions to prevent the spread of the virus,” a release quoted temple Executive Officer V. Trinadha Rao as saying on Wednesday. The wedding parties have been advised not to bring children below five years of age and elderly people to the temple. The authorities are expecting a huge number of weddings at the temple in the coming days, as many weddings have been postponed due to the COVID-19 lockdown since March. There is no restriction on those who wish to organise wedding on the temple premises without booking the wedding hall and accommodation. Booking of halls “Wedding parties can book accommodation facilities and wedding hall in advance. We appeal the them not to violate the guidelines on the maximum number of people allowed for weddings,” said temple public relations officer Kotagiri Kondala Rao. He said the temple have not reported any COVID-19 cases since its reopening.
15 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor selected for PM’s Puraskar||Chittoor district has been selected to receive the coveted Prime Minster’s Puraskar in recognition of its vibrant activities in the areas of administration of women self-help groups, finesse of Kalamkari products and dairy sector. “A team of the National Rural Livelihood Mission is on a two-day visit to the district from Wednesday to make a short film on the aspects that qualified the district for the award,” according to DRDA Project director D.M.K. Tulasi. The team members will visit the DRDA-supported units administered by the SHGs at Bangarupalem, Yadamarri, GD Nellore, Palasamudram and Palamaner. The areas of interest include honey production, terracotta, dairy products, horticulture crops and tamarind processing. On Thursday, the team members would interact with women groups at GD Nellore mandal, besides visiting the cottage industry at Kadapagunta village, known for making images of deities with the wood from calotropis plants (’jilledu’ in Telugu) and honey making unit at Palasamudram mandal.
15 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punganur wakes up to series of burglary bids||Punganur town, close to the Karnataka border, witnessed five attempts of house break-in, on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The incidence of crime, after a lull of six months following COVID-19 lockdown, has created a flutter among the denizens. The Punganur police said of the five incidents, burglars took away a small quantum of gold ornaments from the house of a local priest, but were not successful in the other four attempts. Incidentally, the houses are located close to the police station. The burglars struck at the houses between 11 p.m. and 3 a.m. All their targets were houses with locked doors. Seeing the beat constables, the burglars are said to have fled the town. Police are verifying CCTV footage to identify the miscreants.
15 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild elephant kills Forest Dept. driver in Chittoor||A driver working with the Chittoor West Division of the Forest Department was killed by a wild elephant near Diguva Kanthalacheruvu village of Yadamarri mandal, close to the Tamil Nadu border, on Wednesday late evening. Another employee was said to have escaped the attack. According to sources, the jeep with two forest employees including the driver on board was patrolling on the forest road connecting the inter-State borders. The elephant which emerged from the thickets waylaid the vehicle. The employees waited for a while hoping that the animal would pass. However, it charged at the jeep, unprovoked. One employee jumped out of the vehicle and managed to escape into the bushes. He returned after a while, only to find the driver, identified as Satish, dead and the vehicle damaged. The villagers nearby passed on the information to Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu, who tried to contact the forest officials, but in vain. Expressing concern, Mr. Babu said he would take up the issue with the higher authorities. Villagers cautioned Meanwhile, senior forest officials from Chittoor rushed to spot, and initiated measures to trace the elephant. They cautioned the people living in the nearby villages not to venture out alone and stay alert in the night. This is the fourth human casualty in elephant attack in the Chittoor West Division this year.
15 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cine lyricist Jaladi remembered||The rich verse poetry and popular lyrics of Jaladi Raja Rao, popularly known as Jaladi would be remembered for a long time, said Minister for Home and Disaster Management, Mekathoti Sucharitha. Addressing a meeting organised by Ambedkar India Mission at Jaladi’s 10th death anniversary held here on Thursday, the Home Minister said that Jaladi’s verse mesmerised generations of filmgoers. It was unfortunate that Jaladi, who hailed from a marginalised community, never got proper recognition from the film fraternity, she said. Additional DG, CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar lavished praise on the poet. “Jaladi’s writing reflected his simple upbringing and the influence of a rustic rural life. His use of everyday subjects and popular dialect made him extremely popular. Yet, he was left out when it came to major awards like the Padma Shri. While writers and actors of lesser talent have won awards and recognition, Jaladi had never been recognised,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. Jaladi Vijayamma, writer and daughter of Jaladi, in an emotional speech, said her father had faced discrimination throughout his life but had never showed hatred towards anyone. Stating that she had been with him throughout his life, first in Chennai and later in Visakhapatnam, Ms. Vijayamma said that Jaladi’s love for his country was perfectly captured in his famous song ‘Punyabhoomi Naa Desam Namo Namami’, which was sung by S.P. Balasubrahmaniam for the blockbuster movie Major Chandrakanth . She lamented that her father never got his due. Recounting a poignant incident at one of the functions organised to celebrate the success of Major Chandrakanth , Ms. Vijayamma said that the organisers mentioned all the names associated with the film, but failed to mention her father’s name, leaving him in tears.
15 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Situation grim in Guntur||The flood situation continued to remain grim in villages along the Krishna, with the district administration sounding a first-level flood warning on Wednesday. Several low-lying areas in Amavarati mandal were marooned, and road links between Vijayawada and Amaravati mandal remained cut off for the second day. Pedamadduru and other villages were marooned in Amaravati while floodwaters inundated several areas.
15 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ZEE donates PPE kits to health staff||Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation(APIIC) Chairperson Roja Selvamani handed over 10 ambulances and 4,000 PPE kits donated by ZEE Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (ZEE) to YSR Arogyasri Trust at a programme held at Mangalagiri. Mallikarjuna, CEO of YSR Arogyasri Trust, was also present. Punit Goenka, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, said the company decided to provide the basic healthcare kits to frontline warriors fighting the pandemic. Daily meals He said that the company was committed to providing over 240 ambulances, 46,000 PPE kits, 90 oxygen humidifiers and six lakh daily meals.
15 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS transfers||Neerabh Kumar Prasad, a 1987 batch IAS officer who is Special Chief Secretary, Forest, Environment, and holding additional charge as Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, has been transferred and told to report at the GAD. Adityanath Das (IAS, 1987 batch) Special Chief Secretary, Water Resources Department, has been given full additional charge as special chief secretary, Forest and Environment and CCLA.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saroornagar Lake submerges several areas||Santhoshi Gaikwad from Singareni Colony woke up at 3 a.m. to an unusual sight. What she thought was rain water gushed into her home. With the water levels rising, she sensed the urgent need to vacate the home. Her family had to first haul the 81-year-old mother-in-law over a shed in the neighbour’s house, before the rest of them clambered up too. What she later learnt left her totally shocked. It was not rain water, but the Saroornagar lake that paid a visit to her home in the dead of the night. “We never experienced anything like this since 1992, when we started living here. It was horrific, to say the least. I saw my neighbour, an octogenarian gentleman, holding his sick wife aloft in both hands to save her from drowning, but we could not reach out to him,” she recalled in the morning after finding shelter in one of the apartment complexes in the area. Gopal Reddy, secretary of the adjoining Saraswathi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, chimed in to say that never was such a deluge seen for the past 40 to 50 years at least. Extensive damage The damage, however, was not limited to Singareni Colony and Saraswathi Nagar, which fell in the full tank level of the lake’s original spread, as per officials. Surplus water from the lake exceeded the capacity of the drain carrying it to Musi river via P&T Colony, V.V.Nagar, and Hanuman Nagar. Breach in the drain led to inundation of colonies such as Green Park colony, Seesala Basthi and Kondandram Nagar, where the roads were converted into whirling streams. From there, the water found its natural course to the Musi, submerging several areas up to 4-5 kilometres, besides flooding Vijayawada highway near Chaitanyapuri. Officials had to break the Metro Rail divider to let the water pass on to the other side, inundating the roads in Hanuman Nagar and surrounding areas. All the homes en route lay besieged, with no supplies nor help arriving till late in the day. Nala’s capacity “The nala’s carrying capacity should have been kept in mind before dumping water from everywhere in the tank. Rain water from surrounding areas such as Santhosh Nagar, B.N.Reddy Nagar, Vanasthalipuram, and Bairamalguda is being diverted here,” complained G.Kishan, a resident of Kodandram Nagar. His claim is partially true, officials admit, as a newly constructed stormwater drain brought the water from Meerpet and Jillelaguda areas up to a spot in Karmanghat and left it there. GHMC was to pick it up from there to link it to Saroornagar lake, before which the torrential downpour worsened the situation. All the water from the two areas found its natural course to the lake nevertheless, causing the deluge. While the stormwater drains are laid with alacrity, authorities have ignored the need to enhance the volume of surplus canals, rue the residents.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hopes of a young mother crushed under a wall||Notwithstanding the gloomy pandemic times, Fouzia Naaz’s life was filled with joy last month when she became a mother for the second time. Barely 20 days later, however, tragedy struck — the boundary wall of a farmhouse in Ghouse Nagar collapsed due to incessant rain and the debris consisting of large granite blocks came crashing on Naaz’s house, killing her and her infant son, Zohaib. Her older son, Syed Zain (3), was also killed instantaneously. As did Mohammed Samad (35) and his wife Saba Hashmi (26), also inmates of the same house, and related to Ms Naaz. The residents of the house next door met the same tragic fate. Zakira Begum (50) and her grandchildren Syeda Anwari (4) and Syed Sadiq (16 months old) were killed. The boundary wall debris spared Begum’s son Siddiq. The complainant of the case, Mohammed Jahangir Hussain (25), brother of Mr. Samad, told police that around 8 p.m. on Tuesday he heard a rumble, followed by cries of despair from the two houses. He rushed to the scene and witnessed the horror. Mr Hussain lived with his father, Mohammed Jahangir, two brothers, and four sisters in the ill-fated house. Two persons were injured and rushed to the Owaisi Hospital. One of the victims suffered serious pelvic injuries, said a doctor treating them. Meanwhile, Chandrayangutta legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi reached the hospital and interacted with the patients and their families. The complainant spoke to the police around 1 a.m. on Wednesday and sought stringent action against the property owner. A case under section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code has been booked.
15 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘ends life’ in front of in-laws’ house||A man allegedly died by suicide in front of his in-laws’ house at Peddamudiyam on Wednesday, reportedly following family disputes. Rajasekhar, who got married two months back, allegedly had not been getting along too well with his wife. He reportedly created a ruckus in front of his in-laws’ house and allegedly consumed pesticide he had brought with him. Though he was rushed to hospital, he died on the way. People with suicidal tendency can dial 100 for counselling.
15 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in road accident||A man and his son were killed when the motorcycle they were riding was knocked down by a truck at P.P. Kunta in Gopavaram mandal of the district on Wednesday. The victims, whom police suspect to be from Udayagiri in the adjoining Nellore district, were travelling from Ganugapenta in Porumamilla mandal to Udayagiri when the accident occurred. Police have registered a case.
15 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floods caused extensive damage to crops: Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the farmers raising various crops have suffered a lot due to frequent floods in the Godavari and spells of rains since the beginning of the kharif season 2020. “Crops in thousands of hectares, mostly paddy, bore the brunt of the frequent floods in the Godavari, huge inflow into the Yeleru canal system and incessant rains for four days under the influence of deep depression this week. Weather remains unfavourable to farmers who pin hopes on bumper yield this year,” said Mr. Kannababu during his inspection of crops in Karapa mandal on Wednesday. “By Wednesday evening, paddy in above 15,000 hectares and horticulture crops in over 3,000 hectares are under the sheet of water due to rains,” said Mr. Kannababu. The Minister directed the irrigation officials to identify the weak irrigation canal bunds. The irrigation officials were asked to initiate action to prevent breach to Tulyabagha drain between Vemulavada and Pedda Kothuru as it was reportedly weak and likely to lead to inundation of four villages.
15 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram left main canal develops breach||The Polavaram left main canal in the Godavari irrigation system at Jaggampeta in East Godavari district developed a breach in the early hours of Wednesday owing to huge inflows of rainwater into it. “The bund of the Polavaram left main canal has breached for nearly 100 metres at Jaggampeta. The immediate reasons are huge inflows of rainwater into the canal and the ongoing works on the canal. The breach can be completely plugged only when the inflows recede,” Irrigation Superintendent Engineer Srinivas Yadav told The Hindu . The canal modernisation works, taken up as a part of the Purushottapatnam Stage II project, are expected to be complete by early 2021 to ensure supply of water for irrigation in the district. It will also supply drinking water to the north Andhra region, apart from meeting the water need of the industries in Visakhapatnam district. Irrigation officials have rushed to the spot and are attempting to plug the beach. However, rainwater continues to enter the nearby fields and habitations in the Jaggampeta mandal.
15 October 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies of electrocution following rain in Anantapur||One person, identified as Pruthiviraj, died allegedly of electrocution following rains in Cheruvuvandlapalli village of Nallacheruvu mandal of Anantapur district. Elsewhere in the district, the Hundri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi Canal (HNSS) suffered minor breach at one place and 183 km of R&B and Panchayat Raj roads were damaged. Control room set up The district administration has set up a control room with ph 08554 - 220009 and 8500292992 to provide information related to rains/flooding. Meanwhile, the Anantapur district administration has alerted people and officials against venturing out in the open during heavy rain and avoid electrocution in view of further rains forecast in the next three days. Crops damaged District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said Rs. 21 crore worth of standing crop belonging to 5,908 farmers was affected in 234 villages. Repair on Panchayat Raj and R&B roads was being taken up at a cost of Rs. 3 crore and the damaged portion of the HNSS canal was being repaired so that it does not develop into a full-fledged breach. In Kurnool district, the distrcict administration set up command control rooms at Kurnool (08518-277305 and 8333989011), Nandyal (8333989013) and Adoni ( 8333989012). The inflows into Srisailam Dam were normal at 3,52,842 cusecs at 7.30 p.m. and a similar quantum was being released downstream into the Nagarjunasagar. Floodwater released In view of the rains forecast in north Karnataka and Telangana, more quantum of floodwater was expected from Jurala and Tungabhadra, hence people along the rivers have been alerted. No major incidents have been reported during the past one week.
15 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate on decline in south coastal Andhra||The curve continued to flatten in south coastal Andhra as 365 cases were reported from the two districts of Nellore and Prakasam, while three deaths, all in Prakasam, were reported in the last 24 hours as per a bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. With this, the cumulative number of deaths in Prakasam marginally climbed to 543 while Nellore’s toll remained unchanged at 474. On the other hand, the daily tally showed a steady slide as only 146 tested positive in Prakasam and 219 in Nellore. The number of persons getting discharged from hospitals was about 300 more than fresh admissions into hospitals in the last 24 hours as the Standard Treatment Protocol followed by the health professionals paid dividends. As many as 662(292 in Nellore and 370 in Prakasam) recovered from the illness in the region, taking the number of recoveries to 1.07 lakh. With this, the number of active cases came down to manageable 2,865 in Nellore district and 3,752 in Prakasam. As many as 2,950 patients were provided treatment at home in Prakasam district, while 494 of the 998 patients in hospitals were provided with oxygen/ventilator support as they suffered from respiratory problems.
15 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law and order under control: DGP||Refuting the allegations made by the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) that the law and order situation in the State has deteriorated, Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has warned that criminal cases would be booked for distorting the facts and fomenting communal tension. “The opposition party is making allegations by distorting facts with ulterior political motives. The law and order is very much under control,” Mr. Sawang told the media here on Wednesday. He justified his reply to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu saying that he could not keep quiet when facts were distorted. ‘Security at places of worship beefed up’ Referring to the allegations that ‘temples in the State are under attack’ in the State, the DGP said, “After the stray incident at Antarvedi temple, the police have risen to the occasion. All places of worship have been mapped and geo-tagged. The security has been beefed up.” The police have identified 1,093 people who struck various places of worship in the past and they have been bound over, he explained. Inaugurating a Technology Adoption Centre, the DGP said digital technology would be used increasingly to prevent crime and ensure transparency and accountability in the functioning of the police. Police Seva app “People need not visit police station now, they can avail of 87 different types of services through the AP Police Seva app,” he said. Digital footprint of the perpetrators of crimes would come in handy to crack the cases, said Mr. Sawang, after distributing computers to police personnel to use digital technology effectively. Launching a cooperative society for home guards in Prakasam district, a first-of-its-kind initiative in the State, the DGP promised to scale up welfare activities for them and improve their service conditions. The home guards greeted him with a big round of applause as the DGP acknowledged their contribution in ensuring public safety by cooperating with police personnel especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sawang also paid tributes to the police personnel who died in the line of duty at the Martyrs’ memorial. . Mr. Sawang further lauded many initiatives launched by Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, adding that the same would be replicated in the other parts of the State soon.
15 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP pitches for heritage city tag for Rajamahendravaram||Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat has appealed to the Central government to declare Rajamahendravaram as 'heritage city' under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojna (HRIDAY) for conservation of the heritage sites in the city by adopting a robust urban planning and developing them into tourist destinations in Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Bharat shared the potential of the city to be declared as the heritage city during the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Culture and Tourism, for which he is a member, held in New Delhi on Wednesday. “A plan has been prepared to develop a walking street on the decommissioned Havelock bridge across the river Godavari in the city. The bridge has the potential to become an international tourist destination if nearby islands in the river are connected to it,” said Mr. Bharat. Rallabandi Subba Rao Archaeological Museum, social reformer Kandukuri Veeresalingam house, The Dutch constructions on the Central Jail campus, Sir Arthur Cotton Museum and other historical sites could be developed into tourist attractions under the HRIDAY. In the Telugu-speaking States, Warangal in Telangana State is the only city among the 12 cities which were selected for development under HRIDAY since 2015.
15 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains bring good inflows into rivers||Drought-hit Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts could get much-needed relief with decent inflows into major rivers such as Nagavali, Vamsadhara, Champavati and other water bodies following recent rains in the catchment areas. The Vamsadhara river, which is the lifeline for Srikakulam district, almost dried up due to deficit rainfall. However, in the wake of rains in past two days, it received 42,550 cusecs of water on Wednesday. In anticipation of more inflows in the next couple of days, 46,596 cusecs of water was released from the Gotta barrage. It is expected to benefit many areas of Srikakulam, Narasannapeta and other mandals. The Suvarnamukhi river, a tributory of the Nagavali brims with abundant water for the first time in current rainy season. The inflow was 21,071 cusecs to the Gorle Sriramulu Naidu Madduvalasa Reservoir and 23,410 cusecs was released from it. It would provide irrigation facility for nearly 24,711 acres of land under its jurisdiction. The Nagavali river received 32,800 cusecs of water at Narayanapuram anicut on Wednesday. Thotapalli barrage near Parvatipuram received 6,921 cusecs of inflows and outflow was 7,546 cusecs. Vengalaraya Sagar Project of the Suvarnamukhi river near Saluru of Vizianagaram district get 3,700 cusecs and outflow was 1,800 cusecs. Thatipudi reservoir, which provides water to Vizianagaram town, received 3,878 cusecs. Many ponds located both in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts are receiving inflows from the local catchment areas. According to officials, agriculture activity is likely to pick up in the next couple of days. Required moisture in soil will benefit standing crops. Collector’s directive Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has directed the irrigation officials to be cautious till next couple of days since more inflows might lead to inundation of low-lying areas of the respective areas. He has asked the Vizianagaram municipal authorities to give top priority to cleanliness in all streets which were battered by rains on Monday and Tuesday. He said that paddy got damaged only in 90 acres and maize was damaged in 50 acres.
15 October 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records steep fall in cases||Have we already seen the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic phase and is the curve stabilising, are the questions that are crossing everybody’s mind in the city. Well going by the statistics, it appears that there is a trend towards flattening, but health officials are keeping their fingers crossed. They say that this is the most crucial phase and human behaviour is going to play a vital part in stabilising the curve. The period of July and August was the bad phase, as the district recorded over 37,000 cases, of them 80% were under GVMC city limits, and there were over 250 deaths. On June 30, the total number of cases were 976 and deaths were 5. But by end of August the number of cases shot up to 37,106 and death toll had gone up to 258. September was the month, when the curve started to flatten, as it recorded about 13,000 cases and deaths were about 150. “From averaging around 1,000 cases per day in August, we dropped down to 150 to 200 cases, from the first week of September. This is a significant drop of over 75%, according to a conservative estimate,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. “In October till date, the district recorded close to 2,800 cases and if the trend continues, then we should end up close to 5,000 cases, till the month- end,” he said. But he was fast to add that it was too early to say that the curve is flattening. “We have seen resurgence not only in Kerala and Delhi, but in other European countries also,” he said. According to him, human behaviour is going to play a key role in the next couple of months, if the curve is to stabilise. “In England and in France and in some other European countries, there is a resurgence, as people started to flout the basic protocols, once the economy was opened up. But at the same time, New York city, which was recording close to 1,000 deaths during the peak period, almost dropped to zero, as the people started to follow the protocols earnestly,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “We have to learn both from the negative experience of Europe and the positive side of New York city,” he said. “It is now the responsibility of people to follow the basic key protocols, such as wearing a mask, keeping social distance and maintaining personal hygiene, especially frequent washing of hands with soap or alcohol-based sanitisers,” he said.  Delay in test reports On the prolonged delay for test reports, Dr. Sudhakar said that RTPCR testing has been stopped for a couple of days to clear the backlog. Following ICMR guidelines to conduct RTPCR tests on all who tested negative in rapid antigen test, the load on the virology lab has increased phenomenally. “When the capacity of the lab is to test 2,000 to 3,000 samples, it was stretched to 5000 by adopting various means, and now the figure has gone up to 7,000 per day. That is why, we are first clearing the backlog first and hence the delay for those who tested recently,” said an official from the virology lab at KGH.
15 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to be run for Dasara from Tirupati||As railway transportation picks up pace ending the long hiatus, Tirupati is going to run a sizeable number of trains in the days to come. Already, the Tirupati – Nizamabad Rayalaseema Express is being run as a special train during the pandemic. In view of the Dasara festive season, the railways have introduced 02765/02766 Tirupati – Amravati – Tirupati festival special train, which will depart at 15.10 hrs to reach Amravati (Maharashtra) at 14.50 hrs the next day. stopping en route at Pakala, Piler, Madanapalle Road, Kadiri, Dharmavaram, Anantapur, Dhone, Kurnool city, Gadwal, Mahabubnagar, Kacheguda, Kamareddi, Nizamabad, Dharmabad, Mudkhed, Nanded, Purna, Basmat, Hingoli, Washim, Akola and Badnera stations in both the directions. Similarly, 02733/02734 Tirupati – Lingampalli express will ply between October 20 and November 30 to provide connectivity to Hyderabad. coinciding with the festival season. Narayanadri Express(12734/12735) will also start running as a daily train between Tirupati and Secunderabad. The Visakhapatnam-bound double decker train started from Wednesday. This apart, Tirumala Express will also be run as a daily train between the same destinations. If these are the direct trains, 17229/17230 Secunderabad – Trivandrum Express, a long-distance train, is coming up that passes through Tirupati and hence provides connectivity to down south.
15 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three nabbed for stealing motorcycles||Three persons were arrested and premium motorcycles worth Rs. 20 lakh were recovered from them by the Srikalahasti police on Wednesday. During regular searches at A.P. Seeds Corporation junction, teams led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Srikalahasti) D. Nagasubbanna and Circle Inspector D. Nagarjuna Reddy pounced on the three when they tried to flee. After a hot chase, the personnel nabbed the three, identified as A. Vijayakumar, K. Sasi Kiran and P. Bhaskar, who had a criminal record in lifting high-end motorcycles in Tirupati, Nellore and areas bordering Tamil Nadu over a year’s time, according to the police. Gang member at large Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy said 15 motorcycles have been recovered from the trio. Another member of the gang, Yuva Raj, is at large. All the accused were believed to have been addicted to vices and had resorted to the crime to meet their petty expenses. Mr. Ramesh Reddy appreciated Mr. Nagasubbanna and his team for the arrests.
15 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preacher booked for ‘sexually assaulting’ girl||A case had been registered against a religious preacher for allegedly sexually assaulting a girl early this month, which saw light on Wednesday. The 20-year-old girl works in a firm run by Deva Sahayam, a part-time preacher. According to Gajulamandyam police, Deva Sahayam allegedly picked her up in his car on the Renigunta Road, took her to a secluded location at Thukivakam village and allegedly sexually assaulted her. The girl was reportedly in shock and lodged a complaint only on October 12. The police registered a case and launched a manhunt for Deva Sahayam. Meanwhile, AIDWA and DYFI leaders called upon the victim and offered support. They fumed that the complaint filed by the girl in DISHA police station had been turned down.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools asked to remove caste, religion of students from attendance register||In a move to promote egalitarianism on school campuses, the educational institutions have been asked not to mention caste and religion of students in the attendance registers. Gender parity Director, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, has issued a circular asking the schools to remove the students’ caste and religion mentioned in the attendance register. He has also pointed out that the names of girls are being written in red ink, which, he says, should stop hereafter. Many schools use blue ink to write boys’ names and red ink to write girls’ names. In what is seen as an attempt to further the cause of gender parity, he has asked the Regional Joint Directors of the department and the District Education Officers (DEOs) to ensure that the caste and religion of the students mentioned against their names in the attendance register be removed and the register be maintained in a uniform pattern. In a separate order, the Director of School Education has said that in view of the plan to reopen schools on November 2, a minimum of 50% of the teachers should attend duty. In view of the lost time on account of the pandemic, he says that the teachers will not be allowed to take more than two-and-a-half casual leave for the months of November and December. KGBV selection list Meanwhile, the Samagra Shiksha wing of the Education Department has released the fourth list of the students who have been selected for admission to Classes 6 and 11 in the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) across the State for the academic year 2020-21. In a statement, the Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi has said that the selected students must report to their respective KGBV Special Officers between October 15 and 22 with all the relevant documents such as Aadhaar card, transfer certificate, study certificate, caste certificate and SSC pass short memo. Students can get their doubts, if any, clarified by dialling the phone numbers 9441270099 or 9494383617.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees dip in cases||The State once again reported less than 4,000 new cases of COVID-19 with low positivity rate. As many as 3,892 persons tested positive in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. With this, the tally increased to 7,67,465. For the first time in the past three months, the State registered less than 30 new deaths in a day. With 28 more persons being succumbed to the virus in the last one day, the toll went up to 6,319.. In the past day, 69,463 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 5.60%. The overall positivity rate of the 67.72 lakh tests conducted so far was 11.33%. Meanwhile, 5,050 more patients recovered leaving a total of 41,669 persons under treatment. So far, 7,19,477 patients recovered. East Godavari once again reported the highest single-day tally among the districts and three districts reported the highest number of deaths in the past day. Break-up Following is the district-wise break-up of new cases and deaths: East Godavari (607 and 3), West Godavari (518 and 1), Krishna (458 and 4), Chittoor (405 and 4), Guntur (345 and 3), Kadapa (332 and 0), Anantapur (290 and 2), Nellore (219 and 0), Visakhapatnam (163 and 4), Srikakulam (154 and 2), Vizianagaram (151 and 1), Prakasam (146 and 3) and Kurnool (104 and 1). The district-wise infection tallies are: East Godavari (1,07,888), West Godavari (76,759), Chittoor (71,725), Anantapur (61,610), Guntur (60,957), Kurnool (58,433), Nellore (57,291), Prakasam (55,246), Visakhapatnam (52,982), Kadapa (48,858), Srikakulam (42,086), Vizianagaram (37,825), and Krishna (32,910). Recovery rate in all the districts continues to stay over 90% with Kurnool having the highest at 96.92 % and Krishna having the lowest of 90.38%.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic diversions to be put in place for Dasara in Vijayawada||The city police have announced traffic diversions on the roads leading to the Kanakadurga Temple in view of the nine-day Dasara festival. The traffic diversions will be in place from the night of October 16 to October 25, Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu said in a press release. While most of the diversions are for heavy and medium vehicles and APSRTC buses, no restrictions will be imposed on the movement of two-wheelers. However, Prakasam Barrage will be closed from the night of October 20 till the morning of October 22. APSRTC city services plying between PNBS (City terminal) and Ibrahimpatnam depot will be re-routed via Police Control Room Junction (PCR Junction), KR Market, Chittinagar and Gollapudi between October 16 night and October 20 night. Similarly, between October 20 night and October 25 night, the city buses will be diverted via PCR Junction, Challapalli Bungalow, Budameru Vanthena, CVR Flyover and Gollapudi. APSRTC buses heading to Hyderabad from Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) will be diverted via Police Control Room Junction (PCR Junction), Challapalli Bungalow, Budameru Vanthena, CVR Flyover and Gollapudi. Also, heavy and medium transport vehicles plying between Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam on the national highway will be rerouted via Hanuman Junction towards Nuzvid, Mylavaram, G. Konduru and Ibrahimpatnam. Similarly, vehicles plying between Visakhapatnam and Chennai will be diverted via Hanuman Junction, Avanigadda, Repalle, Bapatla, Cheerala and Throvagunta. Vehicles plying between Guntur and Visakhapatnam will have to use the Budampadu, Ponnuru, Repalle, Avanigadda and Hanuman Junction route. Devotees visiting the temple by car will be provided parking at Seethammavari Padalu centre, Gandhiji Municipal High School and TTD parking stop. Similarly, motorcycles can be parked at Padmavathi Ghat, Irrigation office, Gaddha Bomma centre, Lotus Apartment and RTC workshop road.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chief Minister’s complaint to CJI should be probed’||Andhra Pradesh High Court Advocates’ Association (APHCAA) former president K.B. Ramanna Dora has expressed the opinion that the complaint of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Chief Justice of India against a Supreme Court judge and a few judges of the A.P. High Court should be investigated and clarified by both the parties. He said that it was incumbent upon the judges to give the impression that they were impartial and their orders were based on merits of the cases handled by them. On its part, the legislature should welcome adverse judgments, he added. “The onus is on both the judiciary and the legislature to restore people’s confidence in constitutional governance,” he said. Mr. Dora further said that the general view in the State was that the judiciary, particularly the judges of the High Court, could not project themselves as independent and uninfluenced.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to run Dasara specials only to Bengaluru||The hopes of a large number of people who waited eagerly for inter-State bus services to resume between the State and Telangana by the APSRTC at least during the Dasara festivities are dashed. The APSRTC will operate 1,850 special buses from October 15 to 28 during the festival days, but only within the State. Of the 1,850 buses, 574 buses will be operated to Bengaluru (562) and Ballari (12), while the remaining will be intra-State services. Stand-off with TSRTC “We are not operating any buses to Telangana, Chennai and Puducherry during this festival season,” said K.S. Brahmananda Reddy, the corporation's Executive Director (Operations). This also means that people who plan to travel to a place outside the State during festival will be forced to rely on private operators, who charge exorbitant fares. About the standoff with its Telangana counterpart on the inter-State services issue, Mr. Reddy said the APSRTC had sent a proposal, agreeing to the Telangana demand that APSRTC buses operate in not more than 1.6 lakh km distance in that State. "We are waiting for their response," he said. The APSRTC has always been operating more number of buses to Telangana. Yielding to the neighbouring State’s demand in the past, Andhra Pradsh had reduced its operations from 3.73 lakh km per day in Telangana to 2.6 km, while latter increased its operations in Andhra Pradesh from 94,000 km to 1.52 km. There is still a gap of 1.1 lakh km of distance which has turned into a bone of contention. APSRTC is ready to cut down on its operations in the neighbouring State by another 50% suggesting that TSRTC increase it by 50 % to reach a parity in distance. ‘Inconvenience to public’ “The routes we operate on are established ones, in high demand. Every service on these routes has above 75% of occupancy ratio. Instead of putting the public to inconvenience by reducing our services, we are instead asking Telangana to scale up its operations in A.P. But they do not want to increase their operations and want us to further bring down the distance covered by us in Telangana to 1.61 km,” said Principal Secretary, Transport, and Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of APSRTC M. T. Krishna Babu.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Shift KRMB office to Vijayawada’||A.P. State Water Users’ Associations Federation president A.V. Gopala Krishna Rao wrote a letter to Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, requesting him to permit the shifting of the head office of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) from Hyderabad to Vijayawada at the earliest as per the decision taken at the Apex Council meeting on October 6. Mr. Gopala Krishna Rao stated that the Government of Andhra Pradesh had been requesting the Centre to shift the KRMB head office to Vijayawada post bifurcation as per Section 85 (2) of the A.P. Reorganisation Act. The State’s Chief Secretary, the Special Chief Secretary (water resources), and the Engineer-in -chief had also written letters to the Ministry, he said. Further, the Under Secretary of the Government of India also made a correspondence on the subject matter to the KRMB Chairman. ‘Centrally located’ Mr. Gopala Krishna Rao said Vijayawada was centrally located and had good road, rail and air connectivity. The KRMB Chairman had even searched for a building in Vijayawada in 2019, he added.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New courses sanctioned for private polytechnics||The government has given permission to private polytechnic institutions to introduce new diploma courses in web designing, 3D animation and graphics, animation and multi-media technology, packing technology and computer science and engineering (Artificial Intelligence) for the 2020-21 academic year. In a G.O. issued on Wednesday, it said that the condition is that the institution shall be affiliated to the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET) for the year 2020-21. St. Mary’s Group of Institutions at Chebrolu in Guntur district has been allowed to introduce diploma courses in 3D animation and graphics, animation and multimedia technology and web designing. Kakinada Institute of Technological Sciences at Ambikapalli Agraharam in East Godavari district has been permitted to introduce a diploma course in packaging technology, while Kakinada Institute of Engineering and Technology for Women at Korangi in Tallarevu mandal has been sanctioned a diploma course in 3D animation and graphics. The International School of Technology and Sciences for Women in East Gonagudem in West Godavari district has been sanctioned a diploma course in computer science and engineering (AI). Candidates seeking admission in these courses should have passed SSC or an equivalent exam and the duration of the courses is three years. Admissions will be conducted as per SBTET norms, through POLYCET.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinema theatres to reopen today||In line with the orders by the Central and State governments, cinema theatres in Krishna district have been allowed to reopen on Thursday, in compliance with the standard operating procedures laid for COVID-19. Ever since the nation-wide lockdown was announced in March, theatres have remained shut. Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha issued the guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOPs) need to be followed by the cinema theatres and the movie goers. Wearing mask must Theatres can fill only half of the seats and the seating arrangement should be in the form alternate colour blocks on a chess board. The visitors and the staff of of the theatres have to wear masks without fail.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||97% of feeders affected by rain restored||The Energy Department has restored 97% of the feeders that were affected by the heavy rain in West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, and Anantapur districts within 24 hours, a release said here on Wednesday. As many as 170 feeders (11 KV and 33KV) across the State were affected due to heavy rains and 165 feeders have been restored so far. The department is making efforts to complete the restoration works on a war- footing, the release said. The officials has also completed the restoration works in three 33KV substations and a 132KV substation in East and West Godavari districts and fixed the distribution transformers and electricity poles. Meanwhile, Energy Secretary N. Srikant held a review meeting with AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K. Sreedhar Reddy, Grid and Transmission Director K. Praveen Kumar, DISCOMs CMDs Naga lakshmi Selvarajan, H. Haranatha Rao and Padma Janardhana Reddy and other officials.
15 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC extends last date on centre option||The APPSC has extended the last date for choosing the centre option (three district centres) till October 16 for the departmental tests that are scheduled to start from November 21. A detailed notification is available on the commission's websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.in.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Most reservoirs brimming after recent rains in district||Most of the reservoirs in the district are brimming after the recent rains. Several reservoirs have seen a steep rise in water levels on Monday and Tuesday, it is learnt. According to the readings obtained from the AP CM dashboard, (as on Wednesday afternoon), the full reservoir level (FRL) of Yeleru reservoir is 283.99 feet and the present capacity is 282.91 feet. Raiwada reservoir’s FRL is 373.77 feet and the present level stands at 372.51. Similarly, the FRL of Meghadrigedda reservoir is 61 feet and the present level is 60.20 feet. The data also show that water level in Thandava reservoir stands at 377.92 feet at present whose FRL is 380 feet. Similarly, water level increased in Konam, Pedderu and Thatipudi (Vizianagaram district) reservoirs. According to the officials from the GVMC, on Tuesday, about 150 cusecs of water from Meghadrigedda reservoir was released through one gate by the Irrigation Department officials. Water from a few more reservoirs is also being released. The officials are monitoring the situation at low-lying areas.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted Kuchipudi dancer Shobha Naidu dead||Noted Kuchipudi dancer and Padma Shri recipient Shobha Naidu died in Hyderabad in the early hours of Wednesday. A disciple of the legendary guru, Vempati China Satyam, Shoba Naidu was born to Venkanna Naidu and Sarojini Devi at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district in 1956. Several music and cultural organisations in the city fondly recalled Shobha Naidu’s contribution to the promotion of Kuchipudi. “She was like an elder sister to me. She had never given up her pursuit of dance despite facing several difficulties. She always wanted me to study well,” Bala Kondala Rao, founder and director of Kuchipudi Kala Kendram, told The Hindu . ‘Irreparable loss’ “Whenever Shobha Naidu visited Vizag, she made it a point to enquire about the well-being of my two sons. She brought recognition to Kuchipudi. It is a personal shock, and an irreparable loss to the dance form,” Ms. Bala Kondala Rao said. “Noted dancer Rukmini Devi Arundale was said to have asked Shobha Naidu if she was interested in joining films, to which she had replied in the negative. Rukmini Devi then told Shoba Naidu that she would do a great service to Kuchipudi if she confined herself to the dance form,” said Bathina Ranga Vikram Kumar, founder-director of the Natraj Music and Dance Academy (NMDA). “Shobha Naidu had declined offers from noted director K. Viswanath to join films. In 2013, the NMDA had honoured her at Kalabharathi. She was taken in a procession in a horse-drawn cart from Maddilapalem junction and carried in a palanquin into the auditorium. She was conferred the ‘Navarasa Natya Kalanidhi’ title,” recalled Mr. Vikram. “Shobha Naidu was a perfectionist and never compromised on the art form. She grew up in Chennai under the tutelage of Vempati China Satyam. But whenever she visited Vizag, she used to get nostalgic and emotional,” said Rambabu, secretary of Kalabharathi. She had performed in the U.S., the U.K., the USSR, Syria, Baghdad, Kampuchea, Turkey, Hong Kong, Bangkok, West Indies, Mexico, Venezuela, Tunis, and Cuba. The Government of India had honoured her with Padma Shri and Sangeet Natak Akademi awards in recognition of her contribution to Indian art and culture. Jagan, Pawan mourn Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the passing away of Shobha Naidu. “She had done a great service to Kuchipudi and her ballets and solo performances had won worldwide acclaim,” the Chief Minister said, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. In his condolences, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan extolled he services of Shobha Naidu to Kuchipudi. “She had trained a number of young people without confining herself to giving stage performances,” he said.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With four more deaths, toll touches the 450-mark||The COVID-19 death toll touched the 450-mark in the district after four more persons succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin released by the officials on Wednesday evening. It may be noted that the last 50 deaths were reported in just 14 days.The bulletin also said that 163 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 53,494 in the district. As many as 328 more persons infected with the virus recovered after treatment. This takes the total number of recoveries to 50,893. Active cases have gradually declined to 2,151 in the district. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, there are four very active clusters, 68 active and 244 dormant clusters. Already 627 clusters were de-notified in the district by the officials.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrupulously follow all COVID-19 norms, Joint Collector tells cinema managements||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has directed the managements of various cinema theatres to implement all COVID-19 protocols in view of permission given by the government to open theatres from Thursday. Addressing a meeting with the exhibitors and their representatives at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, the Joint Collector told the exhibitors that all the protocols issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare should be scrupulously followed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The theatre managements should not allow public coming without masks. Thermal screening should be done at the entry and the public should sanitise their hands before entry and while leaving the theatre after the screening. Children below 10 years of age and senior citizens over 65 years should not be allowed. Only 50% of the seats, observing social distance norms, should be filled and packed snacks should only be sold at the theatres. The representatives of various theatres said they were not prepared to reopen the cinema halls from Thursday. Representations have been submitted to the State government seeking power tariff concessions and a few other demands. Once they were accepted by the government, the theatres would be opened. Representatives of Varun Beach INOX and Cinepolis, Madhurawada, said that they would reopen from October 15.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 held for ‘stealing’ brass items from Simhachalam mandapam||The city police arrested 13 persons involved in three cases here on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that in one case, the Gopalapatnam police arrested eight persons for allegedly committing theft of 550 kg of brass items from Simhachalam Devasthanam Kalyana Mandapam. The arrested were identified as K. Suresh (30), K. Mahesh (24), S. Srinivas (32), S. Sateesh (22), P. Apparao (40), V. Ramu (35), M. Rajasekhar Reddy (28) and A. Venkat Kumar (41). Among the accused, Ramu, Rajasekhar and Venkat Kumar were the persons who received the stolen booty. According to police, recently a bidder had purchased 665 kg of brass items in an auction from the Commissioner of the Endowment Department. On August 1, 2020, the bidder graded the brass items, packed them in 41 gunny bags and kept them in the Kalyana Mandapam to take them after clearing the payments. On October 9, the officials found that 34 bags of brass items weighing about 550 kg and worth Rs. 1,21,000 were stolen. Based on the complaint from Assistant Executive Officer, Simhachalam Devasthanam, P. Rama Rao, on October 10, the police registered a case. The special police team that was formed to crack the case arrested four persons and recovered about 77 kg brass from them. On confession, the receivers were also arrested and rest of the stolen property was recovered. Police said that the accused melted the brass items into ingots. All the lost property was recovered. In another case, the police arrested two youth M. Naveen (23) and G. Prakash (20), of Vizianagaram district, for allegedly lifting a bike belonging to a traffic constable from Visakhapatnam city. Police said that they had earlier committed several cattle thefts for easy money after being addicted to vices. In the third case, the police arrested three persons for allegedly stealing two mobile phones.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 mandals received heavy rain, Collector informs Chief Minister||Out of 46 mandals, 22 mandals from the district have received heavy rainfall under the influence of deep depression, while other mandals witnessed moderate rainfall, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. He informed this to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a video conference at the Collectorate here on Wednesday. Mr. Vinay Chand informed the Chief Minister that five persons, including two from the corporation limits, died in various incidents due to the rains. He said that 18 shelter homes were arranged in the district in which 1,120 people were shifted. Nine houses were completely damaged in the district and compensation is being given, he said. Rains disrupted normal life in several mandals in the rural parts of the district due to overflowing rivers and streams (geddas). Many roads, minor bridges and causeways were cut off as water flowed over them. Some parts in low-lying areas in Anakapalle area were inundated due to the overflow of Sarada and Varaha rivers. Villages between Revupolavaram and Addu Road in S Rayavaram mandal were cut off due to the flow of water over the connecting road. Seven villages in Rambilli mandal were also affected due to the rains and overflowing rivers. Meanwhile, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao visited several rain-affected villages in Rambilli mandal and Yelamanchili on Wednesday. He said that the government would help all the people affected due to the rains. Inspecting several agricultural fields which were flooded, he said that they would send a report over the agriculture loss and help the farmers. He also said that engineering department officials have swung into action to restore damaged roads. Anakapalle MP B. Satyavathi and a few others were present. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao said that the civic body has suffered about Rs. 15 crore loss due to the rains in all the zones. About Rs. 4.79 crore loss was reported from Zone I and II alone. He said that 111 roads, drains, drinking water supply, electrical and horticulture projects were damaged.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jan Andolan’ kiosk opens||A ‘Jan Andolan’ kiosk, for sale of masks and sanitisers to motorists, visiting the flagship retail outlet of HPCL – Millennium Visakh – at Sirupuram, was launched as part of various initiatives to create awareness among the general public for COVID-19 ‘appropriate behaviours’ on the clarion call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to all Central Public Service Enterprises. HPCL Chairman and Managing Director M.K. Surana inaugurated the kiosk during his visit to the city on Tuesday.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wage pact reached in Coromandel Fertilisers||A new wage agreement was reached between the Coromandel Fertilisers Employees Union and Coromandel International Limited management in presence of the Joint Commissioner of Labour Mallesh Kumar on Wednesday. The new wage agreement entitles each worker to a hike of Rs. 9,700 over their present wage, 13% fitment, 1300 points DA, a 46% increase in annual increment in addition to other benefits, according to union president Ch. Narasinga Rao and general secretary SM Bhasha. Mr. Narasinga Rao, Mr. Bhasha and union leaders A. Rama Raju, J. Sandeep Kumar, P. Sudhakar, K. Santosh Kumar and PNSN Naidu participated in the talks on behalf of the union while the management side was represented by vice president M. Kumaresan, Senior General Manager K. Ranga Kumar and others. The union leaders said that the new wage agreement was made possible due to the efforts of the union.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-year-old girl ‘sexually assaulted’||A three-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 19-year-old boy at Cherubveedhi in Pedabayalu mandal on Wednesday. According to Pedabayalu police, the youth allegedly took the girl to a lonely place and committed the crime. When the parents grew suspicious and asked the youth, the latter feigned ignorance. However, he confessed when he was pulled up by the village elders. The girl’s parents lodged a police complaint. The accused is at large. A case has been registered and investigation is on. The girl has been sent to Pedabayalu hospital for medical examination.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AISF deplores plan to hold diploma, Inter exams||All India Students Federation (AISF) has deplored the plan of the State government to hold diploma and degree first and second year examinations ignoring the UGC guidelines. AISF State secretary B. Ranganna alleged that the State government was not bothered about the safety of the students in the pandemic situation. He demanded cancellation of the examinations and promotion of students to the next classes. The students took out a rally from the Gandhi statue to the Collectorate. They wanted to submit a memorandum to the Collector but were stopped by the police. They were arrested and taken away to the Two Town Police Station. The AISF leader also flayed the decision of the State government to hold examinations for Intermediate students. He warned that the agitation would be intensified, if the government failed to reconsider its decision. AISF district secretary Phanindra Kumar and leaders Amar and Ganapathi participated in the agitation.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘attempts suicide’ at Parawada||A 30-year-old man allegedly attempted suicide by cutting his wrist at Parawada area in the city on Tuesday night. Initially there were rumours that he attempted to end life after he was asked to get down from an RTC bus for reportedly showing COVID-19 symptoms. However, Parawada police said that the victim was mentally ill person. The victim was shifted to Anakapalle hospital for treatment and is said to be out of danger. Helpline No. In case of suicidal tendencies, dial 100.
15 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior Assistant in Simhachalam temple suspended||Senior Assistant of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Simhachalam, Paluri Narasinga Rao, was placed under suspension for involvement in some alleged illegal activities, on Wednesday. Issuing the suspension orders, Commissioner of Revenue (Endowments) P. Arjun Rao said that it has come to his notice that Narasinga Rao has been indulging in various unlawful activities like encouraging illegal constructions, interfering in the postings, threatening the guards posted on duty at the temple precincts and leaking certain confidential information. The Commissioner said that Narasinga Rao was involved in the illegal levelling of the 13.4 acres of land belonging to the temple though the High Court had ordered status quo in the matter. The Executive Officer of the temple has been asked to take necessary further action in this regard.
15 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘MR College has always been a pvt. institution’||Amid the row over the reported move to privatise the MR College in Vizianagarm, the Maharaja Alak Narayan Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust has said that the college has always been a private institution since its inception in 1879 and that there is no need for agitations over the issue. “The institute will continue to remain a private college with or without financial aid from the government,” a release quoted MANSAS Trust correspondent P.V.L. Raju as saying on Wednesday.  Grant in aid He said the fee structure would be finalised in accordance to the guidelines of the government. “Reforms in the MANSAS educational institutions began in 2017 with the surrender of the grant in aid of MR College of Education (B.Ed College) to the government,” he said. According to sources, the clarification indirectly targeted the then chairperson of MANSAS Trust and former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who reportedly surrendered the grant in aid facility extended by the government for the B.Ed College. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju recently objected the reported proposal for the privatisation of MR College. The alumni and representatives of various people’s organisations and students unions have been opposing the move. “The MR College issue is different from other institutions. All associations should strive hard for the protection of the college as it is the lone aided college in Vizianagaram in the absence of any government college,” he said.
15 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fitness studio to hold competitions||MAKS Dance and Fitness Studio will organise fitness competitions for different age groups between October 18 and 24 to create awareness among the people in these times of COVID-19. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, studio directors Ravi K Manda and M. Venkateswara Rao said that competitions in skipping, push-ups and sit-ups would be conducted for those in the age group of 22-40 years on October 18. Yogasana competitions for all age groups would be conducted at the same studio premises on October 22. Dance competition for juniors in the age group of 10-15 years would be held through zoom on October 23 at 3.30 p.m. Dance competition for elders would be conducted on October 24. Mr. Ravi said the interested can register their names by sending details to Whatsapp numbers 84591-79307 and 63008-36559.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highest flood levels witnessed in Krishna||Krishna river once again is in spate since Tuesday night bringing in woes of flooding to thousands of families residing in the low-lying areas downstream of Prakasam Barrage in the district. The Barrage recoreded the season’s highest inflow and outflow of 7.71 lakh cusecs as of 7 p.m. on Wednesday. The Water Resources Department issued the second and last flood warning at the Prakasam Barrage at 8.45 a.m. when the outflow crossed 5.69 lakh cusecs. The first flood warning was issued just hours ago as discharge crossed 3.96 lakh cusecs. According to officials, the inflows are likely to increase further as the outflow at Dr. KLRS Pulichintala project was 4.30 lakh cusecs as of 8 p.m.. Similar, situation would continue on Thursday, according to officials. During the current season, since September 15, the first flood warning was issued six times and a second warning was issued twice. Less than 20 days ago, the barrage saw an inflow of over 7 lakh, throwing life out of gear in all the low-lying areas in the district. The district administration has set up 19 flood relief centres and about 1,300 persons are taking shelter in them. In Vijayawada alone, there are over 1,000 flood victims taking shelter in relief centres. In the relief centre at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium, over 600 persons are taking shelter. Houses in several areas in Krishnalanka, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Yanamalakuduru, Penamaluru and other downstream of the barrage, and Bhavanipuram upstream of the Barrage were inundated.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cardiology services launched at GGH||Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz inaugurated the cardiology and catheterization laboratory (cath lab) in the super speciality wing of the Government General Hospital. The new diagnostic and treatment equipment including 2d echo, ECG/TMT, consultation room, cardiac care unit ward and other new facilities were introduced. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Imtiaz said that the newly built infrastructure was being used to treat the COVID-19 patients now. He said that equipment and facilities at the GGH are equipped with advanced technology. Only Tirupati, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool hospitals have such facilities. He said that the new facility was set up in collaboration with Safe Nutrients Private Limited in a public-private partnership mode .
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale strategy||
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Dasara celebrations in public: police||City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said Dasara celebrations will not be allowed in public places due to COVID-19. “No permissions will be accorded for celebrations in colonies, apartments and other public places as it would lead to gathering of crowds. We appeal to the people to confine the celebrations to their homes,” he said.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Landslip: victim’s wife given Rs. 4 lakh||Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz handed over a cheque for Rs. 4 lakh as the ex gratia to the kin of a man who died in a landslip incident in the city on Wednesday. T. Siva Shankar (52) from Vidyadharapuram area died in a landslide in the hillslope area following incessant rain on Tuesday. Mr. Imtiaz along with Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha visited the house of Siva Shankar and handed over the cheque to his wife T. Sujatha.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rain fury leaves capital battered, bruised and soaking wet||Unrelenting downpour throughout the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday pounded the city of Hyderabad to pulp, leaving its roads flooded, colonies drowned, drains overflowing and citizens dazed. People from several localities woke up to the sight of rain water surrounding their homes, while thousands had no luxury of sleep at all with water entering their homes in the night. Lakes overflowed claiming their full tank levels, and in the bargain, drowning all encroachments that obstructed their flow. Hundreds of colonies in Saroornagar, Ramantapur, Bandlaguda, Uppal, Tolichowki, Falaknuma, Kukatpally, Nizampet, ECIL and other areas were inundated. With water reaching up to six to seven feet depth, the first floors were vacated, and people waited desperately for help on terraces and top floors. Water submerged homes in localities such as Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki and Hariharapuram in B.N.Reddy Nagar, necessitating boats to evacuate people. Reservoir gates lifted With the flood gates of Himayatsagar lifted at midnight, Musi river flowed full stream, thereby inundating localities such as Moosa Nagar, Shankar Nagar, Kamala Nagar, and Vinayak Veedhi. Residents, who stayed back despite alerts for the past three days, had to climb up on to the terrace for safety, where they awaited help for long. The river flowed over the causeway bridges at Chaderghat and Moosarambagh, both of which were shut to traffic by police. At Moosarambagh, the iron barricades to the river were washed away in the flood. With flood water from Saroornagar lake blocking all the roads on one side, and the Malakpet road under-bridge inundated with storm water on the other, several areas in Dilsukhnagar and surrounding areas were besieged on all sides, and commuters faced several untold hardships. Nalas/stormwater drains overflowing everywhere posed grave danger. Especially threatening was Murki Nala, which streamed menacingly through the strees of Al Jubail Colony, in Ghazi-e-Millat, Nimra Colony and Al Saroor Colony in Falaknuma area. Drains in Dabeerpura, and Yakutpura too were found overflowing. Surplus water from Hussainsagar entered homes in areas such as Padma Nagar, Nagamaiah Kunta, Arundhathi Nagar, Sabarmati Colony, Ashok Nagar and Adikmet. As per data from automatic weather stations installed across the city, Singapore Township in Pocharam received the maximum rainfall at over 32 cm, with all localities in city receiving over 20 cm in one night. Building collapse Several building collapse and tree fall incidents were reported from across the city, along with tedious power cuts ranging from 12 hours to 24 hours. Corporators and public representatives were on the roads since morning, monitoring the situation. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao arrived at the GHMC headquarters and reviewed the situation through a teleconference with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Collectors of Medchal, Rangareddy and Hyderabad districts. He asked officials to be on the field and oversee the relief measures. He asked officials to shift the homeless to night shelters, and prevent accidents due to cellar digging. He appealed to citizens not to venture out for the coming two days, as more rains are expected.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain leaves a trail of destruction across State||Although the depression over Telangana has moved west-north-westwards and was lying over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra and Telangana providing some breather to the State, the heavy downpour during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Wednesday had its effect by throwing normal life out of gear across the State. According to the Met department authorities there was downpour of over 10 cm rain during the 24-hour period at over 60 places across Telangana where there are rain gauges. It was stated that extremely heavy rain (over 20.4 cm) occurred at isolated places in Rangareddy, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Sangareddy districts, very heavy rain (over 11.5 cm) occurred at most places in Medchal-Malkajgiri, Yadadri, Hyderabad and Sangareddy districts, at a few places in Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Nalgonda and Medak and at isolated places in Jangaon districts. Besides, heavy rain (over 6.4 cm) occurred at most places in Siddipet and Jangaon, at a few places in Warangal-Rural, Karimnagar and at isolated places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Warangal-Urban, Kamareddy, Mahabubabad, Suryapet Khammam and Rajanna-Sircilla district. Under the impact of rains roads were damaged in many districts and standing crops such as cotton, paddy, maize and redgram were damaged, including inundation, on lakhs of acres across the State. “Over 700 minor irrigation tanks suffered breaches and pipings due to heavy inflows. Of the 43,412 tanks, nearly 24,200 were discharging surplus water and water in another 12,000 were near full tank level”, irrigation authorities stated adding that over 7,200 tanks had water up to 75% of their capacity. Agriculture department officials stated that the assessment of standing crop damage would take at least one week to get the factual picture but admitted that the rain would have its impact on paddy, cotton and maize crops, in particular. With the depression lying 80 km from north-west of Kalaburagi in Karnataka on Wednesday, it was expected to move west-north-westwards and gradually weaken into a well-marked low pressure area by Thursday morning. Under its influence light to moderate rain/thunder-showers were expected at a few places and heavy rain at isolated places over Telangana. Although highest rainfall nearly 33 cm during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Wednesday occurred at a few locations in and around Hyderabad, extremely heavy rainfall was also recorded at Pochampally in Yadadri (25.2 cm), Jogipet in Sangareddy (24 cm), Ibrahimpatnam in Rangareddy (22.7 cm) and Hakimpet in Medchal (20.4 cm). Very heavy rainfall was recorded at Ramannapet, Bhuvanagiri, Atmakur, Manchal, Wargal, Tekmal, Marpally, Nalgonda, Kondapur, Yadagirigutta, Sangareddy, Kohir, Mominpet, Medchal, Dindigal, Chandur, Bachannapet, Maheshwaram, Shamirpet, Devaruppal, Hathnoora, Narsapur, Nidamanur, Yacharam, Munipalli, Nyalkal, Raikode, Peddemul, Doultabad and Medak.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR pays quick visit to flood-hit areas||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao made a whirlwind tour of flood-hit areas in the city on Wednesday to assess the damage and assure people of possible help. He directed officials accompanying him to address the issues raised by people soon. He was busy since morning reviewing the situation and the government’s assistance and later visited several colonies that were flooded where people spent a sleepless night on Tuesday. Accompanied by Home Minister Mahmood Ali, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy, GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar and many others, he visited colonies in Bairamalguda at L.B. Nagar that were flooded and interacted with locals. Locals complained of little assistance from officials, despite the local tank breaching and flooding the colonies. As some youngsters tried to bring the issues to the notice of KTR, they were dragged away by his security men. They alleged that police took them away and beat them up mercilessly for trying to reach out to the Minister. Their grouse was against L.B. Nagar MLA D. Sudheer Reddy and they alleged that he has never visited the colony. Mr. KTR asked the MLA and the corporator concerned to assist them. Later, the team visited the colonies in Ramanthapur and Habsiguda hit by the flood water from the overflowing Ramanthapur lake. Seeing the water-logged houses and inundated colonies, he gave several suggestions to Uppal MLA Subhash Reddy and other officials on mitigating the problems related to the lake. He then visited Azampura, Teegalguda, Moosarambagh and Shankar Nagar in Malakpet accompanied by local MLA Ahmed Balala. He said that the government was ensuring food, bedsheets and medicines for people in inundated areas. The Minister cautioned people that the rains were likely to continue for a couple of days and they should move to the rescue shelters of the GHMC. Later, he toured Chandrayangutta, Santosh Nagar and Falaknuma, where he was joined by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi and other MLAs. He inspected the road at Aramghar that got washed away, and asked officials to repair the road immediately. He held a teleconference and instructed GHMC officers to vacate dilapidated buildings. According to officials, as many as 19 dilapidated structures were demolished at Charminar, Falaknuma, Lal Darwaza, Santoshnagar, and Champapet. People were evacuated from 14 houses at Jummerat Bazaar, Afzal Sagar, Chintal Basthi and other neighbourhoods. At least 35 people living along the Musi in Mangalhat area were evacuated.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Former Tahsildar of Keesara ‘ends life’ in prison||Former Tahsildar of Keesara mandal on the outskirts of Hyderabad, Erva Balraju Nagaraju, who was lodged in Chanchalguda prison in a corruption case, ‘ended his life’ by hanging himself in the early hours of Tuesday. Mr. Nagaraju had been at Chanchalguda central prison for the past two months following his arrest by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on this August 14. They seized Rs. 1.10 crore from his possession after raiding his house then. That sum was the bribe he received to favour some persons about the ownership of 28 acres of agricultural land in Rampally Dayara village of Keesara in Medchal Malkajgiri district. The Dabeerpura police, who registered a case under Section 176 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), said athat the prison authorities had found the former Tahsildar Nagaraju hanging to the window grill of a barrack around 4 a.m. ‘Towel found’ “Other inmates of the barrack were asleep. A towel wrapped around his neck was found,” Dabeerpura Inspector Satyanarayana said. The former tahsildar was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Chanchalguda prison superintendent Srinivasulu did not respond to repeated calls on his mobile phone for further details. Nagaraju’s body was handed over to his family members after performing autopsy at Osmania General Hospital morgue. Nagaraju was arrested along with two civilians and Rampur village revenue assistant Bongu Sairaj on August 14. While they came out on bail, the suspended ‘revenue officer’ was confined to prison as the Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths slapped a second case against him. Five private persons and computer operator of Keesara Tahsil office were also arrested in the second case. This case was registered against him following a report filed by Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) department. He was accused of illegally mutating 96.28 acres of land belonging to some persons to one Dharma Reddy and three of his family members. In the first case, Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths took him into custody for further questioning. In the second case also, they secured his custody for three days from the court. On Monday, he was taken to the office of the Anti-Corruption Bureau for questioning and later sent back to prison. He was supposed to be questioned on Tuesday and Wednesday.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood makes Singur surplus||With huge flood continuing reach Jurala-Srisailam-Nagarjunasagar-Pulichintala projects in the Krishna basin, heavy downpour in Zaheerabad area of Sangareddy district and in the neighbouring areas of Karnataka on Tuesday made the Singur project surplus and is likely to surplus Nizamsagar too over the next couple of days. Singur and Nizamsagar have been the only projects in the Godavari basin in Telangana that remained not filled to full reservoir level this rainy season although every other project both in the Krishna and Godavari Basin became surplus several times this season. However, very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall recorded in the immediate catchment areas of the Manjira river in Telangana and Karnataka have changed the fortune of the two reservoirs overnight. The inflows into Singur dam went beyond 90,000 cusecs and the outflows were over 60,000 cusecs on Wednesday morning as the project authorities operated the spillway gates for the first time in three years to discharge the excess flood towards Nizamsagar. As there was respite in rainfall on Wednesday, the inflows receded to about 29,000 cusecs by the evening although the engineers kept the outflows in the same measure. Against its capacity of 29.92 tmc ft, the storage in Singur on Wednesday evening was 28.2 tmc ft and that of Nizamsagar was 11.1 tmc ft against its capacity of 17.8 tmc ft with the inflows remaining high at nearly 42,000 cusecs. Flood to Lower Manair was also very high at over 96,200 cusecs and the outflows were nearly 1.08 lakh cusecs. Inflows into Sriramsagar, Mid Manair, Kaddam and Yellampally also kept them in surplus position with continued discharge of flood. In the Krishna basin, the inflows into Jurala were 2.65 lakh cusecs and were expected to increase further with increase in flood discharge at Narayanpur to about 1.9 lakh cusecs in the afternoon. With the supplementation from Bhima-Kagna, the flood is expected cross 3.5 lakh cusecs. The discharge from Jurala at 9 pm on Wednesday was 2.5 lakh cusecs from the spillway (37 gates) and another 21,000 cusecs after power generation. At Srisailam, inflows were over 3.67 lakh cusecs with supplementation from Tungabhadra and Handri and the discharge was 3.76 lakh cusecs from spillway and another 27,000 cusecs from power house. At Nagarjunasagar, flood from the spillway was 2.67 lakh cusecs and another 29,000 cusecs from power house against inflows of 3.03 lakh cusecs.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana High Court declines to interfere in civil administration||Telangana High Court on Wednesday declined to take up hearing of the public grievances following heavy rains in the State. When lawyer Ch. Naresh requested the court to suo moto take up the issue of difficulties being faced by people of twin cities due to havoc created by rains, the High Court said it cannot do so. The lawyer also said that some people also lost their lives in the mayhem caused by incessant rains. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, responding to the lawyer’s request, said the government had announced red alert in advance about the rains. Officials came onto the roads and were involved in the work of rescuing people, the bench said. Under such challenging situations, courts cannot interfere in civil administration, the bench observed. If there were any omissions or commissions on the part of the government in dealing with the situation, the citizens can approach the court eventually, the bench said.  Green Pharma city Meanwhile, Justice A. Abhishek Reddy directed the State government to keep in abeyance distribution of compensation to people who lost their lands for Green Pharma City. The judge also directed the petitioners to include Bhoodan Yajna Board as respondents in the writ petition while posting the hearing of the plea to October 20. Five women moved the High Court stating that persons who had no lands in Tadiparthy village of Yacharam mandal in Ranga Reddy were included among the beneficiaries of the compensation. They alleged that persons without any rights were claiming compensation for lands acquired for Green Pharma City.  Holiday today In a separate statement, the HC declared holiday on Thursday in the backdrop of heavy rains in the State. Along with the High Court, all sub-ordinates courts, Judicial Academy and HC legal services authority would remain closed on Thursday.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lust for adventure during a disaster||The once-in-a-generation rainfall turned Hyderabad citizens into disaster tourists. People risked their life and limb to watch the Musi river touch both the banks, the destruction at Gaganpahad and swirling waters of lakes near Jalapalli. “The road is straight but the water has chipped away a portion. I am asking people not to go there but they are not listening,” said Narasimha of Laxmiguda village as throngs of people walked across the overflowing waters from the Yerrakunta lake, which is part of a system that includes Madikunta, Jalapalli and Palle Cheruvu. Family outing “I have come from Kattedan to watch this,” said Shankar, a battery technician who brought his wife and two kids on the bike to see the muddy water swirl beside the road near Umda Sagar Lake. But a majority of visitors and people trying to catch fish were from VAMBAY colony in the area. The rush to see the Musi river in spate created trouble for police in the Attapur area as the freshly-laid asphalt road between Langar Houz and Attapur showed some cracks and displacement of earthen work. The road is a reclamation project on the Musi. A large number of people turned up at the Tipu Khan Bridge, Bapu Ghat bridge and other bridges and vantage points to see the sweep of the river flow. The teeming mass of rubbernecks led to traffic blockages at multiple places. At Gaganpahad, people clambered up the unfinished flyover to see the destruction wrought by the water right from the Old Kurnool Highway down the path where the water scattered cars, containers and the road which was twisted out of shape. “This is a main road and people from surrounding areas are coming to see this. The main road is anyway blocked for regular traffic,” said a police official who was seen trying to shoo away the visitors.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collapse of lake embankment cuts off Bengaluru highway||With Palle Cheruvu and Appa Cheruvu overflowing, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar cautioned commuters against taking the Shamshabad Bengaluru Highway, as it is damaged, and to use the Outer Ring Road instead. He also requested curious onlookers to stay at home. Earlier on Wednesday, Cyberabad Traffic Police issued an advisory, alerting travellers of the collapse in embankment of lake in Shamshabad. “Due to collapse of the embankment of a lake near Shamshabad, the NH 44 is cut off. Hence, public going towards Airport, Shamshabad, Kurnool, Bengaluru are advised to use ORR instead of PVNR Expressway and NH-44,” his tweet read.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dealing with deluge||Twelve hours after the heavy rain receded, water continued to flow with strength on the arterial roads and bylanes in and around Chandanagar on Wednesday evening. While people had expected to wake up to an unprecedented situation, none could have estimated how terrifying it would be. Years of monetary investment were drowned as shops located in cellars alongside Chandanagar main road continued to be submerged. People were seen trying to pump the water out onto roads. A little ahead, ankle-level water flowed consistently, covering one side of the main road. With no tar in sight, people slowed down their high horse powered vehicles and joined an unofficial queue of vehicles alongside median lest they get caught up in potholes. A similar situation was witnessed on Madinaguda main road and its bylanes where mucky water continued to flow. In some more places, debris and uprooted plants were strewn on road. Towing vehicles were busy pulling out cars from under thick layers of mud and swirling waters. Vehicle mechanics, too, had their hands full. TS Disaster Response and Fire Services personnel who were busy pumping out water from an apartment’s cellar in Madinaguda said it was easily more than five hours’ job. “This cellar is spread on around 300 square yards land, and is 10 feet deep. We have been on the job since noon and hope to pump out all the water by 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. We have four more cellars to empty,” said S. Rajeshwar, driver and operator. People in other apartments continued to wait for help to take out vehicles from cellars. Most localities did not have power supply since Tuesday evening for 16-24 hours.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saidabad police rescue man from jaws of death||He was just clueless. Sitting in his car that got stuck behind a tree after being washed away in gushing water, M. Ravindra realised he was in the jaws of death. Slowly, the 51-year-old private employee mustered courage and dialled 100. After a risky operation of nearly two hours, Saidabad police finally brought him out safely on Tuesday night. “I was seriously worried of my fate as the car first got washed away in the water only to get stuck behind a tree. Every time the vehicle shook in the water, I felt like moving closer to death,” Mr. Ravindra recalled on Wednesday speaking with The Hindu over phone. Around 7.30 p.m. on Tuesday, he dropped his friend in Reddy Colony of Champapet. Clouds were already bursting by then. He thought it was just another downpour the city has been witnessing of late. The massive rain started inundating roads of the colony. Ravindra hoped he can manage to drive up to the main road. But the oncoming water stream began becoming bigger and bigger within seconds. He pressed the accelerator but realised the gushing water was more powerful as it pushed back his vehicle. Within seconds, the car began to move back pushed by the swirling water. After a couple of hundred yards, the car got stuck to a tree. “It was pitch dark. Water was more than two feet high. If I step out, I would have been washed away,” Ravindra recalled. He dialed 100 and informed his situation. Asking him to stay put inside the car, the call receiver alerted Saidabad police who rushed to the area. “It took us 30 minutes to trace him because it was water all around and dark,” Saidabad Inspector said. The police party could see him stuck in the car from a distance at Chinthal area. Police too could not venture into the swirling and speeding water. “So we threw a rope at Ravindra who managed to step out and catch it,” Mr. Srinivas explained. As suggested by policemen, he scaled onto the car’s bonnet before tying the rope around his waist. Slowly, he entered into the water and was pulled out to safety by the police team asking him to be cautious with every step. “But for police, I would not have been alive. Kudos to them,” he said choking.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A wall of water swept away everything, says eyewitness||A wall of water with a roaring sound is how Shivshankar Singh remembers the beginning of destruction around him. The worker at Indian Oil petrol station was chatting with his colleagues as the rain continued to beat down on Tuesday night. “Around 1.15 a.m., there was a big sound and even before we could realise it, there was water everywhere. Vehicles moving on the road got swept away. You can see one of them,” says Mr. Singh pointing to a SUV perched on the side on the road. Elsewhere on the road in Gaganpahad area, there were signs of destruction as if some giant had tossed around vehicles and uprooted electric supply lines. A pre-fabricated toilet was tossed yards away from where it was installed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials. A few cars and container trucks could be seen nearly 50 metres from the road crushed, crumpled and covered with sand and debris. Large scale devastation While one stream of water roared down the Old Kurnool Highway and swept through the gap in the under construction flyover, another stream swirled around the Celebration Convention function hall and slammed the wall of the flyover. The water swept away a house where three bodies have been fished out and one boy is still missing. “Many vehicles got washed away. Though they are saying only three persons are dead, we saw other people being carried away by the waters,” says Mallesh, another employee of the petroleum outlet pointing to a waist-high mark reached by the flood. “It will take time to restore traffic on this road. Right now we are focussing on rescue effort,” said a police official.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Places of worship open doors for the needy, displaced||With several people being displaced on account of the rains that pounded the city, a mosque in Toli Chowki has thrown open its doors to those who need shelter. The management of the mosque, Masjid-e-Tawheed, Ahle Hadees, told The Hindu that ample space is available to accommodate people from all faiths. Religion no bar “Irrespective of gender and religion, we are welcoming people into the masjid. We have even offered to help displaced people with transport. While a number of people were already here, we got a call from some others who were affected and are expecting them here shortly,” said Mohammed Imaad, a member of the mosque managing committee. The MS Education Academy, which runs a chain of schools and colleges across the city, has also welcomed displaced people. “Our branches in Musheerabad, Malakpet, Toli Chowki, Charminar and other places, are open for people of all faiths who need shelter. We have several rooms and families can stay here,” Mohammed Lateef Khan, Chairman, MS Education Academy, said. Volunteers help Meanwhile, volunteers of the Students’ Islamic Organisation, Helping Hand Foundation and Feed the Needy, and Amoomat Society, among others, began relief work. They distributed food packs and other eatables. SIO members helped to move those who were stuck in water-logged houses to other locations.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Horticulture officials for all mandals: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao has said that the State government is ready to appoint one Horticulture Extension Officer in each mandal and assured that a huge market on 300 acres would be created at Kongarakalan to promote horticulture crops in a big way. “Prepare proposals immediately on the number of employees needed for this. There should be special divisions in the Horticulture department headed by senior officials to bring about quality in the crops, study the changes in the cultivation patterns, to keep tabs on marketing,” he said at a review meeting. He said Telangana was blessed with a wide variety of soil, good rainfall and professional skilled farmers and these advantages should be utilised to optimal level by bringing in revolutionary changes in the cultivation of vegetables, fruits, flowers and other horticulture crops. KCR said there was an average rainfall of 900-1500 mm per year. All these were ideal for horticulture cultivation but despite all these advantages, the State was importing vegetables, fruits, flowers, spices, and oilseeds from other States. “The Horticulture department should equip itself to make the State number one in cultivating the crops. Visit states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Haryana and countries like the Netherlands where horticulture crops are being cultivated very successfully,” he advised the officials.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lakes in East Zone swell||About 10 to 12 lakes in the East Zone (L.B.Nagar Zone) of GHMC have breached under the effect of incessant rains for the past three to four days, spreading over adjoining colonies and inundating them. GHMC officials said the lakes included Nagole Cheruvu, Bandlaguda Cheruvu, Bathula Cheruvu, Kummari Kunta and Kaprai Cheruvu in Hayatnagar circle, Errakunta in Nacharam, Nalla Cheruvu, Ramantapur Pedda Cheruvu and Ramantapur Chinna Cheruvu in Uppal Circle, and Saroornagar lake and Bairamalguda lake in Saroornagar Circle. Besides, Kapra lake too is filled to the brim. At least 70 colonies have been drowned to varying extent by the lakes, while residents of six to seven extremely low-lying areas have been shifted to safer locations. Hariharapuram Colony in B.N.Reddy Nagar has been completely submerged, officials informed. Flood water is being let out from all lakes through surplus nalas, while lakes such as Ramantapur Pedda Cheruvu and Kaprai Cheruvu for which surplus drains are heavily constructed, are being emptied using high capacity pump sets.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,446 COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded 1,446 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 2,16,238. The number of cases detected in a day is directly related to the number of people who undergo tests. When around 50,000 tests were conducted, over 1,800 cases were detected. When around 45,000 people were checked, over 1,700 cases were detected. On October 13, 40,056 people underwent tests and 1,446 tested positive for coronavirus. Results of 1,049 are awaited. Eight more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases includes 252 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 135 from Rangareddy, 131 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 74 from Karimnagar, and 58 from Nalgonda. From March 2 to October 13, a total of 36,64,152 tests were conducted and 2,16,238 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total positive cases, 1,91,269 recovered, 23,728 were active cases, while 1,241 died.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin recounts the horror||Four persons, including a four-year-old boy, were swept away in the rains in Gaganpahad area, which comes under RGIA Police Station limits, late on Tuesday night. The house was built on a small plot of land near a function hall. “I was in the godown when the house was swept away. Tanima and Amer are siblings, and their bodies have been recovered along with Tahir, who is my nephew. Eight-year-old Ayan is still missing,” said Muhammad Imran sitting near a shop beside AH43 that connects Hyderabad to Bengaluru. Imran pointed to a clump of wet bushes to show where the temporary house used to exist. “The water from a nearby lake overflowed and swirled over the wall sweeping away the house and its inhabitants,” said a police official on the site. The function hall and a row of shops were saved from the damage as the water rose nearly 15 feet from the ground and swirled around it.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||President calls Governor over flood situation||President Ram Nath Kovind called Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday evening to find out about the heavy rain and flood situation in Telangana and about the ongoing rescue and relief measures. He expressed concern about the loss of life and damages. The Governor informed the President that rescue and relief measures were in full swing in all rain-affected areas in the State. The government machinery is fully prepared to meet any situation, she said. Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan informed the President that she convened a meeting with all district units of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Telangana State, and asked them to take active part in rescue and rehabilitation measures to supplement the government’s efforts. He advised the Governor to respond to the needy on a priority basis.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Portion of KBR Park wall collapses||A portion of the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park boundary wall collapsed here on Wednesday on account of the rains which wreaked havoc in the city. According to officials, 64 metres of the wall collapsed. Damage to walking track and pathways has also been reported. Officials swung into action and built a structure which they said would serve as temporary protection. Officials clarified that the park would be open for walkers.
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health camps cater to needy and injured||Health department officials organised health camps at rain rehabilitation centres and near inundated localities on Wednesday. Hyderabad District Medical and Health Officer, J. Venkati said first-aid equipment and Rapid Antigen Test kits were kept ready at the camps. “There were around 30 rehabilitation centres. Each camp had a doctor, two staff nurses and one supporting staff. People were provided with the medical services that they required. Twenty ‘104’ vehicles are being drawn from other districts to hold more camps,” Dr Venkati said. Of the total 2,294 people examined, 194 were found to have fever, 54 suffered from diarrhoea and five had injuries.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EAMCET: verification till Oct 18||Aspirants of engineering courses, who booked slots for certificate verification for Wednesday but could not attend due to rains, can attend for verification any time till October 18. Telangana counselling camp officer B. Srinivas said that the verification centres functioned on Wednesday despite the rains and its effects. However, those students who could not attend for certificate verification despite booking the slots can attend verification any day till October 18. No student would be turned back, the official said.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor to attend calls of needy patients through telemedicine on today||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will be personally attending calls from patients and others seeking medical advice, to reach out to the needy through telemedicine facility from 4.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Thursday. A medical doctor by profession, the Governor along with two other Raj Bhavan doctors will personally take the calls. Those in need can avail the facility by calling helpline number 040-23310521.
15 October 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ponnam plea to CM||TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar has appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to make a statement assuring farmers that the government would come to their rescue as they lost almost entire crop due to the unprecedented rains. In a statement here, he said assurance from the Chief Minister would give some relief to farmers who were in tears seeing the submerged crops almost ready for harvest. He also appealed to farmers not to lose heart and asked the Congress cadre and the leaders to coordinate with officials
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Army joins rescue, relief||Indian Army too joined flood relief and rescue operations in tandem with other government departments on Wednesday. Army teams with boats and rescue equipment helped moving people stranded in Bandlaguda, on request by the State government and distributed food packets to the needy. Army medical teams provided first aid and medical relief to stranded people.
15 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Zoo closed today||Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad, will be closed for visitors on Thursday, due to heavy rains that inundated many parts of the zoo. The heavy inflow of rain water into the Miralam lake had in turn resulted in inundation of many areas inside safari and also made the road from the elephant area to safari inaccessible. The uprooted trees and the debris on the roads is being cleared. However, all the animals are safe and prophylactic measures are being taken up to ensure their safety. All visitors are requested to kindly cooperate with the officials concerned and inconvenience caused is regretted, a press release by the curator, Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad said.
15 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Body of ryot who got swept away found||The search for a farmer, who was swept away by surging waters of Rathoni Cheruvu near Penuballi on Tuesday, ended in tragedy after his body was found floating about 500 metres away in the swollen rivulet on Wednesday morning. Police identified the deceased as Mallela Ravi, 45, of Penuballi. Ravi was washed away in a flash flood in the rivulet while returning home along with his son from an agricultural field near Penuballi mandal headquarters town on Tuesday afternoon. His 18-year-old son narrowly escaped being swept away by the strong undercurrent, sources said. In another incident, a 45-year-old man was feared drowned in the Bandikunta stream at Peddakorukondi village in the rain-hit Kallur mandal on Tuesday evening. The person hailing from Annapureddypalli accidentally slipped into the stream.
15 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Flooding near Musi project puts officials on high alert||Record flooding from upstream Hyderabad, river Musi along its course in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Suryapet, and its project near Kethepally in Nalgonda district, have put officials on high alert and residents and motorists anxious on Wednesday. The discharge from Himayatsagar after midnight made flooding almost double the previous estimate of irrigation officials. And starting at 4 a.m., alternative measures were discussed and soon officials prepared themselves to operate the gates. While the project’s full reservoir level is 645 feet with gross storage of 4.46 tmc, by 7 a.m., the water level exceeded by 1.70 feet, at 646.70 feet, an unprecedented situation, according to officials. As per the plan, all its crest gates were opened to a height of 20 feet, and about 1.73 lakh cusecs water release was maintained till evening, even as inflows did not show a decline from 1.83 lakh cusecs. According to officials, it was also crucial to decide to breach the bund of the project at Ratnapuram to reduce the water intensity when it converges at the project gates. As a result, the flow, which was diverged to Tekumatla, would be back into the river course through the fields and village. District Collector of Nalgonda Prashant J. Patil, and his Suryapet counterpart T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, visited the project site and took stock of the situation. Later, returning from the Assembly Session in Hyderabad, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy was at the site with irrigation officials and discussed the measures taken. Speaking to media persons, he said that the Musi project or the ayacut was not in danger and there was no need to worry.
15 October 2020||NALGONDA/khammam,TELANGANA||Heavy loss in Nalgonda||Just when farmers from undivided Nalgonda were ready to reap a bumper crop, thanks to adequate rainfall and irrigation in the Kharif season, Tuesday’s torrential rain and flood came as a curse. Preliminary damage assessment by respective Agriculture departments state that a total of 1,12, 425 acres was affected. In Nalgonda alone, the damage was reported in 49,744 acres. Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri was second with 43,794 acres and Suryapet at 18,887 acres. Paddy and cotton were predominantly cultivated following the State’s regulated farming system, except for red gram in 211 acres in Suryapet. Crops were damaged, according to officials, mainly due to water-logging, inundation of standing crops and sand casting. Over 11,263 farmers were affected in Nalgonda alone. But, situation in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, which recorded extremely heavy rainfall (more than 20.45 cm) such as in Valigonda, Choutuppal and Ramannapet, the ‘categories of damage’ are concerning. Harvested paddy heaps were damaged in 100 acres in Bhongir and 19 acres in Ramannapet. The preliminary report confirms that 43,675 acres in 14 mandals have crops in submerged condition. Collectors of the three districts along with MLAs and officials conducted the procurement preparedness meet here in Nalgonda only on Monday. It was stated that paddy, in about 10 lakh acres, in undivided Nalgonda would exceed last season’s record procurement by witnessing nearly 15 lakh metric tonnes now. Farmers across the districts were visibly depressed when leaders visited the villages. A few farmers, believing that the weather condition had normalised from the clear skies, went about their work by draining the soaked paddy and spreading it to dry.  53,000 ryots hit In Khammam, the heavy rainfall over the last three days left large tracts of agricultural fields waterlogged, damaging cotton and paddy crops spread over 75,364 acres in 345 villages. More than 53,358 farmers were affected, said preliminary estimates. Paddy and cotton crops were damaged on a little over 38,111 acres and 37,227 acres respectively, sources said. Affected mandals were Sattupalli, Vemsoor, Madhira and Bonakal mandals. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem, crops including paddy, cotton, groundnut and chilli were damaged in an estimated 8313 acres in the tribal dominated district. A little over 4000 farmers suffered crop losses owing to the rain devastation, official sources said. Khammam Collector R V Karnan inspected the Bethupalli tank left canal, which suffered a breach. He asked the officials to carry out repairs.
15 October 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Declare national disaster: Bhongir MP||Member of Parliament from Bhongir and Congress leader Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, on Wednesday, proposed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare the unprecedented rain and flood situation in Telangana State, which caused loss of life, urban chaos, destruction to property and farmers’ harvest, a national disaster. Call for package The senior Congress leader wrote to Mr. Narendra Modi on Twitter, that Telangana should be extended Rs. 2,000 crore immediate package towards flood relief, besides conducting an aerial survey and directing rehabilitative measures. Mr. Venkat Reddy, addressing Mr. Modi, wrote, “You are the last hope for us.” “Although the treasury has money, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao won’t spend for the poor and farmers. Vote politics are preferred over disaster management and prevention,” he alleged, and added this as the reason in approaching him directly over Twitter. Given the situation in the State, where its people are displaced, urban floods caused human suffering and widespread property damage, and when farmers were ready to sell their harvest, Mr. Venkat Reddy said, Telangana rains and the havoc caused by it, should be identified under the definition of ‘natural disaster’ of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal bats for solar energy in the Capital||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that solar energy needs to become a mass movement in Delhi and that more and more people should join hands in using solar energy. He was speaking after inaugurating a 218 kWp solar power plant at Lady Irwin College. The Capital’s total solar power generation was 7 MW four years ago, and has gone up to 177 MW now, said the Chief Minister. “Under the Delhi government policy, the residents, RWAs, or any entity can save money by merely completing some paperwork and installing a solar power plant on their rooftop,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Farmers can also permit installation of solar power panels on their fields and they will receive rent from the solar power plants. They can also continue cultivating their farmlands and increase their income four-fold,” he said, adding that green energy is the future.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU approves 22,186 applications under first cut-off list; 2nd list out on Oct. 19||On the last day of merit-based admissions to Delhi University’s undergraduate courses under the first cut-off list, the total number of applications stood at 59,730, out of which 22,186 were approved by the various colleges. As of Wednesday evening, 11,248 aspirants have completed the payment process. Applicants have time till Friday to pay the fees. At Hindu College, a total of 425 admissions have taken place where students have completed all formalities, including payment of fee. Principal Anju Srivastava said that “quite a few” applications had been approved by the college and awaiting fee payment. Physics, chemistry, political science, English and Hindi are among the most sought after courses in the college, said Ms. Srivastava. At Miranda House, 666 applications were approved by the principal till 5 p.m. and 324 had paid the fees. Acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said: “For political science, out of the 78 admissions, 60 have paid their fees. The unreserved category will close and only the SC and OBC category will remain open. Geography may also close for the unreserved category.” Ramjas College saw around 600 applications getting approved, while 130 payments were made by Wednesday evening. At Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, around 450 admissions took place. At Hansraj College, 293 Arts and Commerce admissions took place while science courses saw 277 admissions, said principal Rama Sharma. Admissions under the second list will begin on October 19.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP slams govt. over control measures||The Opposition BJP on Wednesday accused the Delhi government of not having taken any concrete steps or curb pollution in the Capital. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged many activities were being carried out by the Delhi government which caused pollution but the Delhi government did not pay any attention to them and was busy issuing challans only to those organisations which did not come under its jurisdiction. Smog towers “Chief Minister Kejriwal should answer what steps he has taken to control pollution in the last one year. Why did the smog towers not come up in the last one year despite being reprimanded by the Supreme Court?” Mr. Gupta demanded. The Kejriwal government, he alleged, is used to misleading the people of Delhi “with tempting promises” but it was yet to learn to work on the ground in the interests of the people.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||L-G discusses methods to monetise straw waste||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday co-chaired a meeting with the Central government’s principal scientific adviser, Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Punjab and Haryana and other stakeholders to discuss scientific approaches to monetise paddy straw waste for farmers while combating air pollution caused due to stubble burning. In the meeting, Raj Niwas sources said, stress was laid on innovative technology for the management of paddy straw waste to improve air quality in Delhi-NCR. “The L-G advised to incentivise farmers to use their waste into wealth to address the open field burning and to achieve our objective and quality. He stated that a viable model for agri-waste and its utilisation is the need of hour,” the L-G was quoted as saying.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Shut down 11 thermal power plants: Jain to Centre||Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday requested the Central government to shut down all 11 thermal power plants in the NCR and outside Delhi. “Despite a Supreme Court order, the Central government intends to renew these power stations and allow them two more years,” the Minister said. Mr. Jain said that the “biggest contributors” to Delhi’s pollution are the thermal power plants around the city and added that the city government is the only government which has shut down all thermal power plants in the State. “The Central government intends to renew these power stations and allow them two more years to function, despite informing the Supreme Court in 2015 that by 2019 they will lower the pollution level. I have written to the Union Minister of Power and requested him to shut down the thermal power plants of the NCR,” he said.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for hiring proxy for DSSSB exam||Three women who had “passed” an online test of the Delhi Subordinate Service Selection Board (DSSSB) in 2018 for the post of primary teacher allegedly by hiring a proxy candidate to take the exam have been arrested, the police said on Wednesday. The impersonator who allegedly sat for the examination is absconding. The selection of the three women has been cancelled and they have been debarred from all future DSSSB exams. The accused allegedly gave Rs. 5 lakh each to the impersonator.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Tanker rams two-wheeler, one dead||An 18-year-old woman was killed while her father was injured after their two-wheeler was hit allegedly by a water tanker in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar, the police said on Wednesday. The accused driver, Kapil (40), a resident of Paraspur village in Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh, was arrested on Wednesday. The offending vehicle has also been seized. The accident took place on Tuesday, when Abdul Sattar along with his daughter were on their way from Chirag Delhi to Khanpur. At Bus Rapid Transit corridor, when they reached near a petrol pump, the tanker hit their scooty. The woman succumbed to injuries during the course of treatment. A case has been registered, the police added.
15 October 2020||New Delhi/GURUGRAM,||Ban on diesel generators in NCR from today||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida improved slightly, but continued in the ‘poor’ category on Wednesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi is likely to stay on the higher end of ‘poor’ to lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Thursday. It is expected to improve marginally on Friday and Saturday, according to government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Curbing pollution Also, a ban on diesel generators, except for emergency purposes, will come into force in Delhi and neighbouring cities from Thursday as part of the GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan) to control air pollution, as announced by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA). The AQI of Delhi was 276 on Wednesday, down from 300 on Tuesday, as per the CPCB data. The AQI of Gurugram was 279 on Wednesday, slightly less than 288 on Tuesday. The value for Noida also decreased to 273 on Wednesday from 286 a day earlier. The AQI for the three cities are the average values of the past 24 hours, which is released by the CPCB at 4 p.m. every day, and treated as the official figures. Stubble effect At a meeting with officials of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, the EPCA directed to take “all out efforts” to supply machinery to farmers on an “urgent basis” to control stubble burning. According to SAFAR, only a “minimal” contribution of stubble in neighbouring States is expected in Delhi’s pollution due to the wind direction. Last week, the Supreme Court-appointed EPCA had directed Delhi and neighbouring Sstates to implement air pollution control measures under “very poor” and “severe” category air quality of the GRAP from October 15, including a ban on use of diesel generators. On Wednesday, the EPCA wrote to Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab said that generators will be allowed for medical purpose, elevators, railway-related purposes, metro train-related activities, and in airports and interstate bus terminals. “Any deterioration in ambient air quality in the region during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic would have considerable ramifications in terms of health of the residents of Delhi-NCR,” EPCA chairman Bhure Lal said in the letter. In a related development, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that diesel generators are used in Haryana despite Supreme Court orders and EPCA should take action against them. ‘Haryana yet to act’ “As the GRAP will come into force from 15 October, the use of diesel gensets will be banned in the regions of Delhi-NCR, but Haryana doesn’t seem to want to take any action. Their government has written ‘distress letters’ to the EPCA repeatedly, saying that they can’t enforce the ban in their State,” Mr. Chadha said. Societies to be affected Meanwhile, over 15,000 residents in the Millennium City, including 650 families in The Crest at DLF Phase-V, could be impacted by the ban on diesel generator sets as part of the graded plan to combat rising levels of pollution in the National Capital Region. Three group housing societies, including DLF’s Camellias and The Crest in DLF Phase-V, don’t have regular power connection and are totally dependent on the diesel-run generators. Chief engineer, Smart City Project, DHBVN, Vineeta Singh told The Hindu that two DLF Phase-V group housing societies and one in Manesar with the total population of around 2,000 did not have grid connection. Besides, 19 group housing societies across Gurugram, with a total population of around 13,000, had partial load from the grid and were dependent on the generator sets to meet their power needs. Ms. Singh said a total 97 power connections, including commercial establishments, were pending last year due to deficiencies on the part of the developers/consumers and 18 were granted connections so far. “In all these pending cases, either the fees are pending or the infrastructure in not complete. For instance, DLF has to set up two sub-stations of 220 KV and 350 KV capacity as per their original plan, but have set up only one sub-station and two transformers,” she said. Ms. Singh said that DHBVN had constrains in seven cases last year, but all deficiencies were met.
15 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Yadav touring Haryana to review crop buying||Coinciding with the “MSP Adhikar Divas” observed by All-India Kisan Sangarsh Co-ordination Committee, a conglomeration of around 250 farmers groups, on Wednesday, Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav set out on a tour across Haryana to take stock of the procurement of Kharif crops and create awareness on three farm legislations. Holding a press conference here, Mr. Yadav said he would visit the grains markets in neighbouring Nuh to begin with and reach Sirsa, the epicentre of the farmers protests in Haryana against the controversial legislations, on October 18. He will travel through Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri and Bhiwani. No response from govt. “We have been visiting the grains markets for the past four years in the State and sent suggestions to the government to improve procurement. But there is no reply,” said Mr. Yadav. Maintaining that the sit-in at Sirsa’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Stadium would continue till the farmers’ demand to rollback three legislations is met, Mr. Yadav conceded that the protests against the new laws in Haryana were mostly confined to the districts bordering Punjab. He added that the farmers in south Haryana were in fact affected more and there was a need to create awareness among them. He, however, said that protests were held at around 10,000 sites across 20 States on September 25 in response to the call for “Bharat bandh”, indicating widespread resentment. Mr. Yadav also made an appeal to the farmers across the State to come and join the agitation at Sirsa. He said that AIKSCC had decided to observe October 14 as “MSP Adhikar Divas” to expose government on the issue of Minimum Support Price. Saying that MSP was a “fraud” and “loot”, Mr. Yadav claimed that government announced the support price for only 23 crops and a little over 6% of farmers were benefited. He said many restrictions were imposed such as cap on maximum procurement per acre, need for prior registration and a village-based schedule and thus, very few were benefited.
15 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC accepts unconditional apology by Payal Ghosh to Richa Chadha||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday accepted an unconditional apology by actor Payal Ghosh to Richa Chadha which says she withdraws all defamatory and derogatory statements. A single judge Bench of Justice A.K. Menon accepted the apology in the form of consent terms and disposed of the suit against Ms. Ghosh. Kamaal R. Khan and news channel ABN Telugu TV will contest the suit. The court granted them four weeks to file their reply. Ms. Ghosh’s statement said, “She withdraws her statements and defamatory posts pertaining to the plaintiff [Ms. Chadha] as mentioned vide the current interim application and suit, including without limitation her statements and defamatory posts vide the interview to the plaint and unconditionally apologises to the plaintiff.” “She undertakes to delete all her above statements and defamatory posts against the plaintiff on Twitter and other media where she has published the same and further also undertakes not to state, make, publish and/or republish any defamatory, insulting, humiliating statements against the plaintiff at any time in perpetuity, related to the subject matter of the present interim application in any manner and/or for any purpose.” Ms. Chadha through advocate Saveena Bedi Sachar sought an apology and an interim injunction to Ms. Ghosh to withdraw her statement, video, articles and tweets in relation to Ms. Chadha and damages of Rs. 1.1 crore. On September 19, Ms. Ghosh gave an interview to ABN in which the statements were made. The complaint said, “The claims made by Ms. Ghosh in the video are not only false, frivolous and vexatious, but has also been done with an intent to cause damage to the immense goodwill.”
15 October 2020||Mumbai,||Republic TV journalists appear before police||Republic TV’s executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy and senior executive editor Abhishek Kapoor on Wednesday appeared before the Mumbai Crime Branch for recording statements in the fake TRP racket case. While Mr. Narayanswamy reached the Crime Intelligence Unit office at noon, Mr. Kapoor, who is based in Delhi, reached at 4 p.m., an official said. Republic TV on October 10 aired a document which purportedly belonged to Hansa Research Group. The summons issued to Mr. Narayanswamy and Mr. Kapoor on Tuesday said there were “reasonable grounds to believe” they were “acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the document”, so it was necessary to record their statements. In a tweet, Republic TV said, “Senior Executive Editor Abhishek Kapoor reaches Crime Branch after being summoned. Republic Media Network will not yield by revealing sources.”
15 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||17-year-old girl detained for killing 3-year-old neighbour||The Rabale police have solved the murder case of a three-year-old boy from Ghansoli by detaining his neighbour, a 17-year-old girl. Omkar Shankar Sathe, who turned three on September 5, went missing around 12 p.m. on September 18 while playing outside his house in Balaram Wadi. His mother had stepped out to buy chicken, while his father, a painter, and his grandmother, a vegetable seller, were out on work. Omkar’s mother last spotted him playing on the ground floor, while his two sisters — aged six and nine — were playing on the first floor. Police inspector Giridhar Gore said, “We suspected the girl, but since she was a juvenile, we needed a confession. We approached her in amicable ways with the help of a child psychologist and lawyers, and she confessed.” Mr. Gore said the girl told them that Omkar came to her house on the first floor to play and suddenly fell unconscious. She panicked, put him in a jute sack, and threw it behind the building from a window. Mr. Gore said, “We found a similar sack from her house. Her parents worked as labourers in a garment factory and were out for work when the incident occurred. She was alone at home, while her siblings were playing on the ground floor.” The autopsy report had ruled out strangulation and head injuries as the cause of death. Mr. Gore said, “He died due to suffocation inside the sack.” The girl, a Class IX student, has been sent to a juvenile home on the charge of murder.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Over 1,200 municipal doctors to go on strike from October 19||Doctors and nurses of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital on Wednesday continued their protest over non-payment of salaries “for the last four months”. The stir is likely to spread and intensify as over 1,200 doctors working in other hospitals run by the North Corporation have given a notice for a strike from October 19 over the issue. The Resident Doctors’ Associations (RDAs) of three North Corporation hospitals — Hindu Rao, Kasturba Gandhi and Rajan Babu TB — also issued a joint statement on Wednesday that salaries have not been paid for the past four months and they will continue to protest from a “common platform”. Doctors from the other two hospitals are set to join the protest at Hindu Rao premises from Thursday. “We have not been paid for the last four months and we have been protesting since October 5. Healthcare workers from other North Corporation hospitals also joined the protest at the Hindu Rao Hospital gate on Wednesday,” said Sagardeep Bawa, vice-president of the Hindu Rao Hospital RDA. “I have borrowed money from my parents in the past four months. I don’t know how I will pay next month’s rent,” Dr. Bawa added. The strike notice by the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA), sent to the civic body commissioner, said they will go on “indefinite strike” from October 19 if their demands are not met, including release of pending salaries, arrears and pensions, and the transfer of hospitals, dispensaries and other healthcare facilities of the North Corporation to the Centre. “This [non-payment of salaries] has happened multiple times with the North Corporation. Doctors had to resort to protest in 2016 as well,” said R.R. Gautam, president of the MCDA. “The standard reply of the North Corporation is that the Delhi government is not releasing funds to them to pay salaries of employees. The Delhi government says that they have already released the funds,” he added. Dr. Gautam said that emergency services at the six North Corporation hospitals will not be affected by the strike. He added that salaries of doctors and staff of all healthcare facilities of the corporation are pending since three-four months. ‘Transfer to Delhi govt.’ “The civic body had earlier tried transferring the hospitals to the Centre but they did not take them. We give funds to the civic body, but we are unaware of the expenditure since they do not get an audit done. A formal written proposal has been sent to the Centre to transfer these hospitals to the Delhi government,” Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain said.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Another accused gets bail in riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots in February, noting that the police has not been able to explain why there was a delay of seven days before his name was added in the FIR. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said it was not in dispute that the incident took place on February 25, but the statements of two constables who were on duty and saw the incident as well as identified the accused, Kasim, was recorded only on March 3. “There is no explanation as to why the police officials did not make a PCR call/DD (daily diary) entry to the concerned police station regarding involvement of petitioner on February 25,” the High Court said. Justice Kait noted that Kasim’s name was added only after a person, allegedly injured in the riots, recorded his statement on March 3 in which he named Kasim. After this, the constables made their statements and also identified the accused. The HC further noted that as per the chargesheet, 11 videos showed the riots on February 24 and 25 at the crime spot, and at the house of former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain. “It is also not in dispute that co-accused Mr. Hussain and Liyakat were seen in the CCTV footage, however, petitioner [Kasim] is not seen in any of the 11 videos,” said Justice Kait. The special public prosecutor had argued that Kasim is a ‘Bad Character’ of the area and there are 10 cases against him due to which the constables knew Kasim and were able to identify him.  When the HC asked the police about Kasim’s phone location, the special public prosecutor stated that Kasim’s phone was not in ‘active mode’ from February 17 to March 23 so phone location could not be done. “Without commenting on the merits of the case and in view of the aforesaid facts, this court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioner,” the High Court stated. The High Court recently granted bail to another man charged with rioting in a Delhi riots case, after noting that there is no CCTV footage, video clip or photo to corroborate the prosecution’s claim.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court reserves order on shifting M.J. Akbar case||A Delhi court on Wednesday remarked that the entire trial in the former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment could get vitiated if the magisterial court trying the case for about two years now did not have the jurisdiction. Principal District and Sessions Judge Sujata Kohli made the observation while reserving the order on whether to transfer the criminal defamation complaint to another court. The magisterial court trying the defamation case had on Tuesday sent the matter to the Principal District and Sessions Judge seeking its transfer to another court on the ground that his court was now designated to hear cases filed against lawmakers pursuant to a recent verdict of the Supreme Court. Principal District and Sessions Judge Kohli, however, noted that the top court’s decision does not bar the judge concerned from hearing matters other than those against MPs and MLAs. ‘Entire trial over’ Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for Mr. Akbar, said that almost entire trial was over and only a few dates were remaining. The counsel appearing for Ms. Ramani said that the accused had no objection to any order passed by the court. At the height of the MeToo movement in 2018, Ms. Ramani accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his previous role as newspaper editor. Following Ms. Ramani’s accusation, about dozen former colleagues of Mr. Akbar also came out with different allegations against him. Days before he resigned from his post of Minister of State for External Affairs in October 2018, Mr. Akbar filed a criminal defamation case against Ms. Ramani citing her open letter published in a magazine and her tweets naming him.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s COVID-19 tally now 3,17,548 with 3,324 new cases||As many as 3,324 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,17,548, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The death toll due to the virus has reached 5,898 with 44 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 2,89,747 people have recovered and there are currently 21,903 active cases. In the past 24 hours, 56,950 tests were conducted out of which 12,596 tests were RT-PCR — the highest in months. The High Court had directed the government to increase RT-PCR testing as Delhi was heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests, which is comparatively less accurate. As per Wednesday’s bulletin, the number of active cases and people under home isolation has gone up slightly, but the number of people in hospitals has decreased for the fourth consecutive day. Out of the total 16,117 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 68.5% were vacant. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.8%, which is lower than in September. The overall positivity rate so far is 8.4%. The number of containment zones in the city on Wednesday was 2,748.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Minor held for sisters’ death in accident||A Class 12 student was apprehended on Wednesday in connection with an accident in north-west Delhi’s Model Town in which two sisters, aged four and seven, died and their minor brother and a 55-year-old family friend sustained injuries while crossing the road, the police said. The 17-year-old boy, who studies at a private school here, was apprehended from his residence at DTC Colony in Model Town. His father is a businessman, they said. At his instance, the offending vehicle was recovered from a mechanic shop where the family had taken the car for repair work a day after the accident, the police said, adding that the vehicle was registered in the name of the accused’s uncle, who is based in Haryana. Blood sample taken The accident took place on Monday night near Gurdwara Nanak Piao on G.T. Road.  The police said further investigation into the matter is under way and blood samples of the apprehended minor has been collected to examine if he was under the influence of alcohol during the time of incident. The reports are awaited. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The police will also book his father and uncle under the Motor Vehicles Act.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists condemn chargesheet on Delhi riots||Several women activists on Wednesday condemned a police chargesheet on Delhi riots, where a “Mahila Ekta Yatra” which took place between February 14 and 16 finds a mention. A statement issued by activists, including Annie Raja, Shabnam Hashmi, Anjali Bhardwaj and Kamla Bhasin, said that the yatra had been held to express solidarity with the women-led protests against the CAA, NRC and NPR. “The chargesheet filed by Delhi Police assigns blame for the communal violence to protesters, activists and students, who were peacefully opposing the CAA, NRC and NPR. The chargesheet filed on September 2020 also mentions the Mahila Ekta Yatra. As organisers and participants [of yatra] we know that the allegations and insinuations against us are completely false and fabricated,” it read.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Associations thank CM for allowing cinema halls to reopen||Representatives of cinema hall associations called on Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and thanked him for allowing cinema halls in Delhi to reopen. Interacting with them, Mr. Kejriwal said that the people and the associations will have to work together to revive the economy of Delhi. The representatives of cinema associations said that Mr. Kejriwal told them to ensure that safety protocols, social distancing norms and sanitisation guidelines and SOPs of the Central and the State governments are followed. The representatives of theatre companiesassured the CM of full adherence to all directions as per the guidelines and SOPs issued by the Government of India. On October 7, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had granted permission to cinema halls in Delhi to reopen with up to 50% capacity, from October 15.
15 October 2020||Pune,||Retreating monsoon wreaks havoc across Maharashtra||The retreating monsoon wreaked havoc over several parts of Maharashtra, especially the western part of the State and the Marathwada region, with Solapur being particularly hit-hard. At least six people, including three women and one minor, were killed and two more injured in Pandharpur after heavy rain caused a portion of an embankment wall near the Chandrabhaga river to cave in, authorities said on Wednesday. District authorities said that the wall of the newly constructed Kumbhar Ghat crumbled after 2 p.m., killing six of the eight people standing on the ghat wall. Four of the deceased have been identified as Gopal Laxman Abhangrao (70), his son, Mangesh Abhangrao (35), Radhabai Gopal (50), Umesh Jagtap (13), while two other warkari women are yet to be identified. Officials said two other men, buried in the debris, were rescued despite relief work being hampered by the intensity of the showers. The temple town of Pandharpur has been particularly afflicted with rains throwing life awry. Power supply has been disrupted in many parts of Solapur city with rains battering the district for the last three days. Wall cave-ins have been reported in a number of places, with a portion of the tower of the palace at Akkalkot collapsing, while the road connecting the town of Vairag with Jawalgaon village in Barshi taluk was submerged. With the district witnessing near-continuous rain for the last 48 hours, a high- alert has been issued by the district administration. Solapur had received 79 mm of rainfall till 5:30 p.m., said India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities. Authorities have warned residents not to step out. Farmers have been acutely afflicted with rain destroying grape and pomegranate fruit orchards and crops like maize and jowar. Very heavy rains in the catchment areas of the Ujjani dam near Pandharpur caused a massive discharge of 20,000 cusecs of water since Tuesday. Traffic within Solapur city and the rural parts were thrown off-kilter as two-wheelers and four-wheelers were seen struggling to reach their destinations through waterlogged roads. The showers caused the lake near the famous Siddheshwar Temple complex in Solapur city to overflow, with waters entering the temple for the first time in over two decades. Elsewhere in western Maharashtra, Pune city and parts of the district, too, were steadily lashed by showers late afternoon onwards. Orange alert in Pune The IMD has issued an ‘orange alert’ for Pune over the next two days and a ‘yellow alert’ for October 16, while a ‘red alert’ has been issued for Kolhapur. “Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and heavy rainfall very likely to occur at isolated places in north Maharashtra, including the districts of Dhule, Nandurbar, Nashik and Jalgaon as well as over Pune and adjoining areas over the next couple of days,” said a senior IMD official.
15 October 2020||Pune,||Active cases dip below 2 lakh in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases dipped below the two lakh-mark on Wednesday, with the State recording 19,517 recoveries as opposed to 10,552 new cases. With 158 new deaths, the total death toll has now climbed to 40,859. The State’s total case tally has reached 15,54,389, while its active cases now stand at 1,96,288. A little over three weeks ago, the active cases had risen alarmingly over the three lakh-mark. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,16,769, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 84.71%. “Of a total of 78,38,318 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,54,389 (19.83%) have returned positive, with around 76,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported a little over 1,200 cases to take its total case tally to 3,19,380, and 12 deaths saw its total toll climb to 6,291. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate has climbed to a robust 87.51%, with the number of active cases dipping below the 30,000-mark, standing at a little over 27,000. Mumbai reported 2,211 cases to take its case load to 2,34,602, of which 23,828 are active. With 48 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 9,555. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported nearly 500 cases as its tally crossed the 75,000 mark. Eleven new deaths saw its toll rise to 2,014. Navi Mumbai reported seven deaths as its toll rose to 981, while a surge of 193 cases saw its case load rise to 44,286. Nagpur district reported 665 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 88,671, of which 8,171 are active. Twelve deaths saw the toll climb to 2,366.  In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 15 deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,301. As many as 412 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 43,465, of which 7,664 are active. Sangli reported more than 300 cases to take the tally to 43,793, of which 5,707 are active.
15 October 2020||Washington,||‘Indian Americans strongly identify with Democratic Party’||Results from a new survey of Indian Americans provide strong evidence that contradicts an emerging narrative that these voters are shifting their support from the Democratic Party, which a majority of them have traditionally supported, to the Republican Party. The results also show that U.S.-India relations feature low in the list of issues that motivate voting choice among Indian Americans. A significant 72% of registered Indian American voters plan to vote for Democratic candidate Joe Biden in the presidential elections, while 22% plan to vote for incumbent President Donald Trump. Three per cent do not plan to vote and 3% plan to vote for a third party candidate, as per the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS), published by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (CEIP), Johns Hopkins SAIS and the University of Pennsylvania. The study surveyed (online) a nationally representative sample of 936 Indian Americans in September and the overall margin of error for the survey is +/- 3.2 % as per the publishers. The narrative (as the report notes) of this shift from the Democratic Party to the GOP is based on the bonhomie between Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as criticism of the Modi government by Democrat lawmakers (including Mr. Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris). In fact, a recent survey report by AAPI Data and Indiaspora showed that support for the Democrats had fallen a little since 2016. However, the IAAS survey suggests that Indian Americans still strongly identify themselves with the Democratic Party. “The data really challenge the emerging conventional wisdom that Indian Americans are abandoning the Democratic Party thanks, in part, to concerns over how a Biden-Harris administration might handle relations with India,” said Milan Vaishnav of the CEIP, who co-authored the survey with Sumitra Badrinathan (University of Pennsylvania) and Devesh Kapur (Johns Hopkins SAIS). Of the 4.16 million Indian Americans, some 1.9 million are eligible to vote. A survey of their political attitudes is important as the community is being courted by both Democrats and Republicans. Leftward tilt Consistent with historical patterns, 56% of Indian Americans generally identify as Democrats and 15% as Republicans. Twenty-two percent identity as Independents. In terms of political ideology, the results show that Indian Americans “clearly skew Left”. This leftward tilt is more visible among U.S.-born Indian Americans relative to their foreign-born counterparts. On a seven-point scale that ranged from extremely conservative to extremely liberal, a total of 47% of respondents fell in the extremely liberal, liberal or slightly liberal categories, while 23% fell in the slightly conservative, conservative and extremely conservative categories. Twenty-nine per cent said they were moderate. Respondents were asked to list the top three issues that influence their vote choice. The biggest issue was the economy (21% said it was their first choice), closely followed by healthcare (20%), then racism (12%) and taxes (9%). Contrary to the narrative around Indian Americans being driven by India-U.S. relations, the bilateral relationship was second from the bottom, with just 3% ranking it as their most important election issue. “This is not very surprising since the top foreign policy priority of American voters overall appears to emphasise reorienting U.S. foreign policy to more explicitly serve the everyday concerns of Americans and for the United States to be ‘strong at home’,” the survey report says. Nevertheless, priority issues are also subject to partisan variation. A larger proportion (36%) of likely Indian American voters who are Republicans rank the economy as their number one priority, relative to Democrats (16%). The survey finds that Indian Americans tend not to identify with the Republican Party because it is perceived as unwelcoming of minorities and “overly influenced by Christian evangelicalism”. Those who identify with the party, primarily do so because they differ with Democrats in economic policy and healthcare policy. Impact of Harris Mr. Biden’s vice-presidential candidate choice of Ms. Harris, who has Jamaican and Indian roots, has had a significant “turnout effect” — with 45% of respondents saying the choice made it more likely they would vote in November, while 10% said the choice made it less likely they would vote and 40% said it had no impact on their motivation to vote. The survey data indicate that the mobilisation effect is working in favour of Democrats: 49% say Ms. Harris’s nomination made them more enthusiastic about Mr. Biden’s candidacy, while 15% said it made them less enthusiastic about him.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||On reforms anniversary, Xi outlines innovation push||China on Wednesday marked the 40th anniversary of the establishment of its first special economic zone (SEZ) in Shenzhen, outlining plans to boost its innovation capabilities and global technological influence, even as it grapples with a bruising trade and technology war with the U.S. President Xi Jinping, who travelled to Shenzhen and Guangdong province to mark the anniversary — a key step on China’s economic reforms and opening up process — in a close to hour-long speech warned of “unprecedented” global challenges and a “turbulent” world facing China, but did not mention relations with the U.S. specifically. Mr. Xi’s visit to Guangdong province for the anniversary had been billed as a key political event in China for 2020, coinciding with the Communist Party’s plans to mark the year as when it would eliminate extreme poverty and build what it calls a “moderately prosperous society”. This will be followed by another major anniversary next year, when the Communist Party of China turns 100. The planned events had been overshadowed by the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not, however, derail Mr. Xi’s visit, with China now broadly tackling the spread of the outbreak at home for now. New engines “We need to unswervingly implement an innovation-driven development strategy to foster new engines and new trends, so as to build a technological and industrial innovation high-ground with global influence,” Mr. Xi said in a speech to a hall packed with mask-wearing dignitaries, describing Shenzhen’s SEZ and the reforms that propelled China’s economy to become the world’s second-largest as “a miracle in the world development history”. Since the setting up of the SEZ in 1980, Shenzhen’s GDP had grown 20% annually, he said, to $400 billion. The GDP of Shenzhen, which is a key tech hub for China and home to some of its corporate giants such as Huawei and Tencent, surpassed Hong Kong’s in 2018. Mr. Xi also outlined plans to take forward the integration of Guangdong province with Hong Kong and Macau as part of the Greater Bay Area plan, which looks to leverage Hong Kong’s status as an international financial centre. The push towards integration with the mainland has been backed by Hong Kong’s business houses but also viewed warily by some in the Special Administrative Region, who are concerned both by the city's waning influence and the dilution of the “one country, two systems” model.
15 October 2020||Ottawa,||Trudeau takes aim at China||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has warned China that its “coercive diplomacy,” repressive measures in Hong Kong and detention of Uighur Muslims are counterproductive for itself and the rest of the world. Mr. Trudeau took aim at Beijing’s record as he marked the 50th anniversary of Canada establishing diplomatic ties with China. “We will remain absolutely committed to working with our allies to ensure that China’s approach of coercive diplomacy, its arbitrary detention of two Canadian citizens alongside other citizens of other countries around the world is not viewed as a successful tactic by them,” he said on Tuesday.   He also noted Canada’s “concern for the protection of human rights and places like Hong Kong and... with the Uighurs.” Canada will work with “like-minded nations around the world, to impress upon China that its approach to internal affairs and global affairs is not on a particularly productive path for itself or for all of us”.
15 October 2020||Bakharly,||Azerbaijan targets Armenia||Azerbaijan said on Wednesday it had destroyed missile launchers inside Armenia that were targetting its cities, as fierce fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh risked widening beyond the disputed region. Hundreds have already lost their lives in two weeks of fighting, and continued clashes have rendered almost meaningless a humanitarian ceasefire agreed in Moscow last week. Armenia confirmed that military positions inside the country had been hit but denied its forces had been firing into Azerbaijan. It warned that it too could start targeting military sites inside its adversary’s territory. Clashes over Nagorno-Karabakh — where Armenia-backed separatist fighters are battling Azerbaijani forces — have been largely confined to areas in and around the region since a fresh outbreak of fighting started last month. Direct confrontations between Armenia and Azerbaijan risk spiralling into an all-out, multi-front war with devastating consequences for both sides. Moscow has so far refused to become drawn into the conflict — even though Armenia is part of a regional Russia-led security group — noting that the organisation’s treaty does not apply to Karabakh.    Azerbaijan’s Defence Ministry said in statements Wednesday that it had destroyed ballistic missile launchers deployed in Armenia in two separate attacks overnight. Launchers at the first site were aiming at the Azerbaijani cities of Ganja, Mingachevir and other populated areas, it said.
15 October 2020||Washington,||Robert Destro appointed U.S. special envoy to Tibet||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the concurrent designation of Assistant Secretary Robert A. Destro of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor to serve as the country’s Coordinator for Tibetan Issues. The appointment of Mr. Destro to the position — established by the U.S.’s Tibetan Policy Act (2002) — was announced by Mr. Pompeo at a press briefing in Washington on Wednesday. The position has been vacant since January 20, 2017 and lawmakers as well as the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom had urged the Trump administration to fill the position. The coordinator is, by law, assigned to promote “substantive dialogue” between the government of China and the Dalai Lama, coordinate U.S. policy and projects on Tibet and help promote policies that protect the distinct identity of Tibet and safeguard human rights in the region. “The United States remains concerned with the PRC’s [People’s Republic of China] repression of the Tibetan community, including the lack of meaningful autonomy, the deteriorating human rights situation in Tibetan areas, and severe restrictions on Tibetans’ religious freedom and cultural traditions within China,” a statement from Mr. Pompeo said. “Special Coordinator Destro will engage Tibetan leaders and international partners and experts to address these issues. He also will carry forward the Department’s engagement with and support for Tibet’s global diaspora and their many courageous advocates for the protection of human rights, including the freedom of religion or belief,” he said. Mr. Destro will “lead U.S. efforts to promote dialogue between the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the Dalai Lama or his representatives; protect the unique religious, cultural, and linguistic identity of Tibetans; and press for their human rights to be respected”, Mr. Pompeo said.
15 October 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan re-elected to UN rights body||Pakistan has been re-elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council despite opposition from activist groups over its abysmal human rights records. Among the five candidates from the Asia-Pacific region vying for four seats in the UN’s premier human rights body, Pakistan secured the highest number of votes, the Foreign Office said. In a secret-ballot voting in the 193-member UN General Assembly on that race, Pakistan secured 169 votes, Uzbekistan received 164, Nepal 150, China 139 and Saudi Arabia 90. Under the Human Rights Council’s rules, seats are allocated to regions to ensure geographical representation. Except for the Asia-Pacific contest, the election of 15 members to the 47-member Human Rights Council was all but decided in advance because all the other regional groups had uncontested slates. Call for disqualification Last week, a coalition of human rights groups from Europe, the U.S. and Canada called on UN member states to oppose the election of China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Cuba, Pakistan and Uzbekistan, saying their human rights records make them unqualified. Russia and Cuba, running unopposed, also won the seats. Pakistan is currently serving on the HRC since January 1, 2018. With its re-election, Pakistan will continue as a member for another three-year term commencing on January 1, 2021.
15 October 2020||Athens,||Neo-Nazi leaders get prison terms||A Greek court on Wednesday handed a 13-year prison sentence to the leader of neo-Nazi group Golden Dawn for running a criminal organisation disguised as a political party. As well as Nikos Michaloliakos, the party’s founder — who received an additional one year for illegal possession of a weapon — the court also sentenced five former members of his inner circle to prison terms on the criminal organisation charge. They included current independent European Parliament member Ioannis Lagos. The court also gave a life sentence to the Golden Dawn member who murdered anti-fascist rapper Pavlos Fyssas in 2013, the act that sparked the investigation into the paramilitary group.
15 October 2020||Washington,||Trump, Biden to hold rival TV town halls||President Donald Trump will feature in a televised town hall on Thursday on NBC News, the network said, setting up a direct scheduling clash with rival Joe Biden who had already planned his own version. The two were originally meant to have been meeting for their second debate on Thursday evening. Instead, they will be simultaneously, but separately, talking to voters in TV studios — NBC for Mr. Trump and ABC for Mr. Biden. Mr. Trump will be in Miami, the network said, while Mr. Biden, who had already booked his appearance last week, will be in Philadelphia. Their scheduled debate had also been designed as a town hall where the two candidates would have fielded questions from voters, but this was upended after Mr. Trump contracted the coronavirus. Debate organisers said they wanted to switch the format to a virtual appearance, for safety reasons, and Mr. Trump refused, forcing cancellation of the event. NBC News said on Wednesday it had received a statement from the clinical director at the National Institutes of Health and lead infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci that they had “a high degree of confidence” that Mr. Trump is now “not shedding infectious virus.” Mr. Trump and the NBC host will be socially distanced and the audience will wear masks. Mr. Biden has been frequently testing for coronavirus and reporting negative results since Mr. Trump’s illness.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A weak link in the elementary education chain||For about three decades now, a large number of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are intensively engaged in the task of improving elementary education in the country. A paper (https://bit.ly/3doEEI3) in the Economic & Political Weekly of May 2005, titled “How Large Is India’s Non-Profit Sector?”, estimates about three million paid workers in the voluntary sector through 1.2 million organisations. The paper estimates that 20.4% of this workforce (about six lakh workers) is engaged in education. According to a newspaper report, “India has 31 lakh NGOs, more than double the number of schools” (August 1, 2015), the number of NGOs in the country was more than 31 lakh — more than double the number estimated in the above mentioned paper. With these data, it should be a safe guess to estimate that there are now more than 12 lakh NGO workers engaged in education (even if there could be only 50% of them in school education, and the remainder involved in improving reach and quality). The lower end of the estimated number of NGO staff working for the improvement of quality and reach in elementary education must be over three lakh. Scope of work It is most probable that these workers are engaged in direct teaching in classrooms, demonstrating various activities and methods to teachers, conducting teacher workshops and so on. Most NGOs and large foundations believe that these people work as catalysts and influence the functioning of the system. For various reasons, they are supposed to be more effective than regular employees in the government system. There is a lot of discussion around education and the Continuous Professional Development of Teachers (CPDT). These NGO workers have a significant part in the CPDT, for example, in annual in-service training and pedagogy improvement workshops. We should be asking ourselves whether these workers are adequately prepared for this difficult task. As an example, let us take quality improvement, which is currently the biggest concern in education. Anyone who can successfully contribute to the improvement of educational quality must have some idea of what educational quality happens to be. A very common notion of what good quality school is in our society is based on a high score in the board examinations. Suppose the curriculum is irrelevant to the life of people (as it is often claimed), would it still indicate high quality? Further, suppose that high scoring is achieved by subjecting children to severe punishment and stress, would it still remain an indicator of high quality? If the response to last two questions is negative, then we can conclude that appropriateness of curriculum and pedagogy also need to be considered in defining quality of education. But how do we know what good or appropriate curriculum and pedagogy are? On what criteria can we decide that? Key documents, framework The four documents currently providing a framework of principles, guidelines and legal stipulations to deal with such questions are the National Curriculum Framework 2005 (NCF), The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (RTE), the National Curriculum Framework for Teacher Education 2009 (NCFTE) and the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020). Even if the NCF and NCFTE change in the near future, the new documents are likely to have much in common with the present ones. Therefore, it is worthwhile to assume that any worker engaged in education improvement should reasonably understand these and similar documents. Let us take an example from each one of these documents to see what is involved. Regarding pedagogy, the RTE, in Section 29(e), recommends “learning through activities, discovery and exploration in a child friendly and child-centered manner”. To use this definition in school improvement, the NGO worker has to ask himself questions such as : What is discovery? How and what can children learn through discovery? Does discovery method have any limitations as a pedagogy? Further, the NCF recommends constructivist pedagogy. What is the constructivist method of learning? Is it the same as recommended by the NCF? On curriculum, NEP 2020, paragraph 4.23 says “certain subjects, skills, and capacities should be learned by all students to become good, successful, innovative, adaptable, and productive human beings in today’s rapidly changing world. … these skills include: scientific temper and evidence-based thinking; creativity and innovativeness; sense of aesthetics and art; oral and written communication; health and nutrition; physical education, fitness, wellness, and sports; collaboration and teamwork; problem solving and logical reasoning; vocational exposure and skills; digital literacy, coding, and computational thinking; ethical and moral reasoning; knowledge and practice of human and Constitutional values; gender sensitivity; Fundamental Duties; citizenship skills and values”. If we want to use this policy, we need to understand what paragraphs such as the above say. One has to note the complexity and profusion of terms used. What do all these words and phrases mean? Is the paragraph internally consistent? Is this paragraph consistent with the NCF? Do the NCF and NEP need to be consistent with each other? The paragraph from NEP 2020 also highlights certain aims of education: namely, to make all children “good, successful, innovative, adaptable, and productive human beings in today’s rapidly changing world”. Are these aims consistent with each other? Do they have any relative weightage? What if some schools produce children who are highly successful, innovative, adaptable, productive, extremely competitive, and uncaring for others? Would we be happy to call them “good” and consider such an education to be high quality education? The last example, the NCFTE (page 23), says that we need teachers who “[P]romote values of peace, democratic way of life, equality, justice, liberty, fraternity, secularism and zeal for social reconstruction”. Are these two quotes, one from NEP 2020 and the other from the NCFTE, compatible with each other? Are they emphasising the same values or have significant difference with each other? Need for deep insights It seems bringing about improvement in the quality of education is not a simple task that one can accomplish just by desire, hard work and interaction with teachers. It seems to require answers to a plethora of questions. Could it be that our attempts for over three decades have failed, at least partly, because most people working for improvement do not have reasonable answers to such questions? Just reading these documents may be adequate for a layman not engaged in educational activities and teacher capacity building. But for someone engaged in CPDT, a study of these documents alone will neither answer the questions raised above nor give him/her any better insight into these documents. The positions taken in these and other such documents, as well as in decision making in education, are based on a vast repertoire of theoretical knowledge. A major part of this theoretical knowledge is drawn from the philosophy of education, political theories, sociology of education, psychology of learning and development, and a contextual understanding of the current needs of our society. Understanding an adequate part of all this and their implications for curriculum, pedagogy, and teacher development, therefore, becomes imperative to be effective in quality improvement or to contribute to good education. An immediate task If the argument outlined so far is even tentatively acceptable, then a strong programme for capacity building of NGO workers engaged in educational improvement becomes an urgent need. However, NGOs do not seem to be paying adequate attention to this very important area. Nor do universities and teacher education colleges seem to be offering any short term and/or distance learning courses for this sector. If we want to implement NEP 2020 — presently leaving its merits and demerits aside — and really want to see improvement in the quality of education available to our children, we need to pay very close attention to capacity building of this vast workforce engaged in the field. Without adequate preparation, the assumption that the mere appointment of a person in an NGO and being placed in the field will automatically develop the capabilities of these workers is incorrect, and a case of sheer injustice to them, to the education system, and to children in schools. Rohit Dhankar is Professor, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and the Founder Secretary, Digantar, Jaipur, Rajasthan. The views expressed are personal
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Phased manufacturing policy that is hardly smart||Last week, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) said it had approved 16 firms in the mobile manufacturing sector for the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme (for large-scale electronics manufacturing, notified on April 1, 2020;https://bit.ly/3nPqgNK)to transform India into a major mobile manufacturing hub. These are five domestic and five foreign mobile phone producers and six component manufacturers. The PLI comes on the back of a phased manufacturing programme (PMP) that began in 2016-17 and was supposed to culminate in 2019-20. The PMP incentivised the manufacture of low value accessories initially, and then moved on to the manufacture of higher value components. This was done by increasing the basic customs duty on the imports of these accessories or components. The PMP was implemented with an aim to improve value addition in the country. More imports in India Firms such as Apple, Xiaomi, Oppo, and OnePlus have invested in India, but mostly through their contract manufacturers. As a result, production increased from $13.4 billion in 2016-17 to $31.7 billion in 2019-20. However, analysis of factory-level production data from the Annual Survey of Industries (ASI) shows that in 2017-18, value addition for surveyed firms (barring two outliers) ranged from 1.6% to 17.4%, with most of the firms being below 10%. For the majority of the surveyed firms, more than 85% of the inputs were imported. Comparable UN data for India, China, Vietnam, Korea and Singapore (2017-2019), show that except for India,  all countries exported more mobile phone parts than imports — which indicates the presence of facilities that add value to these parts before exporting them. India, on the other hand, imported more than it exported, the least being in 2019 when its imports of mobile phone parts were 25 times the exports. Therefore, while the PMP policy increased the value of domestic production, improvement in local value addition remains a work-in-progress. Further, in September 2019, Chinese Taipei contested the raise in tariffs under the PMP. If the PMP is found to be World Trade Organization (WTO) non-compliant, then we may be flooded with imports of mobile phones which might make the local assembly of mobile phones unattractive. This will affect the operations of the mobile investments done under the PMP. Focus on value of production The new PLI policy offers an incentive subject to thresholds of incremental investment and sales of manufactured goods; these thresholds vary for foreign and domestic mobile firms. Thus, focus remains on increasing value of domestic production, and not local value addition. According to our calculations, if implemented in toto , an additional capacity of 60 crore mobile phones per year may be onstream at the end of the PLI, i.e. FY25. Shift from China is unlikely Chinese firms that dominate the Indian market are not a part of the PLI policy. Thus their capacity expansion, if any, will be in addition to this. India produced around 29 crore units of mobile phones for the year 2018-19; 94% of these were sold in the domestic market, with the remaining being exported. This implies that much of the incremental production and sales under the PLI policy will have to be for the export market. Recently, a study by Ernst & Young for the India Cellular & Electronics Association showed that if the cost of production of a mobile phone is say 100 (without subsidies), then the effective cost (with subsidies and other benefits) of manufacturing mobile phone in China is 79.55, Vietnam, 89.05, and India (including PLI), 92.51. This shows that incentives under the PLI policy may not turn out to be a game-changing move, and it may be premature to expect a major chunk of mobile manufacturing to shift from China to India. It may also be useful to recall that mobile phone investments that occurred around 2005, targeted relatively local and low value export markets, which is being followed by the incumbent mobile manufacturers in the county. Numbers show that though India’s mobile phone exports grew from $1.6 billion in 2018-19 to $3.8 billion in 2019-20, the per unit value declined from $91.1 to $87, respectively. Thus, our export competitiveness seems to be in mobiles with lower selling price. However, for foreign firms chosen under the PLI policy, the incentive will be computed on the basis of the invoice value of phones available at and above Rs. 15,000 ($204.65). This is surprising as it is clear that the PLI policy does not strengthen our current export competitiveness in mobile phones; and markets with higher average selling price have lower volumes. Difficult for domestic firms The five foreign firms that have been chosen are Samsung and four of Apple’s contract manufacturers. Samsung and two of Apple’s contract manufacturers already have facilities in India, and can be expected to continue with their strategy of dependence on imported inputs. Domestic firms have been nearly wiped out from the Indian market. So, their ability to take advantage of the PLI policy and grab a sizeable domestic market share seems difficult. Domestic firms may have the route of exporting cheaper mobile phones to other low-income countries. However, their performance in the last couple of years has not been promising. For example, among the chosen domestic firms, Lava International reported exports of Rs. 324 crore in FY18, while Optiemus Electronics exported Rs. 83 crore in FY18 and Rs. 4 lakh in FY19. Thus, how well they respond to the opportunity that the PLI policy provides is an open question. Supply chain colocation Finally, the six component firms that have been given approval under the ‘specified electronic components segment’, though a welcome step, do not complete the mobile manufacturing ecosystem. For example, literature shows that when Samsung set up shop in Vietnam, it relied heavily on its Korean suppliers which co-located with it to produce intermediate inputs, so much so that 63 among Samsung’s 67 suppliers then were foreign. It was a surprise when it was found through our primary survey that though Samsung is invested hugely in India, it has not colocated its supply chain in the country. In summary, the PMP policy, since 2016-17 has barely been helpful in raising domestic value addition in the industry even though value of production expanded considerably. As backward integration via tariff protection is likely to come up against WTO rules, the new PLI focus is on increasing domestic production, and not value addition. The policy has separately licensed six component manufacturers to start domestic manufacturing. This may not succeed as the assemblers and component manufacturers move together. A first step in this direction could be to encourage foreign firms chosen under the PLI policy to colocate their supply ecosystems in the country. Chidambaran G. Iyer is Associate Professor, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram. The views expressed are personal
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Tackling the roots of discrimination||Ram Vilas Paswan earned many distinctions. He was the only leader to be a Central Minister under six Prime Ministers. His eclecticism in ideology and dexterity in politics could only be a dream for many a politician. Such a feat required of him to be an agnostic in his identity as well. He couldn’t help being a Dalit and he didn’t hide it, either. Being mindful of electoral dynamics, he always sought to represent lower castes, Muslims and, of course, Dalits. His Dalit critics were upset that he clubbed the three groups together for every demand, diluting the ‘uniqueness’ of Dalits. Leaving aside his first ministerial post as Labour and Welfare Minister, Paswan throughout helmed ‘non-reserved’ ministries such as Railways and Communications. He was as mainstream a national leader as they come. But for most of the media, Paswan died a Dalit. He was a Dalit icon, a Dalit face in the Union Cabinet and what have you.  Creating pictures in our head From Ambedkar to Paswan, most of the media clubs Dalits’ caste identity with their accomplishments. But when was the last time the media reported on a national leader as a Brahmin icon or a Bania face? Consider the deleterious effects of such cultural reflex. Sections of the media are complicit in creating and stereotyping what the American abolitionist Frederick Douglass called the “pictures in our head.” The visual media, especially cinema, is guilty of perpetuating all the dross in society. A recent Telugu movie, Sarileru Neekevvaru , portrays the heroine in a grossly insulting way. As if she is the tail of a monkey, she literally chases the hero till the last frame. In that chase, she stands denuded of agency, dignity, or just decency that is any person’s due. Calling it humour would be a fig leaf to hide sexism. A railway official who must be a graduate, by virtue of his job, is cast as an obese black man capable of generating only derision and laughter. Here is a movie produced by mostly brown-skinned men; it’s been made for a mostly brown-skinned audience. But the movie stands out also as an essay of the brown man asserting the white man’s supremacy over him. In fact, for example, our age-old infatuation with the white skin explains how, when the actual White Man had showed up on our shores, we had handed him the keys to the country, expressing our habitual obedience. Three incidents This year we have witnessed many incidents of violence, inhumanity and blatant discrimination which highlight how the problems of caste, race and gender remain intractable. Let us examine three such incidents. The murder of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, by a white policeman in the U.S. has forever damaged its reputation as a city on a hill. A female Dalit doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, found the harassment by her upper caste senior so unbearable that she tried to end her life. Fortunately, she failed in the attempt. A Dalit employee of Cisco Systems was discriminated against by upper caste supervisors in the company’s American headquarters and the same is testified by a California government’s lawsuit. By no means are these acts of cruelty mindless. Nor are they to be ignored as some kind of clash between two parties, where one of them just happened to be from a minority group. The trail of death and destruction these acts leave goes beyond the immediate context. In addition to harming its victim, an act of discrimination does something far more insidious and long-lasting. It reinforces rules, norms and customs that allow or sanction such crimes. We must not forget the wider impact of a case like Floyd’s murder. The damage to the psyche of those millions of young blacks who protest against racism is severe and long-lasting. The imperative for us is to demand institutional accountability. The ones who should be in the dock are, in addition to the accused, those who head the institutions where acts of discrimination take place. In the AIIMS case, the upper caste senior allegedly told the lady Dalit doctor, “You’re a SC, stay within your limits.” The attempted suicide led to the filing of an FIR and AIIMS set up two committees, including an internal one, to investigate the matter. Their brief appears to be to protect the institution’s reputation, rather than standing by the victim even if they found merit in her allegations. The internal committee’s investigation produced this gem: “Although the accused didn’t explicitly use gender or caste-based remarks against the victim, but he did use words like ‘billi’, ‘mind your level’...” “Mind your level”? What ought to be that level, if her caste and gender were not part of her level? This is how institutions resort to what can be called intentional failures to subvert the laws meant to be invoked in such cases. The obvious reason for AIIMS’s illogic is to obviate the invocation of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989 as well as the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013. These two acts mandate swift action. AIIMS is guilty of making a mockery of the law. Like a rattlesnake Therefore, institutions must be made accountable. A simple police investigation would unearth wrongdoing by several top functionaries at AIIMS to subvert the law. The greatest folly would be to treat the matter as an individual case. Caste and race, like a rattlesnake, distract us by their myriad and daily abominations and we hardly notice their bite. Each act of hatred and violence deserves its own justice. But we must treat them as mere symptoms and look for the real factors that keep hatred and discrimination enduring and pervasive. D. Shyam Babu is Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. Views are personal
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Labour’s data lost||Last month, the Code on Social Security; the Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions; and the Code on Industrial Relations were passed in Parliament with little debate. In August 2019, the Code on Wages was passed. The four codes together subsume more than 40 labour laws. The mission statement from the Ministry of Labour and Employment reads: “Improving the working conditions and the quality of life of workers through laying down and implementing policies/ programmes/ schemes/ projects for providing social security and welfare measures, regulating conditions of work, occupational health and safety of workers, eliminating child labour from hazardous occupations and processes, strengthening enforcement of labour laws and promoting skill development and employment services”. However, a cogent critique of the labour codes by the Working People’s Charter shows how they contradict the Labour Ministry’s mission statement and lack any social protection measures. Moreover, the Indian Labour Conference (ILC), the apex level consultative committee concerned with labour, last met in 2015. Isn’t it odd that even a nationally constituted body such as the ILC was not consulted before the passage of codes that are going to affect 90% of the workforce? For the nearly 50 crore ‘informal’ workers in India, the codes come as another cruel joke when the embers of the largest crisis for workers have not died down. Lack of data On September 14, in response to questions in Parliament concerning the deaths of migrant workers during the lockdown, the Labour Minister simply said that no data were available. In an almost prescient move, four researchers — Aman, Kanika, Krushna and Thejesh — had been painstakingly tracking the number of non-COVID deaths since the lockdown was announced. Many surveys have documented the destruction of lives, livelihoods and increased hunger. However, like other independent research was disregarded in the PIL concerning migrant workers in the Supreme Court, these numbers too were disregarded. It is ironic that a government that is obsessed with surveillance purportedly for the welfare of its citizens has not kept track of data that actually matter. Although the decision to impose a lockdown was dictated by the Central government without any consultation with the State governments, Central government spokespersons were quick to hide behind the veil of federalism. When Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) reached out to the Labour Ministry during the lockdown urging it to facilitate the safe passage of migrant workers, we learnt that the workers’ data at the time were very thin. State governments were blamed for it. The script remained unchanged even in Parliament. Given the scale of the crisis, shouldn’t the Labour Ministry have constituted a task force and fast-tracked the collation of such data as soon as the crisis began to unfold? Neither is the tendency for opacity nor is the tendency to take recourse to federalism new for this government. Take, for instance, the suppression of data on farmer suicides, starvation deaths, and the Consumption Expenditure Survey. Similarly, consider the onslaught on poorer State governments such as Bihar when the Central government refused to pay its share of the GST. The Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act stipulates, among other things, payment of displacement and journey allowance by employers. However, this was not enforced. The order by the Home Ministry (March 29) asking employers to pay employees during the lockdown also stood toothless. Indeed, the Central government violated its own orders by not paying all MGNREGA job card holders as technically the Central government employs them. The fundamental problems will remain unless a deeper introspection of the workforce, skills portfolio and innovation capital is performed. Lax legal enforcement cannot be a justification to whittle them down further. The Indian workforce has consistently depended on so-called ‘casual labour’ for decades. As per the 2017 Economic Survey, there are about 14 crore migrants, half of whom are inter-State workers. Informal workers contribute to nearly 50% of the GDP and inter-State migrant workers contribute to about 6% of the GDP. A majority of the inter-State labourers are self-employed and/or engaged in casual labour with limited opportunities for skill building and increased wages. Despite the threat of automation and mechanisation, the Labour Ministry has sought to focus its skill development initiatives primarily on the formal sector. There is an urgent need to better assess the capabilities and improve the skills of the informal sector as well. Impact on workers and country The unacceptably high levels of informal employment have negative impacts not just on the workers but also on the country. First, the informal sector does not provide learning and training opportunities and invests little on their workers, hindering their chances to upgrade. Second, it compounds the existing inequality in the country. It presents itself as a source of income for poor families, whose children often drop out from education to help support their families. In doing so, they halt their own development in formal education or training, leading to sustained low wages. Historically marginalised communities such as Dalits, Muslims, and Adivasis are disproportionately affected by this. Finally, a healthy workforce is a necessary and sufficient condition for a healthy country. From an economic standpoint, a healthy workforce implies higher levels of productivity. And it is an end in itself from a constitutional standpoint. Bishwa Pandey and Rajendran Narayanan are SWAN volunteers. Pandey is a researcher in a private company and Narayanan teaches at Azim Premji University, Bangalore. Anindita Adhikari, a PhD candidate at Brown University, contributed to the article
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The RBI tunes in to the economy||There is nothing like a crisis to concentrate the mind. The salience of this saying may be found in the changes taking place in the economic policymaking establishments of the world. The COVID-19-triggered recession had led to some of their strongly held assumptions being revised. Shift away from dogma Perhaps the most significant of them is the shift indicated by the Chair of the Federal Reserve (Fed), Jerome Powell, declaring that the Fed will not let inflation stand in the way of maximising employment. The practical counterpart of this is that the Fed will no longer raise rates pre-emptively, i.e., in anticipation of inflation. The reason for this, he declared, was that the Phillips Curve, the relationship between inflation and unemployment, may no longer hold in the U.S. economy. Mr. Powell went on to say that he will even be guided by the consideration of unemployment among vulnerable groups within the American population, namely African-Americans and Hispanics. It took a lawyer to call out the emperor. The Phillips Curve has been a mighty presence in the canon of Anglo-American economics. Yoked as much of India’s economic policymaking has been to intellectual developments in the West one would expect some changes in how our own central bank, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), will change now that the Fed has. We are not disappointed. In the recent reconstitution of the Monetary Policy Committee, which conducts monetary policy in India, we can find a refreshing shift away from dogma. Not all its members may be macro-economists in the conventional sense but their work conveys that they will not be governed by rigid adherence to the model of inflation underlying RBI’s inflation targeting policy. This change has not come a day too early, and India’s government and central bank have done no one any favours by bringing it about. Data show that the model that currently guides India’s inflation control strategy may be quite irrelevant. This is seen in the recent behaviour of inflation. We know that output contracted by more than 23% in the first quarter of this year. Despite this staggering decline the inflation rate did not budge, an experience that flies in the face of the proposition that inflation reflects an ‘over heating’ economy, one growing too fast in relation to its potential. This view represents the RBI’s official understanding of inflation, and presumably forms the basis of its policy of inflation targeting. It was endorsed by the Government of India when it legislated the modern monetary policy framework to enable the RBI to pursue inflation targeting. If the Phillips Curve, which the RBI’s approach internalises, exists, inflation should have abated as India’s economy contracted during the lockdown, implying a ‘cooling off’ as it were. So far the RBI has shown little time for a handy account of inflation that can explain the recent experience of inflation in India. It had been imagined with developing economies in mind, and is based on the idea that food prices are an important determinant of inflation along with imported inflation. Accordingly, a macroeconomic contraction need not lower inflation. Model to forecast inflation A committee somewhere may hardly be sufficient to bring about a change in the mindset of a major arm of the Indian state. Hopefully, though, the economic havoc wreaked by COVID-19 will lead to a more sober and rooted policymaking. We may even be seeing some green shoots. A recent working paper of the RBI’s research department has received attention in the media for suggesting that a more eclectic model than the one that underlies inflation targeting does a better job of forecasting inflation in India. This model accepts a role for food prices, a possibility that is missed when embracing economic models developed in the western hemisphere, where food prices have stopped trending upwards over half a century ago. Better late than never, we might say. That India’s central bank is finally alive to India’s economy is surely good news for Indians. Pulapre Balakrishnan is Professor of Economics, Ashoka University, Sonipat
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Unpleasant spectacle||The sudden escalation of an ongoing tussle between the judiciary and the ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh makes for an unpleasant spectacle. The limits of propriety are being stretched, as the allegations being bandied about have taken distinctly political overtones. With the CM, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, writing to the Chief Justice of India, S.A. Bobde, complaining about the allegedly hostile attitude of the Andhra Pradesh High Court against him and his government, and making public details of the letter that contains explosive allegations against a serving Supreme Court judge, the conflict is embarrassingly out in the open. Meanwhile, the High Court has directed the CBI to take over the investigation into the registry’s complaints against allegedly defamatory, inciting and derogatory social media posts against the judiciary as well as individual judges, and to examine whether these attacks were part of a larger conspiracy. The CM alleges that the High Court is being controlled by loyalists of his predecessor in office and political rival, N. Chandrababu Naidu, and has passed a slew of orders against his regime and its actions. The High Court, the petitioner on the administrative side, argues that not only is the State police reluctant to take action against those carrying on an online campaign against the court but it is actively pursuing complaints of similar offences against Mr. Jagan Mohan and arresting the perpetrators. It says many of those posting on social media against the High Court judges are from the YSR Congress. The conflict is based on mutual accusations that the High Court is hostile to the State government, and that the latter is abetting a political campaign against the judges. It is disturbing enough that some judicial orders are seen in a political light, or lend themselves to such an interpretation. It becomes quite ominous if these charges give rise to open threats and abuse. The government has sought to ease the situation by offering no objection to the CBI inquiry. It is presumably waiting for the outcome of the CM’s unusual missive to the CJI, who in turn faces a dilemma as he cannot be seen as either ignoring a written complaint from an elected leader or giving undue credence to charges from a disgruntled litigant. The problem is that allegations of possible judicial bias, which are difficult to establish, are combined with those of misconduct, a serious charge. The right thing would probably be for the CJI to order an inquiry into the letter in accordance with the apex court’s internal procedure. Regardless of what happens, it may end the recriminations. India can ill-afford a public perception that judges have strong political loyalties. For, that will undermine faith in an independent judiciary.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Intemperate letter||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s intemperate letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in which he mocked the latter, questioned his faith and even took a jibe at secularism, a fundamental tenet of the Constitution, is disgraceful. His letter, written purportedly to seek an early reopening of temples, could have urged that without the accompanying scorn and derision. The Governor reduced himself to the level of a troll warrior, by declaring that “our gods and goddesses have been condemned to remain in lockdown” and wondering whether the CM has “suddenly turned secular”. He wrote to the CM that the latter used to be a “strong votary of Hindutva”, and cited his visits to temples as proof. This forces the conclusion that the intent, purpose and premise of the letter were all wrong. A person’s faith in Hinduism and its practice is not Hindutva. The Constitution envisages no role for a CM’s faith in his functioning. Moreover, it is not the Governor’s job to interfere in the daily functioning of an elected government. Communication between the Governor and CM must be perfectly civil and respectful besides being constitutionally appropriate. And at any rate, restrictions on gatherings at places of worship as a measure to combat a pandemic are not related to the concept of secularism. His warped logic apart, Mr. Koshyari has a track record of privileging his political fealties over norms and propriety. In November 2019, he held a swearing-in for BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis as the State’s Chief Minister, in a dubious attempt to pre-empt the formation of a Shiv Sena-led alliance government. He continued to wade into political controversies, in a manner unbecoming of his office. Mr. Thackeray rightly reminded the Governor of the fact that secularism was a “key component” of the Constitution and the need to take care of people while being sensitive to their beliefs and sentiments. Mr. Thackeray also descended into avoidable grandstanding in the letter by reiterating his own Hindutva credentials and revisiting earlier tussles with the Governor. NCP Chief Sharad Pawar on the other hand, called out the Governor’s ill-advised move in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in which he expressed “shock” and “surprise” that the letter was released to the media. The Governor could convey his views to the CM, but the “kind of language” was unsuitable for someone holding a constitutional office, Mr. Pawar pointed out. Maharashtra is fighting a battle against COVID-19, and all steps in this regard must be based entirely on a proper analysis of the situation. Any political considerations can only be damaging, and a communal one will be dangerous. It is unfortunate that the Governor sought to insert himself into the situation in an extremely unhelpful manner. He must retreat and let the Council of Ministers and the Chief Minister take decisions that they consider appropriate and timely.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||21 Bihar MLAs want CM to step down||Twenty-one dissident M.L.As. of the Bihar Ruling Congress headed by Mr. Vidyakar Kavi met the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, this morning [October 14] and demanded a change in leadership in the State. Their plea was that the Chief Minister, Mr. Daroga Prasad Rai, should either step down voluntarily or seek a vote of confidence from the Ruling Congress Legislature Party. During their 20-minute talk with the Prime Minister the dissidents apprised her of the “misdeeds” of the Rai Government which they feared would spell disaster for the party in the next general elections. They charged that the image of the Government and party had been hopelessly tarnished because its Ministers “indulged in corruption, took bribes and disgraced themselves through drinking orgies.” They also told the Prime Minister that the Rai Government had totally failed to tackle the fast deteriorating law and order situation, stem the naxalite violence in North Bihar districts of Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga and fill up crucial vacancies for the posts of the Chief Secretary and Director of Health Services in the State on account of various pulls and counterpulls.
15 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Infosys’s net jumps 21%, guidance raised||Infosys on Wednesday reported second-quarter net profit jumped 20.5% from a year earlier to Rs. 4,845 crore, helped by better margins. The information technology services provider also raised revenue growth estimates to 2-3% for the full year. Consolidated revenue from operations rose 8.6% to Rs. 24,570 crore in the three months ended September. ‘Deal momentum rises’ The deal momentum picked in the quarter, Infosys told the media. The period saw large deals totalling $3.15 billion. Digital revenues grew 25.4%, accounting for 47% of the total business. A cut in discretionary spending, reduction in travel expenses and savings from ‘work from home’ helped lift the operating margin by 370 basis points to 25.4%. “We had a substantial Q2 across multiple dimensions: client impact, digital scaling, growth and operating margins,” said Salil Parekh, CEO and MD. Buoyed by the strong order book, Infosys revised its revenue growth guidance upwards to 2-3% in constant currency for fiscal 2020-21, from 0-2% last quarter.  Raises margin forecast The operating margin guidance too was revised upwards for the year, to 23-24%, against 21-23% earlier. High-tech, life sciences and financial services grew strongly from a year earlier and on a sequential basis; banking and finance recorded positive growth. But retail and manufacturing will take time to come back, said COO, Pravin Rao. An increase in free cash flows in the first half was driven by a “focus on liquidity and cash management”, said CFO Nilanjan Roy. Consequently, Infosys decided to raise the interim dividend per share by 50% to Rs. 12. Heartened by the results, Infosys said it would give out 100% variable pay, wage increments as well as one-time special incentives to employees effective January. “The quantum of hikes will be identical to the previous years,” added Mr. Rao. He said attrition fell “dramatically this quarter and we put tremendous focus on employee engagement. However, once growth comes back fully, we may not be able to sustain this level of attrition”. The quarter saw voluntary attrition in IT services declining to 7.8%, from 18.3% in the year-earlier period.  Voluntary attrition declined to 7.8% from 18.3% in the previous year. COO says trend not sustainable
15 October 2020||Chennai,||Home-grown firms breach pre-COVID-19 levels in Sept.||A number of home-grown companies have breached pre-COVID-19 levels, either in sales or production, during September, indicating that the worst may be over. Buoyed by the recent uptick in sales, automobile firms and auto component makers are cautiously optimistic about the upcoming festive season. Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) company CavinKare is leading the pack, posting a 112% growth during the second quarter of the current fiscal. “We have posted a 112% growth during the second quarter and October sales alone will be at 105%,” C.K. Ranganathan, CMD, CavinKare, said. Royal Enfield posted 101% growth in September sales. Ashok Leyland said it was still operating at 75% of pre-COVID-19 capacity levels. “Each month since June has seen progressively better volumes in some segments,” said T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, MD, Sundaram Finance Ltd. “Passenger cars probably top the list, driven by the preference for personal transportation, followed by light commercial vehicles. Tractors and farm equipment have done very well.” Srivats Ram, MD, Wheels India Ltd., said most segments, barring medium and heavy commercial vehicles and buses have shown some signs of revival. Most of the cement units in the South continue to operate at 75% production level and might reach 90% by the fourth quarter.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pandemic shutters 15% of start-ups, funding dips 50%’||Severely impacted by the pandemic outbreak and subsequent lockdowns, about 15% of start-ups in India had to discontinue their operations since March, according to a report. Their overall funding dipped by about 50% during the lockdown as compared to pre-COVID levels, the report released on Wednesday said. Overall, while 40% of start-ups have been negatively impacted, 44% have cash runway for less than six months and 52% of start-ups are struggling to raise another round of funding, the report ‘COVID-19 and the Antifragility of Indian Startup Ecosystem’ released by TiE Delhi-NCR in partnership with Zinnov, said. The report noted that India exited 2019 as the third largest start-up ecosystem in the world with more than 38,000 active start-ups and receiving $14.5 billion in funding. In the second quarter of 2020 (April-June), the total funding declined 48% to $1.3 billion as against $2.5 billion in the same quarter last year. During the first quarter of the year, funding stood at $2.8 billion. However, the report added that as the economy opened, the pace of recovery in terms of demand and investor sentiment has been faster than expected. “Although the immediate impact of the lockdowns on the Indian start-up ecosystem was severe, we have been amazed to witness how quickly Indian founders have acted to re-imagine their businesses,” Rajan Anandan, president, TiE Delhi-NCR, said.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Autos to log double-digit volume decline: ICRA||The Indian automobile sector is expected to log double-digit decline in volumes in the current year across all vehicle segments, except tractors, with good recovery expected only in FY22, as per rating agency ICRA. “The volumes in the automotive industry have been pushed back by almost over 10 years,” said ICRA. “The FY21 volumes are expected to be down for light commercial vehicles (LCVs) by 17-20%, medium and heavy commercial vehicles (MHCVs) by 35-40%, passenger vehicles (PVs) by 22-25% and two-wheelers by 16-18%. The auto component industry (including tyres), whose prospects are tied to the automotive sector, is estimated to contract by 14% to 18% in FY21.”  “The rural market will be the key driver of volume in FY21 which will benefit entry level cars and UV. The luxury car segment will witness a decline of over 40% in the current financial year,” said Ashish Modani, V-P,, ICRA.
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Allow trading in bonds from stressed businesses’||Regulators must consider permitting the trading of bonds issued by distressed businesses in the corporate bond market, mooted Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian, adding that with the COVID-19 pandemic set to ‘inevitably’ add to the distress in corporates’ and lenders’ balance-sheets, the country needed a price discovery mechanism for stressed assets. Asserting that the country’s evolving insolvency and bankruptcy process still had scope to become more efficient, he said, “We also need a market for price discovery of stressed assets, without which the process of taking a haircut becomes difficult”. “Similarly, a corporate bond market that enables bonds of distressed companies to be traded becomes important. “In India, it’s primarily just the [firms with] top few ratings that get traded. The U.S. benefits a lot in the creative destruction process by having that market for price discovery. So, we need to look at our incentives and the market for price discovery,” Mr. Subramanian added. ‘Incentive problem’ Investigations against bankers for judgments they may exercise to resolve stressed loan accounts also cramped their ability to take ‘economically efficient’ decisions, he opined. Flagging an ‘incentive’ problem affecting public sector bankers in particular, he said that judgment is involved when a company goes into distress and its debt needs to be restructured or written down to turn it around or attract other investors. “A significant amount of judgment is used to price the value of that debt with a necessary haircut [and] take that hit in the profit and loss account... This is where because of the involvement of judgment, there is always this possibility of a hindsight bias that can create enormous risk aversion,” Mr. Subramanian said. “If a decision made after exercising judgment, can be viewed with a malafide intent, that can make bankers very skittish in making those judgments,” he added. “Investigations that do not take into account some of these very important nuances, really make it very difficult for bankers to do what is economically efficient,” the CEA said, stressing that such judgment was critical for alleviating the distressed assets problem. Business barons also needed to snap out of a ‘Heads I win, tails you lose’ approach, Mr. Subramanian contended at a session on stressed assets hosted by industry body FICCI. “Corporate India needs to recognise and respect that the equity contract entails — if things go well, even if due to luck, you retain control; but if things go bad, possibly also due to luck or exogenous circumstances, ceding control is part of the equity contract,” he said.
15 October 2020||Jaipur,||Cycle sales jump twofold in five months||Bicycle sales in India have grown by more than twofold in the last five months as people are opting for this inexpensive mode of transport to cover short-to-medium distance in view of health safety concerns amid the COVID-19 pandemic, industry players said. People in many cities have to wait to buy a bicycle of their choice due to a massive surge in demand, according to manufacturers. Such a trend can be attributed to health awareness after the coronavirus pandemic, they said. A total of 41,80,945 bicycles have been sold in the country in the five months from May to September 2020, according to the All India Bicycle Manufacturers Association (AICMA). AICMA secretary general K.B. Thakur said the increase in demand for bicycles is unprecedented. ‘A probable first’ “Probably for the first time in history, such a trend has been seen [in] bicycles.” “Sales of bicycles have gone up by over 100% in these five months. In many places people have to wait for their favourite cycle, booking has to be done,” he said. In May, the number of bicycles sold was 4,56,818. This number almost doubled to 8,51,060 in June, while in September, the country sold 11,21,544 cycles in a month. In total, 41,80,945 cycles have been sold in the last five months, as per the AICMA data.
15 October 2020||WASHINGTON,||‘Public debt ratio to rise to 90% of GDP on Covid’||India’s public debt ratio, which remarkably remained stable at about 70% of the GDP since 1991, is projected to jump by 17 percentage points to almost 90% because of an increase in public spending due to COVID-19, the IMF said. “In our projections, the increase in public spending, in response to COVID-19, and the fall in tax revenue and economic activity, will make public debt jump by 17 percentage points to almost 90% of GDP,” Vitor Gaspar, Director of IMF’s Fiscal Affairs Department, told the Press Trust of India . “Going forward, it is projected to stabilise in 2021, before slowly declining up to the end of the projection period, in 2025. Broadly speaking, the pattern of public debt in India is close to the norm around the world,” he said.    According to Mr. Gaspar, in the near-term, additional fiscal action can and should be deployed as needed to support the poor and the vulnerable.
15 October 2020||MUMBAI,||TCS opens hiring test to other firms||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) said its National Qualifier Test (NQT) will now be a common gateway test for several participating corporates for fresher recruitment programmes. This standardised test will be conducted on TCS iON platform every quarter and the score will be valid for two years. The first test, which will be available for free, will be held between October 24-26. The score will provide candidates access to multiple corporates. “With the launch of this unique National Qualifier Test, we are giving millions of young jobseekers an opportunity to work for India’s top corporates,said Venguswamy Ramaswamy, global head, TCS iON.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Glenmark Pharma launches pulmonary fibrosis treatment drug in India||Glenmark Pharma on Wednesday unveiled its generic version of Nintedanib, used to treat pulmonary fibrosis, in India.  This will offer a cost-effective treatment option, and enable doctors to treat a wider patient population, a filing said. Glenmark said Nintedanib was approved by the Indian drug regulator for the treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.PTI
15 October 2020||Mumbai,||CLP Wind Farms raises Rs. 297 cr. via bonds||CLP Wind Farms (India), a subsidiary of CLP India, has raised Rs. 296.9 crore via non-convertible debentures. The move will help CLP India sustain the expansion of its renewable energy portfolio. The yearly-coupon bonds will be issued in two tranches – Rs. 196.9 crore and Rs. 100 crore. The proceeds will be used to refinance loans used for renewable wind energy projects, the company said.
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Equitas Small Finance Bank files red herring prospectus for Rs 280 cr IPO||Equitas Holdings on Wednesday said its subsidiary Equitas Small Finance Bank has filed a red herring prospectus (RHP) with the Registrar of Companies for an initial public offering to raise Rs. 280 crore. As per the proposed offer, Equitas Small Finance Bank will raise fresh capital up to Rs. 2,800 million, where the promoter EHL will sell up to 7,20,00,000 equity shares, it said.pti
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Honda Cars unveils special edition of compact sedan Amaze||Honda Cars India unveiled the ‘special edition’ of its compact sedan Amaze in the price range of Rs. 7 lakh to Rs. 9.1 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). It will come in petrol and diesel variants. “With the inclusion of smart new features, the overall package has a freshness at a very attractive price,” said Rajesh Goel, senior V-P and director, marketing and sales, Honda Cars India.
15 October 2020||Mumbai,||Tata Power to build solar unit in Gujarat||Tata Power has bagged a contract from the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) to develop a 100 MW solar power project in Gujarat. The plant would come up in Dholera Solar Park. The power project is expected to generate about 246 million units of energy per year and annually offset about 246 million kilogram of carbon dioxide, according to the company.
15 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Deshpande — the new kid on the block||He has played a key role in Mumbai winning its first Vijay Hazare Trophy title in more than a decade. He has represented India-A as well. But it took his IPL debut for Tushar Deshpande to start trending on social media. The Mumbai speedster who still lives in Kalyan, an eastern suburb more than 60 km far from his alma mater Shivaji Park Gymkhana in Dadar, was handed an IPL debut by Delhi Capitals versus Rajasthan Royals on Wednesday. It must have meant a hell a lot for the 25-year-old who earned an IPL contract for the first time in 2020.  Interestingly, Deshpande was a ball-boy at the Wankhede Stadium during the IPL’s maiden edition in 2008. “I remember our full under-13 team was at the IPL and I was overawed to see the likes of Dhawal Kulkarni, Abhishek Nayar, Pinal Shah, Dwayne Bravo, Shaun Pollock and, obviously, Sachin Tendulkar in action,” Deshpande had told Sportstar before leaving for the UAE. “I remember there used to be a fridge full of Gatorade cans just outside the boundary rope. For a 13-year-old, more than watching and learning from the greats, the main aim used to be to open that fridge, get a can or bottle and sip it while enjoying the match. That’s the first IPL memory.” Deshpande, who joined Mumbai’s T20 squad for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy three days after his mother’s demise last year, has been training with Capitals captain Shreyas Iyer since childhood at the Shivaji Park Gymkhana. In fact, the duo would often place an egg-sandwich bet in the nets. Mutual respect “I remember when we were together in the (Shivaji Park) academy, we didn’t really get along. Even now we are not the thickest of friends but we have immense mutual respect for each other. In the academy, we would have a mini-competition in the nets and the bet used to be whosoever loses will treat the other with egg sandwich and Bournvita in the gymkhana,” Deshpande said. “Most of the times, I used to win because I knew how to bowl to him. When you are young, you don’t plan too much, all you think of is how I’ll dismiss a batsman off every ball. Sometimes he also used to win because he too is mentally very strong but majority I would win.”
22 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Spirited Capitals bowlers stifle Royals in the chase||Rajasthan Royals’ bowling unit continues to get better and the latest evidence came at the Dubai International Stadium on Wednesday as it reduced Delhi Capitals to 161 for seven. Delhi captain Shreyas Iyer chose to bat and put his side on course for a strong finish, adding 85 for the third wicket with Shikhar Dhawan (57, 33b, 6x4, 2x6). Shreyas scored a 43-ball 53 (3x4, 2x6). However, the middle- and lower-order failed to click against some fine bowling by Royals at the death. In the last five overs, Delhi added just 32 and lost four wickets. There was only one four and six during that period. Royals had had it even better at the beginning, as the contest got off to a dramatic start with Capitals losing a wicket off the first ball. Jofra Archer’s ball moved a bit but Prithvi Shaw’s feet didn’t. The opener was also beaten by pace, the 144 kmph delivery taking the inside edge of the bat and knocking out the middle-stump. In his next over, the England quick sent back the man who had captained Royals last year. Quite inexplicably, Ajinkya Rahane decided to take on Archer and paid the penalty, miscuing a pull and getting caught at mid-on by Robin Uthappa. Shreyas and Dhawan repaired the damage. The left-handed opener was in great touch and looked determined to score briskly too, especially after his unbeaten half-century (69 n.o., 52b, 6x4, 1x6) in the losing cause against Mumbai Indians in Capitals’ previous game. Dhawan hit the first boundary of the innings, pulling Jaydev Unadkat through midwicket, and smashed the first six too, again off a pull. The bowler to suffer was Kartik Tyagi. After reaching his 50 in quick time and looking good for me, Dhawan perished while attempting a reverse sweep off leg-spinner Shreyas Gopal. The slowness of the track and the extra bounce undid the left-hander who spooned a catch to Tyagi at short third-man. Shreyas Iyer then holed out to long-off off Tyagi, the skipper’s exit triggering a slide and giving Royals a lot of hope.   RR 115 for five  RR was 115 for five in 14 overs, with Uthappa (23) and Tewatia (0) batting. Buttler (22), Smith (1), Stokes (41), Samson (25), Parag (1) were dismissed
15 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||A competent and contented man||The pandemic shook the sports community, but life was normal for the competent Raj Kumar who runs a small tennis goods shop in the market opposite the Delhi Lawn Tennis Association (DLTA) Complex. He is one man the entire tennis fraternity knows, especially in the Delhi NCR. Raj Kumar strings racquets with remarkable accuracy and efficiency and everyone trusts him. When the Indian Davis Cup team was about to leave for the tie against Pakistan, captain Rohit Rajpal called Raj Kumar for a day to the training base to cater to the team’s needs. “I was lucky through lockdown as I kept working. Many people have tennis courts in their farm house. There are many other private courts. I worked from home for a few weeks and then had to come to the shop as people needed racquets, balls, etc.,” said Raj Kumar even as he kept himself busy, stringing racquets with assurance. Exceptional response It was an exceptional response as the coaches had suffered the most, going without earnings for months. Raj Kumar himself was a coach and had trained some good players before a leg injury ended his coaching career. For more than three decades, Raj Kumar has been following Indian tennis and has his fingers on its pulse. Even though all coaches are his friends and come to him regularly, Raj Kumar is candid to say that most of them needed to focus on grooming players rather than be occupied in merely earning money. “Coaching is about guiding players to a good standard. That is the challenge. Making money is the easier option,” he observed. Lack of greed Apart from efficiency, Raj Kumar endears himself to all with his pleasant manners, marked by a complete lack of greed. He keeps a low margin on all the products, and charges only Rs. 80 for stringing a racquet. Even if you want him to take more money, he refuses saying he was very happy with what he earned.  Coaching is about guiding players to a good standard. That is the challenge
15 October 2020||New Delhi,||Indian women face daunting task: Deepika||Commonwealth Games gold medallist and former World No. 1 Deepika Kumari feels Indian women archers face a daunting task of securing the full quota for next year’s Olympics owing to the cancellation of planned tournaments in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indians have just one tournament left to qualify for Tokyo and two spots to earn. Talking on Indian paddler Mudit Dani’s online chat show In The Sportlight , Deepika said that the country’s female archers had worked hard and were confident of securing the quota ahead of the COVID-19 lockdown.  “We were completely blanked as qualifiers were in a month’s time when the lockdown happened, our practice was going really well but then suddenly we had no idea what to do,” she said. “Right now, we only have one quota spot in the women’s category and only one qualifier is left to secure the two other quota places. Normally we always secure a full quota by this period, but it is different this time around.” After failing to secure the team quota at the World Championships in June last year, the Indian women’s archery team will have its last shot to secure the full Olympics quota in Paris, as a separate tournament is planned ahead of the World Cup in June next year. Deepika, who’s currently the country’s only woman archer to have secured a spot at the Tokyo Games, also recalled that despite being a two-time Olympian, she has never been part of an Olympics opening ceremony. “In archery our ranking begins on the same day as the opening ceremony. So we feel sad that I have never been to any opening ceremony and have only watched it on TV,” she said.
15 October 2020||Cape Town,||SA government threat puts cricket tours in jeopardy||South Africa’s sports minister on Wednesday threatened to intervene directly in the affairs of Cricket South Africa (CSA), a move which could put future international tours in jeopardy. In a strongly-worded statement, Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa set a deadline of October 27 for CSA to provide him in writing with reasons why he should not “exercise his right to intervene”. Mthethwa said he had informed the International Cricket Council (ICC) of his intentions. The ICC does not permit government interference in member bodies. A planned one-day international tour by England in November and December now appears to be in doubt. Special permission Even if the ICC does not sanction CSA because of government interference, the COVID-19 pandemic means that special permission from the government is needed for sports teams to travel from what are regarded as “high-risk” countries, which include Britain. CSA officials had a meeting with Mthethwa on Monday and need his backing for the tour to go ahead. But Wednesday’s statement made it clear that Mthethwa sees “no value in further engagement” unless CSA can resolve its problems by October 27. Mthethwa’s move came after a meeting between CSA and the parliamentary sports portfolio committee on Tuesday which the minister said had yielded “negative outcomes”. The meeting followed failed engagements between CSA and the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) which called for the CSA board and executive to step down while an investigation into cricket's financial and governance affairs took place. Umbrella body According to South African legislation, Sascoc is an umbrella body for elite sports codes. Sascoc asked Mthethwa to get involved after what it claimed was a lack of cooperation from CSA, particularly over unrestricted access to a forensic report which led to the dismissal of chief executive Thabang Moroe in August. South African cricket has been in disarray since Moroe was suspended last December after alienating the country's players' association and revoking the accreditation of critical journalists, which in turn led to major sponsors withdrawing their support amid calls for the board to resign.  CSA officials had a meeting with Mthethwa on Monday and need his backing for the tour to go ahead
15 October 2020||North Las Vegas,||DeChambeau wants to be fresh for Masters||Bryson DeChambeau has taken some unusual routes in his career, from his single-length clubs to bulking up in an effort to swing as hard as he can. Add to the list his decision to take a month off without competition leading to the Masters. The Shriners Hospitals for Children Open last week, where DeChambeau was tied for eighth, is his only tournament between winning the U.S. Open on Sept. 20 and playing the first round of the Masters on Nov. 12. So much for trying to use tournaments to peak for the Majors. DeChambeau figures he has gone down this road before. He mentioned the three months golf was shut down because of the COVID-19 pandemic. When he returned at Colonial, he was bigger and stronger and his club speed was faster. He missed a playoff by one shot. He followed with a pair of top 10s. And then he won the Rocket Mortgage Classic. “As I look back at quarantine... I felt like I came back really well not playing any golf, not doing anything,” DeChambeau said. “I feel like my game is good enough right now to do that. I don’t feel like there is going to be a problem coming back. We’ll see how it works out for me. I have no idea, but I feel comfortable. And that’s all that matters for me right now. In his world, not doing anything is not playing tournaments. There is always work.” DeChambeau left Winged Foot with the U.S. Open trophy and headed straight to Denver to start working out. Upon leaving Las Vegas, he plans to be in Dallas practicing every day, working out every day and doing a lot of speed training. “Every other day I’ll do a speed training session trying to get my swing speed, at least with a 48-inch driver, up to 200 (mph) on average,” he said. The 48-inch driver, used primarily in long driving competitions, is what he hopes to bring to Augusta National, where he expects to play all the long holes (except No. 10) differently than they’ve ever been played. Scouting trip DeChambeau said he would take one scouting trip to Augusta National ahead of the first Masters ever held in November. He mentioned he would go with a good friend — presumably not Brooks Koepka — and have some fun and see what I can do. “I’ve still got some equipment stuff coming in the next two months. That’s mainly why I’m taking it off,” he said, declining to elaborate. “I feel like the advantages that I usually have could be much improved upon with the equipment, and we don’t have it yet. But we’re diligently working on it behind the scenes.”  I don’t feel like there is going to be a problem coming back. We’ll see how it works out for me.
15 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Bhawanipore FC downs Garhwal FC||Bhawanipore FC continued to remain in the fight for an I-League berth as it warded off Garhwal FC’s challenge 2-1 in a third round match of the Qualifiers at the Salt Lake Stadium on Wednesday. Goals from Philip Adjah and Pankaj Moula helped Bhawanipore secure a 2-0 cushion by the first 50 minutes before Garhwal FC fought back with a late strike from substitute Afdal Varikkodan. The former managed to hold on to the slender lead till the end and secured the full quota of points. Tied at the top This saw Bhawanipore tallying six points from two wins and tying on top of the current standings with the other Kolkata side Mohammedan Sporting, which also has six points but continues to remain ahead with a better goal difference. FCBU holds ARA FC In the other third-round match played at the Kalyani Stadium, FC Bengaluru United rode on a penalty in the final minute of the injury-time to manage a 1-1 draw against debutant ARA FC. Pratik Swami put ARA FC in the lead midway through the opening half before Mohammad Asrar found the target from the spot in the last minute of injury-time to help Bengaluru United salvage a draw.  The results: Bhawanipore FC 2 (Philip Adjah 8, Pankaj Moula 50) bt Garhwal FC 1 (Afdal Varikkodan 76).   ARA FC 1 (Pratik Swami 36) drew with FC Bengaluru United 1 (Mohd. Asrar 90+6-pen).
15 October 2020||Los Angeles,||Koepka returns from two-month injury absence||Brooks Koepka, injury troubles “squared away” is back — again — and hoping some good golf will see him end a disrupted 2020 on a high note. “I’ve got my body squared away, feels a lot better,” Koepka said on Tuesday as he prepared to make his first start in almost two months at the US PGA Tour CJ Cup at Shadow Creek. Koepka, who started the year ranked No. 1 in the world but was bumped out of the top-10 this week, has been sidelined since withdrawing from the Northern Trust, in August. The two-time US Open champion missed the Coronavirus-postponed championship as he continued to recover from a hip injury that he says was related to earlier knee trouble. It was at the CJ Cup in South Korea last year that Koepka slipped on some wet concrete and aggravated a prior left knee injury. He was sidelined for three months, and played just two months before the pandemic brought the world to a halt. In 13 starts worldwide this year, the four-time Major winner has two top-10 finishes, including a tie for second at the WGC event in Memphis. He was in contention at the PGA Championship in San Francisco, but fired a final-round 74. After missing the cut at the Wyndham Championship, he called a halt to focus on treating and rehabbing his hip. “I really had no idea how bad I felt through the whole year,” Koepka said. Koepka said he received another round of platelet-rich plasma treatment on his knee about three weeks ago. He also had a painkilling injection in his hip, but was told that rest would be the real key. ”It’s just all about trying to make sure everything’s good. I’m just doing rehab every day and just trying to get better.”
15 October 2020||CHENNAI:,||Hemant in fine form||Bengaluru’s reigning champion Hemant Muddappa (Mantra Racing) emerged the fastest rider in the MMSC-FMSCI National drag racing championship.  The results:   4-Stroke Super Sport (Above 1051cc): 1. Hemant Mudappa (Mantra Racing, Bengaluru) (07.783s); 2. Hafizulla Khan (Bengaluru) (08.374); 3. Harish Naik (Bengaluru) (08.721); (851-1050cc): 1. Mohammed Riyaz (Hyderabad) (07.922); 2. Hemant Mudappa (08.162); 3. Sugan Prasad (Bengaluru) (08.382).   (361-550cc): 1. Aiyaz (Bengaluru) (12.256); 2. R. Anand (Speed Up Racing, Chennai) (12.350); 3. Karthik Mateti (Telangana) (12.518) .
15 October 2020||WARSAW,||Swiatek advises work with psychologists||Having a sports psychologist helped Polish teenager Iga Swiatek win the French Open, and she thinks it can help others, too. The 19-year-old Swiatek said on Wednesday she drew a lot of support and strength from her work with sports psychologist Daria Abramowicz, who was with her during the two weeks of the Paris tournament. “The psychological work is very complex and continues all the time. Daria understands me very well and we talk a lot,” Swiatek said. “You should not think that a psychologist is for people with problems, I think he is also for people who want to develop. “The work that we do with Daria may not be ideal for everyone, because not everyone would be ready to allow a team member into their lives, but my advice is to try and see how it works.” Sinking in Swiatek became the first Polish tennis player to win the title at Roland Garros last Saturday. She said her success is starting to slowly seep in and she will have to get used to media attention. At the French Open, Swiatek also reached the semifinals in doubles. As a fan of men’s singles champion Rafael Nadal, and speaking about possibly playing in mixed doubles tournaments, she said she hoped the Spaniard would see the potential of this relation. Their paths already crossed in Paris this year. Anecdote “On the first day of the tournament I was warming up playing football with a friend and Rafa’s bodyguard told us to stop, but seeing this he (Nadal) just waved his hand to show we should continue playing and I appreciate that very much,” said Swiatek, who lost only 28 games at Roland Garros.
15 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Gender doesn’t matter in sport, says Tendulkar||Sachin Tendulkar and Irfan Pathan have wished the female cricketers in Jammu & Kashmir participating in the Women’s Cricket League organised by the Indian Army and a NGO. “The beauty of sport is it doesn’t consider gender, it only considers talent and hard work. Nobody is bigger than sport but sport certainly enhances our life,” Tendulkar said in a video message to the cricketers. “India’s women’s cricket team is considered as one of the best in the world and who knows, one of the females participating in this tournament would go on to represent India some day.” Four teams participated in the WCL, jointly organised by Aseem Foundation, a Pune-based NGO, and 19RR of Indian Army’s Northern Command, was played in Dooru on Wednesday. “I have spent two years in J&K and have seen the immense talent that the state cricketers have. It’s not the talent but opportunity that these cricketers lack and now that these girls have been presented an opportunity. I hope they make the most of it,” said Irfan in another video message.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||CSK scripts crucial win||Chennai Super Kings successfully defended a target of 168 to record its third win of the season, beating Sunrisers Hyderabad by 20 runs at the Dubai International Stadium on Tuesday. In a throwback to its tried and tested formula when playing in Chepauk, CSK used a decent total and the skills of its spinners to apply pressure in the middle overs and script a crucial win that gives its campaign a new lease of life. For SRH, Kane Williamson waged a lonely battle with 57 off 39 balls (7x4). From 40 for two at the end of the PowerPlay, Ravindra Jadeja and Karn Sharma kept things tight without conceding a boundary till the last two deliveries of the 12th over. The left-arm spinner also removed Jonny Bairstow in this phase.
15 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Kohli suggests DRS for wides and no-balls||Virat Kohli would like the Decision Review System (DRS) to cover wides and waist-high no-balls. In an Instalive session with K.L. Rahul on Wednesday, the India skipper said: “As a captain, I would like to have that. It can be big in a high-profile tournament like the IPL, and T20 in general, because it is so fast-paced and you can miss things. If you lose by a run and you cannot review that wide [or no-ball], it could make a massive difference.” Cover everything Rahul concurred, saying that the two reviews allowed should cover everything and not just dismissals. He pointed to the erroneous short-run call in KXIP’s game against DC which the former lost in a Super Over. Kohli, in turn, referred to last season’s loss for RCB against MI, where the umpire missed a front-foot no-ball from Lasith Malinga, with RCB needing seven runs off the last ball.
15 October 2020||Sharjah,||Desperate Kings XI faces high-flying RCB||KXIP will be hoping that Chris Gayle fires on his much-awaited return against a high-flying RCB on Thursday. KXIP can take confidence from the fact that its only win in the tournament has come against RCB, which looks a much more potent squad since their last meeting on September 24. With Aaron Finch back among the runs against KKR, RCB’s top-order batsmen — Devdutt Padikkal, Virat Kohli and A.B. de Villiers — can be a nightmare for any team. The spin pairing of Washington Sundar and Yuzvendra Chahal has proved very effective and the pace department has been strengthened with the return of Chris Morris from injury.
15 October 2020||Chennai,||CSK hopes to cash in on slowing wickets||Chennai Super Kings, facing a must-win situation in the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad, decided to open the batting with Sam Curran. Coach Stephen Fleming said that the reason was to remove the confusion regarding the middle-order. “We had Sam padded up for every innings trying to introduce him at a certain point. We thought rather than getting clogged up with too much batting resources we would take one out and be certain about Sam, sending him on top,” he said. “We needed to do something different because the trend of our losses was becoming too familiar,” said Fleming. With the wickets starting to become dry and offering assistance to the spinners, Fleming felt it would be to his team’s strength. “We got excited when Jadeja turned one. If it continues how we think it will go, then the spinners will come into play. If that’s the case, then our attack has more teeth. If spin starts to play a part, we are well equipped.”
15 October 2020||SAO PAULO,||Neymar ’tricks for Brazil against Peru||Neymar’s hat-trick powered Brazil to a 4-2 win over Peru and a share of the lead with Argentina in South American World Cup qualifying on Tuesday. Neymar, who scored twice from the spot and once in added time, now has 64 goals, two more than Ronaldo and 13 behind Pele, the record-holder. Lionel Messi’s Argentina topped Bolivia 2-1, scoring its first win in the altitude of La Paz since 2005, to also make it two victories from two starts in the round-robin group stage. Luis Suarez scored his record-extending 61st and 62nd goals for Uruguay with a pair of late penalties, but Ecuador proved better on the day.  The results: Bolivia 1 (Moreno 24) lost to Argentina 2 (Martinez 45, Correa 79); Ecuador 4 (Caicedo 14, Estrada 45+3 & 52, Plata 75) bt Uruguay 2 (Suarez 83-pen, 90+5-pen); Venezuela 0 lost to Paraguay 1 (Gimenez 85); Peru 2 (Carrillo 5, Tatia 59) lost to Brazil 4 (Neymar 28-pen, 83-pen & 90+4, Richarlison 64); Chile 2 (Vidal 27-pen, Sanchez 41) drew with Colombia 2 (Lerma 6, Falcao 90+1) .
15 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Williamson has a role at No. 4, says Bayliss||Sunrisers Hyderabad’s head coach Trevor Bayliss said Kane Williamson is a quality batsman who can score more runs at No. 3 but has a role to play at No. 4. “Right now, he has a role at No. 4. Hopefully, the young batters down the lower order use his experience to help them out,” Bayliss said after the defeat against Chennai Super Kings on Wednesday. The SRH coach was all praise for pacer Sandeep Sharma, who he felt was a bit disappointing in the last few games, saying “he was outstanding upfront in the first three overs he bowled, taking wicket also tonight.” “We (batters) need to target the shorter boundaries but it is difficult when the opposition doesn’t give you that freedom.  Top-heavy batting “Our batting is top-heavy. We are trying to give the young players the experience,” he said. “Our bowlers have to make the batters hit to the larger side of the ground like Bravo did. It is all about experience,” added Bayliss.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||State of selfless love||Azhwars are believed to be incarnations of the Nityasuris in Vaikunta, and having been constantly in the Lord’s service they exemplify the highest form of bhakti yoga Nishta. They teach us how to practise this bhakti yoga, which is very demanding in terms of meditative competence and uninterrupted engagement with God, pointed out Aasuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. A normal jivatma is drawn to bhakti when he is initiated to savour the auspicious qualities of the Almighty. But the jivatma is also under the laukika pressures of daily living and it requires tremendous effort to attain oneness with the Lord. Moreover one has to contend with the pulls of the indriyas and in all spiritual literature, such as the hymns of the Azhwars and the Stotra granthas of acharyas, this is frequently stressed. It is very easy to get deceived by the senses and their wily ways and hence much effort is needed to gain control over them. The spirit of bhakti and involvement with God is best illustrated in the way of life of the Gopis for whom there is no thought except Krishna. They are not learned in the sastras, yet they have achieved the state of selfless love for Krishna that is explained as the essence of bhakti yoga. It is bhakti for bhakti’s sake about which the Lord speaks in glowing terms in the Gita. It is also shown that Vasishta, Hanuman and rishis of yore are still engaged in bhakti yoga. It does not mean that Vasishta or Hanuman is not eligible for moksha. Vyasa says Vasishta has been ordained to accomplish certain things in this world and that his prarabdha binds him to bhakti yoga till date. So too, it is held that Hanuman, declining Rama’s offer of Vaikunta vasa, chooses to live in this world to meditate on Rama, chant Rama Nama, and listen to Ramayana.
15 October 2020||MUMBAI,||RFYC players to sign for ISL clubs||Nine players, who are set to graduate as the first batch from the Reliance Foundation Young Champs (RFYC) Academy in Navi Mumbai, are set to sign contracts with leading Indian Super League clubs. Aritra Das, P.T. Muhammed Basith & Birendra Singh are headed to Kerala Blasters FC. G. Balaji & Aqib Nawab will be at Chennaiyin FC, Muhammed Nemil at FC Goa, Thoi Singh at Bengaluru FC, Ayush Chhikara at Mumbai City FC and Koustav Dutta at Hyderabad FC. Two and three-year deals Balaji and Nawab’s deals are for two years while the other seven players have agreed to three-year contracts.  Nine players are set to graduate from the Navi Mumbai-based academy
15 October 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Johnson tests positive for COVID-19||Dustin Johnson has tested positive for COVID-19, the PGA Tour said Tuesday, forcing the World No.1 golfer’s withdrawal from the CJ Cup in Las Vegas. Johnson underwent a test after experiencing symptoms of coronavirus ahead of Thursday’s opening round at Shadow Creek, the tour said in a statement. The 36-year-old, whose last outing came at last month's US Open, is now undergoing self-isolation, the tour added.
15 October 2020||Kozhikode:,||Jubin reigns||FIDE Master Jubin Jimmy (Kollam) won the Kozhikode leg of the qualifiers for the online all-Kerala Open chess tournament here on Wednesday.  Final standings: 1. Jubin Jimmy (Klm 8.5 points), 2. H. Goutham Krishna (Tvm 8), 3. Karthik Raj (Knr 8), 4. Abdallah M.Nisthar (Klm 8), 5. Arpith S.Bijoy (Knr 7.5), 6. P. Jayakrishnan (Ksgd 7.5), 7. J.P. Karan (Koz 7.5), 8. Sangeeth Krishnan (Ksgd 7.5), 9. Kukku Ramesh (Alp 7), 10. Antu Mathew (Ekm 7). Qualified players: 1. J.P. Karan (7), 2. Alen Danly (7), 3. Goutham Karun (7), 4. Sujithkar (7), 5. U. Abhijith (7), 6. K.R.Madusoodanan (7), 7. Ranjith Anand (6.5), 8. John Veni Akkarakaran (6.5), 9. A.K. Mihir (6.5), 10. E.M. Sathyachith (6.5) .
15 October 2020||KIEV,||Ukraine stuns goal-shy Spain||Substitute Viktor Tsygankov gave Ukraine a surprise 1-0 win over goal-shy Spain in their Nations League clash on Tuesday. The 22-year-old latched on to Andriy Yarmolenko’s through ball and fired past goalkeeper David de Gea in the 76th minute. Germany twice had to come from behind to earn a rollercoaster 3-3 draw against visitors Switzerland. The Swiss took an early lead through Mario Gavranovic and Remo Freuler added a second before goals from Timo Werner and Kai Havertz levelled the scores. Gavranovic then grabbed his second only for Serge Gnabry to earn Germany a point. The result moves Germany within a point of League A Group Four leaders Spain  Important results:   League A: Group 4: Ukraine 1 (Tsygankov 76) bt Spain 0; Germany 3 (Werner 28, Havertz 55, Gnabry 60) drew with Switzerland 3 (Gavranovic 5, 57, Freuler 26).   League C: Group 1: Azerbaijan 0 drew with Cyprus 0; Montenegro 1 (Ivanovic 34) lost to Luxembourg 2 (Muratovic 42, Sinani 86) .
15 October 2020||LAHORE,||Misbah to step down as chief selector||Misbah-ul-Haq said at a media briefing on Wednesday that he will be stepping down as Pakistan’s chief selector next month to focus on his role as head coach of the national cricket team.
15 October 2020||Odense,||Srikanth wins first match at Denmark Open||K. Srikanth outclassed Toby Penty to advance to the second round at the Denmark Open, while Ajay Jayaram and Subhankar Dey crashed out after losing their openers on Wednesday.  The results: K. Srikanth bt Toby Penty (Eng) 21-12, 21-18; Anders Antonsen (Den) by Ajay Jayaram 21-12, 21-14; Jason Anthony Ho-Shue (Can) bt Subhankar Dey 21-13, 21-8 .
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||One for you, for me||When Karnataka businessman Shrinivas Gupta installed a wax statue of his departed wife at a housewarming ceremony held in August, in his hometown of Koppal, little did he imagine that his endeavour would spark a spurt in demand for similar statues in faraway Madurai. Shrinivas had employed the service of a Bengaluru-based sculptor for the statue that went viral on social media. When Madurai-based entrepreneur C Sethuraman wished to fill the void in his life following the passing of his wife Pichaimaniammal, he contacted the same sculptor, inspired by Shrinivas’ viral story, only for his request to be turned down. This, however, worked in favour of JET Prasanna, a graduate of the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai, who took up the job of creating a six feet tall statue and delivering it within a fortnight, in time for the 30th day ritual Sethuraman had organised for his late wife. Prasanna used fibre, glass and rubber to make the statue, which was also shared widely on social media. Says Prasanna, “People now call me and share how much they miss their dear ones and express confidence in me to make a statue in their likeness,” adding, “I took an order from a man in Kalpakkam who lost his wife to COVID-19 in August. Whenever he calls me, he breaks down over phone and says that he can’t wait for his wife to return home.” Statues for all Prasanna is now besieged by similar orders. For instance, a girl whose wedding is scheduled for November 18 wants a statue of her father made so that she can feel his presence during the ceremony. An NRI customer wants life size statues of his parents sculpted whilst another customer from Uthangudi, near Madurai, wants one of his wife sculpted to fit in the car seat, so that he can also ‘travel’ with the statue without missing her presence. “I am working on four orders at the moment,” he says. Prasanna requires upto 12 days to finish a statue. To create the lookalikes, he uses silicon variants and fibre. “Silicon is best to recreate the eyes, nose, cheeks and the finer lines on the face,” he says. His statues cost upwards of Rs. 2.5 lakh. Earlier this month, Prasanna delivered a four-feet tall statue of a woman who died aged 101 last year. The order was placed by her son, Muthu Meenakshi Sundaram, a retired bank employee. “My mother now has a permanent place in the puja room of our ancestral house in Goripalayam,” says Muthu. Another person who has immortalised their parent in a similar manner is Thambi Balan. His father Kannu Servai lived to be 96, but for Thambi, making a statue was his way of commemmorating a man who single-handedly supported his family of nine children with his income as an agri worker. “It feels like my father is back; he sits in the main hall in his favourite corner and guards over us,” says Thambi. Statues have always been popular in Tamil Nadu, a State where these structures hold a position of cultural significance considering the number of political leaders and figures of the past, including actors, who have been immortalised this way. “Sculptures are luxury products. These are often used as status symbols by the rich and famous,” says ‘Stone’ Pandi, a Madurai-based sculptor for whom sculpting has been the family trade for over five generations. He exports at least one statue every two months to his clients in the US, Germany, France, Malaysia and Singapore. Based on request, Pandi moulds his statue using granite, teakwood, mixed metal and fibre. Each sculpture costs in the Rs. 1-10 lakh bracket. Pandi adds that he does not use silicon because it has a shorter shelf life and requires high maintenance. Unique request One of his recent orders was from Madurai-based AIADMK party member, Suresh Kumar aka Kremmer Suresh. “He gave me an old, faded black-and-white photo of his mother with his brother and himself. He wanted to recreate a childhood memory as a statue. I took it up as a challenge and made a statue of the mother holding the older son by hand, and carrying the younger son on her hip,” says Pandi. Whilst there is a surge in people wanting to immortalise their departed ones, there are also people like A Nallathambi, a 60-year-old rag picker, who poured his life’s savings into crafting a statue... of himself. Nallathambi’s likeness, which one could easily mistake for an ancient Hindu king, stands on a pedestal on the Vazhapadi-Bellur village road near Athanurpatty, Salem. The sculptor behind the statue, G Thangadurai of Okkarai, Tiruchi, says, “His request was unique and I didn’t want to disappoint him.” Nallathamabi is happy with the finished product, and has planned an unveiling ceremony soon.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||My secret escape||Amal Abishek slowed down his bike as he was riding from Thiruporur to Chengalpattu, through the borders of the Kattur Reserve Forest. He stared in wonder, as a peacock flew overhead. Over the past couple of months, ever since the lockdown relaxed, the resident of Tambaram has been exploring the hills and lakes bordering Kattur, stopping at any place that looks green and secluded. “I open Google Maps, and look for green areas. If I find a lake, there is generally a forest nearby, if there’s a forest, there is generally a hill beside it. That’s how I have begun to understand our landscape,” he says. He inputs the location on Google or Instagram and checks out pictures of the place. “If there are just five or six pictures, I know it is accessible but not crowded.” After spending half of 2020 cooped up in their houses, going for walks along the same old neighbourhood , overlooking the same old concrete buildings, people in Chennai are developing a greater appreciation for the city’s pastoral side — hills, lakes, forests and beaches, that are secluded enough to abate fears of crowds and infections, and are within a few hours reach. In fact, it took a pandemic for avid traveller Preejo TJ to explore his own city. “I have been on road trips in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, but I hadn’t ever explored Chennai as much as I have in the past few months,” he admits. Despite the lockdown, Preejo did not sit still in his apartment complex in Taramani. He was one of the first to get permission from the Chennai Corporation, to help out with COVID-19 relief work. The 30-year-old raised about Rs. 14 lakh, and would go around the city providing rations for the homeless. “Until July, I would go to the Marina and Thiruvanmiyur beaches to feed stray dogs,” he adds. But once the loop roads to beaches opened up in September, he hit the road on his bicycle to ride down the ECR. “There are nameless stretches of the coast, to reach them you need to go through casuarina forests,” he says. A big fan of meditation, Preejo simply sits in the middle of the forest ground, “watching ants marching with such discipline,” he laughs. Or he heads further down the beach, the rolling carpet of sand entirely to himself. “That’s why I like riding my bicycle there. I don’t know how safe it is to park vehicles on the road and with a cycle you have the liberty to take it with you and spend however much time you want to, without worrying,” he says. The ease of the pedal has been inspiring many to take up cycling. A few weeks ago, a resident of Kotturpuram, Aditi Subramaniam, cycled up to the Matsya Narayana temple on ECR, to hold a small picnic on the beach. She is part of a group of 15 friends who have been cycling around Chennai since August. “We had not stepped out until August. We really needed to get out and do some physical activity. All of us found it a little tough to exercise at home, in the same room where we ate, slept and worked,” she says, adding, “Many of my friends were into sports, but of the social kind — basketball or football.” Cycling, they decided, would be the safest alternative. They would be far enough to feel safe, but together enough to enjoy each others’ company. Those of them who were not cyclists, bought second hand ones or rented them out. Her friends, says Aditi, belong to different age groups — from 20s to 50s. People above the age of 50, have been feeling even more cooped up, given that their age puts them at a greater risk. And so, for the past nine weeks, 55-year-old Sonali Menon has been finding an escape in the hills of Chennai. “We were feeling quite stifled, so we thought of doing something different to get some fresh air,” she says. Sonali met her friend, also 55, in Perumbakkam, and decided to climb the nearby hill. That first trip then turned into a weekly activity. Preejo, who is in the same line of work as Sonali, that of corporate training, joins them in these treks every Saturday. He does a recce of the places first, by himself. So far they have been to Perumbakkam, Perungalathur, Tirusalam, Pallavaram and Malaipattu near Tambaram. “Often in these places, we see a lot of garbage lying around. If you go to any of these places, it is really important that you don’t leave your waste behind,” Preejo underlines. Hills of the rockier kind have Amal’s heart. “The ones near Kattur are just one six-feet boulder upon another,” he says. “You can climb them quite easily, but , in some places there is a risk of dropping down by 35 to 40 feet.” With the migration season setting in, Amal is looking forward to birdwatching. “I have already spotted the rufous treepie, Indian eagle-owl, cormorants, spot-billed pelicans, purple herons and river terns,” he says. “Beside the Kattur forest, is the vast Sirudavoor Lake,” — Amal sounds excited. That is where he is headed next.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Words of reflection||The lockdown has meant different things to different people; while some have been out of business, others have been adjusting to their new WFH routine. But, it has also ignited a few creative minds in the city. 25-plus Chennai writers have penned their personal experiences during these tough times, and their works have been featured in the online platform Lockdown Journal Chennai. The Journal is the brainchild of writer Praveena Shivram, who, along with journalist-publisher Vincent D’Souza, hoped to chronicle essays, poems, fiction and non-fiction work based on the lockdown. They drew inspiration from a similar effort in Goa. “The idea was that the writing would be some kind of archival stuff that reflects the mood of people at this point of time,” explains Vincent. Kickstarted on May 2, the Lockdown Journal Chennai — mostly popularised through word-of-mouth promotion within the writers’ community — has till date clocked 30 entries, all in English. Praveena assures that the entries are very different from newspaper reports and social media posts that revolve around lockdown. “For starters, the pieces are personal and real-time accounts,” she explains, adding “There is a certain urgency in writing, since the writer is living in the reality he/she is describing. That gives the journal its texture. Also, as it is not written in retrospect, the burden of nostalgia is not there.” There is variety in the writing — if storyteller Janaki Sabesh talks about her mother-in-law’s everyday routine in Google Kanmani, writer Aashika Suresh becomes pensive in the Grief in Confined Spaces poem. Praveena exercises restraint when it comes to choosing pitches and finalising the stories that go on page. “It’s about how well the story has been put together and structured. Sometimes, I have worked with the writer to bring it to a certain level,” adds Praveena. Going back and forth takes time, which is why the platform is updated only when a piece is fully ready to go. In a bid to encourage more local writers, the team is offering a small honorarium for published material. Praveena believes that the written word is crucial, despite the importance we give to visuals and videos today. “You spend time thinking before writing, and this distilled thought process is important when it comes to something as big as the pandemic. I tell all my writers that they are part of history and have got the opportunity to pen down experiences that might never occur at a later stage.” Though the lockdown is technically over in the city, the team behind the Journal hopes to keep it up and running. “We are not sure how its tone will change, but we are looking at it as a platform for good writing in Chennai,” signs off Vincent.  Writers based in the city can send ideas to lockdownjournalchennai@gmail.com. Read published works on https:// medium.com/lockdown-journal -chennai
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The better batter||“We are talking about the new normal, but I think that too is constantly changing,” says NS Krishnamoorthy, proprietor Prem’s Grama Bhojanam, a restaurant that specialises in millet-based food. “Three months ago, there were no takers even for takeaways, but over the past few weeks, customers have gradually started walking in. On our part, we are playing it safe and pruned our menu to avoid wastage and serve customers with the inadequate manpower we have,” he says. The pandemic has encouraged restaurateurs to manage resources, while adapting to a rapidly changing market. “We launched millet idli and dosa batter during lockdown. Of course, everyone was actively cooking at home then, but dosa batter saves them time. We also sell kollu podi , pandu mirapakaya (ripe chilli) pickle, multi-vegetable, lemon and gongura pickle, all of which get sold out in no time,” adds Krishnamoorthy. A delivery-only restaurant with five cloud kitchens across the city, Suvai Bhavan, offers stay at home specials, where three types of vada batter (masala, medhu and keerai vada); pesarattu batter; idli and dosa batter; rava and ragi dosa premix and rava kesari premix, are home delivered. Accompaniments can be ordered separately. “We opened during lockdown to cater to people who preferred restaurant-style food at affordable rates. An essential everyday requirement such as ready-to-use batter has gone down well with customers,” says Nitin Suresh, general manager, SPI Diners, who own the brand. Nalina Kannan of Thaligai, a South Indian vegetarian restaurant, had plans to open another branch in the city. This has stalled due to the pandemic, so she shifted focus. “My kulambu and rasam powders  are popular among our regular customers. Unable to come to the restaurant, they began inquiring about my podis . Which is why I decided to sell them online,” says Nalina. Assisted by two helpers and a head chef, Nalina oversees the preparation, where every day, they make eight to 10 kilograms of podi . “Orders are couriered across India. I hope to make work from home easy for people, and such varieties come in handy in everyday cooking. Each of our podis has dual utility,” she explains. For example, her coconut podi can be mixed with hot rice. It can also be used as flavouring for vegetable stew. She adds, “Similarly, curry leaves podi can be mixed in tamarind water, boiled and garnished to make a gravy or just added to hot rice and ghee.” Thaligai also offers idli and dosa batter. With many people still working from home, podi s, pickles and ready-to-use batter make meal planning easier. As popular Chef K Damodaran sums it up, “Sourcing ready to use essentials gives you the feel of enjoying restaurant food in the safety and comfort of your home. This is a win-win situation for restaurants and customers.”    Rava to the rescue Rava idli was invented during World War II in Karnataka. Rice was in short supply then and people experimented with idli using semolina.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Give me some s pace||Every morning, a tug of war ensues: A couple — both IT professionals with varied responsibilities and shift timings — is trying to navigate the seemingly endless tunnel that is work from home (WFH). To complicate matters, they have to share a single room. As more people start working remotely, members of the family are scrounging for private corners inside homes to work undisturbed. And, with people spending more time indoors, there seems to be a need for homes to evolve. But, do architects feel the same? While some believe that there is an evident change in the design language of the COVID-19 world, many feel that the shift will be much gradual than we think. Everything from having a well-lit, airy room to placing a potted indoor plant for company, the ‘little things’ now matter. At work or home? Apart from aesthetics, functionality seems to be of prime concern today. People are forced to spend more time than ever before inside their homes: products and designs that are multi-functional are hence sought-after, says Stuti Gawri, interior designer and CEO of The Greyy Room, a design firm based in Delhi. She has had clients who redesigned their houses during lockdown. “Designers in today’s world are trying to solve issues that are very specific to the times. In terms of space, products, material, sustainability and multi-functionality, there has been a massive change in peoples’ perspective,” she says. There is more of an emphasis on individual privacy now that offices have moved into homes. Small changes, like signage that demarcate one’s space (even if that means changing the carpet colour of that particular area) help, says Stuti. Her firm recently introduced a series of portable work pods, called the Greyy Pods, equipped with partitions to give a sense of working inside a private cubicle, with features including Bluetooth, wireless phone chargers, customizable coloured fabric and lumbar support. This product comes in handy for those who share a single room and require their private working environment. Similiarly, Hyderabad-based Leesha Fabritech has introduced portable home office pods, that are customisable and can be placed inside apartment complexes or houses. However, there seems to be more interest in partitioning existing balconies with glass doors and the like than setting up separate pods. Despite this focus on privacy, the lack of social interaction also needs to be addressed. To tackle this, Thiruvananthapuram-based architect Jayakrishnan RJ proposes the mushrooming of limited community spaces. He firmly believes in today’s “cooped-up at home” scenario, people are looking for limited social interaction; with precautions in place. He suggests small community spaces within residential colonies and common intersections where people can walk to set up makeshift workspaces. A proposal for this, anchored by Institute of Indian Interior Designers’ Kerala chapter, has been considered by the Government of Kerala. He gives an example: within society and apartment complexes, a stand-alone module with a good master connectivity and work per hour schedules. In case of a residential colony, this space can be located at a midpoint accessible to all. “More than work-from-home, work-near-home seems to be the future,” he says. Bring the outdoors in “Recently, a client we met said she wants to ‘enjoy’ her house,” says Stuti adding that her client wanted to open up her living room as a multi-purpose space for entertainment. “People are actively asking for changes based on what they like, because they want to make sure they use that space.” The onus here is on their own enjoyment since the day is spent mostly indoors. Another positive change that architects hope will not wane is the growing interest towards green and open spaces in homes. Jayakrishnan adds, “I have been observing the sales pattern of potted plants and garden accessories and it is growing like never before.” A plant instantly freshens the mood of a room or indoor space. Leena Kumar, part of Institute of Indian Interior Designers (IIID)’s, Bengaluru chapter, adds, “In the past, people preferred to enclose outdoor spaces because they saw ‘space’ to be more worthy inside. That will definitely change... In a small space, it is necessary to bring the outside in.” Finding comfort at home has been the takeaway from the pandemic, more than seeking drastic architectural changes. “Now, instead of going to an architect, they are likely to go to a designer in order to try and make their spaces more comfortable,” says Chennai-based architect Benny Kuriakose. He is however cautious about prophesying lasting changes. “Transformations usually happen when the discomfort level is very high. This is when remodelling happens. The pandemic and work-from-home might not lead to such big changes,” says Benny. As options to work remotely emerged, young families started moving to their hometowns and villages from metropolitan cities. Making small but necessary changes in these ancestral homes (which may have been built in a different time) would then happen, Benny adds. The necessary changes are practical measures like getting high-speed connectivity or installing accessible plug points. While the need of the hour is to quickly adapt to this new lifestyle with practical, economical tweaks, in the long run, the pandemic is slowly ushering a more thoughtful, personalised and high tech, but eco-friendly, home.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A game of hope||Of all incidents that could spark an idea for a film, it was a theft that did the trick for filmmaker Karthik Subbaraj. The victim in the incident was actor Bobby Simha, whose office was targeted by thieves. While there is no clear picture on the nature of losses incurred by the actor, Karthik, however, wrote a story based on the incident, which eventually developed into a short film set to stream on Amazon Prime from October 16 as part of an anthology titled Putham Pudhu Kaalai . The film brings together filmmakers Karthik Subbaraj, Rajiv Menon, Suhasini Maniratnam, Gautham Menon and Sudha Kongara: a first-of-its-kind initiative as regards Tamil cinema. Anthology love “I’m always interested in anthologies,” says Karthik, who has previously been a part of two other anthologies: Bench Talkies and Aviyal . Connecting over Zoom alongside Bobby, Karthik notes that a short film allows space for a filmmaker to experiment with ideas not possible in a feature film format. “Amazon [Prime] approached us with the idea of making these shorts but the rider was that the stories should have a common thread of hope or a new beginning. All five shorts gives hope to the characters as well as the audience towards the end,” he says. Bobby chips in: “Watching an anthology is a unique experience. Instead of watching one story unfold, the audience gets to watch five different short stories, in different genres.” Karthik’s short is titled Miracle . “We are all still hoping that COVID-19 miraculously goes away one morning and someone will say ‘We are back to normal’. This film is a story about similar characters... of people who yearn for that miracle,” Karthik says. Prior to the pandemic outbreak, Karthik Subbaraj was one of the first among mainstream stakeholders of Tamil cinema to expand his portfolio into indie films, launching a separate arm under his banner, Stone Bench Productions, to help fund quality small budget films. Even with corporate behemoths like Amazon venturing into the same space, Karthik sees no threat to his investment but rather looks at it as an encouraging sign. “With OTT platforms, there is a lot of interest in producing anthologies,” says Karthik, adding, “When we brought Bench Talkies and Aviyal to the theatres, we only acquired previously completed short films and presented them as an anthology, unlike Putham Pudhu Kaalai .” Unique situation Though their association stretches back well over a decade, Bobby remarks that he approaches every project with Karthik Subbaraj as his first film. “The fear and discipline is still there. I am his close friend but he is eagle-eyed and smells out any lag in performances,” he laughs. Questions still remain over a potential OTT release for Jagame Thandhiram , Karthik Subbaraj’s upcoming film starring Dhanush. But the filmmaker prefers to play coy. “If theatres open by October-end, then it is very good news for the cinema industry,” he says. On the film’s release prospects, he adds: “It is the producer’s choice. Stone Bench produced Penguin , which we gave to Amazon though it was made for a theatrical release. We are in a stage where we have to survive with what we have.” Putham Pudhu Kaalai streams on Amazon Prime from October 16   Usual suspects Also starring actors Muthukumar, Sharath Ravi and Ezhil, Miracle ’s cinematography is by Shreyaas Krishna. The latter handled the camera for Jagame Thandhiram , which counts Bobby Simha among its cast. Karthik shot for Miracle with a limited crew following relaxation of shooting restrictions.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Mei Jiaozi||Plump and neatly pleated, Fan Meiling’s dumplings have an unexpectedly romantic past. “I’m half Chinese and half Telugu,” says the dancer-choreographer-model, who launched Mei Jiaozi, making vegetable and chicken dumplings from her home, in April. She explains, “My mom, FS Halam, was a dancer and she acted in movies a really long time ago. She met my dad on set.” Meiling adds with a laugh, “He was playing a villain.” Meiling’s late father, Fan Shantu, who grew up in Bengaluru, moved to Chennai where he launched the popular hakka style ‘Golden Dragon’ noodles. “My grandmom came to India during World War II,” says Meiling, adding that the family created their own traditions over the years. “When I was growing up, we used to make dumplings together every weekend. It is a family recipe and it is not easy. You need two or three sets of hands.” Jiaozi are Chinese dumplings filled with ground meat or vegetables that are then wrapped in thinly rolled out dough, before being sealed together by hand. Meiling’s cross-cultural interpretation is fragrant with finely chopped coriander and spring onions. The vegetable versions are stuffed with delicately shredded cabbage and carrots. Inspired by her mother’s Andhra roots, the dumplings, which can be pan fried, steamed or boiled, are accompanied by a fiery hot sauce, a canvas of umami-rich tomato generously layered with garlic, vinegar and soy. When lockdown began, Meiling began cooking and sending packs of dumplings to her friends. “I realised they froze well and a lot of people found it useful to have good, frozen food on hand for a snack.” She now makes them fresh every week, on order, delivering them in packs of 18 and 30, on Fridays and Saturdays. Although both her chicken and vegetable dumplings are popular, Meiling is proudest of her hot sauce. “I have sold about 400 bottles from home. It is proper spicy,” she giggles, adding “Being Telugu, I eat it with everything — murukku, thattai, dosas...”  Connect with Mei Jiaozi on Instagram (@mei.jiaozi) to order
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Lines from the lanes of Mysuru||The cartoonist, illustrator and humourist, RK Laxman used to draw on the floors, walls and doors of his house as a child. The appreciation he recieved from his teacher of the drawing of a peepal leaf, proved to be the start of a long and illustrious career. Laxman’s centenary year is being celebrated this month. Rasipuram Krishnaswami Laxman (1921-2015), or Doodu as he was affectionately called, was born on October 24 at Mysuru to a school headmaster. He was the youngest of seven siblings, one of whom was novelist, RK Narayan. The Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC), Bengaluru, is celebrating Laxman by uploading a selection of his cartoons every day on its social media handles. “As a student of Maharaja’s College in Mysuru, Laxman contributed to Koravanji , a Kannada monthly satirical magazine, brought out by writer and humorist Dr Ra Shivaram,” says VG Narendra, cartoonist and the brain behind IIC. “We are displaying these original cartoons.” Apart from this, there will also be samples of Laxman’s work for RK Narayan’s novels — Malgudi Days, Swamy and Friends, Tenali Raman and The Man-Eater of Malgudi . “Laxman drew sketches for Wagle Ki Duniya , the show based on his Common Man, as well as for the book, Life in Kolkata , and one on Madhya Pradesh. He has also drawn for four books on management, and our online display will have some examples from all of these.” Laxman’s unique take on political and social events was unmatched, says Narendra. “Ritu Gairola Khanduri, assistant professor of Cultural Anthropology at the University of Texas, who has studied Laxman, has rightly called him the cartoonist exemplary from India. GS Krishnan, who researched the cartoons, has called the period of Laxman, The Golden era of Indian cartooning.” Narendra used to visit Laxman in Pune. “He appreciated my initiative of establishing the IIC. Laxman’s daughter-in-law, Usha, has been part of several of our exhibitions.”  The selection of works can be viewed until October 24 at:   IIC4u on Facebook, twitter.com/IIC@cartooniststInd and @venkatesh.narendra on Instagram
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The queen on the prowl||Water birds at the Kanchipuram lake are heaving a sigh of relief. A fearsome predator, that stalked them over the past few months, has finally gone home. For now, things are back to normal at the grassland. A Shaheen falcon, a sub-species of the fastest predator on earth, the Peregrine falcon, had visited the region from its home in the hills for the monsoon. “I first spotted the bird, a juvenile female, towards the end of June,” says Chennai birder Karthik Ramamurthy. Karthik, who takes birding enthusiasts along with him on his expeditions, kept visiting the grassland the following months to see, photograph, and consequently, fall in love with the bird. “I witnessed 44 of her kills,” says Karthik, who cannot stop raving about the “bold and gutsy” beauty. News of her arrival near Chennai was enough to draw several local birders to the location. Among them, was K Gnanaskandan. “What makes this sighting precious is that this bird is a monsoon visitor,” says Gnanaskandan. “And that it put up a prolonged show, displaying effortless hunting techniques. It is not a rare sighting, but the bird’s skills make it rather special.” Karthik spent as much time as he could with the bird. “Sixty-six days to be precise,” he says. Tracking the raptor, he recalls, was tough. “Out of the 40 plus hunts I mentioned, except one black drongo, cattle egret, and Indian roller, the rest were all Indian pond herons,” he explains, adding how on some days, the entire grassland got emptied of pond herons. “She hunted with ease and grace and did stoops and level flight chasing at lightning speed,” he adds. At one instance, Karthik remembers a pond heron taking cover underneath his car. But the Shaheen pursued the bird and in the end, won her meal. Shaheen falcons are mountain birds, explains Karthik. “They breed in the Western and Eastern Ghats and visit Chennai and its surrounding regions between May and September. Sightings peak in July and August,” he points out. When he spotted the bird towards the end of last month, Karthik knew it was the last time he was seeing her. “Another falcon coming from Europe was there and I was sure it will chase her away,” he says. Now that she is back home, Karthik does feel sad that he cannot see the bird any more, having spent so many hours in her company. “I named her Jhansi Rani,” he says. “Perhaps I will see her next year.”
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Fish on the Net||For the longest time, fisherman M Suman has dreamed of selling the fish he catches himself. “I have been fishing from the age of eight with my father,” says the 36-year-old from Pulicat. “Wholesale buyers and sellers who depend on us have prospered. We fishermen struggle financially,” he adds. Since the catch changes hands at least twice before reaching the final buyer, the fisherman walks away with a low profit. “After going to sea, I come back exhausted, and don’t have the energy to sell the catch,” says Suman. The pandemic made life tougher for small-boat fishermen such as him. “Once lockdown was eased, we ended up with excess, unsold fish. Then, gradually, people started coming to our markets to buy in bulk. We were overwhelmed by the sudden demand,” says A Mugan, leader of the Pulicat Youth Federation. “That’s when we came up with the idea of selling our catch online.” Xavier Benedict, the founder of AARDE, designed the website, which was launched last week. For the first time in history, Pulicat’s prawns, crabs, and fish caught by small-boat fishermen, were put up for sale online. Suman’s tone over phone is enough to suggest that he has a huge grin on his face. “Hopefully, we too can go to the next level in our business.” Suman knows buying fish online is nothing new. “I myself supply to some online retailers,” he adds. But there is a difference: “Once customers place their order, we will let them know if it is available only once the boat arrives. We will also send them photos and videos of their fish being packed,” he explains. “This way, they are assured of fresh fish that is not stored with ice. Anyone who has tasted Pulicat fish will know that it is superior in quality and taste.” The order will be delivered early next morning. “Right now, we have vans leaving Pulicat at 2 am for fishmarkets at Saidapet, Red Hills, Chintadripet, and Vanagaram; we plan to transport our customers’ orders in these vans. Delivery will be done through delivery portals we have tied up with,” explains Suman. Mugan says that if things go well, orders will be delivered no less than two hours after the catch arrives. “If more orders start coming in, members from our federation will deliver the fish themselves,” he adds. Think about it: a fisherman at your doorstep with the fish he caught.  To order, visit https://www.desifish.in/, WhatsApp 9566063409.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||One for you, for me||When Karnataka businessman Shrinivas Gupta installed a wax statue of his departed wife at a housewarming ceremony held in August, in his hometown of Koppal, little did he imagine that his endeavour would spark a spurt in demand for similar statues in faraway Madurai. Shrinivas had employed the service of a Bengaluru-based sculptor for the statue that went viral on social media. When Madurai-based entrepreneur C. Sethuraman wished to fill the void in his life following the passing of his wife Pichaimaniammal, he contacted the same sculptor, inspired by Shrinivas’s viral story, only for his request to be turned down. This, however, worked in favour of JET Prasanna, a graduate of the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai, who took up the job of creating a six-foot tall statue and delivering it within a fortnight, in time for the 30th-day ritual Sethuraman had organised for his late wife. Prasanna used fibre, glass and rubber to make the statue, which was also shared widely on social media. Prasanna says, “People now call me and share how much they miss their dear ones and express confidence in me to make a statue in their likeness,” adding, “I took an order from a man in Kalpakkam who lost his wife to COVID-19 in August. Whenever he calls me, he breaks down over phone and says that he can’t wait for his wife to return home.” Statues for all Prasanna is now besieged by similar orders. For instance, a girl whose wedding is scheduled for November 18 wants a statue of her father made so that she can feel his presence during the ceremony. An NRI customer wants life-size statues of his parents sculpted whilst another customer from Uthangudi, near Madurai, wants one of his wife sculpted to fit in the car seat, so that he can also ‘travel’ with the statue without missing her presence. “I am working on four orders at the moment,” he says. Prasanna requires up to 12 days to finish a statue. To create the lookalikes, he uses silicon variants and fibre. “Silicon is best to recreate the eyes, nose, cheeks and the finer lines on the face,” he says. His statues cost upwards of Rs. 2.5 lakh. Earlier this month, Prasanna delivered a four-foot tall statue of a woman who died aged 101 last year. The order was placed by her son, Muthu Meenakshi Sundaram, a retired bank employee. “My mother now has a permanent place in the puja room of our ancestral house in Goripalayam,” says Muthu. Another person who has immortalised their parent in a similar manner is Thambi Balan. His father Kannu Servai lived to the age of 96, but for Thambi, making a statue was his way of commemmorating a man who single-handedly supported his family of nine children with his income as an agricultural worker. “It feels like my father is back; he sits in the main hall in his favourite corner and guards over us,” says Thambi. Statues have always been popular in Tamil Nadu, a State where these structures hold a position of cultural significance considering the number of political leaders and figures of the past, including actors, who have been immortalised this way. “Sculptures are luxury products. These are often used as status symbols by the rich and famous,” says ‘Stone’ Pandi, a Madurai-based sculptor for whom sculpting has been the family trade for over five generations now. He exports at least one statue every two months to his clients in the U.S., Germany, France, Malaysia and Singapore. Based on request, Pandi moulds his statues using granite, teak wood, mixed metal and fibre. Each sculpture costs in the Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh bracket. Pandi adds that he does not use silicon because it has a shorter shelf life and requires high maintenance. Unique request One of his recent orders was from Madurai-based AIADMK party member, Suresh Kumar aka Kremmer Suresh. “He gave me an old, faded black-and-white photo of his mother with his brother and himself. He wanted to recreate a childhood memory as a statue. I took it up as a challenge and made a statue of the mother holding the older son by hand, and carrying the younger son on her hip,” says Pandi. Whilst there is a surge in people wanting to immortalise their departed ones, there are also people like A. Nallathambi, a 60-year-old rag picker, who poured his life’s savings into crafting a statue... of himself. Nallathambi’s likeness, which one could easily mistake for an ancient Hindu king, stands on a pedestal on the Vazhapadi-Bellur village road near Athanurpatty, Salem. The sculptor behind the statue, G. Thangadurai of Okkarai, Tiruchi, says, “His request was unique and I didn’t want to disappoint him.” Nallathamabi is very happy with the finished product, and has planned an unveiling ceremony soon.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Give me some space||Every morning, a tug of war ensues: A couple — both IT professionals with varied responsibilities and shift timings — is trying to navigate the seemingly endless tunnel that is work from home (WFH). To complicate matters, they have to share a single room. As more people start working remotely, members of the family are scrounging for private corners inside homes to work undisturbed. With people spending more time indoors, there seems to be a need for homes to evolve. While some architects believe that there is an evident change in the design language of the COVID-19 world, many feel that the shift will be much gradual than we think. Everything from having a well-lit, airy room to a potted indoor plant for company, the ‘little things’ now matter. At work or home? Apart from aesthetics, functionality seems to be of prime concern today. People are forced to spend more time than ever before inside their homes: products and designs that are multi-functional are hence sought-after, says Stuti Gawri, interior designer and CEO of The Greyy Room, a design firm based in Delhi. She has had clients who redesigned their houses during lockdown. “Designers in today’s world are trying to solve issues that are very specific to the times. In terms of space, products, material, sustainability and multi-functionality, there has been a massive change in peoples’ perspective,” she says. There is more of an emphasis on individual privacy now that offices have moved into homes. Small changes, like a signage that demarcates one’s space (even if that means changing the carpet colour of that particular area) help, says Stuti. Her firm recently introduced a series of portable work pods, called the Greyy Pods, equipped with partitions to give a sense of working inside a private cubicle, with features including Bluetooth, wireless phone chargers, customizable fabric, and lumbar support. This product comes in handy for those who share a single room and require their private working environment. Similarly, Hyderabad-based Leesha Fabritech has introduced portable home office pods, that are customisable and can be placed inside apartment complexes or houses. However, there seems to be more interest in partitioning existing balconies with glass doors and the like than setting up separate pods. Despite this focus on privacy, the lack of social interaction also needs to be addressed. To tackle this, Thiruvananthapuram-based architect Jayakrishnan RJ proposes restricted community spaces. He believes in today’s “cooped-up at home” scenario, people are looking for limited social interaction, with precautions in place. He suggests small community spaces within residential colonies and common intersections where people can walk to and set up makeshift workspaces. A proposal for this, anchored by Institute of Indian Interior Designers’ Kerala chapter, has been considered by the Government of Kerala. He gives an example: within society and apartment complexes, a stand-alone module with a good master connectivity and work per hour schedules. In case of a residential colony, this space can be located at a midpoint accessible to all. “More than work-from-home, work-near-home seems to be the future,” he says. Bring the outdoors in “Recently, a client said she wants to ‘enjoy’ her house,” says Stuti adding that she wanted to open up her living room as a multi-purpose space for entertainment. Another positive change that architects hope will not wane is the growing interest in green and open spaces in homes. Jayakrishnan adds, “I have been observing the sales pattern of potted plants and garden accessories and it is growing like never before.” Leena Kumar, part of Institute of Indian Interior Designers (IIID)’s, Bengaluru chapter, adds, “In the past, people preferred to enclose outdoor spaces because they saw ‘space’ to be more worthy inside. In a small space, it is necessary to bring the outside in.” Finding comfort at home has been the takeaway from the pandemic, more than seeking architectural changes. “Now, instead of going to an architect, they are likely to go to a designer to try and make their spaces more comfortable,” says Chennai-based architect Benny Kuriakose. He is however cautious about prophesying lasting changes. “Transformations usually happen when the discomfort level is very high. This is when remodelling happens. The pandemic and work-from-home might not lead to such big changes,” he says.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The old native||Even as new high-rise apartment complexes plant exotic palms that are not native to Delhi, requiring more care, water, and other resources, outside the gates you may find a Ronjh growing wild. Native to Delhi’s historical (what was once) open scrubland, this moderate to large sized thorny deciduous tree is characteristic of dry regions, hardy and drought-resistant, adapting to dry, rocky, sandy soils. The Ronjh’s ( Acacia leucophloea ) crooked trunk and light yellowish-grey to nearly white bark, has given it the species name leucophloea , in which leuco means white. The tree is also often referred to as the White-barked acacia or Safed Keekar, for the same reason. On this bark are dark botches, which make it easier for people to identify it, as acacia is a big family of trees with similar appearances. The tree has the tendency to form a spreading crown. Being deciduous, it is leafless towards the end of the cold season (January) and in the earlier part of summer, with new leaves appearing in April. It puts out blossoms from late August during the rains until November. During this time, the tree’s canopy is full of its tiny, spherical white and yellow flowers clumped together in round heads. This loose clustering arrangement of flowers has also earned this tree another name: panicled acacia. The flat curved fruit-pods ripen into a khaki colour by January In highly arid conditions, the tree is stunted, but survives. According to an extensively researched book The Silviculture of Indian Trees written by R.S. Troup in 1921, it is not just drought-hardy, but is also able to survive in fires and frost, making it one of the most adaptable native trees found in the Indian subcontinent. The timber is not of great value, but the hardness of the wood saw it being used extensively in semi-rural and rural areas for posts and beams, carts and their wheels, agricultural instruments and also for fuel. Herdsmen in drier areas of the country, including deserts, use their leaves as dry-season fodder, considering the dearth of food in the region at the time. Historically, the tree has proved useful in several ways, according to Pradip Krishen’s Trees of Delhi. It says that the leaves yield a black dye, while the inner bark is used to make a red-brown dye and its fibre is used for making ropes and fishing nets. The bark and the gum from the tree are used in traditional medicine to treat bronchitis and asthma. The bark is often used to distil liquor, a reason for the tree’s other interesting name: Distiller’s Acacia or Sharab ki Keekar. The Ronjh can be seen on The Ridge, Hauz Khas, Vasant Kunj and the tree-rich old JNU campus. Apart from the old trees, the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram has attempted to bring back flora native to the Delhi scrubs with this tree being an important ingredient. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Words of reflection||The lockdown has meant different things to different people; while some have been out of business, others have been adjusting to their new WFH routine. But, it has also ignited a few creative minds in the city. Over 25 Chennai writers have penned their personal experiences during these tough times, and their works have been featured in the online platform Lockdown Journal Chennai. The Journal is the brainchild of writer Praveena Shivram, who, along with journalist-publisher Vincent D’Souza, hoped to chronicle essays, poems, fiction and non-fiction work based on the lockdown. They drew inspiration from a similar effort in Goa. “The idea was that the writing would be some kind of archival stuff that reflects the mood of people at this point of time,” explains Vincent. Kickstarted on May 2, the Lockdown Journal Chennai — mostly popularised through word-of-mouth promotion within the writers’ community — has till date clocked 30 entries, all in English. Praveena assures that the entries are very different from newspaper reports and social media posts that revolve around lockdown. “For starters, the pieces are personal and real-time accounts,” she explains. She adds that “There is a certain urgency in writing, since the writer is living in the reality he/she is describing. That gives the journal its texture. Also, as it is not written in retrospect, the burden of nostalgia is not there.” There is variety in the writing — if storyteller Janaki Sabesh talks about her mother-in-law’s everyday routine in Google Kanmani, writer Aashika Suresh becomes pensive in the Grief in Confined Spaces poem. Praveena exercises restraint when it comes to choosing pitches and finalising the stories that go on page. “It’s about how well the story has been put together and structured. Sometimes, I have worked with the writer to bring it to a certain level,” adds Praveena. Going back and forth takes time, which is why the platform is updated only when a piece is fully ready to go. In a bid to encourage more local writers, the team is offering a small honorarium for published material. Praveena believes that the written word is crucial, despite the importance we give to visuals and videos today. “You spend time thinking before writing, and this distilled thought process is important when it comes to something as big as the pandemic. I tell all my writers that they are part of history and have got the opportunity to pen down experiences that might never occur at a later stage.” Though the lockdown is technically over in the city, the team behind the Journal hopes to keep it up and running. “We are not sure how its tone will change, but we are looking at it as a platform for good writing in Chennai,” signs off Vincent.  Writers based in the city can send ideas to lockdownjournalchennai@gmail.com. Read published works on Medium.com/ lockdown-journal-chennai
15 October 2020||October 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Lines from the lanes of Mysuru||The cartoonist, illustrator and humourist, R.K. Laxman, used to draw on the floors, walls and doors of his house as a child. The appreciation he recieved from his teacher of the drawing of a peepal leaf, proved to be the start of a long and illustrious career. Laxman’s centenary year is being celebrated this month. Rasipuram Krishnaswami Laxman (1921-2015), or Doodu as he was affectionately called, was born on October 24 at Mysuru to a school headmaster. He was the youngest of seven siblings, one of whom was the famous novelist, R.K. Narayan. The Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC) in Bengaluru, is celebrating Laxman by uploading a selection of his cartoons every day on its social media handles. “As a student of Maharaja’s College in Mysuru, Laxman contributed to Koravanji , a Kannada monthly satirical magazine, brought out by writer and humorist Dr. Ra Shivaram,” says V.G. Narendra, cartoonist and the brain behind IIC. “We are displaying these original cartoons.” Apart from this, there will also be samples of Laxman’s work for his brother R.K. Narayan’s novels — Malgudi Days, Swamy and Friends, Tenali Raman and The Man-Eater of Malgudi . “Laxman drew sketches for Wagle Ki Duniya , the show based on his Common Man, as well as for the book, Life in Kolkata , and one on Madhya Pradesh. He has also drawn for four books on management, and our online display will have some examples from all of these,” Narendra says. Laxman’s unique take on political and social events was unmatched, says Narendra. He says, “Ritu Gairola Khanduri, assistant professor of Cultural Anthropology at the University of Texas, who has studied Laxman, has rightly called him the cartoonist exemplary from India. G.S. Krishnan, who researched the cartoons, has called the period of Laxman, The Golden era of Indian cartooning.” Narendra used to visit Laxman in Pune. “He appreciated my initiative of establishing the IIC. Laxman’s daughter-in-law, Usha, has been part of several of our exhibitions,” he says.  The selection of works can be viewed until October 24 at: IIC4u on Facebook, twitter.com/IIC@cartooniststInd and @venkatesh.narendra on Instagram   He has also drawn for four books on management, and our online display will have some examples from these V.G. Narendra Cartoonist
15 October 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Centre repeating Cong. blunders’||Former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said the BJP-led government at the Centre was repeating the blunders of the past Congress rulers and was “resorting to the same anti-Punjab and anti-farmer conspiracies” to provoke farmers and youth. “This can have serious consequences for peace in the sensitive border State and for the stability in the country since farmers struggle is a national issue,” said Mr. Badal, accusing the Centre of betraying farmers and their organisations on what he termed as the “so called meeting” in New Delhi on the farm laws. Mr. Badal said the Prime Minister should have found time to meet farmers instead of sending a faceless bureaucrat to “preach to them”. “If the PM was too busy, the meeting could have been rescheduled. The farmers did the right thing by coming out and refusing to walk into the conspiracy,” he said. “The Centre has messed up a great opportunity. The opportunity had been created by the farmers’ organisations through their large-hearted and constructive response to the Centre’s invite. But the Centre chose to play games and indulge in doublespeak.” Mr. Badal accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of acting at the behest of the BJP government in trying to sabotage the farmers’ movement. “Capt. Amarinder recently sent his Ministers to farmers to mislead them into withdrawing their just struggle and end the road and rail roko protests,” alleged the Akali Dal chief. Amarinder flays BJP Meanwhile, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday accused the BJP of resorting to provocative and inflammatory actions aimed at disturbing the State’s law and order in the wake of the recent attack on State BJP president Ashwani Sharma’s motorcade, for which the police have already identified several farmers union members as being responsible. Terming Mr. Sharma’s accusations against the Punjab Congress baseless, the Chief Minister said the BJP leader seemed bent on spreading false propaganda to promote the interests of his party. “These actions were clearly aimed at diverting the attention of the people from the farmers’ angst against the BJP over the farm laws,” he said. The Chief Minister asserted that the people of Punjab, including the farmers, would not be misled by the BJP’s irresponsible statements and actions.
15 October 2020||Guwahati,||‘Won’t allow Assam govt. madrasas to be closed’||The Assam Madrasa Teachers’ Association has said it would not let the State-run madrasas or Islamic educational institutions to be shut down. It advised the Sarbananda Sonowal government to focus on providing quality learning instead. A few days ago, Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said the government would close down all the madrasas as “religious teachings cannot be carried out with government funds in a secular country”. Earlier this month, the government set in motion a process of transferring 148 contractual teachers from some madrasas to schools under general secondary education. “We will not allow the madrasas to be victims of divisive, religious politics. The government should focus on development of such institutions and reverse the decision to close down the madrasas or face a stir,” said Association president Rajab Ali. The Association asked the government to restore the Directorate of Madrasa Education that was merged with the Directorate of Secondary Education three years ago. The Association said there were 1,002 madrasas in the State, out of which 801 were run by the government.
15 October 2020||Guwahati,||SUV gifted by father used as free ambulance||Former Nagaland school teacher Hamshen Konyak had a piece of advice for his son after handing over the keys of a brand new SUV bought from his retirement benefits three years ago: “Put this gift to good use.” The son, 39-year-old Hongnao Konyak, did better. He turned the SUV into an ambulance to ferry the sick and their attendants for more than three months during the COVID-19 lockdown phases. His 100-day service ended in August after Mon, the headquarters of Mon district about 330 km from State capital Kohima, received the first of its three ambulances from the government and a Gurugram-based NGO. Mr. Konyak, a social worker and a member of the district unit of the Naga People’s Front, was not just a “self-styled driver” of a “makeshift ambulance” when the district had none.  Attendant, interpreter He often became the attendant of an unaccompanied patient and an interpreter for villagers who spoke different dialects of the Konyak tribal language that non-Konyak doctors and medical staff did not understand. He also organised blood donors, bringing them to the District Hospital Mon (DHM) and dropping them back home. One such beneficiary was the brother of Methna Konyak, a haemophilia (a genetic disorder that affects blood-clotting) patient who needed five units of blood of A+ group. “It would have been difficult to get blood for my brother without Hongnao’s help. A person who uses his own vehicle, burns fuel and helps the sick get treatment in time during difficult times is a rarity,” the patient’s brother said. “Hongnao was a massive help during the lockdown when patients could not come from faraway villages because of the lockdown,” said DHM’s Medical Superintendent Khrielasanuo. “I could not let my car be parked idly when in-patients of the district hospital, designated a COVID-19 hospital, had to be relocated. I met district authorities with the proposal of providing round-the-clock ambulance service with my car,” Mr. Konyak told The Hindu from Mon.
