16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Jawans have risen to challenges on borders’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address from the Red Fort on Saturday reflected the two big crises the country is facing this year — the novel coronavirus pandemic and the attack on the borders by China in eastern Ladakh, adding that the virus could be a hindrance but that the nation was resolved to be self-reliant. “This is no time to be ordinary,” he said. In a speech that lasted 90 minutes, the Prime Minister wove his government’s policies and programmes as contributing towards meeting the health and economic challenges of the pandemic and also the security challenges at the border. New health ID soon “The pandemic has brought home to us the importance of strong health systems and interventions. With this in view, the government has conceptualised and will be launching a National Digital Health Mission that would give every Indian a health identity verifiable digitally and will work as each Indian’s health account,” he said. “Every test, disease, diagnosis and medical report along with medicines will be stored in every citizen’s health ID.” To much applause, Mr. Modi also announced that there were three vaccine candidates against the COVID-19 at various stages of trial in India. “These vaccines are at various stages of trial and our scientists and researchers are hard at work,” he said. “Whenever any of these become viable for use, the government has already prepared an elaborate road map for its production and distribution in the shortest possible time,” he said. Menstrual health He also became the first Prime Minister to talk of menstrual health and said 5 crore sanitary pads priced at Rs. 1 had been distributed through 6,000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras spread across the country. He lauded the can-do spirit of Indians especially in the face of a crisis like the pandemic by pointing out that when it had first hit, India had the capacity for only 300 tests a day and only one lab where it could be done. “Now we can do seven lakh tests a day and are in a position to export personal protection equipment, where once we used to import,” he said.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy rains lash Telangana||One person was feared drowned as heavy rains lashed Telangana since last night, resulting in overflow of streams and rivulets and water gushing out of completely filled tanks. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the situation with senior officials and later Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar also held a teleconference with district Collectors to put the government machinery on high alert. A lorry was swept away in the water of a stream that flooded the road near Basavapur village of Koheda mandal in Siddipet district. The driver, Shanker, jumped off the lorry and held on to a bush but could not withstand the force of the water. He was lost in water even as expert swimmers and a helicopter were deployed to rescue him. The Jampanna vagu, where devotees bath before offering prayers at the shrine of the tribal fair at Medaram, was also in spate in Jayashankar Bhupalapally district. Rain water and the fierce flow of Jampanna vagu completely inundated Medaram where life came to a standstill. The water flowed over a bridge leading to the shrine and nearby villages. The retention wall of the ghat road to Srisailam temple collapsed near Mannanur village in Amrabad mandal of Nagarkurnool district. It was only today that the temple was reopened for devotees following COVID-19. The rush of pilgrims and visitors to Srisailam reservoir to watch the water release had made the road busy but police regulated traffic after the wall caved in.
16 August 2020||Chennai,||Consider me Retired, says Dhoni||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, a man of few words and massive sixes, announced his retirement from international cricket in his inimitable, understated style. Through his official Instagram handle ‘mahi7781’, the former India captain, who led India to the 2011 World Cup title, put out a statement on Saturday evening: “Thanks. Thanks a lot for ur love and support throughout. From 19.29 hrs consider me as Retired.” Bewilderment reigned before it was accepted as his official announcement, bidding adieu to the blue colour. Dhoni had taken everyone by surprise with his retirement from Tests in Australia in December 2014. He addressed a press conference after the third Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground and walked away. A BCCI release then mentioned that he had retired from Tests! He continued to play ODIs and Twenty20s, and that journey extended till last year. His final appearance for Virat Kohli’s men ended in defeat against New Zealand in the ICC World Cup semifinal at Manchester’s Old Trafford on July 10. He scored a 72-ball 50 and retreated. In retrospect that was his finish-line. While there was talk about a swan song during the ICC Twenty20 World Cup later this year in Australia, the COVID-19 pandemic played spoilsport. Dhoni fans can now watch him turn out for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League at the United Arab Emirates from September 19.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK issues gag order to leaders||The week-long debate within the ruling AIADMK over the Chief Ministerial candidate for 2021 briefly threatened to get out of hand on Saturday with posters appearing in Theni projecting Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam for the job. Following a truce brokered by a group of Ministers after separate meetings with Mr. Panneerselvam, also party coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator, the two restrained functionaries from expressing personal views through the media. They warned of action against those violating the diktat. The drama lasted nearly five hours. The developments began with some senior Ministers holding a brief discussion in the chamber of Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar at Fort St. George around 10 a.m., after attending the Independence Day celebrations. They included K.A. Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, P. Thangamani, C.Ve. Shanmugam and S.P. Velumani. Subsequently, at 11.45 a.m., they were closeted with the Deputy Chief Minister for about 90 minutes at the latter’s residence on Greenways Road. They then met Mr. Palaniswami, whose residence is located nearby, for about 30 minutes. The Ministers later held another round of discussions with the leaders. Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami met during the Independence Day event where the former, being Finance Minister, received an award from the latter for implementing a modernisation programme in the Treasuries and Accounts department, which comes under the Finance department. ‘Posters not approved’ The posters projecting Mr. Panneerselvam for the post of CM appeared in Kenjampatti village of Bodinayackanur panchayat union in Theni district. They were said to have been removed later as they were “not approved” by Mr. Panneerselvam, according to a senior leader considered close to him. Earlier in the week, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju triggered the debate saying that the issue of the next Chief Minister would be resolved at a meeting of the AIADMK legislature party. A day later, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, in a tweet, declared that Mr. Palaniswami was the Chief Ministerial candidate, which had apparently upset followers of Mr. Panneerselvam. On Wednesday, senior leaders and Ministers had met at the AIADMK party office, after which Deputy Coordinator K.P. Munusamy said the party leadership would formally announce the CM candidate at the appropriate time. Mr. Panneerselvam, in a tweet on Thursday, called for unity. Incidentally, Mr. Raju and Mr. Bhalaji, despite being in Chennai, were conspicuous by their absence in the meeting of Ministers. The week also saw a virtual spar between the AIADMK and its ally, BJP, over which of the two should head the alliance for the Assembly polls. Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam’s joint statement, alluded to the discussions over the party’s 2021 face and the issue of alliance with the BJP. Observations of certain office bearers, made without “provocation,” had become “subject matters of debates.” To avoid this, the party members should exercise “military discipline,” while adhering to decisions of the party leadership, as they did when Jayalalithaa was at the helm of affairs of the AIADMK, the two leaders pointed out. What did not go unnoticed among sections of the party was that the statement did not address the principal issue: who the party’s candidate was for the post of Chief Minister. Union Cabinet Apart from the immediate issues, the selection of the party’s nominee to be inducted into the Union Council of Ministers has been a matter of speculation within the AIADMK. This has got revived in the last 10 days with the talk of the Union Cabinet getting expanded shortly doing the rounds. The names of first-time Theni MP and Deputy Chief Minister’s son, O. P. Raveendranath Kumar, and former Housing Minister R. Vaithilingam, are being mentioned as possible candidates for long. Former Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M. Thambi Durai, and former State Local Administration Minister K.P. Munusamy, both recently elected to the Rajya Sabha, are said to be other aspirants. Independent of the developments, J. Poongunran Sankaralingam, who had worked as a personal aide of Jayalalithaa at her Poes Garden residence, in his Facebook account, published the photograph of former AIADMK MP V. Maitreyan along with Jayalalithaa, and stated that it was regrettable that Dr. Maitreyan, [identified in the post as a Brahmin] was not given a “high position” in the party.
16 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||Angoda Lokka was armed while hiding in Coimbatore: CB-CID||Suspected Sri Lankan fugitive gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka carried a pistol while staying illegally for nearly two years in Coimbatore, according to the CB-CID. Investigations by the CB-CID revealed that three of his aides, namely, Sri Lankan woman Amani Thanji, an advocate named D. Sivakamasundari of Madurai and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode, removed the pistol from Lokka's rented house at Balaji Nagar here after his death on July 3. They handed over the pistol to a Sri Lankan national in Madurai after Lokka's body was cremated there on July 5, mainly with the help of Sivakamasundari, said the investigators. The three accused, who were in the custody of the CB-CID team from Wednesday to Saturday, however, did not reveal the identity of Lokka's aide who took hold of the pistol. The three allegedly confessed to the investigators that the Aadhaar card they managed to obtain for Lokka in the name of Pradeep Singh, by submitting forged documents, was used for various purposes. It was used at Government offices and for arranging rented houses, said the CB-CID. The CB-CID suspects that Thanji, Sivakamasundari and Dyaneswaran removed potential personal materials of Lokka, including his digital devices, from the house after his death. The Peelamedu police who first searched the house before CB-CID took over the case could not find any devices of Lokka. An official privy to the developments told The Hindu that the investigation so far could not affirm whether Lokka tried to obtain a passport using the Aadhaar card. The investigation also found that Lokka had undergone only one plastic surgery at a private hospital at here. K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said the process of confirming the identity of Lokka scientifically would take time. “The works are under process,” he said. The CB-CID has added offences under provisions of the Arms Act and the Foreigners Act to the case. CB-CID produced the accused before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Coimbatore, after three days custody on Saturday. They were remanded in judicial custody. The counsel of Sivakamasundari has submitted a petition before the court seeking bail for the client.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monitoring committee for Delhi exceeded its power: SC||The Supreme Court has held that its monitoring committee, set up in 2006 to identify unauthorised structures and check misuse of residential properties in Delhi, exceeded its power. In a 70-page judgment, a three-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said the committee had no authorisation to take action and seal private residential premises not used for commercial purposes in the Capital. The Constitution mandates that a person can be deprived of property and right of residence only in the manner prescribed by law, the court noted. The Friday judgment was based on a challenge to a report submitted by the committee on the sealing of residential buildings in Vasant Kunj and Rajokari. It said the committee usurped statutory powers. It could also not have directed the demolition of these buildings. “No doubt encroachment is a matter of concern, but the monitoring committee can act within the four corners of powers conferred upon it,” the court observed. The court said past orders and documents pertaining to the committee show that the latter was set up to take action against unauthorised constructions and public encroachments. “It was never tasked by this court to take action against the residential premises that were not being used for commercial purposes. It was appointed only to check the misuse of residential properties for commercial purposes,” the court clarified. It ordered the premises to be de-sealed within three days. The monitoring panel comprising K.J. Rao, former adviser to the Election Commissioner, Bhure Lal, chairman of Environment Pollut-ion (Prevention and Control) Authority and Major General S.P. Jhingon (retd) was set up on March 24, 2006.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana crosses 90K COVID-19 cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana are inching towards 1 lakh cases. With 1,863 new cases on Friday, the total crossed 90,000. It stood at 90,259 on August 14. The total cases were 80,751 till August 9. In five days - August 10-14, 9,508 cases were recorded. A total of 1,07,595 tests were performed during this duration. In the past five days, the number of tests per day ranged between 18,000 to 23,500, and the number of new cases per day ranged around 1,900. Tests On Friday, 21,239 tests were performed and 1,863 cases were detected. It includes 394 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 175 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 131 from Rangareddy, 104 from Karimnagar, and 101 from Warangal Urban. Test results of 664 more are awaited. The toll reached 684 as 10 more COVID-19 patients died. Of the total 90,259 cases till August 14, 23,379 are active cases, 66,196 have recovered and 684 have died. A total of 7,32,435 tests were performed. While low number of cases continue to be detected in the GHMC, they are increasing in other districts.  Cases in age group Of the total, 65.9 % of cases are among people from 21-50 years of age group, 24.4 % among people above 50 years, and 3.4% of the total patients are children below 10 years. When the patients are categorised according to gender, 65.1% are male and the remaining 34.9% are female. Regarding bed availability, 3,302 oxygen beds, 533 ICU beds were available in the 42 State government hospitals on August 14. And 1,340 oxygen beds, and 713 ICU beds were available in private hospitals.
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||87 more succumb to coronavirus in the State||The State witnessed 87 new COVID-19 deaths and 8,732 new infections during the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the toll to 2,562 and the tally to 2,81,817, the Health Department’s bulletin said. For the first time, the positivity rate of the tests has crossed 10%. It is now 10.02% of the total 28,12,197 tests conducted since the beginning of the pandemic. It means, 10 in every 100 persons have tested positive for the virus in the State. The positivity rate so far in August is 16.37% with 1.40 lakh infections detected after testing 8.60 lakh samples. The State’s overall positivity rate is higher than that of the country (8.84%). Also, Andhra Pradesh has tested 52,663 samples for every 10 lakh people, the highest ratio among the States in the country. In the last one day, 53,712 samples were tested. ‘Highest recovery rate’ On the brighter side, the State has so far witnessed the highest recovery rate of 67.82% with a total of 1,91,117 discharges, including the 10,414 persons who have recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has come down to 88,138 and the death rate stands at 0.91%. Meanwhile, East Godavari has once again reported more than 1,000 new cases and is inching closer to the 40,000-mark. The district-wise number of new cases and fatalities is as follows: East Godavari (1,126 & 8), Chittoor (959 & 10), Visakhpatnam (894 & 6), Anantapur (851 & 7), Kurnool (734 & 7), Srikakulam (638 & 5), West Godavari (612 & 8), Guntur (609 & 9), Nellore (572 & 6), Vizianagaram (561 & 6), Prakasam (489 & 5), Kadapa (389 & 7) and Krishna (298 & 3). The total number of cases in the districts is as follows: East Godavari (39,418), Kurnool (32,746), Anantapur (28,947), Guntur (25,549), Visakhapatnam (24,296), West Godavari (22,689), Chittoor (22,478), Nellore (16,741), Kadapa (16,522), Srikakulam (13,958), Vizianagaram (12,245), Krishna (12,081), Prakasam (11,252).
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Will operate from 3 capitals soon: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday said the government would start operating from three Capitals in the State soon. Delivering his speech after unfurling the national flag at the 74th Independence Day celebrations at IGMC Stadium here, Mr. Jagan said the foundation stones for the Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam and Judicial Capital in Kurnool would be laid shortly. The 14-month-rule of his government followed justice, liberty, equality and fraternity, said the Chief Minister, who reviewed the police parade on the occasion. Tableaux of Medical and Health, Education, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Rural Development, COVID warriors, Fire Services and other departments highlighted various government schemes. Recalling the services of the freedom fighters, Mr. Jagan paid tributes to them. He saluted the doctors, nurses, para-medical and sanitation staff, police, grama and ward volunteers, sachivalayam staff and officers of various departments, who were fighting against COVID-19. Schemes Listing the schemes rolled out for students, women, the elderly and other sections of society, Mr. Jagan said of the 129 promises made during elections, 83 were implemented, 30 were ready for grounding and 39, which were not announced in the manifesto, were being implemented. A calender had been released in this regard, he said. He said the government was mounting pressure on the Centre for granting Special Category Statue (SCS) for A.P., and would follow it up continuously. The Chief Minister said Polavaram project would be completed by 2021, and six more irrigation projects would be taken up. Stating that 33% of the population did not have facilities for education even after 74 years of Independence, he said educational institutions were being developed under ‘Nadu-Nedu’, and government was implementing ‘Amma Vodi’, ‘Gorumudda’, ‘Vidya and Vasati Deevena’, Fee Reimbursement and introduction of English medium in all government-run schools under new education policy. About 1.4 lakh government jobs were filled, of which 82.5% were allocated to SC, ST and BC candidates. As many as 2.7 lakh volunteers were appointed for providing better services, he said. In all, 2,200 ailments were brought under Aarogyasri, 1,100 ‘104 and 108’ vehicles were launched and PHCs and government hospitals were being developed and 16 more medical colleges were sanctioned.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal credits residents for ‘COVID control’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday praised the “two crore people of Delhi” for their efforts in controlling the COVID-19 pandemic, but said that schools in the Capital would not reopen till the government is sure that circumstances are conducive. Delivering his Independence Day speech at the Delhi Secretariat, Mr. Kejriwal said the COVID situation in the city was “much better” now but there was still a long way to go. He said the success of the ‘Delhi Model’ was a result of the “togetherness of people, organisations, institutions and governments” and thanked them for their collective efforts. Mr. Kejriwal announced the provision of distributing oxygen concentrators for regulating the oxygen levels of recovered COVID patients. Seven ‘corona warriors’ were also invited to the event and lauded for serving people while risking their lives. Mr. Kejriwal paid tributes to martyrs and freedom fighters. “Today is the day to remember those who have struggled all their lives for this freedom. Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and many others who sacrificed their careers and families for the freedom of the country,” he said. Tribute to martyrs Remembering the soldiers who died defending the country’s honour, he said: “A few days back, we heard 20 of our soldiers were martyred on the India-China border. In the last 73 years, countless soldiers have lost their lives on the borders. We remember all those soldiers today, we salute them.”
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases rise in Capital fourth day in a row||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the national capital increased for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday with 1,276 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,51,928, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 10 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 4,188. Of the total cases, 1,36,251 people have recovered and 11,489 are active cases. The number of active cases has increased from 10,868 to 11,489 in the last four days. On July 1, there were 27,007 active cases in the city, which fell to 9,897 on August 4, but has remained above the 10,000 mark since then. A Delhi government official said that the city is witnessing a slight increase in the number of cases and other parameters compared to July, probably because people are going out more than before because of the relaxations. Testing below capacity But the number of new cases has been below 1,500 for the past 30 days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, the daily new COVID-19 cases touched almost 4,000 — the highest so far — but has been dropping since then. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, only 5,667 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 18,271 tests done in the city in the past 24 hours, over 68.9% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown lower positivity rate compared to RT-PCR tests. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people testing positive, has also dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 6.9% on August 15. The number of containment zones in the city stood at 538 on Saturday.
16 August 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||State reports 12,614 new cases; 322 deaths||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra increased to 5,84,754 on Saturday with the addition of 12,614 new cases, the State Health Department said. With 322 patients succumbing to the virus, the death toll in the State rose to 19,749, the department said. A total of 6,844 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the number of recovered persons to 4,08,286, it said. There are currently 1,56,409 active cases in the State, and the recovery rate stands at 69.82%, while the fatality rate is 3.38%, the department said. Mumbai city reported the highest single-day increase in cases with a spike of 1,254 on Saturday, while Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,114 cases. Of the total deaths, 48 were from Mumbai, and 34 from Pune city. In Pune district — except the city limits and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation — 25 deaths were reported. In Thane district — except Thane city — 18 deaths were reported. Nagpur city reported 18 new deaths, Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 14, Kalyan-Dombivli 11 and Mira Bhayandar 10 deaths. Palghar and Kolhapur (except Kolahpur city) districts reported 12 deaths due to COVID-19. In Jalna district, 10 people lost their lives due to the viral infection. There are currently 10,44,974 people in home quarantine in the State while 37,524 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
16 August 2020||Mumbai,||Academics express support for DU professor||Leading academics on Saturday issued a statement expressing solidarity with Delhi University professor Rakesh Ranjan, who was summoned and questioned by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case on Friday. Another Delhi University professor P.K. Vijayan, was also questioned on Friday. Signatories include professors from Delhi University, Jindal Global University, Ambedkar University, Presidency University, and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) such as Jayati Ghosh, Amit Bhaduri, and Prabhat Patnaik, among others. The professors said they have known their “friend and colleague from his student days”. In the statement they have said, “After finishing his BA from Delhi’s Ramjas College, he pursued higher studies in JNU and completed MA and M.Phil in economics from the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning. While pursuing his PhD on the agrarian transformation of Bihar, Rakesh took up the job of teaching economics in Shri Ram College of Commerce, University of Delhi.” The professors described Mr. Ranjan as an accomplished and popular teacher, who was always accessible to his students. “Rakesh was felicitated with the Distinguished Teacher Award by the President of India in 2009. As close friends and colleagues of Rakesh, we know that he has never been involved in any activity which can warrant an investigation by the NIA. It is by now clear that a number of individuals are being persecuted on patently false charges related to the Bhima-Koregaon incident,” the statement said. The statement said they “strongly feel this cruel persecution of innocent persons should immediately end”. They added, “What shocks us is that someone like Rakesh Ranjan is also being trapped in the same witch-hunt. Not only is he a serious academic and teacher, but also a most generous soul incapable of involvement in any violence.” The professors called upon the Union government to stop its “deliberate harassment of academics and activists, which is destroying our democracy, violating civil liberties and subverting the Constitutional order”.
16 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasPOLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),||Flood water enters villages, many shifted to safer places||With the inflows into the Godavari crossing the first warning level at Bhadrachalam, water has entered many villages at Polavaram, Velerupadu, and Kukunur mandals, and residents have been shifted to safer places. The flood level recorded at Bhadrachalam was 46 feet, Koida 23.830 metres, cofferdam 27.800 metres, Polavaram 13.290 metres and old railway bridge (Havelock bridge) 16.640 metres. Discharge from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage (Dowleswaram barrage) was 11.42 lakh cusecs at 6 p.m. on Saturday. According to the forecast, the flood level is rising in the Godavari due to heavy rains in the catchment areas in Chhattisgarh and other upstream areas. About 4 lakh cusecs of water flowed into the river from streams and rivulets from Chhattisgarh in the last 24 hours. The flood level at Bhadrachalam may touch the second warning level (i.e. 48 feet) by Sunday, officials said. Several hamlets were marooned and road link to many villages in Velerupadu, Kukunur and Polavaram mandals in the district was cut off. Tribal people staying in Godavari bund villages moved to hilly areas. Boats have been arranged for shifting them to rehabilitation centres, and to cross the causeways on which flood water was overflowing for the last two days.Tribal people from Vadapalli, Kothuru, Paidipakala, Koruturu, Gaddapalli and other villages were shifted to safer places. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan said a team had been sent to Warangal in Telangana, and three teams were kept ready in Visakhapatnam district. “We are ready to deploy teams in the flood effected villages in West and East Godavari and Krishna districts. NDRF officers are coordinating with the district officials in this regard,” Mr. Khan said. Water levels Due to heavy rainfall in the catchment areas and huge inflows, flood level was increasing at Prakasam Barrage. At 2 p.m, water level at Prakasam Barrage touched 3.07 tmcft, which was its full capacity. Inflow was 71,131 cusecs and outflow (discharge) 52,473 cusecs, and the trend is steady. The first warning level is issued if the flood level reach 3.96 lakh cusecs. In Sunkesula project, water level was 1.12 tmcft at 3 p.m., while the full capacity of the dam is 1.20 tmcftc. Discharge from the project was 4,379 cusecs by 3 p.m. In Srisailam project, water level was 136.70 tmcft at 2 p.m., while its full capacity is 215.81 tmcft. Outflow from the dam was 42,259 cusecs. In Nagarjuna Sagar project, present water level is 245.82 tmcft, while its full capacity is 312.05 tmcft. Discharge from the project was 15,429 cusecs and the trend is rising. In Pulichintala dam, present water level is 9.18 tmcft, while its full capacity is 45.77 tmcft. Discharge from the project was 100 cusecs by 3 p.m. and the trend was steady, the officials said. Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz visited Prakasam Barrage and reviewed the flood situation. The Krishna district administration has alerted the officials to take measures to prevent breaches and evacuate the people in low lying areas, as the water level was rising and discharge may increase from the barrage.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,||The tale of first king to be exiled by the British||The picture of the deposed Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal emperor, waiting for his exile to Burma after the 1857 rebellion continues to haunt generations of Indians. However, 56 years before this mutiny, the King of Sivaganga Vengai Periya Udayana Devar, along with 72 others, including Duraisamy, the son of Chinna Marudu, were exiled to Penang after their defeat at the hands of the British in the Kalayarkoil war. Their valour and ordeal has been captured in a new period novel Kala Pani (Black Water) by IAS officer M. Rajendran. “My mind was tumultuous when I imagined the conditions in which Udayana Devar was forced to live. He owned vast areas of land and was a leader of lakhs of people. How many people were around him in his last moments? How much agony he would have undergone when hardly anyone knew his greatness?” Mr. Rajendran said recalling his emotions when he stood before the cell in which the king was lodged. The war, described as the First War of Independence by historian K. Rajaiyan in his book South Indian Rebellion , took place in the forests of Kalayarkoil for six months in 1801. The Marudu brothers, who led the war, were hanged in Tirupattur and the British decided to exile the leading figures of the war. “In a way, hanging was a better option. Living in an unknown place was torture and humiliation. The ship carrying them had a non-stop voyage of 74 days, and three persons died during the journey. Over 10 persons became deranged and ran into the island,” said Mr. Rajendran, who is the Election Commissioner of the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Societies. On reaching Penang, the King was separated from others and sent to Sumatra, where he was lodged in a prison at Fort Marlborough in Bengkulu city. Mosquito-borne diseases ruined his health, and he died in three months at the age of 34. “Actually, the British had no idea about what to do with the political prisoners since it was the first time they were facing a situation like that. They wrote to the Governor in Kolkata whether they should be given any pension. Udayana Devar was granted £40 a month, £4 were sanctioned for Duraisamy and £2 each for four Poligars,” said Mr. Rajendran, who visited the prisons.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,||13 COVID-19 patients shifted after short circuit in Bengaluru hospital||As many as 13 COVID-19 patients, who were in the high-dependency unit (HDU) at Sir. C.V. Raman General Hospital, Indiranagar, were shifted out early on Saturday to other hospitals after a short circuit was detected in the electrical line leading to the oxygen control panel. H.D.R. Radhakrishna, Medical Superintendent, said that the patients were shifted in ambulances that were equipped with oxygen cylinders and all of them are stable. He said, “We had enough small oxygen cylinders in reserve. But we decided to shift the patients as a precautionary measure to avoid any panic. At no point was the oxygen supply stopped to the patients.” As many as nine patients were sent to Victoria Hospital; one to Vydehi Hospital, Whitefield; two to Mahaveer Jain Hospital, Millers Road, and one to Fortis Hospital, Cunningham Road. Dr. Radhakrishna said that although the Fire and Emergency Personnel rushed to the spot, there was no fire or smoke by the time they came as the main electricity connection was switched off temporarily after the short circuit was detected. In addition to the 13 patients, another four, who were not on oxygen support but were in the general ward, were also shifted to Victoria Hospital as one of their family members, who was on oxygen support, was being shifted.
16 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Australia-returned woman cheated of Rs. 5.79 lakh||An Australia-returned Masters degree holder was cheated of Rs. 5.79 lakh in a phishing attack while she was searching for a job in India. Nilakshi More, a 26-year-old resident of Airoli returned on February 11 after completing her Masters in biotechnology. She updated her personal details, including her educational qualifications and contact details, on a job search portal. After applying to several organisations, on February 22, she received a job offer. The email id from which she received the offer was a lookalike of an official mail id of a Canada-based chemical company. The mail came with a link to fill a form which she did. After a few days, she received another e-mail from the same id, confirming that she had been selected. Later, a woman who identified herself as Lynn Desautels called Ms. More and sought some more details. She then connected Ms. More to one Nora Jayden. Multiple transactions Ms. Jayden said she was an agent from New Delhi and told Ms. More that she would have to pay Rs. 35,800 as work visa charges, and an additional Rs. 88,650 for the work permit. As per the complaint registered by Ms. More with the Rabale Police, she paid an additional Rs. 2.89 lakh towards travel expenses including flight tickets. The accused also asked Ms. More transfer another Rs. 1.65 lakh to create a new bank account for her. “When the accused kept demanding more money under some pretext or the other, the complainant got suspicious and did a background check of the firm,” an officer from Rabale police station said. It was then that she realised that the email account used by the accused was fake. It was after this that she decided to approach the police. “We are investigating the case with the assistance of the cyber cell,” the police officer said.
16 August 2020||KAKINADA,||Team to monitor flood situation||Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das on Saturday asked a team of public representatives and officials, led by BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, to inspect the villages facing flood threat in East and West Godavari districts. Mr. Krishna Das, in-charge Minister of East Godavari, directed the revenue officials to ensure timely evacuation. “Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna and Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja will conduct a field study in the affected areas on Sunday, coordinate the evacuation measures, apart from giving suggestions on possible support to avoid losses,” said Mr. Krishna Das.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Guided by the flag||
16 August 2020||Belagavi,||Tension over installation of statue in Belagavi dist.||Tension prevailed in Peeranwadi village near Belagavi on Saturday over a long-standing dispute between two groups over the installation of a statue of Sangolli Rayanna. Additional police forces were deployed in the village. Commissioner of Police K. Thiyagarajan said the situation was under control. Members of the Sangolli Rayanna Youth Association went on strike demanding the installation of the statue in the village square. They alleged that the police and revenue officials had stopped them from erecting it. They staged a dharna at the panchayat office for some time demanding immediate action. They alleged that the Maratha Youth Association opposed the installation and demanded action against its members. Some of them also argued that August 15 was the birth anniversary of Rayanna and that they had a right to honour him with a statue on his birthday. However, the police said that the the association had not taken permission for the installation and not even informed the villagers. A few of them went at night and tried to install the statue. Also, the site they chose for the statue is by the side of a national highway, the police added.
16 August 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi SP tests positive||Belagavi Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi has tested positive for COVID-19. He announced on his social media handle that he had undergone random testing and the results were announced on Saturday. He also said that Additional Superintendent of Police Amarnath Reddy will be in charge. Mr. Nimbaragi had participated in the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday morning.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A glow||
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Salute to nation||
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Joy unlimited||
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Facing unprecedented challenges: Yediyurappa||Highlighting the challenges on account of the pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in his first public appearance after recovering from COVID-19, underscored the government’s commitment to build a welfare State in his address on Saturday.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,||Kodagu landslip: One more body recovered||Ten days after five persons went missing following a landslip at the Brahamagiri Hills in Kodagu, the authorities recovered one more body on Saturday. The body was identified as that of Ravikiran, who was among the five reported missin.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi,||Shivakumar, Bommai trade charges over riots||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday hit back at Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had said that the rioting had its roots in “internal fight” of the Congress and animosity with the Social Democratic Party of India in the area.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No change in Pranab Mukherjee’s health status||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition remains unchanged and his clinical parameters are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital said on Saturday. “He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the hospital said in a statement.
16 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. govt. extends Kafeel Khan’s detention||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended Kafeel Khan’s detention under the National Security Act, 1980, by three more months. The order signed by Vinay Kumar, Deputy Secretary, Home (Security) Department, said the decision was being taken on the basis of reports submitted by the NSA advisory board and the District Magistrate of Aligarh.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan case: CJAR urges SC to reconsider decision||The Supreme Court has lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary persons by convicting civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt, said the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms on Saturday. Mr. Bhushan, CJAR’s convenor, was found guilty of scandalising the SC with his tweets.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,||Kodagu landslip: One more body recovered||Ten days after five persons went missing following a landslip at the Brahamagiri Hills in Kodagu, the authorities recovered one more body on Saturday. The body was identified as that of Ravikiran.
16 August 2020||belagavi,||House collapses in Belagavi, four rescued||The police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued four persons who were caught inside an old house, a portion of which collapsed in Gondhalli Galli in the old city in Belagavi on Saturday night. The walls had weakened due to the continued rainfall, the police said.
16 August 2020||Mumbai,||Pay Rs. 5 lakh to Shoma Sen, HC tells Nagpur varsity||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed Nagpur University to pay a sum of Rs. 5 lakh to professor Shoma Sen, the former head of its English department, towards her retirement benefits within a week. A Division Bench of Justices R.K. Deshpande and N.B. Suryawanshi was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Sen’s husband, Tushar Bhattacharya, through advocate Prakash Meghe. The plea was filed on behalf of Ms. Sen, who is lodged at Byculla women’s prison since her arrest on June 6, 2018, for her alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon case.
16 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘MVA govt. made 29.50 lakh farmers debt-free’||The Maharashtra government has made 29.50 lakh farmers in the State debt-free by depositing Rs. 18,980 crore into their bank accounts, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Mr. Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, was speaking after hoisting the national flag at Mantralaya on the 74th Independence Day. He also said his government would focus on farmers and the working class as it tries to transform Maharashtra into a welfare State.
16 August 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,860 new cases, 127 deaths||A total of 5,860 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Saturday, taking its tally to 3,32,105. The Health Department recorded the death of 127 persons, the highest daily toll yet. Another 5,236 persons were discharged. In Chennai, 1,179 persons tested positive for the infection.
16 August 2020||Chennai,||32 doctors died of COVID-19 in State: IMA||Thirty-two doctors have died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu so far, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Tamil Nadu State branch, has stated. Another 15 doctors who died had symptoms of COVID-19, but tested negative. A Siddha practitioner too died of COVID-19. The government was apprised of the details periodically, the IMA said.
16 August 2020||Chennai,||Contact tracing fetches award for cyber wing||The Tamil Nadu Cyber Crime wing was presented the ‘Best Practices’ Award at the Independence Day celebrations in Chennai on Saturday, in appreciation of the work done by its personnel in combating COVID-19. Policemen from the wing were involved in contact tracing and identification of hotspots.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. may review the age of marriage: PM||The government may take a relook at the age of marriage of women in its bid to fight malnutrition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech. “We have formed a committee to ensure that daughters no longer suffer from malnutrition and they are married off at the right age. As soon as the report is submitted, appropriate decisions will be taken about the age of marriage of daughters,” he said. This follows from Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget Speech on February 1, 2020, when a task force was proposed to look into the “age of a girl entering motherhood” in order to lower maternal mortality rates and improve nutrition levels. In June, the government announced a 10-member panel headed by Jaya Jaitly and comprising Secretaries from the Ministries of Human Resource Development, Women and Child Development, and Health and Family Welfare, among others. The committee has missed its July 31 deadline to finalise its report and give recommendations. “This is a really important direction and a welcome recognition at the highest levels in the government about the links between the health of mothers and babies when a girl is married too early and has a child before the age of 20 years. The challenges are not straightforward though as reasons for early marriage vary across the country,” says Purnima Menon, senior research fellow, at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI). Stunting in children A study conducted by IFPRI and published last year in The Lancet Child and Adolescent Health showed that children born to adolescent mothers (10-19 years) were 5 percentage points more likely to be stunted (shorter for their age) than those born to young adults (20-24 years), and 11 percentage points more stunted than children born to adult mothers. Children born to adolescent mothers also had 10 percentage points higher prevalence of low weight as adult mothers. It also highlighted other factors, such as lower education among teenage mothers and their poor economic status, which had the strongest links with a child’s height and weight measurements. It recommended that “increasing age at first marriage, age at first birth, and girl’s education are a promising approach to also improve maternal and child nutrition”. However, activists appealed that the issue must be addressed by empowering girls as poverty and lack of safety are the main drivers of early marriage. Focus on empowerment The National Coalition Advocating for Adolescent Concerns on behalf of 21 NGOs in its submission to the Task Force last month asserted that increasing the legal age of marriage for girls will only “artificially expand the numbers of married persons deemed underage and criminalise them and render underage married girls without legal protection. Instead, transformative, well resourced measures that increase girls’ access to education and health, create enabling opportunities and place girl’s empowerment at the centre will not just delay marriage but lead to a long term, positive health and education outcomes”. It also underlined that the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 instead of curbing child marriages, has only played as a weapon in the hands of parents to punish their daughters for elopement and is used in conjunction with other laws to punish boys in self-arranged marriages. It has called for the need for awareness about safe sex, access to reproductive health information, improving access to education, and retaining girls in the education system so that they are able to transition from elementary to secondary education, and beyond which can then delay marriage. “While legal enactment to prevent child marriages is necessary, we must simultaneously work towards keeping girls in school, invest in economic and social empowerment of women and girls, as well as targeted social and behaviour change communication (SBCC) campaigns to put an end to this harmful practice,” said Poonam Muttreja of the Population Foundation of India.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. think tank flags chemical industry’s infra shortcomings||A key government think tank has flagged the lack of infrastructure in the chemical industry in the country as a barrier to competing with China. “India does not have the technology, plants and infrastructure to manufacture (key) chemicals in a cost effective and less polluting manner ... manufacturers are unable to meet the price at which they are produced by China ... solvent and chemicals manufacturing costs in India are over 15% more than China,” stated a report by the Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), a Union Science Ministry think tank. It is almost “entirely dependent” on China for chloroquine and hydroxycholoroquine (HCQ), the report added. The latter drug was earlier touted as a promising antiviral for COVID-19. The report was commissioned in March, around the time the pandemic had started to accelerate in the country. The report underlined that India had nearly stopped manufacturing several key active pharmaceutical ingredients (API). Fall in share Citing another report by KPMG, the TIFAC study said that the share of Indian bulk drugs and intermediates in the total pharmaceutical export mix reduced to 20% in 2018 from 42% in 2008. “India has given up the manufacturing of APIs for ascorbic acid, aspartame and antibiotics like rifampicin, doxycycline, tazobactam acid and even steroids. Production of intermediates such as atorvastatin, chloroquine, gabapentin, ciproflocaxin, cephalosporins, immunosuppressants have also been stopped,” it noted.  India depends on China for 67% of chemical intermediates and API that it needs to manufacture drugs and export. The United States and Italy are the other countries that India depends on for API.
16 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No respite as cases rise in Kerala, Karnataka||A cluster of 53 new COVID-19 cases in a Kerala prison, and a fresh high in the State with 1,608 more testing positive on Saturday, were among the highlights of the pandemic’s course in four southern States. The cumulative Kerala cases stood at 42,885. The State reported 803 recoveries, and 14,891 patients were under treatment in hospitals. A total of 27,779 persons had recovered. The Health department added seven more deaths to the COVID-19 toll, attributing three earlier deaths at Thiruvananthapuram, two at Ernakulam and one each at Kollam and Kasaragod to the virus. Total deaths were 146. Among new cases, nearly 90 % – 1,444 – were locally acquired infections, including 31 health care workers. In 112 cases, no epidemiological link was available. At 362, Malappuram district overtook Thiruvananthapuram again with the maximum number of new cases. Nineteen of 31 healthcare workers tested positive in Malappuram. Thiruvananthapuram reported 321 cases. The district cases were: Kozhikode (151), Alapuzha (118), Ernakulam (106), Kollam (91), Thrissur (85), Kasaragod (81), Palakkad (74), Kannur (52), Pathanamthitta (49), Wayanad (48), Kottayam (39) and Idukki (31). The State tested 32,108 samples in 24 hours. Cases emerged in large numbers in the Poojappura Central Prison in Thiruvananthapuram, as 53 more prisoners tested positive; in five days, 217 inmates were diagnosed. Two assistant prison officers and a doctor working in a jail hospital tested positive. The capital district had 321 more people testing positive. The COVID-19 death toll rose to 33 in Thiruvananthapuram as three people succumbed due to the disease recently. Karnataka on Saturday reported 8,818 new cases, the highest in a single day. Positive cases stood at 2,19,926. Of new cases, 3,495 were from Bengaluru. Eight other districts saw more than 200 new positive cases. The number of statewide deaths stood at 114. Of the total 81,276 active cases, 716 were in ICU. Also, 54,806 tests were conducted, 29,075 tests being of RT PCR type. The 87 new deaths and 8,732 new infections in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday raised the toll to 2,562 and the tally to 2,81,817, the Health department said. In the past day, 53,712 samples were tested. Active cases were 88,138. New cases and deaths included East Godavari (1,126 cases, 8 deaths), Chittoor (959, 10), Visakhpatnam (894, 6), Anantapur (851, 7), Kurnool (734, 7). Telangana, where 1,863 more tested positive on Friday had 90,259 cases. On Friday, 21,239 tests were done. There were 394 cases from Greater Hyderabad. Of the total, 65.9% cases were among people from 21-50 years of age.  (With inputs from Karnataka, Vijayawada, Hyderabad,bureaus)
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Protect India’s sovereignty: Sonia||The real tribute to Colonel Santosh Babu and 20 soldiers who were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control on June 15 would be to guard India’s sovereignty and to foil the Chinese incursions, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking from the ramparts of the Red Fort, had said, “Whether it was the LAC or the LoC (Line of Control), whenever anyone has tried to violate the territorial integrity of the country, our jawans have answered the challenge in the same language as it was issued.” He did not directly refer to China in the speech. In a statement in Hindi, Ms. Gandhi offered tributes to the soldiers and urged the government to give them the due respect. “The real tribute to these soldiers would be to protect India’s sovereignty and to foil the Chinese incursions.” ‘Democracy in danger’ She accused the government of standing against Indian democratic and constitutional values. Ms. Gandhi said, “Today, every countryman needs to look within and think, ‘what does freedom mean?’ Are they free today to write, to speak, to ask questions, to disagree, to seek accountability?” As a responsible Opposition, she said, the Congress would work towards keeping India’s democratic freedom intact. “India’s democratic structure has often come under stress in the last 74 years of independence, but every time it has been tested, it has only emerged stronger,” Ms. Gandhi said. It was once again in danger, since the government of the day saw itself in conflict with established values and norms. “This is an hour of crisis for the Indian democracy.” Ms. Gandhi, however, exuded confidence about overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic downturn. Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] general secretary Sitaram Yechury, speaking at a webinar, said Mr. Modi had talked about constructing a new India in his Independence Day address. “This new India is a negation of the India established by our Constitution,” Mr. Yechury said. He added that while on August 15 India may have got freedom, “we saw [on] August 5th an assault on our Constitutional values”, in a reference to the end of Kashmir’s special status, and the PM’s participation in the Ram temple ceremony at Ayodhya. Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D. Raja said Mr. Modi’s speech was “packed with rhetoric and empty promises”. “He spoke about a self-reliant India, however, his policies are contrary to it. The Prime Minister and his government have been systematically privatising all public sector units,” Mr. Raja said.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Oli seeks ‘meaningful bilateral ties’||Prime Minister of Nepal K.P. Sharma Oli on Saturday called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held a discussion, sources in Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. A Nepalese official statement declared that Mr. Oli sought “meaningful bilateral cooperation” with India. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that anti-COVID-19 cooperation was discussed during the phone call. “The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in both countries. Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard,” the MEA said in a press statement. Mr. Oli’s phone call comes after months of tension between the two sides over the Kalapani territorial dispute. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal said Mr. Oli praised India’s official policy on South Asia. “Prime Minister Oli appreciated Prime Minister Modi’s renewed priority to neighbourhood as spelt out in today’s Independence Day address,” a statement from Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. The Nepalese leader also congratulated India on the recent election to a non-permanent seat at the UN Security Council. Mr. Oli had earlier greeted Mr. Modi on his social media accounts on the occasion of Independence Day. “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” said Mr. Oli in a post on one of his official social media handles. Boosting dialogue Sources in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal said the telephonic conversation lasted 15 minutes and the two leaders exchanged thoughts about multiple issues.   The high-level contact came after nearly nine months of tension and war of words after India asserted control over the Kalapani-Lipulekh-Limpiyadhura region of Pithoragarh which is claimed by Nepal. Nepal issued a map in response, which depicted the region as part of Nepalese sovereign territory and urged India to convene Foreign Secretary-level dialogue to address Nepal’s concerns. The phone call is expected to boost the upcoming “oversight mechanism” level dialogue which is planned for next week. The discussion between the Foreign Secretary of Nepal, Shankar Bairagi, and Indian Ambassador to Kathmandu, Vinay Mohan Kwatra, will focus on bilateral development projects and other issues like border security and COVID-19 management. However, the Kalapani issue is unlikely to be part of this initiative. The chat comes ahead of an expected reshuffle of the Cabinet of Prime Minister Oli, who appears to have thwarted a tough challenge from rivals in the ruling Nepal Communist Party led by Co-Chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda.”
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CJAR urges SC to reconsider decision in Bhushan case||The Supreme Court has lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary persons by convicting civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt, said the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) in a statement on Saturday. Mr. Bhushan, CJAR’s convenor, was found guilty of scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets on a photograph of Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde and the court. Mr. Bhushan’s defence was his right to free speech. He had said criticism cannot lead to contempt. The hearing on his punishment is scheduled for August 20. “Once hailed as one of the ‘most powerful Constitutional courts’ in the world, it is unfortunate that the court is intolerant of even the most temperate and well-intentioned criticism. We call upon each and every sitting judge of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to reconsider this decision that has, more than anything, harmed the court’s own prestige and dignity in the eyes of the public,” the statement said. When the court’s functioning has been disrupted due to the pandemic and important cases concerning the rights of millions are being adjourned for months, the haste with which the Court has proceeded to hear and convict Mr. Bhushan is unseemly, the statement said. ‘Stern consequences’ The conviction, the CJAR said, is intended to send across a message of stern consequence to critics of the judiciary. “The judiciary commands respect and never demands it. Respect and dignity cannot be demanded from citizens on the threat of contempt,” the statement said. It said criminal contempt to prop up the court’s dignity is an archaic law that has been abandoned in other countries.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC lawyers warn against resuming physical hearings||Over 220 lawyers practising in the Supreme Court have written to the seven-member committee of Supreme Court judges, led by Justice N.V. Ramana, saying it is too early to safely resume physical court hearings in the apex court amid the pandemic. The letter is in response to the committee’s “in-principle” recommendation of the resumption of physical court hearings in two or three courtrooms on a trial basis in a fortnight. The letter addressed to the Secretary of the committee said the lawyers had sounded their objections to the Supreme court Bar Association and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association. “The number of persons getting infected with the virus has increased to about 67,000 per day as on August 12, 2020 with Delhi showing an increase by about 1,100 persons. The number of infected persons is expected to increase every day and may reach 1,00,000 in next 10 days,” the lawyers, including Advocates-on-Record Anil Sharma, Pradeep Kumar Gupta and Sriram Parakkat along with 223 others, wrote. Risk of transmission They said physical hearings would only increase the risk of transmission of infection to court rooms. “This will expose judges, staff and lawyers to increased risk of contracting the infection. Further, Union of India has not relaxed social distancing norms for the reason of preventing community spread,” they said, adding that medical experts continue to be against physical hearings.
16 August 2020||Bhopal,||How defending their villages against dacoits empowered the women of Rewa||Years ago, when Soundarya Adivasi was handed a 12 bore gun for the first time, her arms, which had mostly heaved logs and carried toddlers since childhood, dropped with a quiver under its weight. But she held on, realising only women could guard the village in Rewa district against the terrorising dacoit ‘Dadua’. Women, children and the old and infirm were left behind every year as Majhiyar’s men travelled miles looking for agricultural labour, except in the rainy season, often not returning for months. “ Mard toh pardes chale jaate the (men used to go to different areas), and ‘Dadua’ and his gang members used to barge into our houses, abduct and harass women and girls, and even steal cattle,” Ms. Adivasi, 45, told The Hindu . Livelihood options But today, she steps out fearlessly to work in others’ fields and sell timber in the market. Although women of three villages successfully staved off several attempts by Shiv Kumar Patel, known as ‘Dadua’, to enter their homes for five years, their empowerment, which began after 12 women got guns for self defence, did not stop after his killing in 2007 by the police. In fact, it opened up livelihood options for residents and improved women’s participation in the workforce and the decision-making, as the enduring dread of dacoits petered out. Over the years, villagers have opened businesses, many headed by women. But small landholdings still impel families to migrate for work. “We can now accompany the men to other areas to earn better income which was not possible earlier. Families feared houses would be pillaged in their absence,” said Ms. Adivasi, whose family owns less than a bigha land. What showcased the women’s courage and leadership for the first time was an incident in neighbouring Kakaredi village, days after they were given guns. As the gang, which operated in both Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, lurked at the village’s edges, a woman who saw them approach shouted to alert others, who assembled clutching their guns. “We fired in the air, and they fled. That moment felt empowering,” recalled Ms. Adivasi. Men stood behind women in protecting villages in their absence, said Shyamkali Saket of Majhiyar. Earlier, women kept their faces veiled in front of strangers and weren’t allowed to step outside if not for farming. But seeing the women sentinels confidently wield guns, hold mock drills, and patrol around the villages’ perimeter with alertness at night, startled the men. “But it inspired other women to step out, sell timber in markets miles away, where they secured a better price,” said Ms. Saket. Practised on their own During the Chief Minister’s visit to the district in 2004, women had requested for guns which were handed over to them under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM). A dealer initially gave lessons in handling the guns, but eventually the women practised on their own — shooting at tree trunks, and fruits hanging from trees. “Security of women was the primary focus at that point,” said Ajay Singh, District Programme Manager, NRLM. On how the guns are being used now, after years of practice, Ms. Adivasi says, “We fire them for celebration during marriages and political functions.” Majhiyar sarpanch Saroj Singh, who recalls being fearful of being married in the village 40 years ago, believes that as long as women stay united no baagi (rebel) can touch them. “I encourage women to shoo away any miscreants with lathi s now,” she said.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Idols from U.S. galleries handed over to India||The U.S. authorities have formally handed over to India a set of priceless antique pieces, including a limestone relief of Shiva and Parvati, a marble Apsara, and some other idols. The artefacts were handed over to Indian officials at a ceremony to mark the Indian Independence Day festivities in New York. They were reportedly stolen and smuggled out of the country at different times. They were seized from the Nancy Weiner Gallery, Christie’s in New York, and the Maitreya Gallery, all of which are situated in the United States. This is the first time the American law enforcement agencies have disclosed the names of the galleries and individuals in possession of the artefacts, and their valuation. Launching ‘Operation Hidden Idol’ in 2012, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security had unearthed a treasure of 2,622 objects valued at $108 million from the business and storage facilities of Subash Kapoor. The authorities secured the cooperation of Kapoor’s former associates and seized documents, which, on investigation, led to a network of antiquities smugglers. Following this, the U.S. authorities began seizing many antique pieces from auction houses and art galleries across the country. Over 200 of them were returned to India in June 2016, while many are yet to be handed over due to pending legal formalities. The restitution includes the marble Apsara ceiling panel depicting a celestial goddess figure dated to the 10th century, valued at $500,000; and a stone relief of Shiva and Parvati standing next to each other with halos behind them, dated to the 8th century. The red sandstone relief of a couple from the region of Mathura in India, belonging to somewhere between the 1st and 2nd century was valued at about $100,000. They were seized from Nancy Weiner Gallery on March 16, 2016.
16 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala plans to operate buses to Karnataka during Onam||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate inter-State services to Karnataka and back from August 25 to September 9 to clear the rush during the forthcoming Onam festival. The inter-State service will be using the Super Class buses in the fleet of the State transport undertaking for the first time since the pandemic-induced lockdown commenced in March. The online reservation for the services to Bengalaru commenced on Saturday in the website (online.keralartc.com). The services will be from Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, Kozhikode and Kasargod to Bengaluru and back. Commuters will have to pay 10% more than the regular inter-State bus fare, which will be levied on an end-to-end basis (commuters boarding en route will have to pay full fare from the commencement of the journey to the destination), Managing Director, KSRTC, Biju Prabhakar said on Saturday. All the travellers will have to register in the COVID-19 portal jagratha.kerala.nic.in, and will have to produce the pass to travel to Kerala. Full refund of fares will be provided if the schedule is cancelled due to poor patronage or any other reason.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Enact law to bar criminals from polls: HC||The Madras High Court has directed the Centre to explain in two weeks as to why it should not enact a law prohibiting people with criminal background from contesting in parliamentary, Assembly and local body elections. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani issued the direction after taking note of media reports of “persons with criminal background becoming policy makers in many parts of the country”. They said such practice “has to be prevented and the system has to be cleansed”. Passing an interim order on a habeas corpus petition (HCP), the judges said: “This is possible only if the top leaders of our political parties are firm in not admitting criminals in their parties. The leaders should have a vision for decriminalisation of politics”. Pending cases The Bench pointed out that an analysis of the 2019 Lok Sabha election winners by the Association for Democratic Reforms, a non-governmental organisation, revealed that 43% (233 out of 539 Members of Parliament) had declared criminal cases pending against them. Further, 29% (159 MPs) of the legislators were facing serious criminal cases. “Therefore, the Central government has to come out with a comprehensive legislation to prohibit persons with criminal background from contesting elections,” the Bench said. Authoring the order, Justice Kirubakaran observed: “Indian democracy should not be tainted by criminals. It is seen that some of the criminal elements are also floating political parties on their own with the support of their religion or communities and the same is required to be prohibited”. The observations were made while dealing with the HCP to quash a preventive detention order passed against Jana alias A. Janarthanan, who is facing as many as 19 criminal cases including charges of murder, attempt to murder, and dacoity in Puducherry. Though the cases were pending as early as in 2009, investigation had not been completed in most of the cases. “This would speak about his clout with political parties especially ruling parties and police. But for political interference, police would have filed charge sheets,” the court said. “Many murders are committed cruelly by throwing country-made bombs. In three cases, registered against the present detenu, he and other accused had used country-made bombs. In 2018, former Speaker of Puducherry Sivakumar was murdered by a gang in same fashion,” the Bench added. Active gangs After impleading the Director General of Police as one of the respondents to the HCP suo motu , the judges directed him to submit in two weeks, the details of rowdy gangs active in Puducherry. The judges also wanted to know similar countrywide data from the Centre.
16 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal forms panel for autonomy demands||The Arunachal Pradesh government on Friday formed a nine-member committee to discuss and arrive at a possible solution to the touchy issue of creation of two autonomous councils in the State. The panel headed by Deputy CM Chowna Mein has seven Cabinet colleagues, including Home Minister Bamang Felix and Tribal Affairs Minister Alo Libang as members. The ninth member is Home Commissioner Kaling Tayeng. The committee, an official order said, has been tasked with consulting all the community-based organisations “on the issues related to constitutional safeguards for the indigenous people of the State” and submit a report. The first meeting is expected to be held in Itanagar on August 19. Larger ethnic groups such as the Nyishi and Galo inhabiting the central parts of Arunachal Pradesh expressed concern over the bid to revive the demands for Mon Autonomous Region and Patkai Autonomous Council. They slammed Chief Minister Pema Khandu for “raking up” the issue by attending an event in Tawang where the MAR demand was allegedly raised. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union has been critical of the demands too. MAR envisages autonomy for the western part comprising Tawang, West Kameng and parts of East Kameng districts. Tawang is the CM’s home turf. PAC encompasses three eastern districts – Tirap, Changlang and Longding – where various factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland are active. The Assembly had in 2004 adopted a resolution for the creation of MAR and PAC that anti-autonomy groups say are being backed by external forces. While MAR is seen as an “encouragement for China” to be more vocal about claims over Arunachal Pradesh, the Isak-Muivah faction of NSCN is believed to be fuelling the PAC movement to make it a part of Greater Nagalim. Mr. Khandu had on August 5 proposed discussions on the autonomy issue. Political parties, social and students’ organisations have pointed out that the demand was meaningless as Arunachal Pradesh is a Fifth Schedule State where “indigenous communities do not enjoy the kind of rights” their counterparts in other Northeastern States.
16 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha gets Rs. 12,000-cr. investment proposals||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday said the State got investment proposals worth Rs. 12,000 crore during the lockdown period accounting for 18% of total investment proposals received in the country around the same time. Addressing the Independence Day celebrations here, Mr. Patnaik said Odisha became number one in attracting investment, relegating Maharashtra to second position. “We have taken various steps to continue economic activity during lockdown. Along with agriculture and infrastructure development projects, many employment generation works are being taken up. Assistance has been provided to the poor and daily wage labourers,” he said. On July 24, the State Level Single Window Clearance Authority (SLSWCA) had approved four investment proposals in sectors such as metal and its downstream industries worth over Rs. 2,172.92 crore. It is likely to generate employment for 1,122 people. On June 29, the authority had given its nod for five investment proposals in sectors such as metal, food processing, logistics and infrastructure worth over Rs. 608.79 crore.  Dwelling on the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Patnaik said, “The contagion has emerged as a huge crisis. It has impacted education, health, economy, tourism and transport sectors in a big way. Crores of people are losing their livelihood. The situation will become normal once a vaccine is available.” “We need to work with great strength to compensate the loss caused to the economy as well as society,” he said. The Chief Minister stated that Odisha had set up COVID hospitals to combat the pandemic. Apart from establishing five plasma banks, the government was facilitating plasma therapy.
16 August 2020||Srinagar,||Mixed reaction to PM’s remark on J&K poll||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks during his Independence Day address that elections would be held in J&K only after delimitation, evoked mixed reactions from political parties in the Union Territory. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expressed concern over the conditional resumption of the electoral process. “PM’s speech is a special gift for J&K on I-Day. Democracy must wait till complete Muslim political and administrative disempowerment. Isn’t that what the PM meant in his address to the nation?” former legislator and PDP leader Firdous Tak said. People’s Democratic Front (PDF) chief Hakeem Yaseen welcomed the statement of Mr. Modi. “Result-oriented measures for restoration of political and election process were imperative to end socio-political uncertainty and bring peace and normalcy in troubled J&K. The Governor’s rule was no substitute to a civilian government. At present, the administration was running on the whims of bureaucrats without any political directive,” Mr. Yaseen said. BJP UT general secretary Ashok Koul said his party was also for “polls to take place in J&K”. “Delimitation exercise is already on and when that will end, the Assembly polls will be held.” On restoration of statehood, he said, "The Centre is committed to restore the state status but for that all guns should fall silent."
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pharma units gear up for Russian vaccine||Indian companies have sought technical details on the trials of Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for possible production in India, an Indian Embassy source in Moscow said. Separately, in an interview to Russian state media Sputnik, Indian Envoy in Moscow, D.B. Venkatesh Varma, said, “I had a productive discussion with CEO of RDIF, Mr. Kirill Dmitriev, and we are hopeful of positive outcome.” Last Tuesday, Russia became the first country to officially register a coronavirus vaccine and Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that one of his daughters had also been inoculated. “Indian companies are in touch with RDIF regarding vaccines and have asked for technical details about Phase I and Phase II trials of the vaccine and also for production of vaccines in India for third country exports and production of vaccines for use in India after regulatory clearances,” an Indian Embassy source in Moscow said. ‘Three vaccines’ Addressing the nation from the Red Fort on Independence Day earlier on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there are three COVID-19 vaccines under development within the country and India will start mass production of vaccines once scientists give the go ahead. “We hope that a vaccine will come up not only in Russia, but in India too, and that too will provide an opportunity for collaboration,” Mr. Varma told RBC TV in Russia ahead of Independence Day. There is already collaboration between Indian and Russian pharmaceutical companies, Mr. Varma noted, adding that firms are watching very closely the advances that Russia has been making in the production of vaccine.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Suo motu contempt power is inherent: SC||The prior consent of the Attorney General (AG) of India is not required to suo motu initiate the inherent contempt powers of the Supreme Court. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra held that the suo motu contempt powers of the top court is drawn from Article 129 of the Constitution, which says the Supreme Court, as a court of record, has the power to punish for contempt of itself. The Contempt of Court Act of 1971 cannot limit this power of the court. The statute only provides the procedure in which such contempt is to be initiated. The court explained this in its 108-page judgment in a suo motu contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweets. The lawyer was found guilty of contempt on Friday. “As far as the suo motu petitions are concerned, there is no requirement for taking consent of anybody, including the Attorney General because the court is exercising its inherent powers to issue notice for contempt. It is equally well settled, that once the court takes cognisance, the matter is purely between the court and the contemnor,” the judgment said. It said the only requirement is that the procedure followed is required to be just and fair and in accordance with the principles of natural justice.
16 August 2020||JAYASHANKAR BHUPALPALLY,||10 farmers stuck in flood water rescued in Telangana||In a daring operation, as many as 10 farmers got new lease of life. The incident took place Kundanpally village in Tekumatla mandal of Jayashankar Bhupalapally district on Saturday. According to sources, the farmers went to the other side of Chali Vagu (stream) for regular agriculture operations on Saturday morning. By the time of their return, the stream was overflowing, thereby forcing them to stay back. On coming to know of the incident, Minister E. Dayakar Rao and MLA G. Venkata Ramana Reddy immediately alerted the officials. The efforts made by rescue teams failed to bring them to the other side of the stream. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao brought the issue to the notice of Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who immediately responded and roped in a helicopter. In coordination with Collector Abdul Azim and Additional Superintendent of Police Srinivasulu, the rescue operation was carried out successfully and all the 10 farmers were safely airlifted to the other side. Stating that it may rain for two or three more days, Mr. Dayakar Rao appealed people to confine themselves to their homes.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Digital Health Mission will liberate citizens’||The National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) aims at “liberating” citizens from the challenges of finding the right doctors, seeking appointment, paying consultation fee and making several rounds of hospitals for prescription sheets, the Health Ministry said in a statement. On Saturday, as part of his Independence Day address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the NDHM. “Every Indian will get a Health ID card. Every time you visit a doctor or a pharmacy, everything will be logged in this card. From the doctor’s appointment to the medication, everything will be available in your health profile,” he said. The National Health Authority (NHA), the attached office of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare which runs the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, would “design, build, roll-out and implement the NDHM,” the Health Ministry said. The scheme would first be tested in the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said, “Based on the initial learnings, we will gradually work in partnership with the States to launch the NDHM. I seek the whole-hearted support, inputs and cooperation of doctors, healthcare facilities, citizens and State governments to adopt this game-changing scheme.” Voluntary programme The NDHM would be a voluntary programme to reduce the gap among stakeholders, such as doctors, hospitals and other healthcare providers, by connecting them in an integrated digital health infrastructure. Dr. Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer, NHA, said: “The core building blocks of NDHM such as Health ID, Digi-Doctor and Health Facility Registry shall be owned, operated and maintained by the Government of India. Private stakeholders will have an equal opportunity to integrate with these building blocks and create their own products. However, core activities and verifications, for example, generation of Health ID or approval of a doctor/facility shall remain with the government.”
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rains sustain flood into Krishna Basin reservoirs||The prospects of all major reservoirs in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the Krishna Basin getting filled have further increased with another day of heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Krishna and several of its major tributaries in Maharashtra and Karnataka. However, the water storage position of major reservoirs in the Godavari Basin up to Sriramsagar in Telangana remains poor to moderate with no major flood reaching Singur, Nizamsagar and Sriramsagar projects so far. According to a bulletin issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC), very heavy rainfall was recorded in Mahabaleshwar (15.6 cm), Koyna (13.6 cm) and Warana (14 cm) in the 24-hour period up to 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Besides, it has stated that there is forecast of of heavy to very heavy rainfall in central Maharashtra for the next 4-5 days. “Due to this there is likelihood of rise in water levels in Upper Krishna Basin in the upstream of Almatti Dam,” the CWC bulletin stated. In tune with the CWC forecast, the flood into Almatti has started increasing again on Saturday and reached over 1.22 lakh cusecs in the evening from 80,000 cusecs on Friday. Accordingly, the outflows from the dam are expected to go up again leading to higher inflows into Narayanapur, Jurala and Srisailam projects downstream. Flood monitoring officials stated that Tungabhadra dam in Karnataka is reaching surplus stage with its storage reaching 96.5 tmc ft on Saturday evening against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft, although the inflows have come down to below 30,000 cusecs. Jurala was getting inflows of 1.25 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m. on Saturday with discharge of over 1.23 lakh cusecs flood from 13 spillway gates (about 92,000 cusecs) and with power generation (32,000 cusecs). In the downstream, Srisailam was getting inflows of over 1.26 lakh cusecs that includes supplementation from Tungabhadra (Sunkesula Barrage) and Handri rivers of about 2,500 cusecs and the remaining flood from Jurala and the catchment area in between. At Prakasam Barrage in AP, the flood was over 63,000 cusecs with the help of rains in the catchment areas in Nalgonda, Khammam districts in Telangana, and Krishna in AP. In the Godavari Basin, the water storage in Sriramsagar crossed 43 tmc ft against its capacity of 90.31 tmc ft with inflows of about 13,000 cusecs. In the upstream, Jaikwadi dam in Maharashtra is filled only up to 70% of its capacity of 102.73 tmc ft with inflows of 24,000 cusecs. Singur and Nizamsagar reservoirs also remain almost empty with storage of only 2.27 tmc ft and 0.97 tmc ft against their capacity of 29.91 tmc ft and 17.8 tmc ft, respectively, and the inflows are nominal. However, in the downstream, flood of about 3.18 lakh cusecs was reaching Laxmi (Medigadda barrage) with flood in Pranahita and rains in the local catchment areas, and at Polavaram in AP., the flood was over 11.65 lakh cusecs with very heavy and extremely heavy rains at several places in the catchment areas of tributaries of Godavari in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. Shayampet recorded 24 cm rain followed by 21 cm each in Hasanparthy, Hanmakonda and Atmakur, 20 cm each in Bheemadevarapalli and Huzurabad, 19 cm each in Venkatapuram and Gundala.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two helicopters kept ready for rescue work||The State government has kept two helicopters ready to rescue people stuck in islands of water caused by heavy rains and overflowing streams. One was a government helicopter and the other belonged to Defence forces, a release said. The decision to deploy helicopters was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with Ministers and senior officials to discuss the flood situation. Mr. Rao asked the government machinery to be on high alert, particularly in erstwhile Karimnagar and Warangal districts, in view of heavy rains across the State, which resulted in overflow of streams and water jumping off weir of tanks. The water marooned roads at several places. He also asked the officials to set up two control rooms in Hyderabad to expedite relief operations. The Ministers were asked to remain in their districts to monitor the situation in coordination with Collectors and police officials. He warned of the threat of breach of bunds as most of the tanks were filled to capacity. There was also the threat of breach of roads and flooding of low-lying areas. The situation was particularly grim in erstwhile Karimnagar and Warangal districts where water overflowed the weir of almost all tanks. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and others were present. . On Mr. Rao’s instructions, Mr. Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with Collectors from his office in the BRK Bhavan when he asked them to open round-the-clock control rooms in their offices for constant vigil. A State-level control room with phone number 040-23450624 was commissioned to answer distress calls of the public. The Collectors were also asked to ensure that there was no loss of life or property. As this situation was likely to continue for a few more days, the district officials should keep a close vigil remaining in headquarters. He suggested extra care near railway lines that passed near tanks and ponds as water might flood the tracks due to overflow. The officials were also asked to ensure safety of bunds of tanks by taking steps to ensure that water did not reach the full reservoir capacity. Flooding of low-lying areas should be immediately brought to the notice of higher officials here. Additional focus should be kept on sanitation in towns and villages. The teleconference was attended by the DGP, Principal Irrigation Secretary Rajat Kumar, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Commissioner Raghunandan Rao, Disaster Manager Secretary Rahul Bojja and Engineer-in-Chief of Irrigation C. Muralidhar Rao.  Control room Nalgonda Staff Reporter writes: Suryapet District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy set up a special control room for emergency response, in the wake of the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of “heavy to very heavy rain in the next few days” on Saturday. The control room at the Collectorate would be functional round the clock, on three rotating shifts, starting Saturday evening. People in emergency situations and in need of help can reach the centre by dialling 08684-231008 or the toll-free line 1800 4251972. Each shift would be supervised by a district officer, and three officers at the control room would guide with appropriate information, he said. Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran advised residents in low-lying areas not to enter tanks and streams. Caution was also issued to fishermen not to venture into water bodies, and for motorists not to cross culverts. In addition to the 100 helpline of the police, help in case of emergency can be requested from the police control room by dialling 8331940806 and 8331940728.
16 August 2020||Hyderabad,||ACB finds MPLADS papers with realtor||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials, who are probing the seizure of Rs. 1.10 crore bribe from Keesara tahsildar Erva Balaraju Nagaraju, found documents related to MPLADS funds on the letterhead of an MP. According to sources, the key documents were found in possession of land developer K. Anji Reddy. Both Anji Reddy and another realtor Chowla Srinath were at the tainted officer’s house to hand over Rs. 1.10 crore bribe to clear the issue pertaining to 19 acre 39 gunta of land situated at Rampally Dayara village of Keesara mandal and process the file in favour of original pattadars to furnish orders of Medchal-Malkajgiri District Collector. Nagaraju demanded Rs. 2 crore from Chowla to complete the process. “As the first instalment, they gave him Rs. 1.10 crore bribe,” a senior officer said. The officer said that the team was surprised to find documents related to MPLADS funds with the private person. “We came to know that Anji Reddy was a follower of the MP and was trying to clear MPLADS fund papers too. However, a probe is on to find why he was in possession of classified documents, which were supposed to be issued by the District Collector,” the ACB officer told The Hindu . . Police also arrested Rampally VRA for collusion.
16 August 2020||Srinagar,||New era of normalcy: L-G||Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said the dilution of Articles 370 and 35(A) was “imperative to make J&K a developed and dignified Union Territory”. “A new era of normalcy and development has dawned in J&K in the last one year,” Mr. Sinha said. He said his administration was working on the five principles of transparency in governance, empowering grassroots democracy, people’s welfare, accelerated development and creation of employment opportunities. In a first, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s I-Day speech was televised live on big screens set up at several spots here. Mobile Internet service was snapped till noon “as a precautionary measure”.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Culture Ministry takes I-Day shows online||A cultural programme with nationalism as its focus will be held online by the Culture Ministry, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Saturday on the occasion of Independence Day. Mr. Patel said music and dance performances under the “Swadheenta Ke Rang” (colours of freedom) platform would be hosted on the Ministry’s websites. The Ministry’s Facebook page carried videos recorded by eminent artistes such as sarod maestro Amjad Ali Khan, Bollywood playback singer Nitin Mukesh and dancer Sonal Mansingh. Some of the videos were posted on the eve of Independence Day and on Saturday. Mr. Patel said the programmes would continue and based on public response, they could be increased, he said.
16 August 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata reaches out to West Bengal Governor||In an attempt to break the ice between the State government and the Raj Bhavan, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar “There is an event in the Raj Bhavan in the evening, but we cannot attend it. Therefore, from the Independence Day parade we came straight here without an appointment,” Ms. Banerjee told mediapersons. “We came here just for a chat and exchanged greetings on Independence Day.” Earlier in the day Ms. Banerjee unfurled the tricolor at Kolkata’s Red Road and honoured 25 COVID-19 warriors. She had also tweeted that “Freedom was hard-earned, and we must do all it takes to preserve the basic principles on which this country was founded”. Ms. Banerjee’s visit assumes significance coming as it does when the relations between the Raj Bhavan and the Trinamool Congress government has reached a new low. Working together Later in the day, while paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Ghat Barrackpore, Mr. Dhankhar said Centre and State’s two wheels of governance should be in unison. The Governor reminded public servants and government officials to follow prescribed code of conduct, maintain political neutrality and work according to the law. In a significant statement, he said, “Never go beyond your limitations whatever be the temptations. This applies to me as well as our Chief Minister,” Mr. Dhankhar added. Responding to questions by journalists the Governor said it would be wrong to presume that the Governor and Chief Minister are going in opposite directions. “For me the most important words are the words of the elected Chief Minister,” he added.
16 August 2020||KOCHI,||ED questions Sivasankar in gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) started interrogating M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, here on Saturday in connection with its money laundering probe into the alleged large-scale smuggling of gold through air cargo shipments addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Kerala. Mr. Sivasankar arrived at the office of the ED here around 3.45 p.m. The ED is pursuing the financial trail in the case. It had informed the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Friday that Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, held discussions with Mr. Sivasankar at UAE when the State machinery was there from October 17 to 21 in 2018 seeking assistance for the flood relief operations. The ED had revealed these details while seeking the extension of the custody of the accused. It is revealed that Ms. Suresh had considerable influence in the office of the Chief Minister, it said. The agency submitted that Mr. Sivasankar needed to be interrogated further.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Jawans have risen to challenges on borders’||“Now we can do seven lakh tests a day and are in a position to export personal protection equipment, where once we used to import,” he said. He said the lynchpin of economic revival lay not just in technical innovation, rational tax structures but also the Rs. 110-lakh crore infrastructure package announced earlier by the government that would look at transport and infrastructure in a multi-modal way. He also announced optical fibre connectivity for all villages in India in the next 1,000 days as education and other services had gone digital during the pandemic. Prime Minister Modi referred to the violent face-off between India and China in Eastern Ladakh stating that “whether it was the LAC or the LoC, whenever anyone has tried to violate the territorial integrity of the country our jawans have answered the challenge in the same language as it was issued”. The significance of mentioning the Line of Control (LoC or the border with Pakistan) and the LAC (Line of Actual Control, border with China) in the same breath was not missed by anyone. He made a pitch for not just good relations with South Asian neighbours but also the wider neighbourhood beyond the immediate. “West Asian countries with whom we have deep ties owing to energy security but also because many of our people live and work in these countries have been our long term friends and I want to thank them for the care they took of our people during the pandemic. ASEAN countries are also tied to us through cultural and trade ties and we are increasing our maritime cooperation,” he said. Connectivity, he said, was an issue that was both economic and security related and announced that Lakshadweep would get optical fibre connectivity in the next 1,000 days. “Over 173 districts are on the coastline or a border with another country. The NCC will be raising a voluntary cadet force of nearly a lakh young people in these areas.” He said 1,300 islands come under Indian territory and developing some of them would be a priority. Referring to the recent bhoomipoojan for Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Modi said “the calm and sense of harmony displayed by the people across the country was unprecedented” and that it was this spirit that would lead to the development of the country. The major chunk of the speech was related to the concept of self-reliance as articulated by his government, which, Prime Minister Modi said was not just “Make in India” but to also “Make for the World”. He mentioned that for this leveraging of human resources was important, especially, the women. He announced that his government would be reconsidering the mandated minimum age of marriage for women.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Prime Minister continues ‘safa’ tradition||Continuing his tradition of donning flamboyant and colourful turbans, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sported a saffron and cream headgear with a long tail at the 74th Independence Day celebrations held here on Saturday. Mr. Modi paired the ‘safa’ with a half-sleeve kurta and a fitted churidar . He also wore a white scarf with a saffron border that he used to cover his mouth and nose in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Last year, Mr. Modi had sported a multi-coloured turban as he gave his sixth Independence Day speech, after returning to power for a second term. For his maiden Independence Day in 2014, he had opted for a bright-red Jodhpuri bandhej turban with green at the tail.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air India says 57 pilots had ‘resigned’||Air India on Saturday clarified that 57 of its pilots, “seeking greener pastures”, had resigned from the airline “citing financial constraints”. The pilots include permanent and contractual employees, it said in response to a report published in The Hindu on Saturday. “Some of the pilots later on had withdrawn their resignations. Air India no longer requires the services of these pilots and has now accepted their resignations. Moreover, some of these pilots [14] have filed writ petitions ... seeking a direction to Air India to accept the withdrawal of their resignations. This matter is sub judice,” the statement said.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No change in Pranab’s health status||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition remains unchanged and his clinical parameters are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Saturday. “He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the hospital said in a statement. On Monday, Mr. Mukherjee underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for brain clot and has since been on ventilator support. He had also tested positive for COVID-19.
16 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Kukis ask govt. about ‘pogrom’ by NSCN(IM)||The Kuki Inpi Manipur (KIM), an apex body of the Kukis, one of the three major ethnic groups of Manipur, has asked the Centre to weigh the “acts of genocide” against the community by the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM), before the final peace deal. NSCN (IM) leaders are engaged in a fresh round of talks with the Centre for settling the Naga peace process hanging fire since 1997. In a recent letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the KIM reminded the Centre of the “ethnic pogrom” against the Kukis in the 1990s. It said the Naga outfit killed over 1,000 Kukis, uprooting 360 villages and internally displacing over 1,00,000 Kuki people between 1992 and 1997.
16 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Move to cut train routes irks Kerala||Kerala has asked the Railways to withdraw its move to short-terminate some trains. In a letter to the Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday, State Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran said unilateral decisions such as the short-termination of the Mumbai-bound Jayanthi Janatha Express at Pune would cause hardship to many. Similarly, the move to short-terminate the Silchar-Thiruvananthapuram Aronai Express at Coimbatore will affect hundreds of migrant workers. He also drew attention to the move to short-terminate the Palakkad-Tiruchendur Express at Madurai.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Youth held for Bengaluru violence dies||A man arrested for his alleged involvement in the riots at D.J. Halli and K.G Halli and who was lodged at Parappana Agrahara Central Prison for two days, died hours after an abdomen surgery at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in the city on Saturday evening. While three youths from the adjoining areas in east Bengaluru died in police firing, this is the fourth death of a person related to the violence that broke out on Tuesday, when a mob went on a rampage over a derogatory social media post. The deceased has been identified as Sayyad Nadeem, 24, a resident of K.G. Halli. He also tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. While Nadeem had reportedly claimed that he was hit by a tear-gas shell during the riots on Tuesday and later developed a severe abdominal pain, the police said they are yet to ascertain the facts of the case. Nadeem was at the spot where the riots turned most violent in front of the D.J. Halli Police Station on the night. “He was arrested on Wednesday based on a technical investigation that indicated his presence at the site of violence,” a senior officer said. “Medical tests were conducted on him and he made no complaints. He was produced before a magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody the same day. He was handed over to the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison authorities early on on August 13 [Thursday],” said S. Murugan, Additional Commissioner of Police (East). Prison authorities told The Hindu that Nadeem complained of a severe pain in the abdomen later on Thursday. “We sent him to the hospital in Jayanagar on Thursday, where an X-ray was taken which pointed to certain internal injuries. He was admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Friday, where he also tested positive for COVID-19. A surgery was conducted on him on Saturday morning, but he passed away later in the day,” a senior prison official said. “He had suffered from a perforation in the stomach that can happen either after an ulcer or due to an injury. He had also suffered liver laceration for which a surgery was conducted,” said Vijayalakshmi G.N., Medical Superintendent, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, who added that there was no clarity on the cause of the wound.
16 August 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Heavy rain continues to lash parts of Gujarat||Parts of Gujarat continue to be battered by heavy rain, leaving low-lying areas marooned. Authorities were forced to shift people from waterlogged neighbourhoods to safer places in Surat and Vadodara. More than 3,000 people were shifted in parts of South Gujarat and the Saurashtra region. In Devbhumi Dwarka district, two persons were feared drowned while one was rescued when they tried to cross a swollen river. Over a dozen NDRF teams have been deployed in affected districts.
16 August 2020||Jammu,||Pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi to resume from Sunday after nearly 5 months of suspension||Pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Vaishno Devi in the Trikuta Hills of Jammu and Kashmir will resume from Sunday after remaining suspended for nearly five months in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Saturday. The yatra was suspended on March 18. Ramesh Kumar, the chief executive officer of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVSB), said that in the first week of the pilgrimage there shall be a cap of 2,000 devotees each day, of which 1,900 would be from Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining 100 from outside. Only online registration is allowed.PTI
16 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Flood hits Assam again, toll climbs to 112||The flood situation in Assam improved only marginally on Saturday after a fresh wave affected 29,603 people and killed two people in Lakhimpur district, to take the death tally to 112 since May 22. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said 13,382 people remain affected in three districts – Baksa, Dhemaji and Lakhimpur.
16 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC orders Nagpur University to pay Rs. 5 lakh to Shoma Sen||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed Nagpur University to pay a sum of Rs. 5 lakh to professor Shoma Sen, the former head of its English department, towards her retirement benefits within a week. A Division Bench of Justices R.K. Deshpande and N.B. Suryawanshi was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Sen’s husband, Tushar Bhattacharya, through advocate Prakash Meghe. The plea was filed on behalf of Ms. Sen, who is lodged at Byculla women’s prison since her arrest on June 6, 2018, for her alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon case. ‘Eligible for pension’ The plea said the university had to pay Ms. Sen’s gratuity and Provident Fund (PF) after she retired on July 31, 2018. The plea also said Ms. Sen was eligible for pension after 20 years of employment and she had completed 31 years of service. On August 12, a day before the matter came up for hearing before the Bench, the university issued orders directing the payment of provisional pension to Ms. Sen. Earlier, the varsity took a stand that benefits cannot be released to the professor owing to the criminal charges filed against her under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Maharashtra government has maintained that the university being the employer is responsible for releasing retirement benefits to Ms. Sen. The Bench said it is prima facie not satisfied with the explanation given by the authorities for withholding the PF amount. “We do not find any reference in the reply filed by the university to the denial of PF and gratuity to Ms. Sen. The university accepts that the Payment of Gratuity Act is applicable to Ms. Sen and this is what is stated in the order.” ‘No help from varsity’ The Bench said it fails to understand why the university waited for two years after Ms. Sen’s retirement to pass an order on the release of her provisional pension. It said, “We fail to get any assistance from the university on the provision of law.” The court posted the petition for further hearing after four weeks.
16 August 2020||Hyderabad,||1,050 kg ganja worth Rs. 2.62 crore seized||The DRI on Friday intercepted a goods vehicle on the outskirts of Hyderabad and seized 1,050 kg of ganja worth Rs. 2.62 crore. Officials said that the contraband was sourced from Visakhapatnam Agency areas, and was on its way to Maharashtra. The vehicle was carrying plastic crates. However, after a detailed examination, investigators found that it was concealed behind empty plastic crates and wrapped with brown adhesive tape. The driver was arrested.
16 August 2020||Hyderabad,||CM unfurls tricolour at Pragati Bhavan||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hoisted the national flag at a simple ceremony at his camp office in tune with the government's decision to keep the Independence Day celebrations a low key affair in view of coronavirus. He also paid floral tributes at the martyrs column of army personnel at Parade grounds. Later, Mr. Rao awarded the Dasaradhi award of State government for literature for 2020 to Tirunagari Ramanujam. He was presented a cash award of Rs. 1.01 lakh and a memento. Mr. Rao praised Ramanujam as worthy of the award instituted in memory of a great poet and writer Dasaradhi Krishnamacharyulu. ‘Bala Veerasathakam’, ‘Aksharadhara’ and ‘Tirunagareeyam’ written by Ramanujam earned him fame. He appreciated Ramanujam for his grip on traditional and Sanskrit literature as well as modern literature. Ramanujam recited a poem that he wrote praising Mr. Rao as modern day Maha Vishnu. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy and TRS Parliamentary party leader K. Keshava Rao were present. The Chief Minister on Saturday also laid a laid a wreath at the Veerula Sainik Smarak and paid homage to martyrs. To mark the occasion, COVID-19 warriors such as doctors, health workers and sanitation workers were invited. Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan, Commandant MCEME, Major General R.K. Singh, GOC Telangana and Andhra Sub Area, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, Station Commander, also paid their respects to the martyrs. Cong., BJP celebrate Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy hoisted the flag at Gandhi Bhavan in the presence of CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and senior leaders Shabbir Ali, V. Hanmantha Rao, Sampath Kumar, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, and Youth Congress president, Anil Kumar Yadav and scores of party activists. Mr. Uttam Reddy paid tributes to sacrifices of freedom fighters and said as long as the Congress ruled the country, continuous efforts were made to strengthen and give full independence to the four pillars of democracy — legislature, executive, judiciary and media. However, since 2014, these institutions are being weakened, he charged. State BJP chief, Bandi Sanjay unfurled the national flag at the BJP office with many senior leaders in attendance. He said the country had made progress in the last 73 years but it has picked up pace after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014. Mr. Sanjay also targeted the TRS rule saying the governance from Pragati Bhavan and farm house of Chief Minister reminded people of the Nizam’s autocratic rule from King Koti palace and Falaknuma Palace. It is time people start another struggle to throw out TRS government, he added. Meanwhile, TRS secretary general K. Keshav Rao hoisted the flag at TRS office in presence of a few party leaders and MLCs, in compliance with COVID-19 norms.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Independence Day: Unprecedented challenges before government, says CM||Highlighting the challenges on account of the pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in his first public appearance after recovering from COVID-19, underscored the government’s commitment to build a welfare State in his Independence Day address on Saturday. Celebrations were low-key. While no cultural programmes were held, ‘Corona Warriors’ and patients who have recovered from COVID-19 were special invitees for the programme. After hoisting the national flag, the Chief Minister, in his speech, said that floods and drought, besides the century’s most disruptive and dangerous pandemic, have posed huge challenges. With economic recession, job loss, loss of revenue to the government, and social and economic activities coming to a grinding halt, citizens are in distress. Realising that a lockdown was not the solution to check the spread of COVID-19 in the long run, he said the government was facilitating the restarting of economic activities by following the Centre’s guidelines on wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing. Mr. Yediyurappa spoke of several programmes and schemes towards development of the State, such as Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Act aimed at improving ease-of-doing business. New plans and projects were being executed to create employment opportunities, especially in rural areas, the Chief Minister told the people of the State. Contingents from CRPF, CAR, civil police, BSF, KSRP, KSISF, traffic police, women police constables, participated in the celebrations. Governor Vajubhai R. Vala hoisted the national flag at the Raj Bhavan.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,860 persons test positive for infection; 127 deaths recorded||For the 17th consecutive day, Tamil Nadu recorded more than 5,000 COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 3,32,105. However, the death of 127 more persons — the highest yet — was recorded by the Health Department. A total of 5,860 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Saturday. Another 5,236 persons were discharged after treatment. So far, a total of 2,72,251 persons have been discharged in the State, while 54,213 persons are still under treatment. The State’s toll rose to 5,641. Chennai’s daily count topped 1,000 for the second day in a row, as 1,179 persons tested positive for the infection. The city accounted for 26 of the 127 deaths, while Tiruvallur, with 422 new cases, recorded three deaths. There were 376 cases and five deaths in Chengalpattu, while there were 339 cases in Cuddalore.  The 127 deaths included 57 persons who died on August 13 and 53 on August 14. The deceased included a 13-year-old girl with intellectual disability. A resident of Cuddalore, she was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi, on August 9. She died on August 12 due to seizure, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 23-year-old man from Pudukottai, who did not have any co-morbidities, was admitted to a private hospital on August 12 with complaints of fever for five days and diarrhoea for seven days. He died on August 14 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, cardio respiratory arrest and COVID-19. Two more persons in their 20s died. With this, Chennai now accounts for 2,434 deaths, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur account for 339 and 327 deaths respectively. Four districts — Coimbatore, Ranipet, Salem and Theni — recorded 200-plus cases, while nine districts saw over 100. Thirty returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in various parts of the State. A total of 71,343 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 36,40,796 samples have been tested in the State. The total number of individuals tested crossed 35 lakh. One more government laboratory — the Government Hospital in Attur, Salem district — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are currently 62 government testing facilities and 73 private ones in the State.  Till date, a total of 36,40,796 samples have been tested in the State. The total number of individuals tested crossed 35 lakh
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu economy will recover quickly: CM||Tamil Nadu will recover quickly from the economic distress caused by COVID-19 and will continue to be the leading State in economic indicators in the country, with the State attracting new investments during the three months of the pandemic, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. New jobs In his Independence Day address, Mr. Palaniswami said, “During the pandemic period alone, agreements for 41 new industrial projects have been signed. Through this, Rs. 30,667 crore of investments will come in and 67,212 new jobs will be generated. Also, to alleviate the suffering faced by Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in this period, a total of Rs. 7,043 crore of loans have been sanctioned so far, making Tamil Nadu the No.1 State in the country.” Ranked No. 1 He said, “Due to the continuous efforts taken by our government, Tamil Nadu has been ranked no.1 by Projects Today in India for attracting investments even during the pandemic, from April to June and for creating new employment opportunities”. Special focus In a speech that laid special focus on the current pandemic situation, Mr. Palaniswami praised frontline workers for their dedication and service. “I express my heartfelt thanks and appreciation to the doctors, nurses, conservancy and sanitation workers, staff of municipal administration, revenue, police, fire, cooperation and food department and other government departments who have worked with dedication during this period,” he said.  Pension for freedom fighters increased Mr. Palaniswami also announced an increase in the pension for freedom fighters to Rs. 17,000 from Rs. 16,000 and family pension and special pay given to kin of freedom fighters to Rs. 8,500 from Rs. 8,000. Pandemic protocols The celebrations for the 74th Independence Day at Fort St. George were marked by pandemic protocols. The Chief Minister hoisted the Tricolour while wearing a mask, invitees wore masks, those who were not wearing a mask were handed one by officials, seating arrangements were made keeping in mind physical distancing norms and entrances to the invitees galleries had automatic sanitiser-dispensing machines. Police officials, government staff, and the troops giving the Guard of Honour, too, wore masks. However, a section of the media — camera personnel and photographers ended up being clustered together before the arrival of the Chief Minister and during his inspection of the Guard of Honour. Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami received the Guard of Honour. He also gave away a number of awards on the occasion.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. gets best practices award for fever camps||The Greater Chennai Corporation’s massive door-to-door surveillance and testing of 1 lakh residents at specially organised fever camps, conducted in 33,000 locations, has helped the city break the transmission of COVID-19 in many zones. In recognition of its efforts, the Corporation on Saturday received the Chief Minister’s Best Practices Award at the 74th Independence Day celebrations. The fever camps started on May 8 to improve testing during the pandemic. According to data, the camps have attracted over 18 lakh residents till now. At the camps, doctors screen visitors for influenza-like illnesses and send their samples for testing. Around 17% of residents who gave samples in fever camps had tested positive, officials said. The fever camps are organised in the vicinity of streets where the highest number of cases get reported the previous day. “We successfully isolate the residents, treat them and prevent transmission,” an official said. Before May, the number of tests was around 4,000 every day. The number increased to 14,000 in August. Zones in north Chennai had registered a decrease in number of cases owing to aggressive testing in fever camps, civic officials said. The average number of patients visiting such camps every day has reduced from 60 to 41 over the past few weeks. Alternative strategy Nodal officials in some of the zones have changed their strategy to increase testing. For instance, in Royapuram zone, officials are focusing on doorstep collection of samples. At the Independence Day function, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami presented the award to Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) Minister S.P. Velumani in the presence of MAWS Secretary Harmander Singh and Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘32 doctors died of COVID-19 in State’||A total of 32 doctors have died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu so far and another 15 doctors who died had symptoms of COVID-19 but tested negative for the infection, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Tamil Nadu State branch, has stated. All 32 doctors tested positive for COVID-19 through RT-PCR testing. Apart from them, a Siddha practitioner died due to COVID-19. In the last three months, 11 more doctors died due to non-COVID-19 causes in the State. The government was apprised of the details periodically, the association said in a statement. Recently, data on the number of doctors who died of the infection in the State sparked a political controversy after the IMA headquarters said that 43 doctors died in the State. But the figure was refuted by the Health Minister and the State IMA. In a press release dated August 14, the State IMA noted that its senior State vice-president, G. Kothandaraman, from Rajapalayam, also died after fighting COVID-19 for 35 days. The association went on to place a number of demands with the State government. It said the government was insisting that all private hospitals treat their patients with universal precautions. Nearly 85% of COVID-19 cases were asymptomatic and most patients visiting non-COVID-19 hospitals could be infected, it added. As a result, tests should be held for procedures and admissions but there was an acute shortage of private testing centres in semi-urban and rural areas, it said. This had increased the load on government laboratories. The association said that the government could allow setting up of sample collection centres in such areas. Referring to manpower shortage and costs involved for private hospitals, the association said that the government was capping prices, but there was a wide gap with the actual expenditure for a private establishment. Government hospitals, however, had enough manpower and the expenses were taken care of by the government, it said. In some districts, they were receiving threats from authorities, by way of memos and closure notices for longer periods than what is prescribed by the guidelines, if hospitals or clinics took in COVID-19 patients, the association said. State honour The IMA said that State honour should be given to doctors who succumb to COVID-19. The government should release a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to the families of doctors who lost their lives due to COVID-19, irrespective of whether they worked in the government or the private sector, as announced by the Chief Minister. The government should record all deaths, whether the results of RT-PCR tests return positive or negative, as COVID-19 deaths, if they are clinically positive (that is, if there are CT findings or if they are biochemically or clinically positive). The government should accept the COVID-19 package rates submitted by the IMA and establish more private testing laboratories/collection centres in rural, semi-urban and urban areas. It also demanded the regularisation of the antiviral drug market.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Funds being raised to make vaccine free for the people’||People must have a lot of patience as the wait for a COVID-19 vaccine continues, and at least one or two of them, with complete trial data, can be expected by the year-end, World Health Organisation chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said. “The general public are likely to get the vaccine free. We are raising funds for this on a global scale,” she said, after accepting the ‘Chief Minister’s Special Award for COVID-19’ at the 74th Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George on Saturday. The award was presented by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for her role in advising the State government in tackling the pandemic. Dr. Soumya said that globally, there were about 200 vaccine candidates under development and one or two were likely to provide trial data of all the three phases by the end of the year.  “A vaccine will take one to one-and-a-half years [to hit the market]. There is a testing process and there are guidelines issued by the WHO on what trials need to be held. Only then can it be licensed and authorisations given. No vaccine has come to the stage where all data for the vaccine has been given. We are expecting that one or two vaccines’ data will be given by the end of the year and then we will give directions,” Dr. Soumya said. She said that the phase-1 of vaccine trials in India were currently under way. “It will take 9-12 months for phase II and III to be complete,” she said. Dr. Soumya said that people would need to have a lot of patience, maintain physical distancing, wear masks and avoid crowded places until a vaccine is made available. “For at least another year, all of us have to adjust to this ‘new normal’. It’s a social responsibility. We need to protect ourselves and others by taking precautions,” she said.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private schools still conducting online classes for KG students||A section of private schools in and around Chennai has been allegedly conducting regular online classes for kindergarten or pre-primary children, in violation of the guidelines issued by the Central and State governments. Both Pragyata guidelines for digital education issued by the Centre and the State guidelines for digital and online education clearly mention that no online classes should be scheduled for pre-primary classes for teaching curriculum. “Online sessions may be scheduled for interacting with parents and guiding them for not more than 30 minutes,” clause 6.7.6 of the School Education Department guidelines say. The parent of a UKG student from an international school near Tambaram, however, said that online classes were being conducted daily, for one-and-a-half to two hours, for the past one month. “Sometimes my child has to use a phone and not a laptop, as we need it for work. She gets exhausted and her eyes are strained,” she said. She said that parents also have to be available with the child, as writing and other exercises are to be monitored. Another parent of an LKG student from a school near Velachery said that though the sessions were supposed to be held with breaks, they were often held without any. “It may make sense if the sessions are held at least with fewer students, attending on a rotation basis. It is very difficult when 20 or 30 of these children are attending at a time, as they find it difficult to focus,” she said. S. Arumainathan, president, the Tamil Nadu Students’ Parents’ Welfare Association, said the association was receiving complaints from parents in Chennai, particularly those who were working. Stressing the need for a government monitoring committee and a helpline for complaints, he said the association was planning on highlighting the issue before the Madras High Court, that was already hearing a case on online education. Neelan Arasu, coordinator, the Federation of Association of Private Schools in Tamil Nadu, however, said that many schools had to conduct these classes because of expectations from the parents. “While some parents may not prefer it, many of them expect schools to have regular engagement with their children,” he said. “Moreover, the guidelines came in late, and the schools had started online classes well before that,” he said. He, however, added that the federation was now strongly advising schools not to conduct regular classes for kindergarten children.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘SPB on life support but condition stable’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Saturday visited MGM Healthcare, where playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is being treated for COVID-19. Dr. Vijayabaskar said he visited the hospital on the advice of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. ‘As per protocol’ “I had discussions with the doctors about the kind of treatment given to him. They explained to me in detail the treatment being given. We also spoke to his son S.P.B. Charan,” the Minister said. “Mr. Balasubrahmanyam is on life support, but his condition is stable. The singer is sedated and is being given treatment as per protocol for COVID-19,” he said. The singer was admitted to the hospital last week for COVID-19 treatment. On Friday, however, he had to be shifted to the intensive care unit. He was put on ventilator support, according to a bulletin from the hospital.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamarajar Salai gets LED traffic pole||Jumping a traffic signal and blaming it on poor visibility will be a thing of the past. The traffic police have installed a LED pole that changes colour according to the signal on Kamarajar Salai, which will be visible from a distance. The ‘Live Pole’ has been installed at the Gandhi Statue signal on the arterial road. “We have pasted LED strips on the inverted ‘L’-shaped pole and covered it with plastic to protect it from rain. If the signal turns red, the pole mimics it,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic. S.R. Senthil, Deputy Commissioner, Traffic (East), said similar poles were being used in Japan and Albania. “Our idea was to make sure motorists can see the light from a distance and become aware of the signal. This way signal jumping can be reduced,” he explained. “We can also play awareness messages by fitting a speaker to the pole. We are planning to do it soon,” he said. Pilot project City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said the LED traffic pole was a pilot, and more would be added based on its success. “As of now, we are getting a good response. People are able to see the signal from a distance,” Mr. Senthil said. The police have installed blinkers at 25 accident-prone spots, including Kamarajar Salai, Santhome High Road and DGS Dinakaran Salai.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board election was delayed due to the lockdown’||The elections to the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board that should have been held on June 18 was postponed due to the lockdown, former Madras High Court judge and board president P. Shanmugam said in response to charges by the Association of University Teachers. He pointed out that it was the AUT that had demanded a check on corruption and illegalities in the Trust administration. There had been as many as 15 individual representations to the Director of College Education, the Chief Minister and the City Police Commissioner about demands for money, yet no action had been taken. It was based on these complaints submitted to the court that it prepared an interim report and appointed an interim administrator. It also appointed an advisory board of eminent persons in the rank of Secretary to the Government and the Vice-Chancellor, which brought under control the absolute power enjoyed by the trustees. The teachers of the college form 90% of the voters. The trustees appointed 152 unqualified teachers between 2013 and 2018 for extraneous consideration for each post and to ensure that the trustees had a grip over the teachers and ensure the trustees “can have a walk over in the elections”. The trustees would then have absolute control over the vast properties, colleges and charities under by the Trust, Mr. Shanmugam said. The new scheme was evolved to avoid such a move and to enrol the beneficiaries too, so that they would have a say in the election of the trustees. The trustees have since legally challenged the modified scheme.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||99 prisoners cured||As many as 114 prisoners at the Puzhal Central Prison have tested positive for COVID-19 and 99 of them have recovered so far, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The patients were treated at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and in the hospital on the prison premises. The remaining prisoners are under treatment, according to a press release from the Health Department. On Saturday, Minister for Law, Courts and Prisons C.Ve. Shanmugam and Dr. Vijayabaskar inaugurated a 50-bed COVID-19 Care Centre at the Puzhal Central Prison. The Health Minister said this was the first time in the country that such a facility was being established. It was a full-fledged care centre with doctors, nurses and laboratory technicians available round-the-clock. Semi-auto analyser, mobile x-ray, ECG, ultrasound scan and oxygen cylinders were provided and an ambulance was kept on standby. The centre has three wards for men and one for women. The samples lifted will be sent to the RT-PCR laboratory at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. There were 2,014 inmates in the three prisons on the Puzhal complex. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital was the authorised facility to treat prisoners from Puzhal Central Prison and the sub-jails under its control, the release said. “There are 1,29,122 beds for COVID-19 in the State. We have 1,643 CCCs in the State, of which 54 are in Chennai,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said. The care centres have 72,640 beds, of which 15,932 are in Chennai. DGP (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh, DIG of Chennai range A. Murugesan, Puzhal prison officials, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and dean of Government Stanley Medical College Hospital P. Balaji were present.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber crime wing bags award for contact tracing||During the pandemic, apart from fighting cyber crime, sleuths of the Tamil Nadu Cyber Crime wing donned a new role — that of providing help in contact tracing and identification of hotspots. In appreciation of the work done by the personnel in combating COVID-19, the ‘Best Practices Award’ was presented to the wing during the Independence Day celebrations held in Chennai on Saturday. “All departments were asked to send in their best practices in the last one year. We also sent in a write-up on what we had done and what we have been doing for contact tracing. Based on this, our wing was selected and awarded,” said a police officer. The Tamil Nadu police had launched multi-faceted initiatives to trace potential contacts of those testing positive for COVID-19. The cyber crime division, headed by Additional Director General of Police G. Venkatraman, and comprising Superintendent of Police Shashank Sai, D. Shanmugapriya and other police officers, started identifying COVID-19 hotspots and clusters. “Using mobile numbers of patients, we built a data model to identify the hotspots and clusters. It helped control and curb the spread of the virus,” added the officer. The phone numbers were also used for contact tracing. “Some IT employees also helped us carry out the work. The application of technology in contact tracing has contributed substantially to making policy decisions and taking pro-active measures to prevent and contain the spread of the pandemic,” explained the police officer. Service to the society Apart from contact tracing, the sleuths of the cyber crime division also helped solve issues faced by patients in hospitals. The police officers from the division consider this a service to the society. “When we started contact tracing, there was stigma associated with COVID-19 patients. Now, things have changedThis was possible only because of coordination between departments,” added the officer. The Chief Minister also presented the ‘Chief Minister’s Best Practices’ Award to the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops and Agricultural Engineering for adopting innovative water conservation strategies, enabling the State to achieve the top position in the country in micro-irrigation. He also gave away a certificate of appreciation to the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation for steps taken to ensure uninterrupted availability of drugs to combat COVID-19.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin hoists flag at Anna Arivalayam||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday hoisted the national flag at Anna Arivalayam, the party headquarters, a practice so far not followed by the party chief. When M. Karunanidhi was party president, he never hoisted the flag in the party office even though he — as Chief Minister of the State — obtained the right for Chief Ministers to hoist the flag on Independence Day. “But we have been celebrating Independence Day for over 10 years. Once Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) told me to hoist the flag since Chief Minister Jayalalithaa delayed the flag-hoisting ceremony in view of rahu kalam ,” said party MP T.K.S. Elangovan. In his message, Mr. Stalin called for remembering and protecting democracy, secularism and federalism secured by independence.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite lockdown, city celebrates I-Day||The 74th Independence Day celebrations at government offices and private institutions in the State were marked by flag hoisting ceremonies. The office of the Accountant General (Accounts and Entitlement) celebrated the occasion with Accountant General D. Jaisankar hoisting the national flag. He said the annual accounts statements for the general provident fund of around four lakh employees of the State government had been uploaded on the website. Chennai Port Trust chairman P. Raveendran, who hoisted the Tricolour, inspected the guard of honour and said, “Chennai Port has achieved a throughput of 46.76 million tonnes for 2019-20, but during the first four months of the current financial year, upto July, the traffic was 11.09 million tonnes. During July and August, we noticed a slight improvement in the traffic over the previous months,” he said. M. L. Karmakar, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, hoisted the flag on the Aayakar Bhawan Campus, and said the faceless appeals would be launched in September. Chief General Manager of BSNL V.K. Sanjeevi hoisted the national flag as part of the Independence Day celebrations. Celebrations were held at the offices of the State Election Commission, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation, the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board and Information and Public Relations. Pradeep Yadav, Managing Director of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd, hoisted the tricolour and accepted the salute at the CMRL administration building in Koyambedu. Ajay Kumar Srivastava, executive director of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), hoisted the flag. K. S. Bhushan, executive director, ONGC, Cauvery Basin, and S.N. Pandey, managing director, CPCL, hoisted the flag in their respective offices. Vice-Chancellors of State-run universities, such as the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University and the Tamil Nadu Open University, also hoisted the Tricolour. At VIT-Chennai, T. Ezhilarasi, headmistress of Villivakkam Panchayat Union Primary School, Puliambedu, was the chief guest. VIT vice-president Sekar Viswanathan handed over Rs. 25,000 to the school for development work. Chancellor V.R. Venkataachalam and Vice-Chancellor P.V. Vijayaraghavan hoisted the tricolour at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for cheating in Tiruvallur||The Periamet police on Saturday arrested a 40-year-old suspect in Tiruvallur for cheating a job aspirant after receiving Rs. 7.5 lakh from him after guaranteeing him a position in the railways. On a complaint by Karthik of Theni, a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered on Friday. The accused was identified as Aljiani, 40, of Gengavalli, Salem. The suspect received the money at a lodge in Periamet six months ago and failed to provide the job as promised. He had been arrested for similar schemes in Hosur and Salem earlier.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Swiggy executives continue strike||It was an unending wait for customers in the city as service provider Swiggy’s delivery executives continued their strike on Saturday, demanding a reversion to their old pay structure. On Saturday, the mobile app showed users in many parts of the city that their location was unserviceable. A. Madhan, a resident of Perambur, said he had booked food for his mother on Friday but the delivery agent told him he was on strike. “I then emailed the company and called their helpline but to no avail. When I posted it on social media, some four persons called and said they will take action against the executive,” he said. V. Jeyanthi, a homemaker, who tried to get a meal on the app, said she was unable to make bookings. “We are not asking for our pre-COVID-19 pay out. We are only asking that the last revision be implemented. In the present revision, we are getting just Rs. 19 for a distance of 4 km, which is terribly low. We need at least Rs. 30 for that distance. We agreed to reduction or removal of certain incentives, considering the limited orders and timings due to the lockdown,” said an executive, who did not want to be named. A company spokesperson clarified that the strike was happening in Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata but refused to comment further.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many schools switch to online I-Day fete||A number of schools in Chennai, mainly privately-run schools, switched to online mode of Independence Day celebrations on Saturday owing to COVID-19 restrictions. K. Manoharan, principal, SBOA School and Junior College, said that while a small section of staff members attended the celebrations on campus, the celebration was webcast live online for the students to see. Gabriel John Manohar, principal, Madras Christian College School, said that while a flag hoisting ceremony happened on the campus, teachers organised Independence Day celebrations through video conferencing with students from their respective classes. Many govt. schools, however, had muted celebrations on their campuses.
16 August 2020||CHENNAI/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 women get Kalpana Chawla award||Three women from Aadhanur in Perambalur district, who rescued two youth from drowning in the Kottakarai dam, by throwing their sarees to them, were awarded the Kalpana Chawla award for courage and daring enterprise by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during the 74th Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George on Saturday. R. Senthamilchelvi, 38, S. Muthammal, 34 and A. Anandavalli, 34, were given a citation and Rs. 5 lakh each for rescuing Karthick and Senthilvelan of Siruvachur, from a pool of water in the Kottakarai dam that is under construction. On August 6, upon realising that four youth were about to drown, the women, who were washing their clothes, quickly removed their sarees and threw them into the water. Though they lifted two of the youth, they could not save the other two. “If we had extended our hands, we too would have been drawn into the water. We did not have any other object except our sarees. So, without wasting time, we just used our sarees as a ‘rope’ to save them. But, what haunts us is that despite our best efforts, we could not save the other two,” Ms. Anandavalli, one of the recipients of the prestigious award, said. S. Selvakumar, founder of Anandham Youth Foundation was presented the Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Award. The Foundation identifies economically backward rural students and takes care of their education expenses, including college fees, hostel, food, transport and training with 100% scholarship. “Based on data we received on drop-out rate after school education, we found that many do not even have money to buy college applications. Education provides the opportunity for everyone to succeed in life,” he said, explaining his Foundation’s efforts over the past 23 years. The Chief Minister gave away awards for service for welfare of women to social worker G.P. Godhanavalli of Coimbatore district and Dr. V. Nadanasabapathy, Centre for Rural Education and Economic Development (CREED), Cuddalore district. The Chief Minister recognised the work of Covid-19 frontline workers from various government departments. As a symbolic gesture, 27 frontline staff from various departments were presented a gold plated medal and a certificate of appreciation.
16 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sale of Independence Day merchandise in Tiruppur hub hit||The production and sale of tricolour-themed caps, flags, t-shirts, hand and head bands, and badges during Independence Day has been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 lockdown in Tiruppur, a major supplier of such merchandise. Schoolchildren and commercial establishments mostly purchase the t-shirts and caps in bulk. With schools remaining shut and no major events being held by commercial establishments, there has hardly been any demand. Orders for masks “We are selling like retailers this year, in small quantities,” said a major flag producer in Tiruppur. The hub would get orders from across the country. This year, however, there were hardly any enquiries, said another manufacturer. V.S. Chandrakumar of Sentinal Clothing said that he had orders for masks with the tricolour printed on them, alongside logos of companies or organisations. “We started getting orders 10 or 15 days back, even from places such as Ahmedabad. However, there were some reports that the flag should not be printed on masks. Hence, we stopped printing the flag on masks,” he said. At the Gandhiji Khadhar Store, that makes and supplies cloth flags, in Coimbatore, the demand for paper and cloth flags picked up only in the last two days. The orders came mostly from the district. Travel restrictions According to Kannan, who sells merchandise at his store here, most paper items for Independence Day are sourced from Sivakasi, badges and bands from Bengaluru, and t-shirts from Tiruppur. With travel restrictions, traders could not go to these places to buy the products and with schools shut, the demand was low. “The demand was just 15% of the usual. Cloth flags were the main products sold,” he said. Ravi, another trader, said that he had last year’s stock, worth nearly Rs. 3 lakh. But he was able to sell only for Rs. 50,000. He said he usually sold goods worth Rs. 4 lakh-Rs. 5 lakh for Independence Day.
16 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||Over 100 residents of Chinnathadagam in Coimbatore district staged a protest on Saturday condemning the alleged takeover of five temples in the locality by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. The residents alleged that the HR&CE Department was attempting to take over five temples without their consent. N. Thirumalai, a resident, claimed that the five temples were nearly 50 years old and the residents renovated one of the temples a few years ago. The protest was withdrawn after the Thadagam police held talks with the residents, he said. When contacted, a senior HR&CE Department official said that he could comment on this issue only after checking the relevant files on Monday.
16 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Angoda Lokka carried a pistol’||Suspected Sri Lankan fugitive Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka carried a pistol during his stay in Coimbatore, according to CB-CID. Investigations revealed that three of his aides — Amani Thanji, advocate D. Sivakamasundari of Madurai and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode — removed the pistol from Lokka’s rented house at Balaji Nagar here after his death on July 3.
16 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Evicted tribal families stage protest inside ATR||Members of the Kallar Kadar families, who were evicted from Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in August last year, staged a protest against the Forest Department at Theppakulamedu inside the tiger reserve on Saturday, seeking allocation of land to them under provisions of the Forest Rights Act. Around 130 people from Kallar Kadar and nearby Udumanparai settlements staged the peaceful protest on the Independence Day. Authorities of ATR had evicted 23 families of Kallar Kadar settlement from their traditional land inside the tiger reserve and made them stay in six houses in a tea estate at Thaimudi near Valparai. “We chose Theppakulamedu inside ATR as an alternative land for rehabilitation in a gram sabha held on March 6, 2020 following instructions given by the Collector. The Forest Department alone is opposing the allotment of the land,” said Rajalakshmi Jayapal, a tribeswoman. Anish, a tribesman, said the Department forced the residents to conduct another gram sabha to choose a land other than Theppakulamedu. “We staged the peaceful protest following the torture of the Forest Department,” he said. On Friday, forest range officer of Manombolly range of ATR visited the tribal families at Thaimudi and insisted them to convene another gram sabha. The District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division attached to ATR spoke to representatives of the settlement over phone and pressed the demand. Tribal rights activist S. Thanraj said the Department remained adamant in its approach towards granting forest rights to the early forest dwellers. “The protest was for their livelihood and for upholding their rights under the Act,” he said.
16 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online event held to mark Youth Day||Rotaract Club of Coimbatore Texcity along with Students for Students, an NGO, organised an online programme titled Vinnai Thodu (Touch the Sky) to mark the International Youth Day recently.
16 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||7 tonnes of gutkha seized, three held||The police arrested three persons in connection with the seizure of seven tonnes of banned gutkha products from a house in K.N. Pettai in Cuddalore. The arrested have been identified as K. Barathi, 36, R. Saravanan, 49, and K. Ramkumar, 19, of Thirupadiripuliyur near here. According to the police, acting on a tip-off,a team on Friday raided a housethat was functioning illegally as a godown and seized the contraband.
16 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water level touches 101.99 ft. at Bhavani Sagar Dam||Water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam stood at 101.99 ft. against the full reservoir level of 105 feet on Saturday evening. At 4 p.m., the inflow was 2,648 cusecs and the discharge 800 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals, 600 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal and 1,200 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. The storage was 30.309 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Public Works Department officials said the discharge in the LBP canal would be stepped up to 2,300 cusecs on Sunday.
16 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted on August 17 at the following places: Nanjai Uthukuli electric line , 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.: Nanjai Uthukuli, Govindanaickenpalayam, Aandakothampalayam, Chavadipalayam, Panajalingapuram, Saminathapuram and Kattupalayam.  Thindal electric line , 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.: Ganapathi Nagar, Pannai Nagar, Postal Nagar.
16 August 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Owners surrender 19 rifles||Over 19 illegal country made rifles were surrendered to the authorities by their owners from various hill hamlets in the district. The move came in the wake of the police and the Forest Department issuing a call to the owners of unlicensed country made rifles. Six country made rifles from Urigam, 12 from Denkanikottai and one from Hosur were handed over to the authorities during the week.
16 August 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel felicitated in Karaikal||Puducherry Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, hoisted the national flag and took the salute in Karaikal on Saturday. He also distributed prizes to best performing schools in higher secondary and class 10 public examinations and cash prizes and commendation certificates to police personnel for meritorious service. He also felicitated COVID-19 frontline workers including doctors.   In Karur, the tricolour was hoisted by Collector T. Anbalagan at a function held at the Collector Office on Saturday. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police P. Pagalavan, Mr. Anbalagan inspected the guard of honour. As many 113 officials, doctors, employees and workers from different departments were given certificates of appreciation for their meritorious service to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus. In Perambalur, Collector V. Santha presented certificates to 83 government employees and officers for commendable work in COVID-19 prevention measures after hoisting the national flag at the Collector’s Office Master Complex in the presence of Nisha Parthiban, Superintendent of Police. She later visited the house of ‘Varagupadi’ Rengasamy, a freedom fighter, and presented him with a shawl. In Ariyalur, Collector D. Rathna hoisted the national flag at a simple ceremony . She accepted the guard of Honour by the Armed Reserve police personnel along with Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan. She distributed meritorious certificates to 48 officials and frontline workers of the district administration, Government Medical College Hospital, Ariyalur, and Ariyalur municipality. Freedom fighters were honoured with shawls at their houses by officials.
16 August 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 frontline workers felicitated||Felicitation of COVID-19 frontline workers marked the 74th Independence Day celebration at Alagappa University in Karaikudi on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran hoisted the national flag and accepted the Guard of Honour. He recalled the sacrifices of freedom fighters in securing independence. He said educational institutions should not function in isolation, but must collaborate for societal development.
16 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai once again records less than 100 cases||For the second day in a row, Madurai district recorded less than 100 cases, here on Saturday as 90 people tested positive for COVID-19. The tally of cases rose to 12,643. All cases in the district were indigenous according to the State Health bulletin. The total number of discharged patients as on date was 11,300 with 105 being discharged on Saturday. There were 1,028 active cases in the district. The death toll rose to 315 as six people succumbed to COVID-19. Virudhunagar The death toll in Virudhunagar district crossed 150 and stood at 152 on Saturday with six more deaths being reported. Among the deceased were two women. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district has gone past 11,000-mark and stood at 11,107 with 167 fresh positive cases recorded on Saturday. Meanwhile, with 192 patients having got discharged on Saturday (9,684 till date) the number of active cases reduced to 1,271.  Theni The district saw 214 positive cases on a single day and it took the overall tally to 9,703. The number of people discharged from hospitals on Saturday was 357. So far, 6,546 people have been discharged.  Dindigul Dindigul saw 121 people testing positive and the overall tally went up to 4,645. There were 64 people discharged from the hospital.  Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram saw 59 new cases and the tally was at 3,957. Only one patient was discharged, according to the State medical bulletin.  Sivaganga Sivaganga saw 49 fresh cases which took the tally to 3,320. There were 53 people discharged from the hospital. Tirunelveli Even as the number of fresh cases in Thoothukudi shows a downward trend, Kanniyakumari district continues to record more cases and deaths. Thoothukudi, which once recorded more than 300 cases, reported 77 cases on Saturday that took the total number of infections to 9,869 and active cases to 1,227. While 184 patients were discharged, the district saw two deaths that took the total number of fatality to 86. Kanniyakumari’s tally moved up to 7,359 after the district added 182 more cases on Saturday. This took the total number of active cases to 1,507 after 166 patients were discharged. Since the district lost three more people to COVID-19 on Saturday, the number of deaths has risen to 111. Closely following Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli too recorded 169 cases on Saturday. The district has 1,478 active cases and 7,398 total number of cases. While 130 patients were discharged, five succumbed to the viral infection that took the total death tally to 115. Tenkasi added 87 more cases on Saturday and the district’s tally went up to 3,814 and the number of active cases to 136. Even as 67 patients were discharged, two patients died. The district has so far lost 67 persons to the viral infection.
16 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Muted Independence Day celebration in Madurai||The 74th Independence Day celebration at the Armed Reserve ground here on Saturday was muted in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic. Collector T. G. Vinay unfurled the national flag in the presence of senior officials. Unlike the previous years, students from schools and colleges did not perform song and dance routines. Aged freedom fighters were also absent as the State government had issued a health advisory asking the very young and the elderly not to gather in crowded places. The event, however, was marked by distribution of various welfare schemes and felicitation of best performers in government departments. Collector T. G. Vinay took the salute and witnessed a parade of different contingents of police. He distributed welfare schemes worth Rs. 28.74 lakh to 72 beneficiaries. This included a three-wheel vehicle costing Rs. 76,000 given to a differently abled beneficiary. The Collector also honoured 114 government employees, including police personnel, Government Rajaji Hospital staff, school and college teachers and those from Health Services department. Madurai South Zone IG S. Murugan, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar took part in the event. In other places Various educational institutions and other organisations celebrated the 74th Independence Day in a subdued manner by following safety precautions in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jegadeesan unfurled the national flag on their premises. He said the COVID-19 pandemic had deeply impacted all businesses. He also held a discussion with the members regarding ways to revive the economy. Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) Trust Foundation Chairman P.T. Krishnamoorthy hoisted the national flag. President M. Muruganantham chaired the event. President of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association S. Anburajan was present. President of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association S.P. Jeyapragasam unfurled the national fag on their office premises. Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan unfurled the tricolour and delivered the Independence Day address. Registrar (in charge) V. Vasantha was present. M. Puranasunthari, a visually-imapired woman who cleared the civil services examinations and G. Dhevayani, a tribal girl who scored the first mark in her school in Class 12 examinations, were felicitated. American College M. Davamani Christober hoisted the national flag on the college premises. At Lady Doak College, Principal Christianna Singh hoisted the tricolour. At Kendriya Vidyalaya, Tirupparankundram, M. Jeyapandian, Deputy Inspector of Audit, Thanjavur Collectorate, the chief guest, hoisted the national flag in the presence of Principal A. Jerald.
16 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A saviour of the abandoned||S. Arun Kumar, a 23-year-old social worker, used to reach Kakkai Padiniyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School in Madurai at 7 a.m. during the lockdown period. The school was one of the camps where 175 rescued abandoned elderly were accommodated by Madurai Corporation and the inmates were taken care by Idhayam Trust, an NGO, during the lockdown period. Mr. Kumar, a B.Sc. Computer Science graduate, used to start his work by bathing the elderly inmates, dressing them up and feeding them. “When we receive calls asking us to rescue abandoned elders, I and other volunteers of Idhayam Trust rush to the spot. Usually, the work used to get over around 11 p.m.,” he recalled. He continued to do this work for 75 straight days during the lockdown period. He is one of those who received the ‘Chief Minister’s State Youth Award 2020’ during the 74th Independence Day celebration on Saturday. Director of Idhayam Trust G.R. Sivakumar said Mr. Kumar had been a volunteer with the Trust for the past three years. During the lockdown period, the members of Idhayam Trust had helped in getting some of the abandoned elderly reconcile with their family members. Currently, around 50 elderly are taken care at Idhayam Geriatic Care Centre and Mr. Kumar continues to volunteer, added Mr. Sivakumar. Mr. Kumar, who used to work as a supervisor in a construction firm, said three years back he saw the volunteers of Idhayam Trust feeding an abandoned elderly person. “Before the volunteers arrived, that elderly man was shunned by the public as he was stinking. But, after the volunteers cleaned him, that elderly person expressed his gratitude with a smile. This instilled confidence that I too can help the abandoned and made me join the Trust,” he added. Raised by his single mother, Mr. Kumar said he used to get disheartened for not having a larger family during his childhood. “But, fortunately all those elders at the camp became my family. Interacting with them has made me a calmer person. I have also learnt the importance of respecting my mother,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that his mother worked hard to raise him. “My family always faced financial crunch. Even during the lockdown, I had no income as all construction activities were suspended. But then shortage of money is never a deterrent to help others,” he said.
16 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ganja peddler murdered||A ganja peddler R. Senthilpandi (48) was hacked to death near Melur on Saturday. The police said that Senthilpandi, who was riding a bike, was waylaid and attacked with lethal weapons by an unidentified gang on Tiruvathavur-Melur Road at T. Andipatti at around 2.30 p.m. The police added that his head was crushed. Melur police are investigating.
16 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||As e-pass norms ease, vigilance goes up||Vigilance, monitoring and healthcare facilities will be ramped up in the district, in light of the State Government's announcement granting easier access to e-passes from August 17, said senior officials of the district administration. District Monitoring Officer B. Chandramohan, said that officials of the health department and the district administration took part in a review meeting on Friday and they discussed the drop in COVID-19 cases and a plan to ensure sustained low positive numbers over the next two weeks.  District Collector T. G. Vinay said that they will be strengthening district borders at Kottampatti, Vadipatti and Kadavur and screening all those with symptoms. “Since we will be approving the e-passes the previous day, we will have an approximate idea of the total number of people travelling into the district. We can station as many teams in these checkposts based on the previous day's data,” he said. A source from the district administration said that currently, they receive close to 3,000 e-pass applications every day and approve roughly 34% of them. The Collector added that they will continue to intensify fever clinics and encourage those even with cough and cold symptoms to regularly visit the clinics for testing. “We have found that masking and maintaining physical distance is important in containing the spread. We will likely increase the number of flying squad teams too,” he said. Deputy Director, Health department, Priya Raj, said that teams will be present at district borders for swab collection. Test results for them will be available within 12 hours, she added.
16 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plan for Puducherry-Cuddalore rail link to be re-examined: Narayanasamy||The Southern Railway has agreed to re-examine the Union Territory’s proposal to lay a rail line between Puducherry and Cuddalore, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Saturday. Delivering his Independence Day address after unfurling the national flag at the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex, the Chief Minister said the Railways had agreed to carry out a survey of land and soil testing before going ahead with the project. He also announced the decision by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to set up a Driving Training Institute in Puducherry. The Ministry has sanctioned Rs. 17 crore to set up the institute, Mr. Narayanasamy said in his address. Listing out the various welfare and development schemes implemented by the government during the last four- and a-half years, he said the restrictions imposed due to the spread of COVID-19 had hurt the economy of the Union Territory. He honoured the heads of departments such as Health, Police, Local Administration and Public Works. The Chief Minister also witnessed a march past by various contingents of the territorial police. The celebrations saw a limited crowd, and visitors were seated adhering to physical distancing norms. Celebrations at Raj Nivas Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi unfurled the national flag at Raj Nivas in the presence of her personal staff. In her message, Ms. Bedi said, “It is a day of happiness and gratitude.” She also recognised the contributions of Corona warriors and soldiers on the border. Ms. Bedi appealed the people to cooperate with the government by following physical distancing norms, hygiene, wearing mask and downloading the Arogya Sethu app.
16 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Gang from Chennai held||An alert on the police helpline number prevented a major clash between two gangs in Abiramam police station limits on Friday night. In a swift operation, the personnel rushed to the spot and arrested the gang members and seized ‘aruvals’ and other deadly weapons, including a country-made pistol and 300 kgs of ganja. A few bottles filled with petrol were also recovered. Police said that the issue was about a land grabbing case in Morai panchayat limits in Avadi Chennai between two persons. In a bid to take over possession, both the parties had engaged anti-social elements, who had the support of political functionaries including a sitting MLA from the district. While one group claimed to be the rightful owners of the 3,000 square feet plot, the other gang showed ‘documents’ in their favour. Though, police probe suggested that the above said land was ‘poromboke’ and was valued at Rs. 1 crore, the tussle between the two sides snowballed into a clash. The names of the arrested were given as Moovendran (38) of Morai panchayat Avadi, Rajith (30) of Avadi, Monees Kumar (26) of Kodungaiyur, Rasul (35) of Madurai and Rajesh (28) of Avadi. The police also arrested Sendil of Kodungaiyur and sent him for judicial custody. The police were on the look out for Sethupathi alias Tsunami Sethupathi and a few others. A SUV and a two-wheeler were seized. As the accused were in an inebriated mood, they were secured with ease. A senior police officer, who was monitoring the case, said that many of the arrested persons were wanted in many police stations. The police have booked cases under Indian Arms Act and others. Senior officers commended the swift action of the police personnel from Abiramam station.
16 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 results to be declared through SMS||District Collector S.A. Raman on Saturday launched an online system to declare results of COVID-19 tests conducted at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The viral research and diagnostic laboratory at the Hospital is a major facility for RT-PCR tests in the district and on an average, over 1,500 samples are being tested here every day. To prevent manual errors in declaring results and prevent the public from crowding outside the lab to collect results, the online system was launched, R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital said. The system was first launched in Madurai. Under this system, persons, who tested negative, would receive SMS in their registered mobile number. Dr. Balajinathan said whenever a person gave sample for tests, the individual was provided with a sample ID number and if the results were negative, the individual would receive an SMS. “If the result is positive, Health authorities will receive an SMS and further action will be taken. The results could be known within 24 hours,” he said.
16 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Collector honours martyred soldiers||District Collector S.A. Raman on Saturday paid tributes to martyred soldiers from Salem district at the War memorial. Commanding Officers of National Cadet Corps Colonel Thomas Philip, Colonel M.P.Singh, Wing Commander Yuvaraj also paid their tributes. The war memorial includes stones in honour of T.L.R. Chandran, an Indian Civil Services Officer, who died during service and another stone in memory of 196 men, who took part in World War from Salem. 19 soldiers from Salem The memorial also includes a plaque with names of 19 soldiers from Salem who died during action. P. Mathialagan, Havildhar, who was killed in action at Aknoor sector in Jammu and Kashmir along the Pakistan border in June this year was also etched in the memorial. His wife M.Tamilarasi paid tributes at the memorial.
16 August 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||A surprise for a Sivaganga centenarian||After hoisting the tricolour, Collector J. Jayakanthan took the salute accompanied by Superintendent of Police Rohith Nathan Rajagopal. A total of 450 employees from various departments were honoured for theie efforts made against the COVID-19 pandemic. After the customary I-day events, he drove straight to the houses of two freedom fighters who lived in Sivaganga. At the residence of Sethuraman, he recalled his earlier visit to the tyagi's house about six months ago when he turned 100. The Collector also visited another tyagi Ayyachami, 89, and honoured him. Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi unfurled the national flag in the presence of Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya. She honoured doctors and officials from various departments. The Collector and SP Ravali Priya visited the house of freedom fighter (late) Palaniappa and honoured his wife Jothi Ammal, 75. The tyagi had participated in the Salt Satyagraha movement in Vedasandur and was jailed when he was a 15-year-old boy. “Only after my marriage, I knew that he took part in the freedom struggle,” the woman recalled. Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao hoisted the national flag and honoured freedom fighters, doctors and health workers. Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar was present. DIG of Police N.M. Mylvaganan and other officials participated in the Independence day celebration. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev unfurled the tricolour flag and took the salute in the presence of Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi. The Collector honoured the personnel posted on COVID-19 duty with a certificate. Freedom fighters from the district were honoured by the respective Tahsildars in the district.
16 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Special team seizes 25 kg of charas and arrests two persons in Thoothukudi||A police special team has seized 25 kg of charas and arrested two persons. Police said several special teams that had been deployed across the district to check the smuggling of drugs had arrested 32 persons in the past four weeks and seized 24 kg ganja. Moreover, the special teams have also seized 1.25 tonnes of banned tobacco products from 3 persons, who were arrested later. Against this backdrop, a special police team that was conducting vehicle check at Paramankurichi near Tiruchendur intercepted a bike on Saturday. The police seized 25 kg of charas and the arrested were identified as K. Senthilkumar, 43, of NGO Colony in Nagercoil and M. Durairaj, 44, of Perumpaththu near Nanguneri. The drug costs about Rs. 2.50 crore in the international market, the police said. As the police grilled them further, the duo confessed to the police that they had been detained under the Goondas Act earlier following their involvement of several criminal cases. Further investigations are on to identify the gang involved in the smuggling of the drug. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar lauded the special team members for the seizure of the huge quantity of the drug.
16 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 warriors honoured on I-Day||Honouring of frontline warriors engaged in the fight against COVID-19 was the highlight of the 74th Independence Day celebrations across the central region on Saturday. With cancellation of cultural events, the celebrations were subdued and conducted in line with government guidelines such as adherence to physical distancing. Also, there were no spectators from among the general public. Collector S. Sivarasu hoisted the national flag at a simple but majestic ceremony held at the Armed Reserve police grounds in the city. Accompanied by T. Jayachandran, Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Mr. Sivarasu inspected and accepted the guard of honour by the Armed Reserve police personnel. As a token of appreciation for the hard work towards treatment of COVID-19 patients, the Collector presented certificate of appreciation to 98 frontline workers. Doctors and nurses of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College, sanitary workers of Tiruchi Corporation, drivers of 108 ambulances were among those who received the certificates for their meritorious service. In order to avoid the risk of spread of COVID-19, officials visited the houses of freedom fighters and presented shawls for their contribution to the freedom struggle. H.H. Jayaram. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, J. Loganathan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, and others took part in the function. Civic chief hoists flag At a function held at Tiruchi City Corporation, its Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian hoisted the national flag. Officers and employees of the civic body participated. Sanitary and health workers of the Corporation were honoured with appreciation certificates for their contribution to check COVID-19 virus. Celebration at BDU Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University P. Manisankar presided over the Independence Day celebrations and hoisted the national flag on Palkalaiperur campus. G. Gopinath, Registrar and senior officials of the university participated. As a mark of completion of 100 years of its establishment, a 100 feet high flag mast was commissioned at National College by M. Somasundaram, Managing Director, Amman Try, Tiruchi. K. Ragunathan, secretary and R. Sundararaman, Principal, were among those participated. The flag mast was established with the support of Life Insurance Corporation, alumni, students and staff, according to a press release. S. Uma, Director, National Research Centre for Banana, hoisted the national flag at its campus. COVID 19 warriors, including doctors, were felicitated at both institutions.
16 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp spike in COVID-19 cases, deaths in central region||The central region on Saturday recorded a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases with 760 patients testing positive for the viral infection. A record 21 deaths were also reported — seven each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts, five in Tiruchi, and one each in Tiruvarur and Ariyalur. In Thanjavur, a 68-year-old man with myasthenia died of COVID-19 and cardiac arrest, two men aged 55 and 52 died of COVID-19 pneumonia, a man and a woman, both aged 58 and with co-morbidities of diabetes and hypertension, and a 50-year-old COVID positive woman with hypothyroidism also died. In Pudukottai, a 23-year-old man died of cardio respiratory arrest caused by the viral infection, men aged 27, 75, 41 who had suffered from systemic hypertension, diabetes and died of a respiratory failure caused by COVID-19 while men aged 47, 62, and 60 died of comorbidities of coronary artery disease and COVID pneumonia. In Tiruchi, men aged 59, 50, 75 and 56 who were suffering from diabetes and hypertension died of the viral infection while a 55-year-old woman who had been suffering from bronchial asthma died of COVID-19 pneumonia, cardio pulmonary resuscitation and respiratory failure. An 80-year-old man from Tiruvarur who had earlier been diagnosed with diabetes and atypical pneumonia and a 57-year-old man from Ariyalur who had been suffering from coronary artery disease died of respiratory failure caused by the viral infection. In Pudukottai, where the highest number of COVID-19 cases were recorded among the central districts on Saturday, many were primary contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier. Some antenatal mothers and those with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses also tested positive. In Tiruchi, 117 patients tested positive including from localities such as Srirangam, Lalgudi, Manachanallur among other areas. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, 15 patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 26 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the infection. Thanjavur recorded 109 fresh COVID cases and Tiruvarur 54. The patients in Thanjavur included a policeman, an antenatal mother, a worker who works at the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme office at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and eight travellers from other districts. Nagapattinam recorded 81 new cases, of which two travelled from abroad, one from Kerala, four from other districts, 14 were local cases, while 30 were affected by their positive relatives and friends. Four frontline workers including three policemen and one doctor with ILI symptoms were also affected. Karur recorded 40 new cases including residents from Uppidamangalam, Puliyur, Rayanur and NSK Nagar. Two policemen who had been residing at the quarters in Kulithalai also tested positive. Meanwhile, 15 patients were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the infection. Ariyalur recorded 73 new cases, many of who were inter-district travellers and primary contacts. The total number of COVID cases in the district is now 1715, however, 1238 have recovered and have been discharged. Thirumanur continued to record a high number of cases with 24 of the 73 belonging to the block. Meanwhile, of the 26 new cases in Perambalur, 13 hailed from within municipality limits, while seven hailed from Veppur and three each from Veppanthattai and Alathur. The patients have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital.
16 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Wi-Fi at all railway stations in Tiruchi division’||All 103 railway stations in Tiruchi Railway Division have been provided with Wi-Fi facility, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Ajay Kumar said here on Saturday. Speaking after unfurling the national flag at the Independence Day celebration at the DRM Office, Mr. Kumar said retiring rooms at Tiruchi junction had been renovated and refurbished with improved amenities. Eight out of 13 express rakes primarily maintained at Tiruchi division now had Uthkrisht standard coaches. Tiruchi was the first division in Southern Railway to complete bio-toilet fitment with natural ventilation system in all coaches. All lights in railway stations, service buildings and quarters had been fully fitted with LED bulbs, according to a press release. On freight traffic, Mr. Kumar said the division transported 10.91 tonnes of different types of commodities to various destinations across the country during 2019-20. “This was the highest ever loading in any financial year achieved by Tiruchi division. The division has also loaded 2.90 tonnes of freight, including essential commodities, during the pandemic period between April and July this year.” The division also achieved 90% punctuality during 2019-20. It was second among divisions in Indian Railways and the first in Southern Railway to implement e-office system. Mr. Kumar also disclosed that subways had been commissioned at four locations eliminating manned level crossing gates in the current financial year and work was under progress on construction of five more subways. Foot overbridge (FOB) works were in progress at 19 railway stations. The speed on Thanjavur–Golden Rock down line had been increased from 95 to 110 km per hour. CCTV-based ‘rolling in examination’ had been introduced at Tiruchi junction. Electrification works between Mayiladuthurai and Thanjavur and Nagappattinam and Velankanni were under progress. At the Central Railway Workshop, Golden Rock, Shyamadhar Ram, Chief Workshop Manager, unfurled the national flag and distributed leadership awards to two officers and 15 supervisors in recognition of their exemplary initiatives taken by them in various production and maintenance processes and for adopting innovative approaches and strategies in workshop activities.  Leadership awards He lauded the exemplary efforts made by Team SWAAS of the workshop in development of low-cost ventilators and presented excellence awards in appreciation of the innovative approach adopted by 14 team members. Mr. Shyamadhar Ram appreciated the efforts of other teams involved in conversion of COVID-19 isolation coaches, manufacturing of coveralls, face masks, doctors’ gowns and sanitizers. He also distributed commendation certificates to various staff members for serving as COVID-19 warriors. To mark the occasion, 151 tree saplings were planted on the workshop premises.
16 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic robs customary enthusiasm||The pandemic-induced lockdown robbed the usual gaiety and enthusiasm from the Independence Day celebration at the VOC Stadium in Palayamkottai on Saturday. After unfurling the tricolor, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, in the presence of Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, honoured meritorious officials and the volunteers for their stupendous service during the ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown and also in anti-viral operations. In all, 786 persons received certificates for their service. Commissioner of Police Deepak M. Damor and Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu were present. In the Independence Day celebration held at Corporation, Commissioner G. Kannan hoisted the national flag. Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University hoisted the national flag on the MSU premises in the presence of Registrar B. Santhosh Baboo. The national flag was hoisted atop a 100-feet-tall mast recently installed in front of Tirunelveli railway junction. Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri hoisted the national flag and disbursed welfare measures worth Rs. 2.39 crore to 222 beneficiaries in the Independence Day celebration held in Thoothukudi. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar was present. Mr. Sandeep honoured 114 officials from various departments and disbursed Rs. 2.39-crore welfare measures to 222 beneficiaries. Tenkasi Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan honoured government officials, police, health workers and the volunteers for their laudable service during the COVID-19 lockdown and their contribution in containing the pandemic, at the I-Day celebration held at Tenkasi Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School.Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh was present. A total of 302 persons, including volunteers, were honoured. Kanniyakumari Collector Prashant M. Wadnere gave away Rs. 2.08 lakh-worth welfare measures to beneficiaries in the Independence Day celebration held at Anna Stadium in Nagercoil. Superintendent of Police Badri Narayanan was present. Four beneficiaries received Rs. 2.08 lakh-worth welfare measures, including subsidy of Rs. 1.80 lakh for constructing green houses. Mr. Prashant honoured 351 government officials, police and fire and rescue services personnel and volunteers for their contribution in containing COVID-19.
16 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Woman officer leads parade, leaves for father’s funeral||Burying the worst grief of having lost her father and even as the mortal remains awaited her arrival at a place located 130km away from here, for performing the last rites, a woman Inspector led the Independence Day parade here on Saturday. As N. Maheshwari, an Armed Reserve Police Inspector, usually led the police in the Republic Day and Independence Day parades for the past several years in front of the packed stadium, she actively participated in the rehearsals held at VOC Stadium in Palayamkottai over the last few days. When she returned home after the dress rehearsal on Friday, the police officer received information that her 83-year-old father Narayanaswamy passed away at Vadamadurai in Dindigul district. Though the tragedy shattered Ms. Maheshwari, the young police officer, who buried her grief, was determined to lead her contingent in the Independence Day parade as usual, since inducting someone else in her role, at the eleventh hour, might spoil the march past. As Ms. Maheshwari stood graciously in front of her contingent on Saturday morning before the parade, none could read anything from her face as she was quite composed. And, as usual, her commands reverberated across the VOC Stadium where a fewer number of public had been allowed to watch the Independence Day celebrations with physical distancing. After leading the policemen in the parade and paying guard of honour to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, Ms. Maheshwari majestically left the ground along with her contingent. Only when Ms. Maheshwari, her husband Balamurugan, a constable with the Intelligence Section of Tirunelveli City, swiftly left the venue in a vehicle, others including those who took part in the parade, realized that she had suffered one of the worst losses of her life 13 hours ago. Even as words of consolation poured in from all quarters, a teary-eyed Ms. Maheshwari left the VOC Stadium for Vadamadurai to perform the last rites to her father. Interestingly, Mr. Balamurugan, who had been deployed at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital to gather information about the influx of COVID-19 patients into the hospital, contracted the infection two weeks ago and reported for duty only on Friday, after being quarantined for 15 days.
16 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Official with COVID-19 works from hospital||A 28-year-old official from the office of Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS) in Tiruppur, who tested positive for COVID-19, has been continuing her work from the hospital. The official, who is an Assistant Programme Manager, said on Saturday she was admitted to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. “We will send eight reports every day - three in the morning and five in the evening - to the State government. This will be a compilation of patients’ admission and discharge details, their location, activities and the deaths,” she told The Hindu over the phone. Ever since her admission on August 10, she has been looking after the compilation of these reports using her smartphone. When asked whether anyone could substitute her work while she took rest, she said it was a “complicated work” that was submitted to the higher officials of the government. “There would have been a delay of two to three days if I had to train someone for this, so I decided to do it myself,” she said. The official is admitted in a separate room at the hospital. According to Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, the official had mild COVID-19 symptoms during admission. “She complained of myalgia (muscle pain), but even that reduced in the subsequent days,” the Dean said. She would be discharged shortly, Dr. Valli said. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and himself congratulated the official. She would be felicitated when she joined duty, he said.
16 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Solace for son of COVID-19 warrior||Frontline staff of various departments and private educational institutions were honoured for their contribution to fight the COVID-19 pandemic at the Independence Day celebration on Saturday. After hoisting the national flag at the District Sports Complex, Collector R. Kannan handed over a cheque of Rs. 25 lakh to M. Sasikala, wife of Mohan Kennedy, former executive officer of Sundarapandiyam town panchayat, who died due to COVID-19. He also handed over appointment order to M. Thangamudi, son of M. Murugesan, former village assistant of Chinnamooppanpatti, who had also died in the fight against COVID-19. Besides distributing certificates of appreciation to educational institutions that provided their buildings and other infrastructure for establishing COVID Care Centres, the Collector also honoured Ramco Cements that gave a huge contribution from its Corporate Social Responsibility funds.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Increase in samba, thaladi coverage likely in Thanjavur||The swift increase in storage level of Stanley Reservoir at Mettur over the past few days has raised hopes among officials of Agriculture Department that samba and thaladi coverage will substantially expand this season in Tiruvarur district. Last year, samba paddy was cultivated on about 1.31 lakh hectares in the district when farmers were encouraged to opt for direct sowing method on about 70,800 hectares out of the total samba area since Mettur dam was opened only during August. Normally, thaladi is cultivated on about 20,000 hectares in the district and given the fact that this year kuruvai cultivation was taken up in about 39,000 hectares, the chances of cultivation of thaladi in an equal area are more since water for irrigation was released from Mettur on the scheduled date of June 12 and reached canals in tail-end areas of the district. Sporadic rainfall has also boosted the confidence of farmers apart from several water bodies in the district getting filled up with water, thanks to desilting and renovation of waterways taken up during the last few years. Sources say with sufficient storage at the Stanley Reservoir to meet water requirements for samba preparation and cultivation during August-September and prediction of a good northeast monsoon, the total area of cultivation of samba and thaladi is expected to cross 1.50 lakh hectares in the district. In Thanjavur, officials expect the total area of samba cultivation to decrease by around 15,000 hectares as the area of coverage of kuruvai increased this year. Normally, a little over a lakh hectares is brought under samba cultivation.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers honoured on 74th Independence Day||Collector K. Rajamani hoisted the national flag at the VOC Park Ground on Saturday, marking the 74th Independence Day celebration in the district. The administration followed the Independence Day protocol but did away with march past and cultural programmes in keeping with the COVID-19 safety guideline. The Collector accepted the guard of honour from police personnel from an open jeep that the administration had modified to ensure maintenance of physical distance between Mr. Rajamani and Deputy Commissioner of Police E.S. Uma, who had accompanied him. A release from the district administration said the Collector handed over certificates of appreciation to P. Kalidas, Dean, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, A. Nirmala, Dean, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director, Health Services, Revenue Divisional Officers, J.K. Baskaran, Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore Central, and several other officials. Mr. Rajamani also gave certificates of appreciation to 90 employees from various State government departments, the release added. As for honouring freedom fighters and their descendants, tahsildars and deputy tahsildars reached out to them at their houses to pay respect on behalf of the administration. Coimbatore Corporation Coimbatore Corporation celebrated the Independence Day with Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath garlanding a Mahatma Gandhi bust and hoisting the Tricolour. A release from the civic body quoting the Commissioner said the result of officials and workers dedicating themselves to contain the spread of COVID-19 was that the number of positive cases had come down. Compared to other districts, the Corporation’s COVID-19 containment strategy was effective. On the execution of projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission, the Commissioner said Coimbatore was the city that had shown the maximum progress in the State and fifth best progress in the country. He then handed over certificates of appreciation to 22 employees, who had 25 years of blemish-less service. He also accepted an award from Rathinam Group of Institutions for taking effective steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Freedom fighters remembered Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar led the Independence Day celebration at the institution. A release from the institution said after unfurling the flag he recalled the sacrifice of freedom fighters. To improve the livelihood of farmers, he said, the University had supplied 148 tonnes breeder seeds, 583 tonnes foundation seeds, 153 tonnes certified seeds, 965 tonnes TFL and 23.8 lakh planting material during 2019-20. At Bharathiar University, Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj hoisted the Tricolour. Muted celebrations in Tiruppur Tiruppur witnessed muted celebrations amid the COVID-19 pandemic at Chikkanna Government Arts College. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan hoisted the national flag, following which he inspected the police parade and accepted the guard of honour. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan also felicitated 349 frontline workers. However, only a portion of the selected frontline workers received the certificates to prevent overcrowding at the venue. The certificates for the rest will be sent through their respective offices, according to the officials. Sainik School livestreams celebration The celebration at Sainik School in Amaravathinagar, Udumalpet taluk, was livestreamed so that the cadets from the school could watch the celebrations. School principal Captain Nirmal Raghu hoisted the tricolour. Gynaecologist gets CM’s award In Salem, District Collector S.A. Raman hoisted the national flag at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium and received guard of honour from police commanded by Krithika, DSP (Training). Mr. Raman later distributed appreciation certificates to 58 frontline workers from various departments involved in COVID-19 preventive measures. Among those honoured were R. Balajinathan, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, D. Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, Kavitha, Head, Microbiology department, J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, R. Malarvizhi Vallal, Joint Director of Health Services, K. Parthiban, City Health Officer, R. Selva Kumar, DD Health, Attur. Mr. Raman presented a cheque of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of K.P. Shanmugham, a pharmacist at Primary Health Centre at Vazhavanthi who died contracting COVID-19 disease. Six police personnel from Salem district police, Chinnadurai, Inspector, Special Sub-inspector Sivalingam, Sub-Inspector Palanisami, Head Constable Sasikumar, Armed Reserve Constables Ramkumar and Prabhu were honoured on the day. Tahsildhars honoured 18 freedom fighters by visiting their houses. G. Shyamala, a gynaecologist who is known for her voluntary services and popularly called ‘Normal Delivery Doctor Amma’ was chosen for Chief Minister’s Best Doctor award. However, the 68-year-old doctor could not attend the event in Chennai and she is expected to receive the award later. Her husband Nagarajan said that she has been offering free medical services to the under-priveleged for over 20 years after taking voluntary retirement from government services. Dr. Shyamala has also adopted 40 tribal villages in Andhra Pradesh and has been conducting medical camps in the area along with medical and para medical volunteers for the past six years. Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh hoisted the national flag at his office and honoured COVID-19 frontline workers. Sanjeev Taneja, Executive Director, Salem Steel Plant, hoisted the national flag and took the salute from a contingent of Central Industrial Security Force in celebrations held at Salem Steel Plant. Members of Salem Nature Society planted fruit bearing saplings in the foothills of Yercaud. In Namakkal, Collector K. Megraj hoisted the national flag at at district grounds and presented appreciation certificates to 173 frontline workers and 25 police personnel here. T.M. Kalliannan Gounder, a former member of the Constituent Assembly was honoured by officials for his services to the nation. A low-key affair in Erode In Erode, the celebrations was held at V.O.C. Park Sports Ground. Collector C. Kathiravan unfurled the national flag and released tri-coloured balloons. He distributed certificates of appreciation to 107 government officials and frontline staff involved in fighting COVID-19 in the district. Mr. Kathiravan also visited the house of three freedom fighters and honoured them. Likewise, the day was celebrated at educational institutions across the district. At the Corporation Middle School at Thirunagar Colony, A. Perumal, a conservancy worker of Ward 13, hoisted the national flag in the presence of headmistress S. Arunadevi. R. Satheesh, Sanitary Inspector, Zone 1 and Mr. Perumal were felicitated by the school management for their service in fight against COVID-19. Disbursement of benefits In Krishnagiri, Collector S. Prabhakar hoisted the national flag at the district sports complex. The celebrations also witnessed disbursement of benefits under various schemes to the tune of over Rs. 17 lakh to eight beneficiaries. Frontline workers that included nurses and health inspectors and medical services staff were felicitated for COVID works. Mr. Prabhakhar also honoured Hosur’s Jaamaats- led COVID 19 relief collective and Olirum Krishnagiri , IVDP. In Dharmapuri, the celebrations was marked on a sombre note with the absence of the usual gaiety, at the district sports complex. The tricolor was unfurled by Collector S. Malarvizhi. Cooks at the government isolation facility in Chettikarai Government Engineering College, conservancy workers and police personnel were felicitated on the occasion. Awareness messages In Udhagamandalam, for the second consecutive year, Independence Day celebrations were kept low-key, keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic. Last year, celebrations were muted due to the heavy rain and consequent flooding witnessed across the Nilgiris in August. This year, doctors and nurses, as well as municipality workers, who have been on the frontline of the fight against COVID-19 were honoured by the district administration. While there were no dances or events featuring school children, there were dances and skits organised to spread awareness messages to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Collector also honoured postman D. Sivan, who retired from duty earlier this year. Mr. Sivan has gained enormous fame for his work in delivering letters to inaccessible hamlets in Coonoor. A flag hoisting ceremony was also organised at the Theppakadu elephant camp. The Coonoor municipality invited a conservancy worker to hoist the national flag. This is the second consecutive year that a conservancy worker was asked to unfurl the tricolor at the Independence Day event.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||PWD begins renovation of Athupalayam main channel||The Public Works Department has begun renovation of the main irrigation channel of Athupalayam Reservoir in Karur district. The channel, which runs a distance of about 57 km, irrigates about 19,500 acres of dry lands in the district. Besides removing silt accumulation and weed growth, damages to irrigation structures on the channel would also be repaired at various places under the project, sanctioned at an estimate of Rs. 1.49 crore. Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar, who inaugurated the work in the presence of Collector T. Anbalagan and other officials on Wednesday, said the damaged shutters of the reservoir would also be replaced. A new drainage sluice would be built to prevent damage caused in the water fall area. Besides, irrigation structures which were badly damaged on the main canal, would be repaired. The approach road to the reservoir would also be black-topped. Mr. Vijayabhaskar pointed out that water from the reservoir was released last year, after a gap of 18 years, as there was good inflow due to good rainfall in the region much to the joy of farmers in K. Paramathi area. At present, the reservoir had about 60% storage of its capacity of 235 million cubic feet. If there was good rainfall and inflow into the reservoir, water would be released from the reservoir this year too, he said. The work was expected to be completed in about 12 months, but much would depend on the rainfall and release of water for irrigation, PWD sources indicated. The Minister also indicated that steps would be taken to expand the area under irrigation from the Lower Bhavani Canal in Karur district. At present, about 4,500 acres of land , forming the tail-end of the canal was irrigated in Karur district. However, since about 20,000 acres of agricultural lands, which were being irrigated by the canal, had been converted into industrial and residential plots in Erode district due to urbanisation, a request had been made to the Chief Minister to allow the expansion of the area under irrigation by the channel in Karur district, he said.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore adds 290 more cases to its tally, Salem 200||Coimbatore district reported 290 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number to 8,569 so far. Six persons aged 82, 63, 68, 88, 80 and 75 died of the disease and the death toll in the district increased to 171. With the death of two persons aged 53 and 90 in Erode, 20 deaths were reported in the district so far. Salem reported the death of a 40-year-old patient. In Tiruppur, three persons aged 70, 75 and 46 died of COVID-19. On Saturday, 175 persons were discharged in Coimbatore and the district had 2,175 active cases. All the 200 cases reported in Salem were indigenous, including 128 from the Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 34 cases were reported, majority of them were contact of previous cases. Nine persons returned from Erode, Thenkasi and Salem and one from Puducherry. Four children from the Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the 68 fresh cases in Tiruppur, taking the district’s tally to 1,495. The cases were reported from Tiruppur, Dharapuram, Kundadam, Udumalpet and Palladam blocks. In the Nilgiris, of the 32 persons tested positive, 18 were from Anikorai and eight from Kakkuchi. The total number of cases stood at 1,033, with 915 people having recovered and 115 persons under treatment. Erode saw 14 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 1,349. A total of 54 persons were discharged on Saturday while 476 persons were under treatment.  Dharmapuri reported 13 cases and Krishnagiri 56.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smart drain project likely to be over by November||Tiruchi city’s first smart drains being constructed on both sides of West Boulevard Road are set to be completed shortly. The hallmark of the drains is that the built in cable duct that would facilitate Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to remove overhead power lines and go for underground cabling to households and commercial establishments in the project area.Telephone cables can also be routed via the duct. Under the project, smart drains are being constructed for one km each on both the sides of West Boulevard Road from Main Guard Gate. Construction of storm water drains, underground cable duct, formation of pavement path for pedestrians and cyclists and solar street lights are among the salient features of the project. A sum of Rs. 7.5 crore had been earmarked for the project under the Smart City Mission. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the project area was among the important commercial areas in the city. The width of the West Boulevard Road was sufficient to form storm water drainage in addition to provide necessary space for movement of vehicles. Hence, the road was chosen to establish smart drains on both the sides. About 50% of the work has already been completed. The project has been divided into 10 parts so as to carry out the work simultaneously. Though there were constraints of labour shortage, the situation was being managed by sourcing workers from rural parts of the district. It was expected that the work would be completed by November, Mr. Sivasubramanian added. After the completion of the project, the Tangedco, BSNL and private telecom companies could carry their electric and telephone cables under the pedestrian paths. There would be no need for electric poles. The existing poles could be removed and the lines could be carried along the cable duct, the Commissioner said. M.R. Ramesh, Junior Engineer of the civic body, said that the smart drain would have removable openings on the platform through which the duct could be accessed, so as to avoid frequent digging and relaying of the road.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK issues gag order to leaders||Earlier in the week, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju triggered the debate saying that the issue of the next Chief Minister would be resolved at a meeting of the AIADMK legislature party. A day later, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, in a tweet, declared that Mr. Palaniswami was the Chief Ministerial candidate, which had apparently upset followers of Mr. Panneerselvam. On Wednesday, senior leaders and Ministers had met at the AIADMK party office, after which Deputy Coordinator K.P. Munusamy said the party leadership would formally announce the CM candidate at the appropriate time. Mr. Panneerselvam, in a tweet on Thursday, called for unity. Incidentally, Mr. Raju and Mr. Bhalaji, despite being in Chennai, were conspicuous by their absence in the meeting of Ministers. The week also saw a virtual spar between the AIADMK and its ally, BJP, over which of the two should head the alliance for the Assembly polls. Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam’s joint statement, alluded to the discussions over the party’s 2021 face and the issue of alliance with the BJP. Observations of certain office bearers, made without "provocation," had become "subject matters of debates." To avoid this, the party members should exercise "military discipline," while adhering to decisions of the party leadership, as they did when Jayalalithaa was at the helm of affairs of the AIADMK, the two leaders pointed out. What did not go unnoticed among sections of the party was that the statement did not address the principal issue: who the party’s candidate was for the post of Chief Minister. Union Cabinet Apart from the immediate issues, the selection of the party’s nominee to be inducted into the Union Council of Ministers has been a matter of speculation within the AIADMK. This has got revived in the last 10 days with the talk of the Union Cabinet getting expanded shortly doing the rounds. The names of first-time Theni MP and Deputy Chief Minister’s son, O. P. Raveendranath Kumar, and former Housing Minister R. Vaithilingam, are being mentioned as possible candidates for long. Former Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M. Thambi Durai, and former State Local Administration Minister K.P. Munusamy, both recently elected to the Rajya Sabha, are said to be other aspirants. Independent of the developments, J. Poongunran Sankaralingam, who had worked as a personal aide of Jayalalithaa at her Poes Garden residence, in his Facebook account, published the photograph of former AIADMK MP V. Maitreyan along with Jayalalithaa, and stated that it was regrettable that Dr. Maitreyan, [identified in the post as a Brahmin] was not given a "high position" in the party.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. staff, sanitary workers receive certificates||Independence Day was celebrated with enthusiasm, though on a subdued note, across the Cauvery delta region on Saturday. The usual cultural pageantry was cancelled in view of the pandemic. In Thanjavur, Collector M. Govinda Rao unfurled the national flag at a ceremony held at Armed Police grounds here on Saturday. He accepted the guard of honour presented by the police and honoured freedom fighters with shawl. He also distributed certificates for meritorious service to 149 government staff of 29 departments. District Revenue Officer P. Aravindan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thanjavur Range, Rupesh Kumar Meena and Superintendent of Police Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay were present. COVID-19 frontline workers were bestowed with the honour of hoisting the national flag at Laurel Higher Secondary School, Pallikondan, Pattukottai, and Anna Government Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam. Boys and girls took part in a painting event organised by the South Zone Cultural Centre on its premises here on Saturday. The event was preceded by flag hoisting by the centre’s director, M. Balasubramoniam. In Tiruvarur disstrict, certificates for meritorious service were distributed to 720 employees of various government departments for their dedicated participation in COVID-19 prevention measures and addressing the needs of the general public during the pandemic. Before distributing the certificates at a function held at the District Sports Complex, Collector T. Anand unfurled the national flag and honoured freedom fighters. He also took the salute and the guard of honour presented by the police. District Revenue Officer S. Ponnammal, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvarur, M. Durai and others participated. At the Central University of Tamil Nadu campus, Acting Vice-Chancellor Karpaga Kumaravel hoisted the national flag and inspected the guard of honour presented by the security personnel. In Nagapattinam, Collector Praveen P.Nair distributed commendation certificates for meritorious service to 124 government servants and distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 95.85 lakh to 85 beneficiaries after unfurling the national flag at the District Stadium here. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police S.Selvanagarathinam, Mr. Nair also inspected the guard of honour presented by the police personnel. In Pudukottai, Collector P. Uma Maheswari distributed commendation certificates to frontline COVID-19 workers including doctors and para medics and police officials. She distributed certificates to 457 government employees and officers after hoisting the national flag in the presence of L.Balaji Saravanan, Superintendent of Police. She also called on freedom fighter Nagappan at his house in Nizam Colony and honoured him with a khadi shawl.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-based social worker bags award||C. Shanthakumar, Director of Spastics Society of Tiruchi (SST), has bagged the Best Social Worker Award from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during Independence Day celebrations in Chennai on Saturday. Mr. Shanthakumar has been associated with SST, a non-profit organisation providing rehabilitation services to children with cerebral palsy, for 36 years. Besides its main centre in the city, SST also has rural branches in Lalgudi, Thuraiyur, Manapparai and Musiri. “Rehabilitation and special education require a life-long commitment from teachers, parents and the institution. At a time when many professionals are moving away from service-oriented careers, an award from the government will prove to be a great motivation to others, to sustain their interest in their chosen field,” Mr. Shanthakumar told The Hindu . The support of SST’s executive committee, led by President P.M. Shafi and District Differently Abled Officer of Tiruchi R. Ravichandran, has instrumental to the success of the institution’s programmes, he addeds. “I had an opportunity to observe Mother Teresa working with marginalised people while I was undergoing training in Calcutta in 1982, and I was inspired to follow in her footsteps,” said Mr. Shanthakumar. He also credits his family, especially his wife Rita, as an equal partner in his journey. “My earliest role model is my father, G.J.B. Christopher, a teacher, who encouraged all his children to cultivate a social-minded perspective,” he said.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plans in place to achieve targets: BHEL||Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Tiruchi, has chalked out plans to ensure that targets are achieved and customer requirements are fully met even as the unit ramps up operations progressively in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, its Executive Director, R Padmanabhan, said here on Saturday. Speaking after unfurling the national flag at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in BHEL’s Kailasapuram township, Mr. Padmanabhan called upon the younger generation of artisans, supervisors and executives to rise up to the occasion and increase productivity to make up for the time lost due to the pandemic. Cycle-time reduction, product quality and zero re-work should be the key focus areas. Meeting the expectations of all customers and sequential despatches in tune with the requirements of project sites was vital, he observed. Dwelling on the safety measures put in place to prevent the spread of the pandemic and the awareness campaign carried out by the medical and occupational health services staff of BHEL, Mr. Padmanabhan called upon employees and their family members to strictly adhere to safe practices such as social distancing, wearing of masks in public and frequent hand washing. He commended the work done by various anti-COVID task forces under the leadership of medical professionals in operating help lines round-the-clock and providing authentic information and advisories through dedicated social media groups to ensure safe practices in the factory and township. Two employees of the Tiruchi unit, J.P. Akila, who had won the Gold Medal for the Best Employee among public and private sector companies in India in the differently-abled (locomotor) category, and M. Padmanabhan, who had been awarded the Jeevan Raksha Padak for exemplary bravery in saving the life of a colleague at great peril to his own life, had been nominated as Brand Ambassadors of BHEL management for a year, he disclosed. They had also been rewarded with one year’s weightage in the minimum number of years to be considered for promotion to the next grade, he added. Mr. Padmanabhan presented the Improvement Projects Reward Scheme System Trophy to the Seamless Steel Tube Plant’s Hot Mill for being the best departmental productivity enhancement group and appreciation certificates to five doctors and a matron as COVID-19 Warriors, a BHEL press release said.  I-Day at Arivalayam Earlier, Padmasini Padmanabhan, Patron, Arivalayam, unfurled the national flag at Arivalayam, BHEL’s special school and vocational training centre for children with disabilities in the presence of K. Nagarajan, General Manager, Outsourcing and President, Arivalayam, and other senior officials.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||90 Shramik trains operated to transport guest workers: DRM||As many as 90 Shramik trains were operated to carry guest workers to their homes, Divisional Railway Manager U. Subba Rao said during the Independence Day celebrations held at the Salem Railway Divisional Office on Saturday. Mr. Rao hoisted the National Flag and inspected the parade by Railway Protection Force personnel. During his address, Mr. Rao appreciated the efforts of frontline workers under the division in fighting COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Rao also launched an android application ‘Dosth’ developed with the help of students of Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science, Chennai which would help in connecting with 1,800 staff of Operating Department under the division. Mr. Rao said, “ 90 Shramik trains were operated to various parts of the country from May 8 to July 8 for transporting 1,32,000 people.” He added that 40 non-AC coaches were converted into isolation ward coaches for COVID-19 patients, if need arises. Fortunately, these were not required to be used, he said. He said that between April and July, 194 parcel vans were loaded in the division as compared to 59 parcel vans during the corresponding period last year. Mr. Rao said that the division recorded accident-free operations during 2019-2020 and no accident was recorded this year, as well. He said that 28 manned level crossing gates in Salem Division were eliminated during past financial year. The phase-II of Salem railway junction works would be completed in current financial year, he added.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephants damage houses, crops||Wild elephants strayed into villages near Coimbatore on two consecutive days, causing damages to houses and crops. Residents of two houses at Maruthamalai foothills had a narrow escape after a lone wild elephant damaged the houses while searching for food. According to the Forest Department, a lone tusker strayed into residential areas at Maruthamalai foothills late on Friday. The tusker raided the house of Agarwal after damaging its gate. The elephant ate jaggery and rice bran from the house. The elephant later raided the house of Senthil Kumar in the neighbourhood. Mr. Kumar, his wife and four children stayed inside the house for nearly an hour as the elephant stood near the kitchen, which it damaged in search of rice and eatables. Another lone elephant damaged the camp of Anti-Poaching Watchers at Lingapuram, near Sirumugai, late on Friday. The same elephant damaged the window of the stock room of the Government Primary School at Mokkamedu where materials distributed under the nutritional food programme were kept. The department said in a release that elephants had come out to villages from the limits of Thadagam north and Thadagam south forest beats and Periya Thadagam reserve forest on Friday. Wild elephants came out from the limits of Karadimadai forest beat and Perumal Kovil area of Madukarai forest range, Kembanur forest beat of Coimbatore forest range, Nayackenpalayam and Anaikatti north forest beats of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range, Ooliyur beat of Sirumugai forest range and Thadagam and Thadagam north beats of Coimbatore forest range on Thursday. Frontline staff of the department chased them back to forest before causing much damage to crops.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC employees robbed||Close on the heels of an armed robbery of TASMAC employees in Silaimanon Thursday night, in another similar incident, a TASMAC employee of Kachirayanpatti was robbed of Rs. 5.44 lakh on Friday night. In both incidents, the robbers used beer bottles to attack the victims before snatching the bags containing cash. The police said V. Pandi (36) of Melapatti near Keelaiyur, was a salesman at a TASMAC shop. After sales closed at 10 p.m., he and his brother, Kannan, had gone home taking the cash with them, on a two-wheeler. When they reached Sathiyapuram at around 10.50 p.m., four persons, who came on two motorbikes, pushed the two-wheeler on which the brothers were riding. Both fell, and one of the men assaulted Kannan with a beer bottle and snatched the bag containing the cash. The men then fled the scene. While Pandi sustained minor injuries, Kannan has been admitted to the Government Hospital in Melur with head injuries. On Thursday night, TASMAC employees of Silaiman were attacked and Rs. 3.34 lakh stolen.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NEP leaves future of teacher education institutions uncertain||Managements of teacher education institutions are uncertain about the future role of Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University (TNTEU) in the wake of the National Education Policy 2020’s thrust on a four-year integrated B.Ed. programme. As per official statistics, there are 731 affiliated colleges of education including government, government-aided and self-financing institutions in the fold of TNTEU, which came into being in 2008 to promote excellence in teachers education. The NEP 2020 has tasked National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) to develop a National Professional Standard for Teachers (NPST), aimed to be introduced by 2022. The new standard will establish a four-year integrated B.Ed degree as a new minimum qualification for teaching and gradually move teacher education into multidisciplinary colleges and universities by 2030. “We are curious to know if B.Ed colleges will be permitted to offer the integrated degree programmes and whether the TNTEU will continue to affiliate the four-year programmes,” a functionary of a private teacher education college here said. According to a senior professor of Education, the concept of four-year full-time undergraduate programme is not entirely new. The Regional Institute of Education, Mysore, offers four-year full-time undergraduate course, B.Sc.B.Ed., approved by NCTE, under affiliation of University of Mysore. There has been no hitch for the institution in offering the unique course since Mysore university is the affiliating authority for both B.Ed and UG programmes in science and humanities. “But, in Tamil Nadu, there is no clarity. Only one university, for sure, can affiliate a programme. It has to be either the general universities or TNTEU. Since it has been specified in NEP 2020 that teacher education will move into multidisciplinary colleges and universities by 2030, the permanence of TNTEU seems to be at stake,” he said. A sense of discomfort for private managements of B.Ed. colleges is that the Ministry of Human Resource Development has given enough indications in recent months that the new policy introducing the four-year integrated B.Ed. degree programme will imply doing away with individual teacher education institutions.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Goods train to be operated from Erode to New Delhi every Friday||To help small-scale industries and farmers in transporting their products, Southern Railways will be operating goods train every Friday from Erode Railway Junction to New Delhi or nearby areas. A press release from the Salem Railway Division said the railways have proposed to run Turmeric City – New Delhi Cargo Express train to help small traders during the COVID-19 pandemic. The train will start every Friday at 3 p.m. and reach New Delhi in 60 hours. Small industrial units, agricultural producers, traders are given flexibility to load any number of wagons from the divisions of Salem, Madurai, Tiruchi and Chennai. However, at a single location, a minimum of ten wagons should be loaded either by a single party or by multiple parties, the release added. Single or multiple parties can load minimum of 10 wagons from any station of all the four divisions to single destination on weekdays and after aggregating the wagons from multiple locations, the train will leave Erode Junction. For queries, contact Senior Divisional Operations Manger of concerned division, Salem – 90039 56900, Madurai – 90038 62900, Tiruchi – 90038 64900 and Chennai – 90031 61900.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till August 15   Coimbatore district  Indigenous cases: 8,531 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 2,175 Persons recovered: 6,223 Deaths: 171  Tiruppur district  Persons tested +ve so far: 1,495 Persons recovered: 991 Active cases: 460 Deaths: 44
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore||
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||erode||
16 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||I-Day celebrated in Belagavi, Vijayapura||Independence Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour across the region on Saturday. Belagavi district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi inaugurated the celebrations at the district stadium on Saturday by unfurling the national flag. He said that the despite the challenges of floods and COVID-19, the State government was trying to implement several development projects and welfare schemes. He felicitated students from government residential schools and hostels who excelled in the SSLC examination. He gave away certificates to Sneha Katagannavar, Satyanarayan Khandatti, and Akshata Durgannanavar Samad Bhaldar, who had studied from Social Welfare Department hostels. Rajya Sabha member Eeranna Kadadi, MLC Sabanna Talwar, Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas, Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan and others were present on the occasion. As a precautionary measure, a minimum number of staff members attended theevent on the premises of the Rashtriya Military School, Belagavi. Principal Lieutenant Colonel S. Mohan Rao unfurled the flag and thanked the staff and students of the school who had worked as corona warriors. At KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore hospital, KAHER Vice-Chancellor Vivek Saoji addressed the students and staff. Director M.V. Jali said the hospital had treated hundreds of COVID-19 patients. Registrar V.A. Kothiwale and others were present. The guests released copies of the Indian Journal of Health Science, KLEAN News bulletin, and the Cycling Club and Runners Club were inaugurated. In Vijayapura In Vijayapura, Independence Day was celebrated in BLDE Society’s B.M. Patil deemed-to-be University. Vice-Chancellor M.S. Biradar felicitated medical students Puneet, Suyankar, Harish, Swati, and Pravallika,who had served as corona warriors. Registrar J.G. Ambekar, principal Aravind Patil, medical superintendent Rajesh Honnutagi and others were present, said a release issued by communication officer Mahantesh Biradar.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positivity rate among those with symptoms is 34.8%||An analysis of people with COVID-19 over the last seven days has revealed that the positivity rate is higher among the symptomatic when compared to those who have no symptoms. Data from the State COVID-19 war room shows that the positivity rate among the symptomatic is 34.8%, while it is 13.4% among asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Across Karnataka, 42,348 tests were done on people with symptoms similar to that of COVID-19 over the last seven days. Of these, 14,718 tested positive. While 8,703 tested positive after RT-PCR test was conducted on them, the remaining tested positive after a rapid antigen test was carried out. Meanwhile, 2,40,858 tests were conducted on people suspected to have COVID-19, but with no symptoms. Only 32,259 patients tested positive. While 20,805 tested positive through the RT-PCR, the remaining got their results through rapid antigen testing. In some districts, the difference is more pronounced. Udupi, Shivamogga, and Vijayapura, for instance, have a positivity rate of above 48% for symptomatic patients. Districts such as Belagavi and Ballari have the highest percentage of asymptomatic patients. And while Shivamogga has a high positivity rate among symptomatic patients, it also falls in the districts with the highest percentage of asymptomatic people. The positivity rate of these three districts range between 18.5 % and 21.7%. Even though the positivity rate among asymptomatic patients is lower when compared to the symptomatic category, health experts point out that there is an urgent need to expand testing and also develop a strategy for tracking asymptomatic cases. Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said that asymptomatic patients could fall under three broad categories: the first one includes who are not ill, the second category (pre-symptomatic) includes those who develop symptoms later, while the third category includes those who have “atypical symptoms” of COVID-19. “People who are presymptomatic or have atypical symptoms have a high viral load and are likely to spread the infection,” said Dr. Babu. Meanwhile, doctors on COVID-19 duty said that there was a need for the State government to further analyse the data of asymptomatic patients. “Without identifying the break up of the three sub groups among asymptomatic patients, it is tough to make any policy decision. The State should consider testing all asymptomatic primary contacts of symptomatic cases,” a doctor said.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All BMTC buses to be equipped with cycle stands||With an aim to give a push to sustainable last-mile connectivity, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is installing bicycle holders in its buses to help those who would like to cycle to their destination after de-boarding. BMTC Chairman N.S. Nandiesha Reddy told The Hindu that the stands would initially be deployed in around a 100 buses running along the proposed cycle tracks, but the plan is to extend this facility to all the buses in the city. “This concept exists in some countries. We are running a trial, but it should work. We are doing it on the Outer Ring Road in the first phase, but eventually we want all buses to have a cycle stand. We are starting with two stands in the front. Later, depending on the response, we may install two more at the back,” he said. Work on 25 buses is on, and more will be readied in batches of 25, Mr. Reddy said. The cost is Rs. 14,000 per bus, which will reduce further as more are produced. “Our mechanical team is working on it.” Bengaluru’s Bicycle Mayor Sathya Sankaran termed it a very good start, which will ensure that the bus goes to the house of the passenger, without actually doing so. ‘24k cycles on the roads’ “With the kind of traffic we have now, if all buses have these stands, it will mean nearly 24,000 cycles on the roads – a sizeable number. But in the long run, large-scale safe and secure parking lots in TTMCs should be added and enable passengers to pay using smart cards for parking and ticket. With no traceability, secure park is now a necessity, but there is technology. This will help a lot,” he said. At present, foldable bicycles are allowed on the metro and Volvo buses, but ownership of such cycles is not huge, he added. He also suggested subsidising fares to incentivise to encourage them. “BMTC and BMRCL should seriously invest in integrating shared bicycles. Apart from cycle lanes, on shared lanes, traffic calming methodology can be applied by introducing speed limit on local streets, apart from dedicating less travelled streets for walking and cycling. Now is the opportunity to hold on to at least some of the lockdown gains,” he said. Other districts The government is keen to expand this to other parts of the State. Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on August 15 said that depending on the response from the public, the facility will provided even in other districts.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DSSL goes virtual this year||Discovery School Super League (DSSL) is set to go virtual this year, targeting over 1 crore participants in the 8-16 age group, engaging 30,000 schools across India. Ed-tech company Byju’s hosts the quiz. To participate, download the app, which is available on Android and iOS: onelink.to/3fdzvw.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shramik train leaves for Guwahati with 976 people||A Shramik Special train to Guwahati left from the Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna station here with as many as 976 passengers on Saturday evening. According to South Western Railway, it was the 267th Shramik Special train. In a press release, SWR said that each passenger was given rice, four chapatis, a sweet, sambar, two bananas, four sweet limes, an egg, and a two-litre water bottle. From May 3 SWR started running these Shramik Special trains for migrant workers from May 3 as per the requirement of the State government. Though many trains from various points across the State were operated, a majority were from the Bengaluru division. Nearly 4 lakh migrant workers have travelled to their respective home towns since the outbreak of the pandemic. The maximum number of trains were run on May 20 when 14 trains carrying over 21,000 people left for various destinations. However, the demand for these special trains started reducing after June 20. Reverse migration In a submission made before the High Court of Karnataka last month, the State government pointed out that reverse migration was happening. Migrant workers who had left during the lockdown were returning to the city in other special trains from various States. It has also been reported that many builders were booking flights to bring back migrant and construction workers to complete pending projects in Bengaluru and few other cities in the State.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. panel visits area||The SDPI is a political party and the government can ban it based on the evidence that the party was indulged in anti-social activities, the former KPCC president G. Parameshwara, who is heading the party’s fact-finding committee on D.J. Halli violence, has said. After the committee members visited the riot-hit area on Saturday, he said his party had nothing to do with government’s decision related to the SDPI. The committee would speak to senior officers of two police stations and residents of the area before submitting a report to the KPCC, Dr. Parameshwara said. ‘HC judge should probe’ He has demanded a probe by a High Court judge into the violence in two police station limits in the city.The government has ordered a magisterial inquiry but the truth would be known only if the probe was conducted by a judge of the High Court, he said. Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy has demanded police security for his family members. The government has promised to provide security, but till today no security has been provided to the family, the MLA said.
16 August 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar, Bommai trade charges over D.J. Halli riots||While the death toll in the riots at D.J. Halli in east Bengaluru rose to four on Saturday, with the death of 24-year-old Sayyad Nadeem, political leaders continued to spar over what led the violence late on Tuesday night. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday hit back at Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had said that the rioting had its roots in “internal fight” of the Congress and animosity with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in the area. “If there is an internal fight, it is in the BJP and not in the Congress,” he said. On the contrary, it was the Home Ministry’s “total failure” that had led to the rioting, resulting in three deaths in police firing, he added. Mr. Shivakumar accused the government of constantly making an effort to give a “caste and communal colour” to the incident. After unfurling the tricolour at the party office here, Mr. Shivakumar questioned Mr. Bommai’s authority to make comments on the Congress. By serving notices to Congress councilors, the BJP government has been creating a sense of fear among party workers, he said, adding that it amounted to “blackmail”. He alleged that MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose house was gutted in the violence, was being pressured to issue certain kind of statements. ‘As per law’ Responding to this at Haveri, Mr. Bommai sought to know if Mr. Shivakumar knew the law of the land. “As per law, notices are issued to those identified as involved in the riots. If he has not committed any wrong, then whyshould he be afraid? There is no question of blackmail. As per law, it is natural to issue notices to those who found to have been involved in a case,” he said. Mr. Bommai reiterated that the State government was contemplating recovering damages caused to public properties during riots by those involved in them and if they failed to pay, then their properties would be seized. On whether the government would follow the Uttar Pradesh model on recovering damages, Mr. Bommai said the Supreme Court had issued guidelines on it and they would be followed.
16 August 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘DPR for flood control in Benni Halla has been prepared’||To find a permanent solution to floods in Benni Halla in Dharwad, a detailed project report (DPR) for flood control has been prepared, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and District in charge Jagadish Shettar has said. Delivering the Independence Day speech here on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said that Rs. 92.97 crore had been disbursed among the farmers from the Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Yojana and Rs. 21.81 crore had been released by the State government. Of the 1,61,887 farmers identified as beneficiaries under the scheme, so far 1,24,682 farmers had received the benefits, he said. The Minister said that during the pandemic, extensive testing was being done in the district and 63 swab collection centres had been set up in both urban and rural areas of the district so far. The number of people being treated of COVID-19 had also increased and of them 16 had donated plasma, he said. As Dharwad district had so far received 78 mm of rainfall as against the normal rainfall of 33 mm, properties and public assets had been damaged and crops in 12,587 hectares had been damaged. Mr. Shettar said that the State government had launched a scheme under which farmers themselves would be able to participate in a crop survey. The Minister said that 58 projects were being implemented under the Hubballi Dharwad Smart City scheme. Mr. Shettar said that the old terminal at Hubballi airport was being converted into a cargo terminal and was expected to start functioning from the year-end. He said that the primary-level surveys for extension of the 24x7 water supply to all the wards of the twin cities had begun.  During the celebrations, as many as 75 corona warriors were felicitated by the Minister and Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil.
16 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Corona warriors felicitated||Corona warriors, including doctors, nurses, police personnel, and municipal staff, have done a tremendous service to society during the pandemic, said V.S.V. Prasad, MD of Swarna Group of Companies and president of Naveen Park Residents’ Association. Speaking at a felicitation of corona warriors and the 74th Independence Day celebrations at Naveen Park here on Saturday, Mr. Prasad said the felicitation was the most meaningful way of celebrating the day. Office-bearers of the association felicitated over 90 officials and employees of various departments for their services. Some of those felicitated were police inspector Suresh Kumar, municipal zonal officer Vittal Thubaaki, HESCOM officer Ganesh, assistant sub-inspector Desai, six pourakarmikas, and two postmen.
16 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Hate messages: Meeting with heads of social media firms soon, says Minister||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that in the wake of spread of hate messages on social media leading to law and order problems, the government has decided to convene a meeting of the heads of social networking platforms in Bengaluru next week. He told reporters in Haveri on Saturday that it had been noticed that hate messages and messages that were likely to cause social disharmony were being circulated through platforms such as WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook. “After a high-level meeting with officials, it has been decided to a convene a meeting in this regard with the heads of these social networking platforms. It will be convened in Bengaluru. We will discuss on whether it would be possible to identify and stop such hate messages or misleading messages through a filter so that they are not circulated further and cause social unrest. Based on the outcome of the meeting, we will proceed further,” he said.
16 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||1,040 beds for COVID-19 care in Gadag dist.||Minister for Mines and Geology and Gadag district in-charge C.C. Patil said a total of 1,040 beds had been made available in 12 COVID-19 care centres in Gadag district for treatment of the COVID-19 patients. Delivering the Independence Day speech at the K.H. Patil District Stadium in Gadag on Saturday, Mr. Patil said that all tge necessary steps had been taken in the district for fighting the disease. “Six lakh masks were manufactured with the help of self-help groups in the district. Pulse oximeters have been provided to 122 gram panchayats,” he said The Minister said that considering the flood situation in the district, already precautionary measures were been taken and steps initiated to identify areas for setting up relief centres at 43 places in the district. The Minister, along with former Minister H.K. Patil, also felicitated corona warriors, including health staff, drivers, ASHAs, police personnel and others. Deputy Commissioner M. Sundareshbabu, Superintendent of Police Yatish N. and others were present.
16 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Medical college building work will be initiated by month-end’||Home Minister and Haveri district-in-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that the Rs. 325-crore project for a new building of the Government Medical College in Haveri would be initiated by the end of August and would be completed within the stipulated time period. Delivering the Independence Day speech at the Hosamani Siddappa District Stadium, he said that all efforts were being made to take the district to the forefront in every sector. He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country was marching ahead successfully by overcoming several challenges and had put a step forward in achieving ‘Atma Nirbharata’ in every field. On the COVID-19 pandemic, hesaid a hi-tech RT-PCR lab had been set up at the district hospital in Haveri at a cost of Rs. 1.4 crore. The district also has available 340 beds in various hospitals with oxygensupport.
16 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||I-Day celebrated amid light showers in Kalaburagi||Under the dark shadows of COVID-19, the 74th Independence Day was celebrated at the Police Parade Grounds here on Saturday. Light showers and a cold breeze created a pleasant atmosphere for the formal and low-key affair where the attendance of members of the public was prohibited. After unfurling the national flag, Textile and Minority Welfare Minister Shrimant Balasaheb Patil commended the district administration for its relentless efforts for the containment of COVID-19 in the district. “The COVID-19 containment measures taken by the district administration in Kalaburagi, which reported India’s first COVID-19 fatality, are commendable. As on August 14, the district had tested 1,00,411 people, to become one of the leading districts that have subjected a lot of people to the test. Of the 8,351 people who had tested positive for COVID-19, 6,150 (74%) have recovered. The greater recovery rate is testimony to the stringent and effective measures taken by the district administration,” Mr. Patil said in his address. On the future plans for COVID-19 containment, Mr. Patil said that additional RT-PCR testing facilities for diagnosing the disease would be commissioned shortly at ESIC Medical Complex, Central University of Karnataka, Basaveshwar Hospital, and Khaja Banda Nawaz Hospital. “If everything goes well and allthese RT-PCR testing facilities start functioning, Kalaburagi will be the second district after Bengaluru Urban to have more number of COVID-19 testing centres. It will help us provide test reports within 24 hours,” he said. As many as 74 frontline health workers and police personnel who were engaged in the containment of COVID-19, five students who performed well in the SSLC exam, three who secured good marks in the PUC board exam, and three athletes who participated in the State and national level were felicitated on the occasion. Contingents of the District Armed Reserve, civil police, Karnataka State Reserve Police, Central Prison, National Cadet Corps, and Police Band participated in the I-Day parade conducted on the soggy ground under the leadership of Parade Commander RPI Sharanabasappa. Kalaburagi Lok Sabha member Umesh Jadhav, Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor and others were present at the programme.
16 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three decades on and still connecting||A hanging or suspension footbridge, constructed across a river on the foothills of the Western Ghats in Dakshina Kannada for rural connectivity, has been in uninterrupted use for three decades now and continues to build the careers of hundreds of people. Constructed across the Payaswini at Aramburu, near Sullia, in August 1989 through crowdfunding, it was the first hanging bridge built by Padma Shri recipient B. Girish Bharadwaj, popularly known as the “bridge man”. Mr. Bharadwaj, a mechanical engineer, built it in consultation with Sullia-based civil engineer Sumitra. The bridge connects NH275 [Mysuru–Madikeri–Sullia–Mangaluru] with Kerala, the border of which is about 9 km away from the river, at Aramburu on the highway. It links about 1,500 homes in about eight villages — Baddadkka, Kukkumbala, Paladkka, Majigundi, Aramburu, Nedchilu, Kootelu, and Aletti — located between the river and the Kerala border with the highway and Sullia, the taluk headquarters. Incidentally, the State government is yet to complete the construction of a pillar-based bridge, sanctioned five years ago, parallel to the hanging bridge.  A shortcut Sripathi Bhat, a chartered accountant at Sullia and who hails from Majigundi, told The Hindu that the hanging bridge provided a shortcut from Sullia and the highway to the areas between the river and the Kerala border. If not for the bridge, people need to travel about 4 to 8 km to reach the highway. “It lifted the economic life of hundreds of people and also gave them a means to get education,” he said. Earlier, the people depended on a boat to cross the river and it was available only between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. “When I was a CA student, I had to swim across the river to reach home from the highway as the boat service used to get closed at 6 p.m. by the time could reach Aramburu from Puttur,” said Mr. Bhat, who initiated the crowdfunding, recalling the circumstances which forced people to approach Mr. Bharadwaj to build the hanging bridge. It cost only Rs. 1.1 lakh, he said, adding that Mr. Bharadwaj offered his services for free. K. Sundar Naik, a retired Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, who hails from Aramburu area and who was part of the crowdfunding, said the bridge built the life of many as otherwise many would have been deprived of higher education and other professions. People could make use of health services owing to the bridge, he said. Mr. Bharadwaj said the wooden planks of the bridge were replaced in 1996–97 and after a year, its ropes were replaced. Some even take their cattle on the bridge, he said. S. Angara, MLA for Sullia, said the parallel bridge, being built at an estimated cost of Rs. 4.9 crore by the Public Works Department, would be completed by this year-end.
16 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will implement Matsya Sampada scheme’||The State government is working out the modalities of implementing in Karnataka the Union government’s Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) that promotes marine, aquaculture, and inland fisheries, said Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Transport and Muzari Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Saturday. Speaking at the Independence Day function, he said Karnataka was in sixth place in terms of revenue from marine and inland fisheries. The State government wants to gain the top place on this sector. “Fishing cannot be just catching fish in the lake, river and sea. It goes much beyond that. The PMMSY will revolutionise the fisheries and acquaculture sector,” he said. The Minister said the State government was continuing to focus on improving the national highways, State highways and other roads in Dakshina Kannada. Work on widening the Karkala-Moodbidri-Mangaluru National Highway will be sped up, he said. Under the Smart City programme in Mangaluru city, work worth Rs. 100.20 crore (of Rs. 338 crore) have been completed. Development works at the Government Wenlock Hospital worth Rs. 5.83 crore and of the Government Lady Goschen Hospital worth Rs. 2.31 crore have been taken up. As many as 1,35,841 farmers in the district have received Rs. 10,000 each as part of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana, he said. Earlier, Mr. Poojary hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour from the city and district police. As a precaution against COVID-19, NCC cadets, NSS volunteers and other schoolchildren were not part of the parade.
16 August 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Hejamady fisheries harbour project will begin soon: DC||The construction of a fisheries harbour at Hejamady in Kaup taluk of Udupi district, at an estimated cost of Rs. 180.84 crore, will begin soon, according to G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner of Udupi. In his Independence Day address at Udupi on Saturday, he said that it was a long-cherished dream project of the district. He said the government had also approved a textile park for Karkala. It will generate employment opportunities for youngsters, he said. The move to get Blue Flag certification for End Point beach at Padubidri in Kaup taluk is now awaiting approval from the international jury. Once the beach gets thecertificate, it will give a boost to tourism in the district. Other beaches in the district will also be developed so that they can get the certification, the officer said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the government had also approved a Rs. 4.2-crore project for building a jetty at St. Mary’s island, near Malpe. The government has now taken up a Rs. 2.5-crore beautification project at Malpe beach and Malpe sea walk. Meanwhile, 24 COVID-19 warriors — nine government doctors, two laboratory technicians, three ASHAs, a civic worker, two drivers, two teachers, three junior health assistants, and two Revenue and RDPR department officials — were felicitated on the occasion.
16 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Classroom teaching allowed from Sept. 1||Colleges under Mangalore University can conduct offline or online classes for their final semester undergraduate and postgraduate students from September 1 to September 12 to complete the pending syllabi for 2019-20, according to P.S. Yadapadithaya, Vice-Chancellor of the university. He told presspersons recently that the final-semester examination would be conducted from September 16 to 30. If required, it will be extended by a week as those who have not completed their earlier semesters will be given a chance as a one-time measure to appear for their pending papers. Owing to COVID-19 issues, the university has taken all steps to ensure that the final-semester students pass out smoothly. He said that if some students are not able to pay their examination fee by the prescribed last date of August 18, they can pay even after writing the examination, before collecting their marks cards after the announcement of results. The university has not hiked the fee. “If some poor students are not able to pay their fee, the university will ensure that donors pay it on their behalf,” the V-C said. Prof. Yadapadithaya said K.V. Rajendra, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, had agreed to vacate one of the hostel buildings on the university campus, which has been converted into a COVID-19 care centre, and the same could be allotted to students appearing for the final-semester postgraduate examination. “Only one student will be accommodated in each hostel room,” he said. If possible, students can commute from home in the Mangaluru area for writing the exam. But the university will take all the COVID-19 precautions in its hostels while accommodating students, he said.
16 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pilikula zoo open to visitors from today||After remaining shut for nearly five months on account of COVID-19, Pilikula Biological Park will reopen for tourists on Sunday, according to zoo director H.J. Bhandary. The visiting hours will be from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, except on Mondays when it will be shut for maintenance, he said in a release. Visitors will have to compulsorily follow the COVID-19 precautionary measures such as wearing masks and using sanitisers at the entrance to the zoo. Visitors will have to undergo thermal scanning and should follow social distancing while inside the zoo. The zoo is installing 76 CCTV cameras to monitor the movement of visitors. Tickets have to be purchased at the office near the entrance. Vehicle parking will be allowed in front of the zoo entrance and also near the ticket office.
16 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL net profit Rs. 12.02 cr.||KIOCL Ltd. has reported a net profit of Rs. 12.02 crore for the first quarter ending on June 30. The company has reported pellet production of 5.11 lakh tonnes, as against the quarterly target of 4.9 lakh tonnes. In the dispatch of pellets, it has achieved 5.68 lakh tonnes, surpassing the quarterly target of 4.5 lakh tonnes. There was an increase in sales volume by 126% against the quarterly target of 4.5 lakh tonnes.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu’s coffee growers reel under triple whammy||It’s a triple whammy for coffee growers in Kodagu: COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing rain havoc, and the grievous impact of 2018 and 2019 floods and landslip. Even before the industry could recover from the unprecedented losses triggered by two back-to-back calamities, the prolonged lockdown crippled the industry. Kodagu is facing rain havoc for the third successive year with many plantations suffering damage over inundation. The extent of this year’s damage could not be assessed with incessant rains lashing the region. All Growers’ Association of Kodagu said the COVID-19 lockdown had disrupted the plantation activities along with trading and export operations. It has also affected the marketing of the harvested coffee and pepper since the buyers were reluctant to take the stocks due to depressed trading activities and financial crunch. The coffee growers faced a financial crisis due to continuous disasters caused by severe drought from 2015 to 2017 followed by heavy rainfall, flood and massive landslides in 2018 and 2019. Thousands of hectares of pristine coffee and pepper plantations, with dwelling houses and infrastructure, were lost due to landslides. “We had represented to both Central and State governments several times seeking relief but our request has not been considered so far. Even the Prime Minister’s Rs. 20 lakh-crore lockdown package has no specific relief granted to this sector,” said Growers’ Association Convener M.C. Kariappa and Coordinator A. Nanda Belliappa. Mr. Kariappa told The Hindu thatthere appears to be no end to the miseries with Kodagu witnessing floods and landslides for the third successive year. “It’s now an uncertain future and hope is fading.” Due to climate change and natural calamities, the yield of coffee and pepper have come down to uneconomical levels, whereas the cost of production is steadily increasing. In fact, the COP has increased multi-fold over the last 5 years whereas the prices for coffee and pepper are at their lowest, probably due to cheap imports. In a recent memorandum to Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, the growers said pepper from Vietnam and other countries is continuing to enter India through unknown routes although the Union government has imposed a minimum import price of Rs. 500 per kg of pepper. The combined impact of natural calamities, low yield of coffee and pepper, increasing cost of production and the COVID-19 lockdown has made this evergreen rural plantation industry unviable and the life of large populations dependent on it miserable, they said. The growers have sought waiver of crop loans as on March 31 for small growers (up to 10 hectares of holding) and waiver of interest on all crop loans as on March 31 for others (above 10 hectares of holding). Coffee growers have loans amounting to Rs. 10,000 crore from commercial and cooperative banks. The total interest on the amount is about Rs. 1,200 crore. “The interest waiver request is the need of the hour, failing which growers are staring at a situation of Non-Performing Assets (NPA). Owing to this problem, we will be unable to get fresh loans and this will most likely lead to the collapse of the coffee industry,” they argued. The growers have sought restructuring of all loans after granting the interest waiver. The loans borrowed by the growers need to be restructured for a period of 10 years with 3-year moratorium at 3 per cent interest, the association sought in its appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the MP.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Tourism sector bracing itself for a long haul||Surge in COVID-19 cases across the State has put paid to any hopes of tourism revival as evident in minuscule number of visitors to places of tourism interest despite lifting of lockdown restrictions. Over a month after the reopening of monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and other places of interest, the response is next to nil at most places which have ticketed entries. Also, the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) introduced five package tours to revive the sector. But an official confirmed that not a single trip could be operated owing to lack of response. Information from Keshava or Chennakeshava temple at Somanathapura in Mysuru district and Dariya Daulat at Srirangapatna in Mandya district indicate that the number is negligible and does not exceed a handful of visitors on any given day — most of them locals out to beat the lockdown boredom. At Somanathapura and other ASI-controlled monuments, the entry is only through e-ticket and many of the curious visitors from rural areas could not complete the electronic transaction and returned as there is no issue of physical ticket at the counters. Among the worst affected owing to the virtual halt in the sector are the guides who depend on tourists and charge a fee for highlighting the historical significance of the monuments. For scores of guides at Belur, Halebid, Srirangapatna and Somanathapura, weekend tourists from Bengaluru were their main stay. But the surge in COVID-19 cases in the State has dealt a crippling blow to their hopes of any revival of fortunes. “Srirangapatna, Somanathapura, Belur, and Halebid are among the popular weekend getaway destinations for a lot of people from Bengaluru and the pandemic has kept every one away,” said Devaraj, a licensed guide at the Keshava temple at Somanathapura who has now relocated to his village in Hassan district. “I have no earnings since March and by relocating to my village, I am saving on house rent,” he added. B.N. Satyanarayana Gupta, a senior guide at Belur, said despite the temple remaining open throughout the day, there are no visitors and hence the guides too have dispersed in search of jobs. “Many of them have taken up temporary jobs as security personnel while a few have joined the construction sector to earn their livelihood,” said Mr. Gupta. Though there was a rush in the initial phase of unlock to places such as Bandipur, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu, the surge in COVID-19 cases forced the authorities to clamp a local ban on the entry of tourists, which further nipped any hopes of tourism revival for the stakeholders. Though the ban has since been lifted, people are playing safe. With recreational travel considered as “socially irresponsible” in the wake of the pandemic and the resultant job loss, financial distress, and uncertainty, the authorities and the stakeholders are preparing for a long haul ahead before the sector can see any signs of revival.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu landslip: One more body recovered after 10 days||Ten days after five persons went missing following a landslip at the Brahamagiri Hills in Kodagu, the authorities recovered one more body on Saturday. The body was identified as that of Ravikiran, who was among the five reported missing when the landslip flattened the house of the Talacauvery temple priest with no trace of the residents. This confirms the deaths of three persons so far. The two others whose bodies have been found are Narayanachar, the head priest of the temple, and his brother Anandateertha. The search operations are continuing to trace Shantha, wife of Narayanachar, and Pawan, according to the Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. The body of Narayanachar was recovered almost 2.5 km from the epicentre of the landslip on Tuesday and the body of Ravikiran too was found in the vicinity. The National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force, Fire and Emergency Services personnel, the police, and Forest Department staff have intensified the search and combing operation in the area. Kodagu was battered by heavy rain in the first week of August and Bhagamandala bore the nature’s fury as it received over 400 mm of rainfall for two consecutive days besides being hit by a major landslip. The road leading to Talacauvery was blocked, impeding the search operations in the initial days.  Relief distributed Meanwhile, district in-charge Minister V. Somanna, who visited Talacauvery on Saturday, distributed relief to the family members of the deceased. He said the search operations to trace the remaining two would continue. Intermittent rain has continued to lash Kodagu as the monsoon is still active and the district received 16 mm of rainfall as against the normal average of 20 mm in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. The district received 716 mm of rainfall as against the normal average of 331 mm for the period August 1 to 15. The monsoon deficit, which was 36% during the end of July, has been bridged to 12% owing to rain that lashed the district between August 5 and 9, underlining the intensity of the rainfall during the four days that brought deluge to the district. Kodagu has received 1,512 mm of rainfall as against the normal average of 1,724 mm for the period June 1 to August 15, which is 12% below normal, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.
16 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bharachukki waterfalls at Shivanasamudra reopened for visitors||Bharachukki, one of the twin waterfalls at Shivanasamudra situated in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district, has been reopened for the public. It was among the tourist destinations closed by the authorities in Chamarajanagar district to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Though the public was allowed to watch the waterfalls on Sunday when a large amount of water discharged from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs brought it alive, the ban was reimposed from Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar M.R. Ravi issued orders on Wednesday to reopen Bharachukki for visitors after taking adequate precautionary measures against the spread of COVID-19 and making all necessary arrangements for tourists. The order cited a recommendation from the Assistant Commissioner of Kollegal taluk to reopen the attraction and added that tourism here would get a boost if the falls were reopened. Bharachukki and its twin waterfall Gaganachukki, which is situated in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district, draw hordes of visitors when Irrigation Department authorities discharge water from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs. The authorities have also been directed to ensure that drinking water and toilet facilities and parking space arrangements are made. Security should be posted to ensure that visitors wear masks and maintain social distancing. Necessary precautions for visitors to watch the waterfalls from a safe distance should also be in place, the order added. Dargah reopened Meanwhile, the ban on entry into the Mardan-E-Ghaib dargah at Bharachukki has also been lifted. In a separate order, the Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar said the devotees visiting the dargah should compulsorily wear masks and maintain physical distance of a minimum of one metre from each other. A maximum of 50 people can participate in a prayer congregation at the dargah. The temperature of visitors should be checked by a thermal scanner and they should sanitise their hands before entry.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Will Jamboo Savari face a roadblock?||Even as the unrelenting COVID-19 pandemic and the flood situation in the State have cast a shadow on Mysuru Dasara-2020, the State government’s stand on the scale of festivities is closely awaited. The decision is expected to be deferred with the key Ministers of the Cabinet and some local MLAs contracting the infection and isolating themselves. In a normal year, by August, a lot of groundwork would be underway. The Dasara high-power committee, the top decision making body on the festivities, is headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who has a few days ago been discharged after undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who was also under treatment for COVID-19, too has recovered from the infection.   Usually, Dasara elephants are brought to Mysuru at least 45 days before the festivities to prepare them for Jamboo Savari, the Dasara finale. Even as there are indications of a low-key festivities amidst spike in infections, there has been no communication from the government so far on this. With social distancing and sanitisation being the new normal besides bar on public gatherings, the government’s position on Dasara is closely watched. As the government is fully occupied in COVID-19 and flood management, the decision may be delayed though the forest authorities recently sought clarity on the Dasara elephants. Usually, elephants are selected for the Dasara duty well ahead of time. Barring the veterans, a few new ones are selected to the jumbo team every year to train them for the future. After the selection, the jumbos arrive in two batches in different intervals, and undergo rehearsals daily here. Instructions awaited Sources in the Forest Department told The Hindu that instructions from the government were awaited on when to bring the elephants that are presently at their respective jungle camps. “The decision seems to have been deferred for the time being with the focus on handling floods situation,” they add. The forest authorities had written to the Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru, seeking directions on Gajapayana (elephants’ journey from jungles) among other things. Confining the Jamboo Savari to the palace premises instead of a full-fledged procession, in the wake of the pandemic, rests on the government’s final call. In the past, the festivities had been scaled down when the State was in the grip of drought and floods. A senior forest official said: “There is still time and training is possible even if the decision is taken by this month-end. Last year, we had only 45 days and we successfully trained the jumbos.”
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||21-year-old youth held for drone photography of KRS||While shutterbugs took vantage positions to photograph the discharge of water from KRS reservoir earlier this month, a 21-year-old youth from Mysuru flew a drone from a bridge downstream to capture aerial photographs of the spectacle. As soon as the photographs went viral on social media and grabbed the attention of the authorities, a complaint was lodged with the police, leading to the arrest of Sandeep, who is pursuing a diploma in a polytechnic in Mysuru. Confirming his arrest, Superintendent of Mandya district police K. Parasuram told The Hindu that the accused had been booked under the Aircraft Act of 1934 and Karnataka Irrigation Act for taking photographs using a drone in violation of the law. KRS reservoir is a restricted area, he added. Kishore Kumar, Assistant Executive Engineer, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd., KRS reservoir, who had lodged the complaint, said the drone had been flown to take photographs when water was discharged from the dam on August 4. A complaint was lodged on Friday and Sandeep, who is a native of Bengaluru, was arrested by evening by a team led by KRS Police Station Sub-Inspector Naveen Gowda. He has now been released on bail, the police said. The drone, its controller and the accused’s mobile phone, valued at Rs. 72,000, had been seized.
16 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity donates Rs. 30 lakh to CM’s fund||To support the State government to help those affected by COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Mysore has contributed Rs. 30.17 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The teaching and non-teaching staff of the university contributed their one day’s salary in April towards the cause. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar gave away the cheque to Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekhar here on Saturday requesting him to personally hand it over to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Registrar Shivappa and other officials from the university were present. Officials warned At a review meeting, Mr. Somashekhar expressed his displeasure over officials’ inattention with regard to COVID-19 managementin the district and warned that such an attitude would not be tolerated.
16 August 2020||RAICHUR/ YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Fete in Raichur, Yadgir||The 74th Independence Day was celebrated in both Raichur and Yadgir districts on Saturday in a simple manner, on the direction of the State government on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The national flag was unfurled in Raichur by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and in Yadgir by Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao. Mr. Savadi recalled the sacrifices made by thousands of people for the country’s independence. “We all should have respect for their sacrifices and follow the nation’s heroes to take the country on the development path,” he said. The Deputy Chief Minister, who highlighted the efforts being made by the administration and various departments fight the pandemic, said the district administration had set up fewer clinics, COVID care centres, and hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients. He also said that 18,336 farmers were paid Rs. 11.61 crore as compensation for crop loss due to rain and hailstorm in the month of April. In Yadgir, Mr. Kurma Rao explained how the district administration had successfully fought the pandemic. He said 6,055 persons had been tested, and of them 3,537 were found infected. As many as 2,331 patients have been discharged after treatment, taking the recovery rate to 66.9%, he added. Corona warriors were felicitated in both districts.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘FAQs on Peripheral Ring Road are misleading and unscientific’||Barely three days before the public consultation on the controversial Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) on Saturday published an FAQ to address some of the concerns raised by citizens’ groups and environmentalists. The Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) states that the alignment of the 8-lane 65.5-km project crosses five lakes and will affect 33,838 trees. Environmentalists have criticised the BDA’s answers to not just the fate of the trees but also damage to T.G. Halli catchment, diversion of forest land, its impact on lakes and the threat of giving rise to heat islands. A.N. Yellappa Reddy, environmentalist and chairman of Bangalore Environment Trust (BET), described the exercise as an eye-wash, and deemed it an attempt to mislead the public through “unscientific and irrational FAQs”. He cited the BDA’s answer to compensate for the loss of 10.12 hectare of Jarakabande Kaval Reserve Forest. “They say afforestation land will be provided adjacent to Bannerghatta National Park (BNP). This comes at a time when the eco-sensitive zone of BNP is being reduced by around 100 sq.km.,” he said. Precast structures to be used near lakes While acknowledging that construction along lakes is prohibited as per The Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority Act, 2014, the BDA has suggested the use of precast structures, including flyovers, “to minimise the impact on lakes”. Leo Saldanha of the Environment Support Group (ESG) said that the BDA had omitted judgments regarding lakes or encroachments. “It seems that they are going against all the judicial orders, including regarding buffer zones and no development zones around lakes,” he said. T.G. Halli catchment Commenting on removal of 9,304 trees in the T.G. Halli catchment area, Mr. Reddy said that it would lead to rapid erosion of not only soil but also green cover in the city, and the loss of geo-hydrology cannot be recreated. “As mitigation measures, BDA plans to plant 93,040 trees (1:10) as part of ‘Catchment Area Treatment Plan’ to minimise the impact on T.G. Halli catchment area. The root biomass of these decade- or century-old trees cannot be compensated even if they plant 1:1000 times,” he said, adding that it would be detrimental to T.G. Halli reservoir, which was already suffering from garbage dumping, inflow of sewage and silt accumulation. ‘Information is vague’ Tara Krishnaswamy, co-founder of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB), said that the FAQs were vague without support of any study or prior approvals from the departments or ministries concerned. “Do they have approval from the Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals for the proposed flyovers at Chikkabanahalli and Kasaghattapura, the intersecting points with petroleum pipelines,” she said. She also said that the draft EIA mentions in several places that the plan is to join the NICE road to form a ring. “But the villages listed in the report don't show it joining the NICE road at Madanayakanhalli and Doddathogur. To join the NICE road, another 150 acres have to be acquired, and that has not been done yet,” she added. The public consultation for PRR is scheduled on August 18, amidst calls for the BDA to allow online submissions as well. According to Mr. Saldanha, the consultation meeting itself is a “criminal act of organising assembly in violation of the Disaster Management Act." Error in tree count The FAQs have conceded that there was an error while counting the trees by the consultant engaged for preparation of EIA studies. It acknowledges that 33,838 trees have been recorded within 100 metres of the Right of Way (RoW) out of which 13,799 are plantation trees, 11,417 are horticulture trees and 8,622 other trees. As many as 2,077 species of trees possessing social and cultural significance, such as Bilvapatre, Ankole, Bevu, Kadu Nelli, Srigandha, Banni and Arali mara, will be considered for transplantation.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic body gets a hefty bill for barricading in containment zones||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has been sealing the containment zones in areas where COVID-19 positive cases are being reported, with metal sheets and grilles, did not factor in the cost. Rs. 22 lakh in a single ward It is now saddled with huge bills, one of which is for Rs. 22 lakh from a single ward. BBMP sources said that contractors had submitted the bill for sealing containment zones in Bharathinagar ward in East zone for around 28 days in April. They have allegedly charged nearly Rs. 70,000 per day. The bill was reportedly passed by junior officials and had now come before the zonal chief engineer for clearance. Bill put on hold Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad told The Hindu , “I have directed officials to hold payment of the bill until further notice. We need to ascertain on what basis the rental rates were fixed.” He added that it was clear that the rates had been fixed without any cost-benefit analysis. With no uniformity in rates for rental of barricades across the city, the Commissioner said had sought a report from the zonal chief engineers. New proposal Mr. Prasad said that the civic body had now sent a proposal to the State government on changes in the strategy for containment zones across the city. “We will do away with barricading of the street where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported. As per the new proposal, a containment zone will be declared only where three or more cases have been reported in an area that has high load and high doubling rate,” he said.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Statue of Savarkar unveiled||On Independence Day, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar unveiled a bronze statue of Hindutva ideologue V.D. Savarkar in front of BBMP’s Yediyur complex near Yediyur Circle. However, the installation of the statue has not gone down well with a section of society, including some councillors in the Opposition who have criticised the move. Abdul Wajid, leader of Opposition in the BBMP, cited an earlier attempt by the civic body to name the flyover in Yelahanka after Savarkar. “Our stand on Savarkar has not changed. The BJP is unnecessarily creating controversy to please their leadership. At this time, what we need is a secular message and an acceptable face for all sections of society,” he said. Defending the move, K.A. Munindra Kumar, leader of the ruling party in the BBMP, said that they were honouring a freedom fighter. “Just because Savarkar did not echo the views of a few, you cannot undermine or dismiss his contribution towards the freedom struggle,” he said. In May, the decision of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to name a new flyover in Yelahanka after Savarkar drew criticism from leaders of the Opposition, including two former chief ministers who took to Twitter to criticise the move. It had sparked a political controversy after which the government backtracked on its decision. At the time, the civic body re-issued the inauguration invitation without naming the flyover. Mr. Kumar said that there was no question of backtracking on the decision to name the flyover at Yelahanka in Bengaluru after Savarkar. “The inauguration of the flyover was postponed due to lockdown related restrictions. We are waiting for a date from the Chief Minister. Once we get a date, the inauguration will happen, and it will be named after Savarkar,” he said.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC restrains BDA from auctioning intermediary sites||The Karnataka High Court has restrained the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) from auctioning intermediary sites, based on permission given by the State government, to generate funds in view of the financial crunch amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the court made it clear that this interim order will not interdict auctioning of corner and the commercial sites. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the interim order on a petition filed by Keroji Rao, a 69-year-old ex-servicemen from Muthyalanagar. The petitioner said that his dream of having a site and house of his own has not come true even 16 years after he applied to the BDA. The petitioner had applied for a BDA site in 2004 and was allotted one in Arkavathi Layout in 2006. The lease-cum-sale deed was executed in 2007. When the BDA cancelled the allotment in 2016 citing an order of the apex court, the petitioner filed a petition, which is pending in the High Court. “It is a classic example where honest citizens and that too ex-servicemen will have no choice of getting a site in the usual course of events. The very act of the respondents in the disposal of sites by way of auction under the BDA Rules is aimed at benefiting the privileged section of society, unfortunately, at the cost of the unprivileged,” the petitioner contended. It has been contended in the petition that the disposal of intermediary residential sites would be contrary to the law as it would go against the interest of thousands of people, including the petitioner, who are waiting from several years for allotment of a residential site. The disposal of residential sites is also against the very objective of the BDA, which has to allot residential sites to deserving persons as per the law. The petitioner has been justified in having the apprehension that if all the intermediary sites pursuant are auctioned, the adjudication of his petition may become infructuous because of likely creation of unconditional third party interests, the court observed while restraining the BDA from auctioning intermediary sites.
16 August 2020||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 casts shadow on I-Day Celebrations||The COVID-19 pandemic cast a shadow on the 74th Independence Day celebrations in Anantapur and Kurnool Police Parade Grounds held on Saturday. Celebrations were truncated as participants and spectators wore masks and gloves and strictly adhered to all COVID-19 protocols. In Kurnool, the entire programme was conducted amidst heavy rain as Water Resources and district in-charge Minister P. Anil Kumar unfurled the flag near Kondareddy Buruju, while Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana did the honours at the Police Parade Grounds in Anantapur before disbursing assets to the beneficiaries. Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli also participated in the celebrations. A special COVID-19 oath administered by Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu stood out in the celebrations with every officer and citizen present at the celebrations taking an oath that they would not discriminate against COVID-19 patients, be it at home, hospital or even in death. “The social stigma against COVID-19 positive persons will be done away by me and I will do my best to alleviate the suffering of the patients,” the oath read. Students of Garladinne KGBV School presented a dance drama depicting the hardship of the COVID-19 frontline warriors from the medical, municipal, police and administration departments. The Ministers read out the priorities given by the State Government in the development of Kurnool and Anantapur districts. In all, 149 persons were given Certificates of Appreciation for their dedicated work during the pandemic. The awardees included those from the non-governmental organisations, government departments and the general public. RDT Bathalapalli Hospital awarded The RDT Bathalapalli COVID-19 Hospital was adjudged the Best COVID-19 Hospital in the entire State. It was also conferred with the Best Support Staff category award at the State-level.
16 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Can defeat COVID-19 through collective will’||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Saturday said that the COVID-19 pandemic can be effectively tackled with collective adherence to the guidelines, for which concerted efforts from all sections of people is needed. After hoisting the tricolour and taking guard of honor at the 74th Independence Day celebrations at the Police parade grounds here, the Deputy Chief Minister said that at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic was shaking the morale of a cross-section of society, the medical, paramedical, police and sanitation workers across Andhra Pradesh were rendering commendable services to patients. Referring to the drinking water problem in the western mandals of Chittoor district, Mr. Narayanaswamy said that under the RDMP Scheme, the western parts of Chittoor district will get water through the Galeru-Nagari Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanti linkage canal from the Gandikota project. The HNSS Punganur branch canal would support three balancing reservoirs, which are to come up at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,250 crore. The Assembly constituencies of Tamballapalle, Madanapalle, Punganur and Piler, and the municipalities of Madanapalle and Punganur, will be provided with a permanent solution to drinking water problems, for which works worth Rs. 2,800 crore are under way, the Deputy Chief Minister said. He said that the government is determined to resuscitate the industrial sector in the district, badly affected by the pandemic since March this year. As many as 1627 MSMEs were given Rs. 114 crore as subsidy arrears under the ReSTART package. Since June 2019 till date, 14 major industries have come up with Rs. 4,617 crore as investments, thus providing employment to 5,711 persons.
16 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD gearing up for two Brahmotsavams||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal on Saturday reiterated that the board is committed to combating the COVID-19 pandemic and conduct the twin Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara in September and October. The Executive Officer was at Tirupati, attended by a limited gathering in tune with COVID-19 guidelines. Speaking after unfurling the tricolour at the 74th Independence Dayhere, Mr. Singhal said that as the Salakatla Brahmotsavams are scheduled from September 19 to 27, and Navratri Brahmotsavams from October 16 to 24, all the departments of the TTD were fully geared up to make arrangements. The official said that in order to instil confidence among the TTD staff, steps were initiated for quality medicare. In additiom to this, the TTD had also been providing quality food for them at the canteens.
16 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State implementing welfare schemes with zeal, says Minister||Minister for Housing and District In-Charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju said that the State government had been implementing many welfare schemes with zeal, and applauded district administration’s efforts in containing the spread of the virus. Addressing the gathering after unfurling the national flag at the 74th Independence Day celebrations at Police Parade Grounds here on Saturday, Mr. Raju said that the administration had appointed 4,998 primary and 207 secondary teams and established 16 task force teams with a round-the-clock call centre. The administration helped transporting 69,000 migrant labourers and 9,300 local workers to their native places. Out of the 2.66 lakh tests done so far, 26,382 persons tested positive, he said adding that 18,207 persons were recovering from the pandemic. The district administration has prepared 3,690 beds, 1,694 beds with oxygen and 360 ICU beds besides 250 ventilators. The Minister further said that essential supplies worth Rs. 731 crore were provided and white ration card holders have been provided a sustenance allowance of Rs. 135.42 crore. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, Inspector General of Police J. Prabhakara Rao, Superintendents of POlice, Vishal Gunni and RN Ammi Reddy, Joint Collectors AS Dinesh Kumar and P. Prasanthi were present. Member of Parliament, Narsaraopet, Lavu Krishnadevarayulu, and MLAs K. Rosaiah, Maddali Giridhar and Meruga Nagarjuna were present.
16 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rehab colonies will be built by December, says Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das on Saturday said the government was gearing up to complete the construction of 17 colonies by December this year to rehabilitate 4,322 families residing at 51 villages that face submergence due to the Polavaram irrigation project. Addressing the people after hoisting the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day celebrations here, the Minister said, “This year, 14,381 forest dwellers will be given 40,170 acres of land under the Recognition of Forest Rights Act (RoFR) as part of the efforts to improve their livelihood options in the East Godavari Agency. A sum of Rs. 23 crore has been spent to improve the road network in the areas affected by the Left Wing Extremist (LWE) activities,” said Mr. Krishna Das. The authorities had to suspend the cultural events scheduled for the day due to continuous rainfall. Members of Parliament Ch. Anuradha (Amalapuram) and Vanga Geetha (Kakinada), Rajya Sabha member P. Subhash Chandra Bose, district Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, and Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi participated in the celebrations.
16 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four missing fishermen return home||Four fishermen of Uppada Ameenabad, who were stranded off the Uppada coast since Tuesday after the engine of their boat developed trouble, arrived home on Saturday. According to Fisheries Department Joint Director (East Godavari) P. Koteswara Rao, the fishermen succeeded in repairing their boat engine on Friday and arrived at Visakhapatnam harbour safely. All of them returned to Uppada Ameenabad on Saturday. Tension prevailed after V. Sanjeev, V. Veeranna, V. Durga Rao and Pikki Kasi communicated to their villagers about the snag in their boat engine as they lost contact since Wednesday. In an official release, District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu thanked the Indian Coast Guard authorities who launched a search operation for the missing fishermen.
16 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water storage level reaches 869 feet at Srisailam dam||With unabated rain in the district and the adjoining areas of Karnataka, there has been a good inflow into the Srisailam dam at 1.47 lakh cusecs at 7 p.m. on Saturday. The water storage level reached 869.16 feet and the total quantum was 138.6 tmcft against the capacity of 250 tmcft. The Telangana government has been producing power on its side and the total outflow from the dam was 54,747 cusecs, officials said. Inflows to rise With a forecast of five more days of rain in the region, the inflows are likely to continue at this level.
16 August 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. a women-friendly State, says Deputy CM Sucharitha||Andhra Pradesh is forging ahead on all fronts under with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy focusing on development and welfare, Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister M. Sucharitha said on Saturday. Speaking after unfurling the national tricolour, Ms. Sucharitha outlined the various initiatives taken by the “pro-poor YSRCP government,” and said the Chief Minister had been ranked third best in the country. Thanks to the enactment of Disha Act, a landmark piece of legislation, women and girls in the State were feeling safe and secure, the Minister claimed. Three Forensic Science Labs were being set up in the three regions of the State to speed up investigation into the incidents of crime, including gender crime, she added. The Minister patted the Nellore police for becoming the first Police District in South India to get the ISO certificate. Technology was being increasingly used to crack incidents of crime, she said. Hoisting the flag at the Government General Hospital, district Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Rao lauded the services of the health staff in treating the COVID-19 patients. Drawing inspiration from the freedom fighters, they should do their best to handle the ever-growing number of patients and contain the pandemic spread.
16 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veligonda phase 1 to be completed by October-end||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop said on Saturday said that the multi-crore Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project, lifeline of the district, is progressing at a brisk pace and that the first phase of the project would be completed by October-end. A major portion of the gigantic tunnel, an engineering marvel, through the thick Nallamala forest to draw Krishna water had been completed. The drilling work had to be done for only 56 metres more, he added. Speaking after inspecting a guard of honour along with District Collector Pola Bhaskar and SP Siddharth Kaushal amid incessant drizzle during the Independence day celebrations, he said the YSR Congress Party government would implement development and welfare schemes with more vigour to realize the vision of the freedom fighters.
16 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll nears 300-mark in Nellore, Prakasam||Eleven more patients died of coronavirus in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh, while over 1,000 persons tested positive for the virus in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam in the last 24 hours. The death toll in Prakasam district rose to 157 with five deaths. Six more patients succumbed to the virus in neighbouring Nellore district, taking the toll to 137, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Saturday night. The number of new cases continued unabated in the region with 572 more persons getting infected in Nellore district and another 489 persons contracting the virus in Prakasam district. Health personnel had a tough time as new admissions into COVID-19 hospitals outnumbered the number of discharged persons during the period by 419, with hospitals being filled to capacity with patients. While 642 patients were cured and discharged in Nellore district, 104 patients were discharged from hospitals in Prakasam district. With this, the number of active patients stood at 5,247 in Nellore district and 4,306 in Prakasam district. Meanwhile, the mobile testing ‘Sanjeevani’ buses evoked a good response from the public as they meandered through dusty villages across Prakasam district to test persons with suspected symptoms. “On each day, each health personnel manning the remodelled State-run bus tests around 150 persons,” said a functionary named K. Ambedkar after testing a group of patients near the NGO colony here. In Nellore, Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu exhorted COVID-19 frontline workers to brace for a challenging period ahead. The number of positive cases are expected to go up in the next two months, according to officials. The spread of COVID-19 continued with more intensity in Ongole as over 150 persons tested positive followed by Kandukur with 48 new cases.
16 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Colonies will be built soon, says Kodali||Minister for Civil Supplies and In-charge of Srikakulam district Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Kodali Nani) on Saturday said that the government would construct 1,099 Jagananna Colonies and provide shelter for 61,730 families soon. The government had acquired private land also for distribution of house sites where houses would be constructed under this programme. He hoisted the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day at the Arts College Ground here and inspected the parade. He said the government ensured direct supply of rice and other commodities to beneficiaries. “It has been supplying additional ration in view of COVID-19 impact benefiting 8.28 lakh families since April. We are providing ration cards within 16 days for applicants,” he said. “As many as 1,248 schools will get a new look under the Nadu-Nedu programme for which Rs. 292.44 crore was released. Jagananna Gorumudda scheme will help two lakh students get nutritious food at school,” the Minister said. He hoped that farmers would benefit from the modernisation of Narayanpur project with an estimated outlay of Rs. 138 crore. The Minister accompanied by Minister for Fisheries and Dairy Development Sidiri Appala Raju and Collector J. Nivas visited the stalls arranged in the ground. They distributed certificates to outstanding employees and representatives of various organisations. Later, cultural programmes enthralled the audience.
16 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left activists take pledge to protect PSUs||The CPI and CPI(M) on Saturday said real freedom for people was possible only when the Union government protected the public sector in the country. CPI and CPI(M) district secretaries Sanapala Narasimhulu and Bhaviri Kirshnamurthy respectively said public sector growth was the indicator of India’s development in the last seven decades and bulk sale of government properties to private companies would pose a danger to the nation in future. Activists of the Left parties took a pledge at the Ambedkar statue here to protect the public sector undertakings (PSUs). CITU Srikakulam city secretary T. Tirupati Rao said that lakhs of employees had lost their livelihood due to the disinvestment policies. He said the privatisation of BSNL, Indian Railways, Air India and others would be a threat to the sovereignty of the country. CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao said that the Indian economy was in a bad shape due to the policies of the Narendra Modi government.
16 August 2020||T. Appala NaiduDOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||First flood warning for Godavari issued||Authorities of the Godavari Head Works Division issued the first flood warning for river Godavari as the discharge of flood water crossed 12.14 lakh cusecs at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram in East Godavari at 9 p.m. on Saturday, and advised the officials concerned to be on alert. The second flood warning is issued at 13 lakh cusecs. The immediate focus would be on identifying possible breaches to the river bunds and plug them on a war-footing. Road link cut “Special teams of officials will be deputed along the river bunds to identify breaches. This year, movement of fishing boats into the Godavari has been stopped when the discharge of flood water crossed 5 lakh cusecs at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram,” said Executive Engineer R. Mohana Rao. All the roads connecting Chintoor Agency with Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Telangana had been blocked on Saturday morning with flood water inundated a network of roads at Chatti area, where water from Sabari tributary enters the Godavari. Three inter-State roads — Chintoor-Badrachalam (Telangana), Chintoor-Kunta (Chhattisgarh) and Chintoor-Motu (Odisha) — have been flooded disrupting movement between Chintoor Agency to the three States, officials said. “The Chintoor-V.R.Puram road and Chintoor-Kommuru road have also been flooded, cutting off the road network between 30 villages and their mandal headquarters of Chintoor. At least 59 more villages are expected to be affected as flood water is likely to enter the villages in the coming days”, Chintoor Tahsildar K. Satyanarayana said.
16 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patriotic fervour in Tirumala||Patriotic fervour marked the 74th Independence Day celebrations at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara on Saturday. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy exhorted employees to rededicate themselves to the service of visiting devotees. Mr. Reddy spoke about the slew of spiritual programmes that the management had embarked upon in a bid to thwart the effects of the pandemic.
16 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tricolour flies high on industrial campuses||The 74th Independence Day was observed with great patriotic fervour at industrial complexes in Chittoor district on Saturday. At the NTPC BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) campus in Mannavaram, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer T. Baskaran hoisted the flag and recalled the sacrifice of freedom fighters in getting independence. He highlighted the importance of team work and a positive work culture among employees to help the company overcome the pandemic and surge ahead. At Sri City, Director P. Mukunda Reddy unfurled the tricolour and received a salute from the security force at an impressive parade. He appealed to the participants to continue to take precautionary measures to keep COVID-19 at bay.
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspension of boat services hits rescue operations||Suspension of boat operations in the Godavari is worrying people and officers monitoring the flood situation in East and West Godavari districts. About 70 vessels, with a capacity of about 50, and AC boats were operating in the Godavari from Bhadrachalam, Papikondalu, Polavaram and Devipatnam mandals, before the services were suspended following the accident involving Vasista Punnami Royal boat that capsized on September 15, 2019, killing 51 tourists. Officials of West and East Godavari districts have appealed to the Ports authorities to give permission to operate 10 vessels for taking up emergency operations during floods from July to September. However, boats owners have not reported till Saturday evening. Launches required K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana said though the flood level had touched the first warning level, no vessels were in hand to meet the emergency situation. Vessels and mechanised boats were required to shift villagers and stranded tribal people in the river. “Every year, we keep about 10 launches (vessels) in standby for emergency operations,” he said. “We are using country-made boats to shift the tribal people from the marooned hamlets in the Agency area. But, launches are necessary to operate in the swollen Godavari,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. Kakinada in-charge Port Officer G.V. Raghava Rao said 10 boats — seven for East Godavari and three for West Godavari — had been permitted to take up rescue operations during floods. Discussions held “The Ports department extended the licenses issued by Irrigation department to boat crew, for one year. We gave 45 days permission for the 10 vessels on August 14,” Mr. Rao said. A boat owner, Krishna, told The Hindu on Saturday that the crew refused to resume duty demanding two months’ salary in advance at Rs. 15,000 per head. “Discussions were held with the Boat Workers’ Union leaders on Saturday, and government has agreed for their demand. The boat sarungs (drivers) and workers will report for duty by Sunday evening,” the vessel owner said. “All the sarungs (drivers) are residing at Rajamahendravaram, and the boats were stopped at Pochamma Gandi, V.R. Puram, Devipatnam, Kukunur and other places. We will join duties from Sunday,” a boat driver said.
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efforts on to reduce power purchase costs: Energy Secy.||The Energy Department is striving to bring down the power purchase cost by closely monitoring the generating units, even as the distribution companies (Discoms) explore ways to contribute to the goal. “Power purchases from the spot market have facilitated savings of Rs. 700 crore. Cost-effective power will contribute to industrial and agricultural growth, and thereby give a big boost to the economy as a whole,” said Energy Secretary N. Srikant. Hoisting the national tricolour at Vidyut Soudha on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday, Mr. Srikant said the entire power procurement process, right from meter reading to payments, reconciliation and settlements among the Discoms and updating of financial accounting systems, was being covered by an Enterprise Resource Package (ERP). Agriculture sector He stated that the government was providing nine-hour day-time free power supply to 18.72 lakh agricultural connections through 6,663 feeders across the State, of which 6,136 (92%) were capable of supplying power for nine hours during the day. In order to extend agriculture supply during the daytime, the government was gearing up to install 10,000 MW solar capacity to feed agriculture consumers exclusively. The recently announced renewable energy export policy targeted generation of 120 GW of solar and wind power put together. The power utilities met the highest demand of 200 MUs on May 10, 2019, and were bracing to meet the imminent surge in demand during the kharif and rabi seasons. The power utilities reduced their Aggregate Technical & Commercial losses from 16.36% in 2018-19 to 13.36% in 2019-2020. It was the lowest in the country, Mr. Srikant added.
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||S.A. Kori is Central University V-C||S.A. Kori, who is at present the Executive Director of Karnataka State Higher Education Council, has been appointed the Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Andhra Pradesh (CUAP), Anantapur, for a term of five years. An academician and researcher, Prof. Kori has been working as the council’s Executive Director in Bengaluru since December 2014. Earlier, he was with Visvesvarayya Technological University, Belavavi (f2008-2013) as Registrar (Evaluation). A recipient of the University Grants Commission and DST Fellowship of the Indo-Hungarian Faculty Exchange Programme in 2005-09 in Budapest University of Technology and Economics at Hungary in Europe, Prof. Kori has 195 national and international publications to his credit. Fourteen students have been awarded engineering Ph.D. under his guidance and the works of another six students are in progress. He was member of many committees constituted by the Central and State Government apex bodies. He was also a member of many professional bodies and had travelled worldwide for presentation of his research works and deliver talks at world education forums. The CUAP was established by an Act of Parliament in 2018-19. The university is under the mentorship of the University of Hyderabad (UoH).
16 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Access to justice delivery institutions limited to a few’||Paying rich tributes to freedom fighters on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday, High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari said the Constitution provided the framework for the present legal and judicial system, which envisaged the right to access justice. But, in reality, only a few privileged had true and real access to justice delivery institutions, he observed. Delivering his Independence Day speech at the High Court, Mr. Justice Maheswari emphasised that the courts had an onerous duty, apart from deciding the disputes between the parties, to be the balancing wheel that kept a just equilibrium between fundamental rights and social justice. The constitutional ethos of an independent judiciary could not be permitted to be diluted by acts of implied intervention, he observed. He stated that the A.P High Court was the first in the country to initiate virtual hearing of cases after declaration of lockdown.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain fails to dampen I-Day spirit||Despite intermittent rain and threat of COVID-19 pandemic, Independence Day was celebrated with gusto at all government establishments and public sector units (PSUs) in the city. Commander-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain after hoisting the national flag and inspecting a 50-member guard of honour inside the Command gymnasium, addressed the men and officers drawn from various warships, submarines and other establishments. He reiterated the need to remember the sacrifices of the leaders who fought for the freedom and those who laid down their lives in service of the country. He highlighted the challenges of COVID-19 and the various administrative steps taken to counter the pandemic. He also assured all personnel, including the defence civilians and the ex-servicemen community, that all support will be provided, especially for critical cases. In a parallel event at the “Victory at Sea” War Memorial on Beach Road this morning, Vice Admiral Kalidoss Srinivas, Project Director, Ship Building Centre, Visakhapatnam, placed a floral wreath and paid tributes to the martyrs. At RINL, the national flag was unfurled by P.K. Rath, CMD, at the Trishna Grounds in the township. Addressing the employees and their family members on the occasion, he expressed his gratitude to the RINL’s medical staff and sanitary workers describing them as “COVID Warriors”. On the occasion a new gate near the rear entrance of Visakhapatnam Steel plant on Gangavaram side was inaugurated by the CMD. This is the shortest route for material transfer and would result in a savings of around Rs. 7 to Rs. 8 lakh for every shipment of 50,000 tons of iron ore. At Dredging Corporation of India Ltd (DCIL), Rajesh Tripathi, Managing Director, unfurled the national flag at the corporate office. Underlying the crucial role played by DCIL to the cause of nation building, he said that economy breathes through the ports and DCIL is mostly maintaining their approach channels. Mr. Tripathi highlighted that the turnover of Rs. 755 crore achieved by DCIL in 2019-20 as against Rs. 698 crore during 2018-19, is a sign of positive growth. State Bank of India, Administrative Office, celebrated the I-Day by observing all protocols. DGM of the module K. Rangarajan urged the staff to bring out their best performance, to support the nation, in the present situation that is threatened by the pandemic. After unfurling the tricolour, Ms. Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, Chairman and Managing Director of APEPDCL, stated that uninterrupted power was supplied to the consumers even during the lockdown period. She stated that nine-hour power during the day time is being supplied to agricultural services as part of YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme and about 2.46 lakhs farmers are benefiting under this scheme. The 74th Independence Day celebrations were held at HPCL run Skill Development Institute, Deendayalapuram. DGM Narasimha Das hoisted and saluted the national flag.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 894 new cases, Vizag inching towards 25,000-mark||As many as 894 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday, taking the tally to 24,708. Six more persons died due to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 168. On a brighter side, as many as 1,316 persons have been recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday. According to COVID-19 district bulletin, the number of active cases in the district is 5,004 while the number of discharged is 19,536. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district as on Friday is 736. Among them, very active clusters are 141. The number of active and dormant clusters is 81 and 514 respectively. Already, 171 clusters have been de-notified.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM: Waltair Division achieved best-ever originating loading||Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava has said that the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(E Co R) has achieved the best-ever originating loading of 66.82 million tons during 2019-20 as against the 61.91 million tons during the previous year, showing an improvement of 7.93%. He unfurled the national flag and took Rashtriya Salami, presented by the contingent of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Civil Defence at the 74th Independence Day celebrations of Waltair Division on Saturday. Addressing the gathering, the DRM said that the division achieved the best-ever goods earnings of Rs. 8,166 crore during 2019-20 as against Rs. 7,306 crore during the previous year, registering an increase of 11.77%. The passenger earnings of Rs. 562.18 crore as against Rs. 554.39 crore during the previous year, registered an increase of 1.41%. The division has achieved the best Performance Efficiency Index at 32.49 with Gross Working Expenses of Rs. 2,873 crore and Gross Earnings of Rs. 8,843.9 crore for the financial year 2019-20 as against Rs. 7,979.6 crore in 2018-2019. Mr. Shrivastava detailed on the various development activities taken up in the division during the current financial year like construction of Limited Height Subways (LHS), construction of arch bridges and COVID-19 control measures. ADRM(Infra) Akshay Saxena read out the message of the General Manager, E Co R, highlighting the developmental works and various welfare activities under taken over the East Coast Railway.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘District administration steps up efforts to control pandemic’||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that the district administration with the help of the all government departments have been putting a strong fight against the COVID-19. He said that as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, the State government is following testing, tracing and treating to tackle the virus. In this regard, testing capacity has reached close to 5,000 per day in the district and till date 2.14 lakh tests have been conducted,he said. The Minister was delivering his speech after unfurling the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day at the police barracks here on Saturday. He also received the Guard of Honour along with District Collector V. Vinay Chand and Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena. However police parade was not organised due to wet outfield. Recalling the services of the freedom fighters, the Minister paid tributes to them. He also saluted the frontline warriors, including doctors, policemen and medical staff, who have been putting a fight during the tough time. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that ever since the virus broke out, the district administration has started to put efforts to contain the spread. At present, 2,558 people are being treated at 12 COVID-19 Care Centres and 3,040 people are treated at 22 hospitals, he said. In order to give better treatment to patients and keeping in the view of increasing number of cases in the future, the government has given its nod to recruit 3,784 posts in various categories, including specialist doctors, in a special drive, he said. On the occasion, tableaux of various government departments highlighted the government schemes being implemented in the State. Medical & Health Department’s tableau has won the first prize, while Rural Development and Agriculture Department has won the second and third prizes respectively.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint coastal patrol begins||To enhance and develop coastal security mechanism across all coastal States in the country, Indian Coast Guard has commenced joint coastal patrolling with the Marine Police on Saturday, as per the directive of the Ministry of Home Affairs under PM’s vision document. As part of this initiative, the joint patrolling began off Visakhapatnam coast on Saturday, covering the coastal regions of Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Krishnapatnam. This initiative is designed to boost the existing coastal security system.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC taking up 832 works, says Srijana||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana along with GVMC Special Officer and District Collector V. Vinay Chand unfurled the national flag on the GVMC premises on Saturday. Ms. Srijana said that the GVMC has taking up 832 development works worth Rs. 125.91 crore, in which 142 have been going on. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy unfurled the national flag at the varsity campus on Saturday. Officials from GITAM organised I-Day celebrations on the campus on Saturday. GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna appreciated the GITAM doctors and paramedical staff for their services to COVID-19 patients. Members of CPI(M) and CPI took part in the Independence Day celebrations at the CPI(M) office here on Saturday.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains: control rooms set up in Vizag||In the view of continuous rains, District Collector V. Vinay Chand has asked citizens residing in low-lying areas and coastal areas to be cautious. He said that control rooms are being set up at the Collectorate, Revenue Division Office and Tahsildar offices. He released list of contact numbers for public during emergency. Visakhapatnam Collectorate Control Room number – 08912590102, RDO Visakhapatnam - 8790310433 , RDO Anakapalle 8143631525; 8790879433, Sub Collector Narsipatnam 8247899530; 7675977897, RDO Paderu 08935-250228; 8333817955; 9494670039; 8331821499.
16 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||486 kg dry ganja seized, one held||Based on reliable information, the CTF team along with a team from the New Port Police Station raided a premises in Gandhi Nagar in Peda Gantyada and seized 486 kg dry ganja and arrested one person on Saturday. According to CTF ACP A. Trinad Rao, this was the biggest seizure of dry ganja in the recent times in the city limits. The net worth of the seized stuff is said to be around Rs. 36 lakh. According to Mr. Trinad, a few others are also involved and investigation is on to nab them. The police also seized a van, which was used for transportation of the ganja. The arrested was identified as Mittipalli Nageswara Rao. In another raid, the CTF team seized 6.8 litres of arrack from a house in Vambay Colony, Gajuwaka, and arrested one Somi Naidu.
16 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village secretariats helped achieve Gandhiji’s dream, says Minister||Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said that Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of achieving decentralisation had become a reality with the establishment of village secretariats. He said 664 village secretariats and 114 urban secretariats had been providing all administrative services at the doorstep of the people in the district. Mr. Srinivas, in-charge Minister of the district, hoisted the tricolour to mark the 74th Independence Day. After the ceremonial parade, the Minister explained the achievements of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government. “The volunteer system has proved to be a big boon for people. As many as 13,281 volunteers could get livelihood and are able to serve people with regular and personal interaction and deliver the benefits of government schemes,” he added. He hoped that the Rythu Bharosa scheme would boost agricultural activity. “The government is keen on improving irrigation facility. It has sanctioned Rs. 45 crore for the Vattigedda modernisation project. The Andra reservoir works were also taken up recently. Water is being released from the Thotapalli project for kharif season. The Gummadigedda will ensure water for 4000 acres,” said the Minister. Pat for Collector He congratulated Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal for the plantation of 1.33 crore saplings last year and targeting to plant 1.08 lakh this year under the Paccha Toranam programme. Earlier, the Minister went round the stalls established in the Police Grounds. Mr. Hari Jawaharlal, SP B. Rajakumari, Joint Collector G.Ch. Kishore Kumar and other officials accompanied the Minister. COVID-19 warriors were felicitated followed by traditional dances.
16 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Modi resolved many issues’||Bharatiya Janata Party district president Reddi Pavani on Saturday said that India’s sovereignty was well-protected by the Narendra Modi government as evident from the border clash with China. She unfurled the national flag at the party office here to mark the 74th Independence Day and said many issues like Article-370 of Kashmir and Ram Janmabhoomi were successfully handled by the Centre. BJP State treasurer P. Sanyasi Raju, B.Rajesh, T. Haranath and others were present.
16 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus on online learning’||Vizianagaram Central Tribal University Special Officer Hanumanthu Lajapathirai on Saturday asked the students to gain knowledge through digital platforms and online courses. He said that optimum utilisation of digital platforms would give youngsters knowledge on a par with classroom studies. , Mr. Lajapathirai urged all the professors to take up online classes regularly and clarify doubts of the students.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID spread in city has come down, says civic chief||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh on Saturday said that Vijayawada, which topped the charts of COVID infections at the beginning of the pandemic, was now witnessing less number of COVID cases. Addressing a small gathering of officials at the Independence Day celebrations at the VMC office, Mr. Venkatesh said that apart from hailing the contribution of Defence personnel, it was important to thank doctors, sanitation workers, government employees and others who were at the forefront of the fight against COVID pandemic. “They are warriors too and we need to recognise their services and thank them. Some of them even lost their lives. We need to ensure their families are not left alone,” he said. Mr. Venkatesh said that COVID warriors had been fighting the invisible enemy similar to the Defence personnel who served at borders for the safety of the public. Hoping that the situation would turn better gradually, Mr. Venkatesh appreciated the people of the city for cooperating with the government and officials. He said most people used face masks and followed COVID safety measures, including physical distancing. “As a result, we are at the bottom of the list of places witnessing COVID cases in the State,” he said. Mr. Venkatesh presented awards to best-performing staff of the civic body on the occasion.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will operate from 3 capitals soon: Jagan||Government was implementing ‘Navaratnalu’ in State, he said. Door delivery of ration would be launched from December this year, and 31 lakh house sites would be registered on the name of women soon. The government had deposited Rs. 11,200 crore in the accounts of farmers, and 91 lakh women were benefited under ‘Zero’ interest scheme, the Chief Minister said. Steps to ban liquor All measures were being taken to ban liquor in the State and as part of it, 43,000 belt shops had been removed, and licenses to 4,380 permit rooms were cancelled and the number of liquor shops were reduced by 33%, Mr. Jagan said. Priority had been given for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Castess in the Assembly and in allocation of nominated posts, the Chief Minister reiterated. Focus was laid on skill development centres and growth of MSMEs, Mr. Jagan added. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang and other high-ranking officers participated in the programme.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stopped in their tracks!||
16 August 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Virtual court connecting mobile van launched||Principal District Judge of Adilabad, MG Priyadarshini, on Friday launched virtual court connecting mobile van. It is in addition to the virtual control room, established in District Court complex, which is being used by advocates and the general public. Keeping in view the travails of junior advocates, and impoverished litigant public who cannot afford a computer system or internet, the High Court of Telangana, during this COVID-19 pandemic, has introduced the mobile virtual court connecting system, in an attempt to provide seamless effective access to administration of justice to all people. The virtual court connecting mobile van is stated to go in remote areas of the district taking the administration of justice nearer to stakeholders, Ms. Priyadarshini said. The Principal District Judge requested all the advocates and litigant public to utilise the facility. District judges Y. Jayaprasad, T. Srinivas Rao, K. Prasad. Bhaskar and Aruna were present at the launch.
16 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Godavari close to second warning level||A flood alert has been sounded in the riverside villages in seven Agency mandals of the district as the Godavari inched closer to the second warning level of 48 feet at Bhadrachalam, following heavy downpour in the catchment areas of the river for the third consecutive day on Saturday. After crossing the first warning level of 43 feet at 3.50 am in the temple-town on Saturday, the Godavari rose over three feet by late in the evening. The water level in the river reached 46 feet at 7 pm. In view of the heavy inflows from the tributaries including Taliperu, the water level was expected to touch the second warning level in the next 12 hours, sources said. The road link to several remote tribal habitations in Charla, Dummugudem, Allappalli, Gundala and Yellandu remained disrupted for the third day in a row as swollen streams overflowed approach roads and culverts in the interior tribal pockets. Collector M V Reddy reviewed the flood preparedness and mitigation measures with officials of the Revenue and Irrigation departments through a teleconference in Kothagudem on Saturday. He asked officials to remain alert and utilise the services of the NDRF, the Police and the Fire Services department to deal with any exigency arising out of the rise in water levels in the rivers, including the Godavari, Taliperu and the Kinnerasani. In Khammam district, all the major rivers including the Munneru, Wyra and Akeru were in spate.  Helpline launched Water-logging occurred in several low-lying areas along the banks of the Munneru in Khammam town, causing severe hardships to people living in the habitations close to the river’s floodplains. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar and Collector R V Karnan visited the low-lying areas in the town. A toll-free helpline number 1077 was launched to attend to rain-related incidents.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Not all COVID-cured can donate plasma||Everyday, family members and friends of COVID patients are tapping into all their contacts earnestly hoping to find a recovered person who is willing to donate plasma. Convalescent plasma therapy is one of the options explored to save some patients. Transfusion medicine specialist Dr. Hitesh Kumar, also head of the blood bank at KIMS, explained about who all can donate plasma, how many times a person can donate plasma, and if there will be any changes to one’s health after the donation. Plasma from those who recovered from COVID-19 contains antibodies that neutralise coronavirus. It is expected that patients will recover when plasma filled with the neutralising antibodies are infused into them. However, not all virus survivors can donate plasma. A week ago, DME Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy said that antibodies in very mild symptomatic patients might protect them from second infection. But it will not be enough to protect others. Usually, the level of antibodies against coronavirus in a willing donor is checked before initiating the procedure. And then doctors ask for COVID positive report from donors. Then, a few diagnostic tests are performed before donation. The entire process of diagnostic tests, and donation, takes around three hours. Dr. Hitesh said that a person who had recovered can donate plasma around 30 to 40 days after testing positive as they would have adequate number of antibodies. “Those between 18 and 55 years can donate. People with hypertension and diabetes too are eligible if all other conditions are under control. Patients with HIV, kidney transplant recipients, cancer patients, TB patients, and who underwent surgery or had a tattoo in the past six months are ineligible,” Dr. Kumar said. But, plasma therapy might not work in all COVID patients. The DME earlier said that patients with moderate to severe symptoms can be administered plasma therapy but not those who are critically-ill and who are on ventilator support as viral load will be so high that the antibodies (in convalescent plasma) are of no use. The best possible blood group choice is that of the donor and patient having the same group. Otherwise, it is transfused according to the plasma compatibility chart only. A willing donor can give plasma twice a month. Dr. Kumar said that plasma can be stored at minus 40 degrees Celsius for up to a year. “Donors can get back to work in just over an hour,” he said.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Low-key I-Day fete high on patriotic zeal||The 74th Independence Day was celebrated in government departments across the State on Saturday with the tricolour being hoisted and tributes paid to those who fought for the country’s independence. At the BRKR Bhavan, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar unfurled the tricolour. Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, after hoisting the tricolour, said the Telangana HC was the only high court in the country to have had run all nine benches through video conferencing in the last five months, even as he thanked the legal fraternity for their cooperation. South Central Railway general manager Gajanan Mallya hoisted the national flag in the presence of a small gathering at the Railway Sports Complex due to the COVID-19 protocol. In his speech, Mr Gajanan praised railways workers and officers for rising up to the occasion and discharging their duties amid the pandemic. The SCR, he said, operated 1,038 Shramik Specials to transport migrants. Of these, 243 originated from the 32 stations of the SCR moved 3,13,534 passengers to 88 stations. Further, 795 Shramik Specials passing through the SCR were also handled, he said. As of now, 34 special passenger services are catering to 25,000 passengers every day. At the Bus Bhavan, the headquarters of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, vice-chairman and managing director Sunil Sharma paid rich tributes to freedom fighters. He urged employees and officers to take utmost precautions against the novel coronavirus and urged them to work harder, even as he said that the TSRTC is staffed by committed and hardworking people. The TSRTC has not only launched cargo and parcel services, but also its own retail fuel outlets. At the Metro Rail Bhavan, managing director N.V.S. Reddy hoisted the tricolour and urged staff to rededicate themselves for the development of the city. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shobha urged staff of the Forest department to discharge their duties and give utmost importance to the protection of forests. The tricolour was unfurled at Aranya Bhavan. CMD of the National Mineral Development Corporation, Sumit Deb hoisted the national flag and spoke of the sacrifices made by those who have fought for the country’s freedom from the British.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New turn to Karimnagar land grab case||The allegations of grabbing graveyard land in Karimnagar town outskirts took a new twist with police registering a criminal case following a complaint lodged by a person representing former MLA Sana Maruthi’s family members. A case under Sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing damage by mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered by the police against two persons Kotha Jaipal Reddy and D. Laxma Reddy. They were accused of trespassing into the former legislator’s land on town fringes along the Karimnagar-Peddapally bypass road. Technically the land comes under the limits of Bommakal gram panchayat. Already, complaints of grabbing lands of government and private persons in this village flooded the district administration. Victim of mafia Village sarpanch Srinivas was arrested and taken into custody for interrogation twice by the police. District Collector K. Shashanka ordered inquiry into the allegations of illegal occupation of lands in Bommakal following news reports and agitation by some land owners. In the fresh instance, in which the police filed a First Information Report, a former legislator turned out to be the victim of alleged land mafia. A person K. Janardhan Reddy, holding General Power of Attorney for the land of Sana Laxmi, wife of Sana Maruthi, lodged the complaint. Sana Laxmi owns 5.36 acres and 1.04 acres in survey numbers 723 and 724 respectively in Bommakal. A compound wall was also built around the property. The GPA holder charged that Kotha Jaipal Reddy and Laxma Reddy tried to grab the land under survey no 723. What raised eyebrows in the controversy of grabbing the lands of an ex-MLA is the complainant pointing an accusing finger at Revenue officials. ‘Mistakenly taken over’ In a petition to the police, Ms. Laxmi charged that the accused ‘won over’ the revenue authorities and got the land in survey number 724 mutated in the names of the daughters of another deceased ex-MLA Nalumachu Kondaiah. At the behest of the alleged land grabbers, the former MLA’s legal heirs sold two acres of land under survey number 724 to others, she charged . According to the complaint, the deceased former MLA had lands in survey numbers 722 and 724. The district administration took possession of the lands, declaring them surplus under land ceiling Act. Ms. Laxmi contended that, by mistake, revenue authorities had taken over the lands belonging to her instead of Mr. Kondaiah. From revenue authorities, the matter went to High Court where it was adjudicated and officials were instructed to take over lands of Mr. Kondaiah, the complainant said. Interestingly, revenue records show that the land of Mr. Kondaiah (which he had to forgo or claimed to have surrendered) was being used as graveyard for over past two decades.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC dismisses plea on IPC Sections 376, 376A||The Telangana High Court dismissed a PIL petition seeking declaration of Sections 376 and 376A of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional as there were some lacunae in them. Observing that the plea had raised an academic issue with regard to some loopholes left in the law, the HC ruled that an academic issue could not and should not be entertained by a court of law. “….judicial forum is not a place for raising an academic issue with regard to any alleged weakness in law,” a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said in the order. If the petitioner was aggrieved with any lacuna in the law, he had the option of approaching the Central government or Parliament. The petitioner had not made any representation to the Central Law Ministry, pointing out the alleged weakness in the law either. According to the petitioner, rule 3 of IPC Section 376 prescribes punishment of jail term of not less than 20 years, which may extend to life imprisonment. This rule does not prescribe capital punishment. But IPC Section 376A prescribes death sentence as one of the punishments if the victim (who is under 16 years of age) dies or is reduced to a persistent vegetative state. ‘Misplaced argument’ The petitioner’s counsel contended that Section 376A deals only with rules 1 and 2 of Section 376 and does not deal with rule 3 of Section 376. This implies that if a victim of under 16 years of age dies or is reduced to persistent vegetative state, the case cannot be brought under the gambit of Section 376A and the accused cannot be awarded death sentence. This would result in injustice to the victim, the lawyer argued. Observing that this argument was ‘highly misplaced’, the bench noted that the offender in rape case would be charged under IPC sections of both 376 and 302 if the victim dies. Section 302 prescribes death sentence, the bench noted.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Finance panel funds to PR bodies released||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Errabelli Dayakar Rao has thanked the Centre for restoring the release of Finance Commission funds to gram panachayats, mandal parishads and zilla parishads. Mr. Dayakar Rao said on Friday that against Rs. 1,847 crore sanctioned to the three-tier panchayat raj (PR) bodies, the Centre had released Rs. 308 crore for the first quarter of 2020-21. Of the funds being released from the 15th Finance Commission grants, 85% would be given to gram panchayats, 10% to mandal parishads and 5% to zilla parishads. The Minister stated that the Centre had stopped release of Finance Commission funds to three-tier PR bodies six years ago but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the then Panchayat Raj Minister K.T. Rama Rao had made repeated requests to the Centre to restore sanction of Finance Commission funds to PR bodies. The funds would be distributed among the panchayat raj bodies in the prescribed proportion. They would be utilised to address drinking water problems, rainwater harvesting and pits, community sanitary latrines, collection of wet and dry garbage separately and their segregation, sanitation and compost making. Local Bodies segment MLC Pochampally Srinivas Reddy said the sanction and release of the 15th Finance Commission funds would end the long wait for their resumption. He stated that the funds would help improve basic amenities in PR bodies.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain forecast||Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur over isolated places in the State on August16, according to a forecast by met office on Saturday. The Indian Meteorological Centre, Hyderabad, said thunderstorm accompanied by lightning was very likely to occur over isolated places on August 16. Meanwhile, Bejjur and Yelkapalle in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district received 97 mm and 84 mm of rainfall respectively between 8.30 am and 4 pm on Saturday. Several other places in the State received moderate rainfall, the met data showed. The twin cities continued to be lashed by rain through the day.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Research centre inaugurated||A research and technology centre of contract research organisation Sai Lifesciences in Genome Valley, near here, was inaugurated by Industries and IT Minister K.T Rama Rao. The 83,000 sq ft facility with several unique features adjoins the firm’s existing research and development (R&D) centre. The facility aims to be the nerve-centre of the company’s R&D capability and accelerate discovery and development of new drugs. A release from the Minister’s office on Saturday said Sai Lifesciences works with seven of the top 10 global innovator pharma companies and several small and mid-sized innovators. Over the past year, it has opened new R&D sites in the USA and the UK. The vision of the company is to support its global innovator partners bring 25 new medicines to life by 2025. Sai Lifesciences CEO and MD Krishna Kanumuri said the philosophy behind building this facility is to go beyond the norm and to create what the company’s global innovator partners expect in their in-house capabilities. “We are an example of what is possible in Hyderabad’s rich life sciences ecosystem.”
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sticks replaced with IV stands, probe ordered||After photos and videos of Intravenous (IV) fluid bottles hanging on sticks in a ward at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) went viral, the hospital administration swung into action to fix the issue. The visuals were from the OGH’s Quli Qutb Shah block’s fourth floor. Hospital superintendent B. Nagender said a probe will be initiated and disciplinary action against the errant staff. He clarified the hospital has 300 IV stands in the in-patient block. He added that a complaint would be lodged against those who shot videos and posted it on social media.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Slain Colonel’s wife joins service||Ms. Santoshi, the widow of Colonel Santosh Babu who was among the Army personnel killed by Chinese troops in Galwan valley, on Saturday submitted her joining report in the service the of State government to the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar at his office in BRK Bhavan. Ms. Santoshi was offered the post of Deputy Collector in the Revenue department, apart from monetary assistance and a house site tha twere announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.
16 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chided by mother, student ends life||A class nine student was found dead at his house in Trimulgherry on Saturday. The 14-year-old boy hanged himself after his mother snatched away his mobile for not concentrating on online classes. He was a student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Trimulgherry. “Around 2 p.m., his mother reprimanded him and took away the mobile as he was playing games and watching videos online, instead of studying. As a result, he got upset and locked himself in a room,” police said. As he was not coming out of the room and there was no response to the repeated knocks, the boy’s sister opened the window only to see him dead. His father is a subedar in the Army and is posted in UP. (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
16 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||COVID rules, bad weather mar I-Day celebrations||Independence Day celebrations were muted across the undivided Nalgonda district, thanks to inclement weather and COVID-19 protocol. The low-key affair was conducted at the respective integrated district collectorate complex premises of Nalgonda, Suryapet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, as directed by the State government. It was also the first time that the district police office parade grounds remained empty for a national commemorative event. State Legislative Council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy along with District Collector Prashant J. Patil and police superintendent A.V. Ranganath hoisted the flag at the Madhava Reddy Bhavan here. In Suryapet, Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy welcomed Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy for the day’s celebrations. Alair legislator and government whip G. Sunitha took the guard of honour in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, at the Collectorate complex at Pagidipalli. In Siddipet, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao unfurled the national flag at the Collectorate and addressed a limited gathering. Stating that farmers have heeded the advice on following regulated farming, he said they had cultivated paddy on about 2.1 lakh acres followed by cotton on 2.25 lakh acres and red gram on 41,000 acres. Meanwhile, participating in celebrations at Sangareddy, COVID-recovered Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali urged the public to take all precautions against coronavirus. At Medak, Animal Husbandry Minister Talasni Srinivas Yadav participated in the I-Day programme. The Sitarama Lift Irrigation Project, which is designed to optimally harness the Godavari waters, will be completed by the year-end to provide Godavari waters to an ayacut of over 6 lakh acres in the old undivided Khammam district by I-Day 2021, said Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar after unfurling the national flag at the Collectorate premises on Saturday.  In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, Government Whip Rega Kantha Rao hoisted the tricolour in Kothagudem. Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venkateswara Rao and Collector M.V. Reddy were present.
16 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Two killed in NH-65 accident, one critical||Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) near Aitipamula village on Saturday. The victims were identified as Booraboina Renuka, 29, and R. Hariprasad Reddy, the car driver. Kattangur police said the two persons died on the spot, and the deceased’s husband who suffered critical injuries was rushed to hospital. According to the family’s petition, Renuka and her husband Balakrishna boarded a share taxi in Hyderabad, where they were working as construction labourers. On reaching Aitipamula village limits, at around 7.30 a.m., they crashed into a truck wrongly parked on the highwayside. They were heading to Suryapet, to reach the woman’s house at Atmakur (S). Police have opened a case for investigation.
16 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two new innovations to help the farmer||Two rural innovators came up with ideas that will help the farming community in their day-to-day operations. A. Vighneswar of Gorrekal village in Vatpally mandal made a motor-run weed remover which could be manufactured at low cost. Running a workshop at Vatpally, Vighneswar is a farmer having about seven acres of land. Failure to get required labour to remove the weed on the fields made him innovate, which materialised within a week. “Including the engine, I have used scarp material to put together the weed-remover. With one litre petrol, we can remove weeds on one acre within an hour. It cost me about Rs. 10,000 to make the engine and it may cost around Rs. 20,000 for commercial production. The present market price of the machine used for the purpose is more than Rs. 45,000,” Mr. Vighneswar told The Hindu . S. Sangameswar of Mallikarjunpally near Zaheerabad, a teacher with a private school, has developed wheel-based sprayer which makes it easy to spray fertilizer at the required height and quantity with ease. Manpower was not needed to carry the sprayer like the conventional sprayers. The sprayer designed by Sangameswar does not need fuel as power is generated through compressor while operating it. The length and height of the sprayer can be adjusted according to requirement of crop. “It took about a year to materialise the idea. The machine is working perfectly,” said Mr. Sangameswar. These two are selected from the 15 innovations that were sent for scrutiny. Collector’s pat Collector M. Hanumantha Rao congratulated the innovators on their success and said that the innovations would be exhibited online. In a related development, District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) chairman Malkapuram Shivakumar put an order for one wheel based sprayer from Mr. Sangameswar to encourage him on his innovation.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Around 500 NCC students replace schoolchildren on I-Day celebration||Scores of schoolchildren sitting in Tricolour clothes in front of the ramparts of Red Fort add to the Independence Day celebrations every year, but they were absent this time around due to the COVID-19 outbreak. However, around 500 National Cadet Corps (NCC) students attended the 74th I-Day, and were happy to do so despite the health risks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his speech said he missed the schoolchildren. “ Chhote chhote balak mere saamne nazar nahin aa rahe… Corona ne sabko roka hua hai (I can’t see the small children...Corona has stopped everyone),” he said. The young cadets, wearing green track pants, orange tee-shirts and white caps sat at a distance from each other. Their motivation to attend the celebration was Mr. Modi. A Class 9 student of a government school in Dilshad Garden, Tushar, said his NCC teacher had asked the students if they were interested in attending the August 15 celebration. “I asked my parents if I could attend the event and they agreed. I got a chance to see PM Modi,” the 14-year-old said. Sitting behind him was Amit Kumar, another 14-year-old, who said: “We came at 4.30 a.m. My motivation to be part of this event was to be able to learn something — a drill or two, parade and of course see Modi ji ,” he said. The students were not disappointed that they could not get to shake hands with the PM. “Such is the situation. He waved at us and that is enough for us,” said Amit. A golden opportunity For many young adults, it was a golden opportunity which they could not pass up. “ Humse chhote bacche aate pichhle saal tak, is saal humain bhi mauka mila hai. Pata nahin dobara kabhi milta ya nahin (Children younger than us have been coming every year. This time, we got the opportunity. Not sure if we will ever get the opportunity again),” said Ankit Mishra (15). Abhishek Yadav, 21-year-old Indraprastha University student and member of NCC, said he attended the celebration as senior wing members were invited for the first time. “We were asked because not many children were willing to attend the celebration and we felt like it was our responsibility to come. If we didn’t turn up, who would?” he said.  All through the event, the Prime Minister gave the mask a miss and loosely wrapped his neck scarf around his face whenever required. While there were murmurs about the absence of a mask, most attendees, including the kids, supported the PM. Farhan Siddiqui, a 13-year-old NCC member, said: “Whatever he does is right. He propagates to wear a mask for our safety but he is a hero who believes in swadeshi and mask is a foreign concept... maybe that is why he didn’t wear one,” he said.
16 August 2020||NEW DElhi,||Pollution board told to act against illegal dairy farms||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board to take action against violation of environmental norms by illegal dairy farms in a residential colony in Ghaziabad. Taking note of a report furnished by a NGT-appointed committee, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “We are of the view that the State Pollution Control Board needs to take action in view of patent violation of relevant Acts.” In a report submitted by the civic body, authorities informed the NGT that the “matter should be dealt with by the development authorities [Awas Vikas Parishad].” ‘Blatant violation’ Earlier, the NGT had observed, “It is clear that there is blatant violation of law which needs to be checked by stopping polluting activities and recovering compensation from polluters, apart from any other statutory action. Beyond issuing notice, there is no information about any other action.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Ved Prakash Aggrawal who sought directions against illegal dairy farms operating in residential areas.“According to the applicant, operation of such dairies was resulting in degradation of environment and causing harm to the public health,” the Bench had observed, while noting the allegations made in the plea.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘No idol immersion during Ganeshotsav’||Immersion of idols will not be allowed in public places in the city during Ganeshotsav due to COVID-19, and the government will not set up any artificial ponds for the same as it did in previous years, said officials. “ldol immersions shall not be allowed during the forthcoming Ganeshotsav in any public place, including the Yamuna or any other water body, public place, ponds, ghats etc. The ritual may be performed within home premises in a bucket or container,” read an order issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee. Violation of directions can lead to imprisonment of upto five years or a fine upto to Rs. 1 lakh or both. “Last year, we had created about 500 artificial ponds for the purpose, but this year it will not be done to avoid people gathering at these spots,” a Delhi government official said. The government will monitor the situation and later take a call on whether idol immersion will be allowed during Durga Puja.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP pledges to make nation ‘Atmanirbhar’||The BJP, on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day, pledged to make the nation ‘Atmanirbhar’ and urged citizens to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Vocal For Local initiative. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the party had initiated the ‘Gandagi Delhi Chhodo’ sanitation campaign with the Municipal Corporations of Delhi on the lines of Mr. Modi’s ‘Bharat Gandagi Chhodo' initiative.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Noida authority told to remove encroachment||Following a plea alleging pollution caused due to encroachment, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Noida authority to take action and ensure removal of the same. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed authorities to ensure removal of encroachment, if not done already. “Since none appears for the parties, it is possible that the remaining encroachment has also been removed. If not, the same may now be done,” the Bench said.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘AAP will distribute oximeters in villages’||AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the party will distribute oximeters in villages across the country so that people, who are having fever or breathing issues due to the virus, can check their oxygen levels. “We are planning to give an oximeter to one person in every village across the country. The person will have the responsibility of the village. In the village, pamphlets will be distributed and if anyone has fever or breathing issues, then this person will take the oximeter to his house. If the oxygen levels are less, then the person can be taken to a hospital,” Mr. Kejriwal said during a video address to Aam Aadmi Party workers. “I appeal to people to donate as many oximeters to AAP. We will also try to open oxygen testing centres in as many villages as possible,” he added. He appealed to all AAP State and district incharges and coordinators to open such centres in villages. Mr. Kejriwal said he will not be celebrating his birthday on Sunday and asked people to send him wishes from their homes instead of visiting his house in the capital. “But I want a gift from you — people who can donate oximeters, please do so...,” he said. He added that now that the virus is spreading in the villages, it is a great matter of worry as in the last 70 years, the governments have not been able to provide good healthcare facilities in villages. “There is a lack of hospitals and doctors in villages. It is easier to find doctors and hospitals in cities but if the virus spreads in villages, it will prove to be very fearful,” he said. “A few days back, we heard that our 20 soldiers were martyred on the Indo-China border,” Mr. Kejriwal said during his address. “Many a time, we do not realise the value of our freedom when we live our lives with our families, attend our jobs, and move freely. Some people have lost their lives for the freedom that we have today. Let’s come together and pay our tributes and respect for them,” he added.
16 August 2020||Aurangabad,||Increase testing: Desai||With COVID-19 spreading to over 300 villages in Aurangabad district, Maharashtra Industries Minister Subhash Desai has instructed authorities to increase testing in rural areas of the State. Mr. Desai, who is also the district’s guardian minister, gave the instructions during a COVID-19 review meeting held at the district collector’s office on Friday. Mr. Desai also asked officials to enhance contact tracing of patients. “At least 15 contacts of a positive patient should be traced. Besides, people should be tested before they enter villages,” he said. The number of fever clinics in the rural parts of the district should be increased, Mr. Desai said. “Use antigen kits if required. Patients in rural areas should be treated at the local level only so that the stress on Aurangabad city is reduced,” he said. The number of novel coronavirus cases in Aurangabad climbed to 18,259 after 292 people tested positive on Friday, officials said. The death toll in the district has risen to 576, with four more patients succumbing to the virus. As many as 220 patients were discharged on Friday. The number of active cases in Aurangabad is now 4,209.
16 August 2020||Gandhinagar,||Need campaign like Quit India against COVID-19: Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday called for a mass awareness campaign on the lines of the Quit India Movement against the British to drive out the novel coronavirus from the State and the country. Speaking at the Independence Day function at Swarnim Park in Gandhinagar, he said while the pandemic had slowed down the pace of development in the State, his government was committed to make up for it. “To achieve independence and drive out the British, the entire country resonated with the slogan of Quit India. As a result, the British left the country and we got freedom. Likewise, let’s start a mass awareness campaign to free the country and Gujarat of coronavirus,” he said. Mr. Rupani also spoke about the initiatives taken by his government to help people tide over the current crisis. “It is our strength that despite earthquake, flood, cyclone, Gujarat and its people have changed crises into opportunities. Our development arc has slowed, but we are committed to make it up,” he said. The State government has managed to bring down the COVID-19 case fatality rate to 2.1% and increase the recovery rate to 78%, he said. Due to its effort to deal with the pandemic, the State government has received positive feedback from the Supreme Court, World Health Organisation and Niti Aayog, Mr. Rupani said. The government has announced a Rs. 14,000 crore package for small businesses, farmers and fisherfolk to revive the economy, he said.
16 August 2020||Jalna,||Rise in COVID-19 cases in rural areas worrying, says Health Minister||State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday expressed concern over the rise in COVID-19 cases in rural areas of the State due to the influx of migrants from Mumbai. Speaking at an Independence Day function at the Collectorate, the minister said despite the rise in infections, the recovery rate in the State was high. While the COVID-19 case tally in Jalna had reached 3,000, more than 2,000 patients had recovered from the infection, said Mr. Tope, who is also the guardian minister of the district.  Felicitating frontline workers, he urged citizens to cooperate with doctors and the administration in the fight against COVID-19. A liquid oxygen plant is being set up at the COVID-19 hospital in Jalna, he said, adding that the State Health Department was providing proper facilities for the treatment of patients. MLA Kailash Gorantyal, District Collector Ravindra Binwade, Jalna chief executive officer Nima Arora and District Superintendent of Police S. Chaitanya attended the event.
16 August 2020||Mumbai,||MVA govt. made 29.50 lakh farmers debt-free: CM||The Maharashtra government has made 29.50 lakh farmers in the State debt-free by depositing Rs. 18,980 crore into their bank accounts, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Mr. Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, was speaking after hoisting the national flag at Mantralaya on the 74th Independence Day. He also said the State government will focus on farmers and the working class as it tries to transform Maharashtra into a welfare state. In his first Independence Day speech, Mr. Thackeray said the government has started the process of unlocking the State “cautiously in a staggered manner”, and Maharashtra has increased COVID-19 tests on a “big scale”. “Around 29.50 lakh farmers have been made debt-free by depositing Rs. 18,980 crore into their bank accounts under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karjmukti Yojana,” he said in his speech. He said the government also procured 418.8 quintal of cotton, highest in the last 10 years. ‘Focus on e-learning’ The Chief Minister said schools could not be reopened due to the COVID-19 threat, but the government took steps to see education is being imparted to students through Google for Education initiative. “Maharashtra has become the first State to take such a step in the country,” he added. Mr. Thackeray said 66,300 industrial units have resumed operations after the government set in motion the process of unlocking. He said over 16 lakh workers have returned to their workplaces. “The government has signed MoUs worth around Rs. 16,000 crore with investors from 12 countries and more agreements worth Rs. 8,000 crore will be inked. The government also launched ‘MahaJobs’ portal to ensure that locals, Marathi people get employment,” he added. Mr. Thackeray said the government will lay emphasis on providing proper healthcare facilities in both urban and remote areas in the State. He hailed COVID-19 warriors such as doctors, nurses, and police personnel and praised the officers who have been chosen for the President’s Medal. He thanked the people for observing restraint during festivals of all religions during the lockdown, which was imposed in March to contain the spread of COVID-19. ‘Townships along e-way’ Mr. Thackeray said work on Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg, which will connect Mumbai to Nagpur in Vidarbha, has been fast-tracked, and townships will be set up at 24 places along the expressway.  The government has signed MoUs worth around Rs. 16,000 crore with investors from 12 countries Uddhav Thackeray Chief Minister
16 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Youth gets 10 years in jail for raping minor||The Alibaug district and sessions court on Friday sentenced a 22-year-old man from Pen to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a 16-year-old girl. Ajay Kamlakar Waghmare met the girl from Mandwa at a family function in April last year and befriended her. The accused, who is married and has a child, often met the girl at Mandwa and used to offer her a lift. In May 2019, the accused asked the girl to meet him at Pen and took her to Chavane Adivasi wadi, where he raped her. He then dropped her back home. The girl later told her mother about the sexual assault and she filed a complaint at Mandwa Coastal police station. “Seven witnesses and the statements of the victim, her mother and uncle helped in the conviction of the accused,” additional public prosecutor Ashwini Bandivdekar-Patil said. The uncle had once seen the accused offering a lift to the girl. This was recorded before the district magistrate as evidence against the accused. Waghmare was charged under Section 376 (2) (i) (n) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions under the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was also asked to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000.
16 August 2020||Panaji,||‘Will frame policies for grassroot development’||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that a team of policymakers would visit all the gram panchayats in the State from October to frame policies for grassroot development. Mr. Sawant said different departments of the State government and various colleges will adopt villages to ensure that development happens at the grassroot level in the real sense. Mr. Sawant made the statement while addressing the Independence Day function after unfurling the national flag at the Old Secretariat building in Panaji.  Drive from October 2 “A team of policymakers would start visiting all the 192 village panchayats and 13 municipalities in the State from October 2 to design appropriate policies for grass-root development,” he said. State departments, including the Directorate of Higher Education and the Department of Technical Education, have prepared a basic report suggesting various steps to make the village panchayats and municipalities self-sufficient, Mr. Sawant added. The Chief Minister also announced that Citizen Service Centres would be commissioned in all gram panchayats to take the government facilities to the doorstep. “We want to ensure that people don’t have to visit the government departments once these centres become operational at the local level,” he said, adding that all government schemes would be linked to these centres. On COVID-19, he said the pandemic has affected the economic condition of the country and the State. “But we are working to save the State from the economic crisis. Bodies like the Economic Revival Committee have been formed for the purpose,” he added.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A woman with many firsts to her name||When U.S. Senator Kamala Harris was picked to be the running mate of presumptive Democratic nominee for the presidency, Joe Biden, she became the first black and Indian American woman on a major party presidential ticket in U.S. history. Ms. Harris was born in 1964, to Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher from Chennai, and Donald Harris, an economics professor from Jaimaca. Students at the University of California at Berkeley, a campus known for its activism, Ms. Gopalan and Mr. Harris were involved in the civil rights movement. That is the world Ms. Harris entered. She has recalled being taken in a pram to civil rights marches. Her parents divorced when she was a child, and Ms. Harris and her younger sister Maya were primarily raised by their mother, visiting their father on weekends and during the summer holidays. The Harris children grew up around their mother’s friends, many of whom were civil rights activists and intellectuals. Ms. Harris has talked about being deeply influenced by her maternal grandfather P.V. Gopalan, a civil servant, and grandmother, Rajam Gopalan. Ms. Harris said her grandfather would take her on his walks along the beach in India and she would hear him and his friends talk about democracy. She has also spoken of being inspired by her grandmother’s involvement in women’s rights. Shyamala Gopalan raised her children with a sense of “pride” in her South Asian roots and a “strong awareness of and appreciation for Indian culture”, Ms. Harris writes in her book, The Truths We Hold . Her mother knew that American society would see the Harris children as black girls and was determined to make sure they would grow up to be “confident, proud black women”. Ms. Harris attended the ‘historically black’ Howard University where she majored in economics and political science. After getting a law degree from UC Hastings, Ms. Harris began working as a prosecutor in Oakland. She has described wanting to change the system from inside and had to defend her employment choice with friends and family “as one would a thesis.” Controversial record In 2004, Ms. Harris became San Francisco’s District Attorney (DA) — the first black woman to hold the position. In 2011 she became the first female Attorney General (AG) of California. Ms. Harris had indicated that she wanted to be a “progressive prosecutor” and some of her actions in her early years as a prosecutor are in line with that description. For instance, as San Francisco DA, she created the Back on Track programme, in which first time drug offenders could avoid jail time by finishing high school or getting a job. She also mitigated the consequences of a law that said could lock someone up for 25 years for committing a third felony by insisting that the DA’s office only bring charges on a third felony if it was violent or serious. However, in her later years, she was criticised for her “tough on crime” and pro-police, pro-establishment type actions. As California’s AG, she was criticised for not adequately investigating charges of prosecutorial misconduct and defending convictions that involved police officers inserting false evidence. Ms. Harris’s changing record on the death penalty, which she personally opposes due to its finality and disproportionate application to minorities, has also been criticised. As DA in 2004, she refused to seek the death penalty in the 2004 killing of a police officer. A decade later, however, as AG, she appealed a judge’s ruling that the State’s death penalty was unconstitutional. Ms. Harris argued that it was her professional duty to defend the State’s laws regardless of her personal beliefs. Another controversy in her history stems from a relationship in 1994 that Ms. Harris had with California politician Willie Brown, which raised questions of significant conflicts of interest when he helped her get positions on two state government bodies. In recent years, Ms. Harris emerged as a strong proponent of criminal justice reform. Her proposals announced during the Democratic primaries included policies that would legalise marijuana, abolish solitary confinement, private prisons, cash bail and the death penalty. As a U.S. Senator since 2016, she has served on powerful committees on Intelligence and Homeland Security. One of the things she is known for is her prosecutorial style of questioning at Senate hearings. Following the police killings of African Americans George Floyd and Breonna Taylor at the hands of police, Ms. Harris co-sponsored the Senate’s Justice in Police Act in June. She also co-sponsored a Bill to make lynching a federal crime. After the pandemic hit, Ms. Harris introduced legislation to create a task force to address the racial and ethnic disparities in the impact of COVID-19 and the response to it. In 2019, Ms. Harris and Republican Mike Lee introduced legislation that would result in an increase in country-wise caps for green cards, a move that would benefit citizens of countries with green card application backlogs, like India and China. In terms of foreign policy, Ms. Harris has said she would work with China on common interests — like climate change, while addressing the country’s human rights abuses such as with China’s Uighur minority. The situation is considerably more complex now than at the start of the Democratic primary season with a more aggressive and assertive China and a more damaged U.S.-China relationship. Ms. Harris is an advocate of a closer relationship with the Europeans and reaffirming support for Ukraine against Russian aggression, i.e., she is in alignment with traditional U.S. foreign policy in these respects. In an August 2019 interview with the Council on Foreign Relations, a think tank, Ms. Harris said the community of post-war institutions were among the greatest U.S foreign policy accomplishments (like Mr. Biden, she wants America back in the Paris Agreement on climate). The biggest foreign policy mistake, as per Ms. Harris, was America “jeopardising” the progress made via these institutions by engaging in “ failed wars” that have “destabilised the regions in which they have been fought”. In this respect, Ms Harris appears to share with progressive Democrats an instinct not to intervene militarily in foreign conflicts. Priorities Speaking in Delaware last week, Ms. Harris and Mr. Biden — at their first appearance together since the V-P announcement — emphasised the Trump administration’s botched response to the pandemic, the state of the U.S. economy with more than 16 million unemployed and race relations. Mr. Biden’s economic recovery plan for America, with the theme “build back better” will likely be the focus of the initial days of a Biden-Harris administration. At the moment, the Biden-Harris duo has nationwide lead over the Trump-Pence team. Should they win in November, Ms. Harris will be well on her way to being a serious contender for the leadership of the Democratic party as well as the U.S. presidency.  In Focus  Kamala Harris was born in 1964, to Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher from Chennai, and Donald Harris, an economics professor from Jaimaca In 2004, Ms. Harris became San Francisco’s District Attorney — the first black woman to hold the position  In 2011, she became the first female Attorney General of California and in 2016, she was elected to the Senate from the State    The biggest foreign policy mistake of the U.S. was the “jeopardising” of the progress made post-war by engaging in “failed wars” that have “destabilised” regions, says Harris
16 August 2020||Washington,||Biden blasts Trump for ‘abhorrent lie’||White House hopeful Joe Biden on Friday levelled fierce criticism at Donald Trump, with his campaign saying the President has resorted to “abhorrent” lies about Democrat Kamala Harris's eligibility to be Vice-President. Mr. Biden named Ms. Harris, a woman of colour who was born in the United States and is constitutionally eligible to be both Vice-President and President, as his running mate on Tuesday. She quickly faced attacks that Democrats deemed racist. “I heard it today that she doesn’t meet the requirements,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday, citing an article by a conservative law professor that questioned the immigration status of Ms. Harris’s parents at the time of her birth. Born in the U.S. Ms. Harris, 55, was born in Oakland, California, to a mother from India and a father from Jamaica. Mr. Trump “has sought to fuel racism and tear our nation apart,” Biden spokesman Andrew Bates said in a statement, referring to the “grotesque, racist birther movement” led by Mr. Trump that promoted the lie that Barack Obama, the nation’s first black President, was not born in the United States. “So it’s unsurprising, but no less abhorrent, that as Trump makes a fool of himself straining to distract the American people from the horrific toll of his failed [COVID-19] response that his campaign and their allies would resort to wretched, demonstrably false lies in their pathetic desperation.” The conservative professor’s article cited by Mr. Trump followed claims shared thousands of times on Facebook that Ms. Harris could not become President because her parents hailed from abroad. Article 2 of the U.S. Constitution states that “no person except a natural born citizen, or a citizen of the United States” shall be eligible for the presidency. Section 2 of the 14th Amendment says “all persons born or naturalized in the United States” are U.S. citizens. Mr. Trump grudgingly acknowledged late in his 2016 presidential campaign that Mr. Obama was American-born. Since then, Mr. Trump has faced accusations of racism, and has embraced other conspiracies. USPS sends warning Meanwhile, the U.S. Postal Service has sent letters to most States warning that millions of ballots cast by mail for November’s presidential election may not arrive in time to be counted, U.S. media reports said. The letters, dated July 29 and delivered to election officials in 46 States and in Washington DC, said that even if voters meet their State deadlines, the Postal Service could not guarantee delivery in time, The Washington Post said on Friday. They warn that “certain deadlines for requesting and casting mail-in ballots are incongruous with the Postal Service’s delivery standards,” according to several letters posted on the USPS website following an information request by the newspaper. “This mismatch creates a risk that ballots requested near the deadline under State law will not be returned by mail in time to be counted under your laws as we understand them.” Former President Barack Obama has criticised Mr. Trump’s “attempts to undermine the election,” tweeting on Friday that the administration was “more concerned with suppressing the vote than suppressing a virus.” “If you’re in a State where you have the option to vote early, do that now,” he said on Twitter. Despite the warning letters, the USPS said it was “well prepared and has ample capacity to deliver America's election mail,” in a statement quoted by CNN.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||In permanent conflict||Azaad Lalhari, the Pulwama ‘district commander’ of the Hizb-ul Mujahideen, was trapped and killed near an orchard on August 12 by the security forces in his home district in south Kashmir. Under the radar of the security agencies since 2014 and blamed for the killing of a policeman and an Army soldier, Lalhari was marked dead in the counter-insurgency cell’s long list of militants of the Hizb-ul Mujahideen. Lalhari was the 13th militant ‘commander’ killed in in Jammu and Kashmir this year and the sixth top commander of the Hizb-ul. Out of the 137 militants killed this year, over 60 belonged to the Hizb-ul. According to top officials in the counter-insurgency cell, the security agencies managed to gain an upper hand over the militant group this time after many years. Launched in 1990 by Muhammad Ahsan Dar, a school teacher, and Mohammad Abdullah Bangroo, a veteran militant, the Hizb-ul Mujahideen remains Jammu and Kashmir’s largest indigenous militant outfit. It took centre stage in 1994 after the J&K Liberation Front declared ceasefire, calling for complete independence of Jammu and Kashmir . Two known faces of the group — ‘operational commander’ Riyaz Naikoo, who had been active since 2017 and managing the online propaganda of the outfit, and ‘commander’ Junaid Sehrai, an MBA pass-out and the son of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chairman Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai — were killed in May in two separate encounters, in a major blow to the militants. The bodies were not handed over to the families under the new policy adopted by the security forces during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Both the striking capability and recruitment of the outfit has gone down significantly due to the back-to-back killing of the commanders, especially in south Kashmir, which remains its capital since 2010,” said one official in the counter-insurgency cell. Faceless outfit The Hizb-ul is now a faceless outfit in the Valley. In 2016, Burhan Wani, a student from Tral in south Kashmir who used social media to create an army of unmasked recruits, was killed. The vacuum he left at the group was filled by Naikoo in 2017, who was killed earlier this year. Little-known Gazi Haider is the new chief of the Hizb-ul in the Valley, with Zaffar-ul-Islam being his deputy and Abu Tariq chief military adviser. “All these three cannot fill the vacuum created after Naikoo’s killing. Naikoo was an independent thinker and managed operations on his own, without the consent of the handlers across the border,” said the official. The Hizb-ul has now returned to pre-2000 modus operandi, where all its commanders were asked to lie low and keep recruitment on the lower side, they added. The security agencies warn that underestimating the Hizb-ul, which managed to revive militancy in otherwise militancy-free areas of the Chenab Valley in the Jammu region in the past year, “will be a gross miscalculation”. “The Hizb-ul has its sleeper cells and assets intact in the Kashmir Valley, the Pir Panjal Valley and the Chenab Valley. Outside J&K, it always managed to set up bases for its sleeper cells. The presence of the outfit is far reaching,” the official said. The Hizb-ul, whose key demand is Jammu and Kashmir’s accession with Pakistan, is a well-structured organisation, with Syed Salahuddin heading it for around three decades now. With its office headquartered in Muzaffarabad, the launch pads may have vanished in the urban pockets of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), under pressure from the international community, but the upper reaches remain open to training centres. “Due to active and effective counter-infiltration grid, around 90% local recruits never make it to the training camps in PoK. Over 90% local militants killed in Kashmir this year were trained locally by Hizb-ul experts, which include training in handling improvised explosive devices,” said the official. The group may be lying low but the militants are providing intelligence to other terrorist organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed and the shadow outfits like the Resistance Front to “manage successful attacks”. Once drawing its recruits mostly from the socio-religious Jamaat-e-Islami, the Hizb-ul recruits now come from all walks of life — students, salaried employees, traders, etc., say officials.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The council of elders||In most republics, the head of state is supreme. Thus, it may have seemed unusual when Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani pleaded “helplessness” in making the decision on whether to release 400 Taliban prisoners, and said he would convene a Loya Jirga, a gathering of elders, to deliberate on it. The decision was the final stumbling block in a series of issues the Taliban has held over the government since February, when it signed a peace agreement with the U.S. These 400, explained President Ghani’s office, had been convicted of “serious crimes”, and it was not in the President’s “mandate” to pardon or release them. The Loya Jirga of approximately 3,200 representatives from various parts of Afghanistan, including Pashtuns, Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks, met on August 7-9, and directed the release of the men, under the condition they would not return to the battlefield, thus paving the way for the Intra-Afghan negotiations (IAN). The IAN is now expected to begin in Qatar’s capital Doha later this week, bringing together officials and negotiators of the Ghani government, the High Council for National Reconciliation and civil society representatives face to face with Taliban representatives for the first time. Signing the decree for the release of the last Taliban convicts, Mr. Ghani laid all the credit and responsibility for the decision at the Loya Jirga’s door. The truth is, despite a decade or more of democracy, and years of being a republic, Afghanistan still gives its tradition of Loya Jirgas the kind of respect that allows even an elected head of state to defer to it. Since at least 1709, Jirgas have brought together tribal elders to settle issues of national crises in Afghanistan. Historical decisions From the momentous decision to anoint Ahmed Shah Abdali (Durrani) King in 1747, to the historic endorsement of Hamid Karzai as President of the post-Taliban republic, all major decisions in the country flowed from the elders’ conference. Often, it is the leader who turns to the Jirga, as Mr. Ghani just did, when he wants a broader political consensus or a stamp of approval for a policy decision. “The Loya Jirga is the most powerful constitutional forum [for us]. In fact, the strong legacy of the modern state of Afghanistan derives from this forum,” explained former Afghan Ambassador to India, Shaida Mohammad Abdali, himself a descendent of the former King and a member of the Durrani tribe, when asked about the contradiction inherent in the idea of a democracy taking orders from an unelected body. However, not all Jirgas have endorsed the leader of the times unquestioningly. In 1928, the reformist King Amanullah was setting his country on course for a slew of moves to modernise society — declaring a constitutional monarchy, mandatory schooling for all, abolition of slavery and women’s rights. He convened a Jirga to give its stamp of removal to the measures. However, when he asked his wife Soraiya to remove her veil at a public function, the act led to considerable disquiet during the Jirga. Within the year, a civil war broke out, and King Amanullah was forced into exile. Many in Afghanistan in modern times have been wary of the Jirga process, which is seen as a patriarchal structure with unlimited powers. In the run-up to the latest Jirga, activists criticised the decision to release Taliban fighters accused of the most heinous crimes as a ‘pre-ordained result’, under pressure from the U.S. government that wants to force the pace of the reconciliation process with the timeline of U.S. Presidential elections in November. U.S. special envoy Zalmai Khalilzad made several trips to Doha, Kabul and Islamabad in the weeks running up to the Jirga, in order to keep plans for the IAN on track. Others, especially women’s rights activists have criticised both the Jirga and its decision to release Taliban prisoners as a regressive step. During the Jirga last week, at least two women representatives were heckled, even assaulted when they tried to voice their protests. Organisers countered that since 2002, the Jirga has always included women, and the latest one, which is a part of the consultative “Peace Jirga” convened by President Ghani last year to advise the government on the reconciliation process, comprises 30% women, ensuring participation, if not a resounding voice at the centuries old platform.
16 August 2020||Kabul,||Afghan women’s rights activist wounded in attack||Trailblazing Afghan women’s rights campaigner Fawzia Koofi, a member of the negotiating team that will hold peace talks with the Taliban, has been wounded in a gun attack near Kabul, officials said on Saturday. Gunmen opened fire on Ms. Koofi, 45, and her sister on Friday when they were returning from a meeting in the province of Parwan near the capital, said Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian. Ms. Koofi, a former Member of Parliament and strong critic of the Taliban, was shot in her right hand, he said, adding that she was in a stable condition. The Taliban denied that it was involved in the attack on Ms. Koofi. Strong condemnation The attack drew strong condemnation from Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani — who described it as a “cowardly attack”, according to his spokesman Sediq Seddiqi. Abdullah Abdullah, who heads the national reconciliation council, called on Afghan authorities to bring “the perpetrators of the attack to justice”. The chief of Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission, Shaharzad Akbar, also condemned the “horrific attack”. “Worrying pattern of targeted attacks that can negatively impact confidence in peace process,” she wrote on Twitter. In recent months, there have been gun attacks against human rights activists and prosecutors in Kabul. Ms. Koofi survived a bid on her life in 2010, when gunmen fired at her as she was returning to the capital after an International Women’s Day event. She was among the few women in a pan-Afghan delegation that held several rounds of unofficial dialogue with the Taliban in 2019. That dialogue came alongside separate negotiations between the Islamist militants and the United States in Qatar which finally led to the signing of an agreement between the two in February this year. Threats from militants At the time, Ms. Koofi told how she had received threats previously from militants just for wearing nail polish. Ms. Koofi is now one of four women negotiators in the Afghan team that will hold direct talks with the Taliban in the coming days. “I think this time we are going for serious talks,” she told this week. “There is a sense of pride... but in the meantime, it’s a lot of stress. “You have to really make sure that you are perfect in many ways.” Education interrupted Ms. Koofi, a widow and mother of two daughters, was the first girl in her family to attend school. Her education was interrupted when she was forced out of medical college in 1996 as the Taliban stormed to power. It was only after the U.S.-led invasion in 2001 that she rose to prominence as a politician and in 2005, became the first woman to serve as the Deputy Speaker of Afghanistan’s Parliament. The talks with the Taliban are expected within days, aimed at ending the conflict that has ravaged Afghanistan for almost two decades. Afghan authorities are currently releasing from jails some 400 Taliban militants, fulfilling a key demand from the insurgent group for any talks. But the release has raised widespread international concern as some of those militants are accused of killing scores of people including foreigners in deadly attacks.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How queer women powered the U.S. suffrage movement||In 1920, suffragist Molly Dewson sat down to write a letter of congratulations to Maud Wood Park, who had just been chosen as the first president of the League of Women Voters, formed in anticipation of the passage of the 19th Amendment to help millions of women carry out their newfound right as voters. “Partner and I have been bursting with pride and satisfaction,” she wrote. Dewson didn’t need to specify who “partner” was. Park already knew that Dewson was in a committed relationship with Polly Porter, whom she had met a decade earlier. The couple then settled down at a farm in Massachusetts. Dewson “made every political decision, career decision based on how it would affect her relationship with Polly Porter,” said Susan Ware, a historian. Dewson was far from the only suffragist who had romantic relationships with women. Many of the women who fought for representation were rebels living non-normative, queer lives. “These kinds of non-heteronormative relationships were just part and parcel of the suffrage movement,” Ms. Ware said. “It’s not like we are having to dig and turn up like two or three women. They’re everywhere.” Including among the highest echelons of the movement. Thriving subculture In her diary, Alice Dunbar-Nelson, an African-American writer and a suffrage field organiser, described “a thriving lesbian and bisexual subculture among black suffragists and clubwomen,” Wendy Rouse, a historian and associate professor at San Jose State University, wrote in an article published on the website of the Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commission. In those entries, Dunbar-Nelson wrote about the romantic and sexual experiences she had with men and women both while she was single and while she was married. Carrie Chapman Catt, a president of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA), settled down with Mary Garrett Hay, a prominent suffragist in New York, after the death of Catt’s second husband. Catt asked that she be buried alongside Hay (instead of either of her husbands), which she was, at Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx. When the history of the 19th Amendment is taught in classrooms, suffragists are often depicted as boring, chaste and dowdy, and their campaign is rarely framed as a major social and political movement. But as greater attention is starting to be paid to suffrage history, and to the roles of black and brown women, the narrative that is emerging is much more varied. This broader, more accurate picture is also increasing our understanding of queerness in the movement. Playing it down The societal expectation that middle- and upper-class white women would marry men created a smokescreen of sorts. “I think that the world outside didn’t speculate about the possibilities of a sexual relationship between” women, said Lillian Faderman, a scholar of LGBTQ history. In a way, this smoke screen extended to detractors of the movement, known as anti-suffragists. This oversight was in part because same-sex relationships didn’t start to be pathologised until the early 20th century, and because, as Ms. Ware put it, “Women are kind of invisible, period.” But maybe most of all, it was because the suffrage movement itself downplayed the queerness within it, Ms. Rouse said. Leaders of the movement (including Shaw and Catt) opted instead to present a version “palatable to the mainstream,” Ms. Rouse said, by emphasising normalcy. So suffragists who were seemingly happily married wives and mothers became the faces of the movement. Despite this internal friction and these fraught side effects, it ultimately made practical sense that queer women would be at the forefront of the movement. For these queer women, the freedom to choose whom and how they loved was tied deeply to the idea of voting rights. “They knew they would have no man to represent them,” Ms. Faderman said, echoing a common refrain among married women who were not suffragists: “My husband votes for me. He votes for the family.” But unmarried or gay women knew that would not be the case for them, she said, and so, “they needed to get the vote for themselves.”NY Times
16 August 2020||Tehran,||‘UAE’s deal with Israel has made it a legitimate target’||An ultraconservative Iranian newspaper said on Saturday that the United Arab Emirates (UAE)’s decision to normalise ties with Israel has made it a “legitimate target” for pro-Tehran forces. U.S. President Donald Trump announced the deal between Israel and the UAE on Thursday, in a move welcomed by allies of the United States and Israel but denounced by Iran, Turkey and the Palestinians. The Kayhan daily, considered to be the mouthpiece of ultraconservatives in Iran, said the agreement was a “betrayal” of the Palestinian cause. “The UAE’s great betrayal of the Palestinian people and its signing of an agreement to normalise relations with the Zionist regime, if it has only one result, it will be to turn this small, rich country heavily dependent on security into a legitimate and easy target for the resistance,” Kayhan said. The deal reached with the UAE is only the third such accord Israel has struck with an Arab state. As part of the agreement, Israel pledged to suspend annexation of Palestinian lands, although Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu stressed that did not mean it was abandoning plans to one day annex the Jordan Valley and Jewish settlements across West Bank. Iran’s government has strongly condemned the agreement. The move was an act of “strategic stupidity from Abu Dhabi and Tel Aviv which will undoubtedly strengthen the resistance axis in the region,” the Foreign Ministry said on Friday. The UAE downgraded ties with Iran in 2016. But their relations had appeared to be on the mend in recent months, with Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif holding rare talks with his UAE counterpart only last week.
16 August 2020||Tokyo,||Japanese Ministers visit controversial war shrine||Four Japanese Cabinet Ministers paid their respects on Saturday at a war shrine seen by neighbouring countries as a symbol of Tokyo’s past militarism, in the first such visit since 2016. Nationalist Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sent a ritual cash offering to the Yasukuni Shrine in central Tokyo to mark Saturday’s 75th anniversary of Japan’s surrender in Second World War but was not expected to visit in person, local media said. Yasukuni honours 2.5 million war dead, mostly Japanese, who perished in the country’s wars since the late 19th century. But it also enshrines senior military and political figures convicted of war crimes by an international tribunal after the war. ‘Noble sacrifices’ Education Minister Koichi Hagiuda, one of the four Ministers to visit the shrine, said he did so to pay tribute to the war dead. “I paid respects... to the souls of those who nobly sacrificed themselves during the war,” Mr. Hagiuda told reporters.  Mr. Abe last visited the shrine in December 2013 to mark his first year in power, sparking fury in Beijing and Seoul and earning a rare diplomatic rebuke from close ally the United States.
16 August 2020||San Francisco,||Trump issues order against ByteDance||U.S. President Donald Trump late on Friday lashed out anew at ByteDance, issuing a fresh executive order stating that the Chinese Internet giant must sell its interest in the Musical.ly app it bought and merged with TikTok. The order builds on sweeping restrictions issued last week by Mr. Trump that TikTok and WeChat end all operations in the U.S., his latest explosive moves aimed at countering China’s rising global power. ByteDance bought karaoke video app Musical.ly from a Chinese rival about three years ago in a deal valued at nearly a billion dollars. It was incorporated into TikTok, which became a global sensation. Mr. Trump’s order contends that there is “credible evidence” leading him to believe that ByteDance’s takeover of Musical.ly “threatens to impair the national security of the United States.” The order set to take effect in 90 days retroactively prohibits the acquisition and bars ByteDance from having any interest in Musical.ly. Mr. Trump ordered that any sale of interest in Musical.ly in the U.S. had to be signed off on by the Committee on Foreign Investment, which is to be given access to ByteDance books.
16 August 2020||Washington,||Pentagon to set up UFO task force||The Pentagon said on Friday that it was setting up a new task force under the U.S. Navy to investigate UFO sightings. With the creation of the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force (UAPTF), the Defense Department hopes “to improve its understanding of, and gain insight into, the nature and origins of UAPs,” spokeswoman Susan Gough said. Rather than little green alien invaders, the U.S. military is actually concerned about “unidentified aerial phenomena” connected with its terrestrial adversaries. Washington is particularly concerned about China’s spying capabilities, using drones or other airborne means. “The mission of the task force is to detect, analyze and catalog UAPs that could potentially pose a threat to U.S. national security,” Ms. Gough said.
16 August 2020||Copenhagen,||Denmark makes masks compulsory on public transport||Denmark will make the wearing of facemasks mandatory on public transport across the country from August 22, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said on Saturday. She called on Danes not to let down their guard and to respect social distancing and hygiene rules.AFP
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Staff preference is for small, rural offices’||Zoho Corp., which builds software for businesses, is creating a cluster of small rural offices that could each house about 25 people, so that no employee would need to travel more than 10-20 km. This model will be replicated in other districts and States, said its CEO Sridhar Vembu . Excerpts:  Zoho was among the first companies to ask employees to return to their hometowns even as the pandemic was beginning to set in. How did this come about? It was more a precaution. I felt that it was clearly China followed by Italy that were affected by Covid. China, of course, already went through a serious crisis and I realised it was only a matter of time before it arrived in India, because in this globally connected world, it is impossible to keep all these out. Most of our employees came from smaller towns. [So when they went back], we probably saved quite a few infections from coming up as they were in less crowded places. You were planning to open some regional centres. What is the status? Lockdown is over, but the virus is not. For us, everybody is working from home. We have not actually opened our offices. Though, we have started some rural initiatives like small offices where people assemble and work together; we are slowly experimenting with the small rural office concept. We have opened two so far. These are each, sort of 23 seaters. These are simpler places in which to work, and will not have air conditioning (AC) because when you are in an AC building, recirculating the air would mean circulating the virus around you. How many such centres do you plan to set up? We are opening about 6-7 in Tamil Nadu and one each in Kerala and A.P. in the next two months. It is not an idea imposed by the company. It is a group of employees who suggest that they would like to work in a particular area; then we identify a suitable rural location to set up office there. We did a survey to find out where our people are. Based on that census, location and data, we are putting up regional centres, say in a cluster that has hundred people or so. We will take up an existing building and convert it into an office. This way, we can actually move in within 2-3 weeks. What is the distance a person would need to travel given there is no public transport? We are not actually forcing anyone to work from these offices right now because the work-from-home will continue; but a lot of people have expressed a desire to work from an office due to lack of space or too much disturbance at home. Typically they might have to travel 10-20 km. At least 70% of our employees want to work from an office, at least 2-3 days in a week if not every day. My expectation is that work-from-home will remain a major component. We are in a watch-and-learn mode. Like, let’s set up the small office and see how this goes and then we’ll expand the experiment to more rural locations, more districts and more States around India. How much does it cost? We are talking about Rs. 9 per sq. ft. We might spend about Rs. 30,000 in each location in rent and then other expenses totalling Rs. 1 lakh a month. What happens to your office space in Chennai? That will continue as the natural growth of the company continues. We are also building a hospital that would take up some of the space. So, it is not like we had a lot of excess space. We were always space constrained before, so the space will become a little more available to us.  Wanting time in office may be due to some disturbance or too little space at home
16 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Decoding SC verdict on daughter’s right||The Supreme Court held daughters, like sons, have an equal birthright to inherit coparcenary property and the 2005 amendment made to the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 will have a retrospective effect. Rishabh Shroff , partner, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, explains the verdict’s implications:  What was the 2005 amendment about? The amendment was to confer equal status to sons and daughters of coparceners. Prior to this, coparcenary rights were granted only to sons of a coparcener. Who is a coparcener? A coparcener is one who acquires rights to their father’s property upon birth and can claim a partition of the coparcenary at any time. What are the conditions for applicability of the verdict? This would be applicable subject to the condition the coparcenary property should not have been partitioned by the father prior to December 20, 2004. As long as the property remained coparcenary property and was not partitioned as of this date, a daughter can now claim interest in the same. What are the different categories of persons in a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF)? One is the coparcener, on whom alone the verdict impacts. The second category is a member (wife), who is only entitled to maintenance and would not be granted any inheritance rights or the right to seek partition in the coparcenary. What can daughters do? Daughters will now be treated at par with sons of coparceners, and granted equal coparcenary rights in their father’s property upon birth. Even their marital status would not affect the rights being conferred to them by way of the amendment — hence, they continue to be part of their father’s HUF post marriage and can seek a share and bequeath their HUF share under their Will to any beneficiary they choose. What about the verdict’s impact on family businesses and others? The judgement only applies to HUF property, and does not affect personal or self-acquired assets held individually. In reality, most personal wealth, including ownership in valuable family businesses, are either held in personal names of the patriarch / promoters, or in private trusts or holding companies /limited liability partnerships (LLP). The ‘older’ business families may continue to hold some ancestral wealth in HUFs, but the scale and materiality of such holdings is usually limited. Almost no business family is setting up new HUFs and actually, most existing HUFs are being dissolved.
16 August 2020||MUMBAI,||With a $100-million kitty, Vistas Media eyes acquisitions||Vistas Media Capital Pte Ltd. (VMC), a Singapore-based company founded and run by NRIs and which recently raised $100 million through a Nasdaq-listed special purpose acquisition company, is planning to utilise a bulk of the capital in acquisition and production of Indian language movie content, a top executive said. It is looking to acquire a global media and entertainment company either in the U.S., Europe or India which would be reverse merged into Vistas Media Acquisition Company (VMAC), the Nasdaq-listed entity, to fuel its growth, he added. “We are looking for a company [with global capabilities] in the U.S., Europe and India,” said Abhayanand Singh, Group CEO. “This will help us recognise our growth potential in India,” he added. Bengali, Punjabi content VMC, which is currently funding and producing/co-producing 18 films in Hindi, Tamil and Marathi languages, is planning to foray into Bengali and Punjabi languages, he said. The vision for VMC is to be a new-age content company aiming to disrupt the market in various capacities such as production, distribution, film market, awards among others, he added. “India is the biggest film market globally and will remain our focus,” said Mr. Singh. The company has invested more than Rs. 100 crore so far in the Indian market. VMC recently appointed Raj Nayak on its advisory board to fuel its business growth plans in India.
16 August 2020||Chennai,||Chola improves asset quality on loan freeze||Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company Ltd. has utilised the window provided by the Reserve Bank of India’s decision to allow retail borrowers the option of availing a loan moratorium to improve its gross non-performing assets ratio, said Chief Financial Officer Arulselvan D. “Our asset quality improved in June compared with March and as well as from December 2019,” said Mr. Arulselvan. In December, the lender’s gross NPA ratio was 3.5%; it deteriorated to 3.8% in March but has since improved to 3.3% as of June. “Normally, towards the financial year end, the industry typically improves the trend compared to December; it used to slide a bit in June before we tighten collections.” This year, the sudden nationwide lockdown saw the financial services industry lose a few days in March. “With the moratorium on, no billing was being done to customers whose dues came up in May and June. So when our borrowers started operating their trucks, we urged them to clear the previous 3-4 instalments since anyway there was no pressure on them to pay the more recent ones. They would then start with a clean book at the end of the moratorium period,” the CFO said. ‘CV revival soon’ Mr. Arulselvan expects the commercial vehicle (CV) industry to revive soon. “For CVs, the BS-IV stock had to be cleaned out by March 31 and they had to begin the new fiscal afresh with BS-VI stock. They suffered a supply-side constraint.” Observing that even prior to the COVID-19 shutdowns, the sector had been going through a downturn, he said, “Up to Q1 of last year, it was okay. After that, it started sliding. COVID had a bigger impact”. He added that given that a CV is a depreciable asset, replacement demand is inevitable. “The replacement cycle can at best be pushed six months or a year. But after that, vehicles need to be replaced because the cost of running them will go up. “But for COVID, the upturn should have started now. Now, Q3 is the expectation. Even if it misses Q3, I think it will certainly start in FY22,” he added.
16 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Mahindra unveils new Thar sport utility vehicle||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd (M&M) on Saturday unveiled its Thar sport utility vehicle (SUV) in a modern avatar to attract new-age buyers and SUV fans from all age groups. The all-new Thar has been developed on a completely new platform and is equipped with a powerful 2.2-litre diesel engine and 2- litre petrol engine, besides other modern features. To come in multiple configurations, the vehicle has been entirely designed and developed at the company’s design studio in Mahindra Research Valley in Chennai and all the components are sourced from within India, making it a ‘truly Indian’ product, said Pawan Goenka, MD, M&M. “This is the Thar in modern avatar. It is an embodiment of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. The vehicle will be introduced in the market on October 2 and bookings would open on the same day, the automaker said.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Infosys fines Parikh over ‘inadvertent trade’||Infosys said there had been an “inadvertent trade” by the portfolio management services (PMS) of Bela Parikh, spouse of independent director Bobby Parikh. Following this, a penalty of Rs. 2 lakh has been imposed on Mr. Parikh, Infosys said. Infosys said the PMS of Ms. Parikh had bought 2,754 shares during the open trading window period “without the knowledge of Bobby Parikh and without obtaining pre-clearance”. Mr. Parikh is the joint holder of that account. “Mr. Parikh has confirmed that he was not in possession of any unpublished price sensitive information,” Infosys added. “The audit committee has determined that there was a violation of the company’s policy and imposed a penalty of Rs. 2 lakh,” it said.
16 August 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal mulls ‘industry’ tag for logistics||The West Bengal government is contemplating to grant industry status to the State’s $20 billion logistics sector for seamless development of various infrastructure projects, an official said. The State is working on framing a logistics policy and it may require about Rs. 1,000 crore to implement it in the short term, the official told PTI . The Union government, too, has been formulating a national policy aiming to reduce logistics cost from the present 14% of the gross domestic product to less than 10% by 2022. “The status of industry will help the logistics sector smoothly develop infrastructure. The conversion of agricultural land to develop logistics-related infrastructure will be easier,” the official said.
16 August 2020||new delhi,||Old gold, jewellery to attract 3% GST||A panel of State Finance Ministers veered around to agree on a proposal to levy 3% GST on sale of old gold and jewellery to check tax evasion, Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said. The Group of Ministers (GoM) also decided to implement the e-way bill system for transportation of gold within a State. Mr. Isaac said on Friday that the GoM arrived at a consensus on bringing sale of old gold within the GST ambit under reverse charge mechanism (RCM). “Sale of old gold will attract GST at 3% under RCM.” This would check tax evasion as most smuggled gold is sold as old jewellery to evade GST.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||ICICI Bank garners Rs. 15,000 cr. from QIP||
16 August 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni bids adieu; leaves behind lasting legacy||It was Indian cricket’s million-dollar question. But it wasn’t hinting at prosperity, it was one that had pathos as its overwhelming base. The query was - will M.S. Dhoni do a low-profile exit from international cricket, like the one he did with Tests? Saturday evening, twilight to be precise, Dhoni did what he does best – spring surprises even if it means either rival bowlers are gob-smacked or cricket writers almost become like William Shakespeare’s Hamlet and wonder ‘did he’ or ‘didn’t he?’ Through an Instagram post, the former India captain announced his retirement from international cricket. The emphatic message was that the legend from Ranchi, will no longer turn out for India in limited overs cricket. Having retired from Tests in 2014, a move that had all the shock-and-awe of his quicksilver stumpings and helicopter-sixes, Dhoni continued to be India’s hope-dispenser in ODIs and Twenty20s until Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma stepped into that rarefied zone. And now with his usual ‘let-me-vanish-without-the-drumbeats’ quitting, an era has ended in Indian cricket. Though an international retirement was on the cards – Dhoni turned 39 last month – his exit will take a while to sink in. Such was his impact! Much-loved cricketer Over the last two decades, after Sachin Tendulkar, Dhoni became India’s much-loved cricketer. There was an air of mystique and a sense of nonchalance like the ones you saw in Clint Eastwood’s old Westerns. Above all, he lent hope and only legends have this intangible quality of throwing a lifeline while the fires raged. An inflationary asking rate of 10 and above was laughed at as long as Dhoni was there. Nothing fazed him, be it the rival bowler or the soul-numbing pressure of expectations. Every generation has its own eternal sunshine moment. For those with their adolescence in the 1980s, it was all about Kapil Dev holding aloft the 1983 World Cup at Lord’s. Much later, came another vignette burnt into our collective memories, the six off Nuwan Kulasekara at a raucous Wankhede Stadium on an April night in 2011 as Dhoni seized the World Cup while delirium spread from Mumbai to the rest of India. Game awareness Dhoni, the wicket-keeper was ever agile, the skipper was always aware of the game-situation, and as a batsman, he had this belief that he would always prevail. The last trait was one you previously associated with the great Vivian Richards. With 10773 ODI runs, a T20 international yield of 1617, a combined tally of 378 catches and 157 stumpings, leading India to titles in the 2007 ICC World T20, 2011 World Cup and 2013 ICC Champions Trophy, Dhoni’s phenomenal legacy is set in stone. His last international joust, in which he scored a valiant 50 in a losing World Cup semifinal against New Zealand at Manchester last year, turned out to be his heart-wrenching full-stop. But there is the Indian Premier League still for his fans to savour while he helms Chennai Super Kings, a squad with which he trained at Chennai’s M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday night after leaving the sporting community in tumult with a social-media post. Truly, he is one of a kind.
16 August 2020||Lisbon,||Bayern 8 Barcelona 2||A merciless Bayern Munich inflicted a humiliating, record defeat on Barcelona on Friday, with a scarcely believable 8-2 victory in their Champions League football quarterfinals to leave Lionel Messi forlorn and surely hastening the end of an era in Catalonia. Thomas Mueller scored twice either side of goals from Ivan Perisic and Serge Gnabry in a stunning opening 31 minutes at an empty Estadio da Luz, with a David Alaba own-goal having briefly brought Barcelona back level. Caving in Luis Suarez pulled it back to 4-2 at one point in the second half, but Barcelona then caved in, with Joshua Kimmich getting Bayern's fifth before three more goals in the final stages, one for the prolific Robert Lewandowski and two for substitute Philippe Coutinho. That was the really humiliating part for the beaten side, with Coutinho on loan in Bavaria from Barcelona, which spent huge money on signing the Brazilian in 2018. Unbeaten run This was its 19th consecutive victory in all competitions, and a 28-game unbeaten run for Hansi Flick’s side. It has now scored 39 goals in nine Champions League outings this season. But the story of this game is Barcelona’s remarkable capitulation and the question is what happens to it now. Messi was 27 when it last won the Champions League in 2015. He is 33 now and this game may make up his mind that he needs to finally leave Camp Nou if he is to win it again. Barca was torn apart by Bayern in the 2013 semifinals, losing 7-0 on aggregate, but this was eight goals in 90 minutes. And with an ageing team featuring six players aged 31 or older, this has to be the end of an era. Coach Quique Setien will not survive. His team, having already come second to Real Madrid in La Liga, simply could not cope with Bayern's pressing.  The result (quarterfinals):   Barcelona 2 (Alaba 7-og, Suarez 57) lost to Bayern Munich 8 (Mueller 4, 31, Perisic 22, Gnabry 27, Kimmich 63, Lewandowski 82, Coutinho 85, 89).   It was good against Brazil, but against Barca we were brutal Mueller   We have hit rock bottom. We are not on the right path Pique   We have not lived up to the club that we are. It was a disaster Bartomeu Barca president   This is an unbelievable result. It's hard to comprehend Kimmich
16 August 2020||Chennai,||Raina, the bold force, retires too||Vibrant, electric and match-winning he was, on his day. Now the mercurial Suresh Raina too has decided to bid adieu to international cricket along with his friend and mentor, M.S. Dhoni. In his Instagram post he wrote, “It was nothing but lovely playing with you, @mahi7781 . With my heart full of pride, I choose to join you in this journey. Thank you India. Jai Hind!.” The 33-year-old dasher from the dusty lanes of Ghaziabad was among India’s finest in the shorter versions with his dare, flair and a penchant for opening up the field. Amazing strike-rate The left-hander, with his bat-speed and footwork, made 5615 runs in 226 ODIs at a stunning strike-rate of 93.50. And Raina played his role in India’s triumphant World Cup campaign in 2011 with a delightful cameo against Australia in the quarterfinals at Ahmedabad. Soon, he led India in the shorter formats on the tour of the Caribbean in 2011. Those were his glory days. And in Twenty20 cricket, he was a formidable force; Raina’s exceptional fielding and steady off-spin added to his immense value. In 78 T20Is, Raina notched up 1605 runs at a sizzling strike-rate of 134.87. Among former Indian coach Greg Chappell’s favourites, he could change gears with ease. Raina began his Test career with a fighting 120 against Sri Lanka in 2010 in Colombo. He had a secure defence and a flurry of shots. However, a technical flaw against short-pitched bowling saw his Test career being limited to 768 runs from 18 Tests at 26.48. When it came to shorter formats, Raina was a bold Indian force.
16 August 2020||New Delhi,||Chetan Chauhan critical||Former Test opener and twice Member of Lok Sabha, Chetan Chauhan is battling for life after multiple-organ failure. He suffered from kidney failure on Saturday morning and later in the day, some other organs gave way. Currently on a ventilator, Chauhan caught Covid-19 when in Lucknow in July. Yet to fully recover, he was shifted to Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, where he suffered from kidney infection and issues related with blood pressure. Part of one of the most successful Test opening pair with Sunil Gavaskar, Chauhan scored 2084 runs in 40 Tests in a career spanning 12 years.
16 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Paes launches his website||India’s tennis ace Leander Paes launched his website www.leanderpaes.in on Saturday. It will be an interactive web platform, where one can know everything about the 47-year-old.  “In the last few months, all the conversations have gone online. So, my team and I decided to create a website, where people can enjoy the last 30 years of my life through pictures, anecdotes, memories and history,” Paes said.
16 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sikki, Kiran test negative||Shuttler N. Sikki Reddy and physio Dr. Ch. Kiran, attached to the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here, on Saturday tested negative this time around at a private hospital on Friday. Sikki and Kiran tested positive when a SAI-selected lab conducted the test on them along with other Olympic probables and the support staff at the Academy. To ensure there was no ambiguity, the two took the test again, the results of which were were negative. “This is a huge relief for me and for all. I was honestly worried that I should not be responsible for anyone else being affected because of me,” Sikki told The Hindu .
16 August 2020||Southampton,||No play on third day||Rain meant there was no play at all on the third day of the second Test between England and Pakistan here on Saturday in a match already plagued by stoppages for bad weather. Play should have resumed at 11 a.m. local time but light rain meant the pitch and square remained fully covered, with the floodlights on in full beam. Had the players been on the field, play may well have continued given the rain was only of the spitting kind. The officials held three inspections in the afternoon, but with rain now coming down harder they abandoned play without a ball having been bowled. Pakistan, 1-0 down in a three-match series, will resume on Sunday at 223 for nine in its first innings.
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura leads in second set||Continuing his dream-run, Hikaru Nakamura stunned Magnus Carlsen in the first game of the second set to inch closer to a possible 2-0 lead in the seven-set title-clash of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour on Saturday. Having stopped Carlsen 2.5-1.5 in the first set on Friday, Nakamura once again thrived in a messy position after the World champion appeared to have got his move-order wrong for his home preparation. At one point, Carlsen spent 11 minutes for a move. Later, Carlsen’s decision to trade his bishop for a knight on the queen’s side gave Nakamura the advantage.   The results (set two, game one): Carlsen (Nor) lost to Nakamura (USA).
16 August 2020||Washington,||Rogers stuns Serena||Serena Williams suffered her first loss since 2012 to a rival outside the WTA’s top 100, falling to fellow American Shelby Rogers in a Friday quarterfinal at the Top Seed Open. Rogers, ranked 116th, outlasted ninth-ranked Williams 1-6, 6-4, 7-6(5).
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 07:30 IST,||Sudoku - August 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The hospital reimagined||Delhi resident Mallika Kumar endured a terrible tooth ache, relying on home remedies, during the lockdown. Recently she sought an online consultation with a dentist, but is apprehensive about visiting the doctor for treatment. “A friend suffered a fall injury and was compelled to go to a hospital for an X-ray following which she was wheeled in for immediate knee surgery. During post-op recovery, she was diagnosed with COVID symptoms and passed away subsequently,” Mallika narrates, unable to get over the incident. The foundation of her fear is a possible hospital-acquired coronavirus infection. In Kolkata, Rebecca De Souza is unable to avoid hospital visits as the only caretaker of her ailing brother, who requires mandatory dialysis. She is anxious about bringing any infection home, because she lives with her elderly mother. “Though we get appointment slots, wear masks, try not to touch anything, sanitise our hands, and rush for a bath after returning home, the mind is just not at peace,” she says. Mallika and Rebecca are not isolated cases of this loss of confidence. An article in The Guardian published in May 2020 quoted in The British Medical Journal , reported that up to 20% of NHS patients in the UK contracted COVID-19 in hospitals while being treated for another illness. Many requiring health check-ups and routine ongoing treatment are wary of entering hospitals that have poorly ventilated lounges, often situated in the basement of a building, and air-conditioning that will probably not pump in fresh air. “It is a new order health crisis,” says Dr. K. Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. “It is difficult to identify the asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic, who can disseminate the virus unintentionally,” he says. What hospitals can do To quell the uneasiness, hospitals can be reconfigured to facilitate good air flow and space utilisation, to use ultra-violet lighting to reduce microbial threats and PPEs for all healthcare staff. “The way we redesign and build our structures and follow the patient dealing processes may never be the same again,” says Dr. Reddy. Mumbai-based architect Shantanu Poredi, who has done the space and medical planning of several hospitals, including Mumbai’s Kokilaben Hospital and the 250-bed multi-speciality Reliance Hospital on the Navi Mumbai-Thane highway, says the bane of modern structures is the vertical box construction with no scope for cross-ventilation. “Ideally, we should go back to separate self-contained units, like how it is in majority of the old Government hospitals, built by the British, where each department is an independent block with the greatest amount of flexibility and ventilation,” he suggests, while acknowledging that land is a luxury in cities. To help mitigate the highly contagious virus, Poredi says the focus needs to shift from fixing the critical care infrastructure to reimagining the hospital space. “Total temperature control should not be restricted to ICUs, OTs, burns, neo-natal and few other critical care wards. Entire complexes need to go green with large windows and efficient air conditioning systems with HEPA filters, powerful exhausts, air curtains to effectively filter the circulating air.” About to complete a 250-bed hospital in Indore and start work on a 300-bed hospital in Rajkot, Poredi says he may alter the hospital architecture wherever possible depending on the client’s choice and investment, but running them will be technology-dependent in future. For instance, he is reworking his designs, introducing sliding doors and touch-free, remote controlled switches, handles, monitors and other common contact points. He is replacing curtains and blinds with smart glass partition screens that are easy to clean and maintain with long lasting surface disinfectants, developing more pop-up triages (where decisions are taken on critical care) in open and empty areas around the hospital and installing cubicles with anti-microbial coated walls in place of open counters inside the building. Working on existing facilities It is a tactical war on the virus and innovation is the key to minimising pathogen transmission inside hospitals, says Professor Anil Dewan, Head of Building Engineering and Management at Delhi’s School of Planning & Architecture. Along with architect Sandal Kapoor he presented a paper at a webinar on post-Covid healthcare strategies where the duo looked at potential intervention in the existing facilities. “Retrofitting old hospital buildings is tough but compulsorily everything needs to be pushed behind protective screens now,” says Dewan. “We have redefined the protective environment with prefabricated modular approaches and mobile constructions,” adds Kapoor. The critical safety protocols, according to them, include screening of patients with robotic scanners; sanitised entries; AI enabled kiosks for registration, billing, enquiry, pharmacy; spacious and well ventilated common areas; circulation of constant fresh air; UV sanitisation sections and more isolation rooms and makeshift treatment rooms. “The adaptive reuse is to effectively segregate crisis pandemic patients from the uninfected,” says Kapoor. The Chief Medical Officer at Aravind Eye Hospital, Puducherry, Dr. R Venkatesh, says hospitals are actually safer than malls, offices and hotels now on account of more rigorous sanitising. While the out patient rush has dropped by three-quarters and surgeries by a fifth during lockdown, he says the hospital is preparing to deal with more patients when they start returning (See box). “How long will they avoid treatment? Hospitals will have to take a paradigm shift in clinical and administrative management while healthcare models will continue to evolve,” he says. To begin with, we must return to the primary care doctor for the basics, “and remember, less healthcare is always better healthcare,” says Dr. Puneet Bedi, a gynaecologist with Indraprastha-Apollo, Delhi.  Reshaping hospitals  Bar attendants from entering.  Set up multiple and separate entry and exit points to distribute the crowd.  Establish pop-up triages outside the main building to take the load off the hospital, so that those who don’t need admission can be given a prescription and sent home.  Allow patients inside in small batches depending on the size of the waiting hall  Have the mandatory hand wash and temperature check at the entrance  Staff, patients, visitors — all should wear fresh surgical mask while entering  Set up automated opening/closing of all doors and windows  Announce reminders over the public address system not to lean against walls or unnecessarily touch surfaces  Get the patient’s history over the phone as they wait their turn, thereby reducing doctor-patient meet time  Fix seating arrangement in waiting hall as per social distancing norms.  Make online registration and appointment mandatory for paying patients  Encourage telemedicine, strengthen primary care, day care procedures and ambulatory home care
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Connected by words||Till last year, readers from India had access to the best of Pakistani writing in English and Indian authors found an interested Pakistani readership. This created a virtual space for the exchange of ideas; a vibrant interface which allowed both countries to follow each other’s thinking and the opportunity to explore the other’s world. In an instance of how political developments influence even the allegedly rarefied world of books, this arrangement became a casualty of last year’s Pulwama attack and Pakistan’s subsequent suspension of trade ties with India in the standoff that followed. Long-standing equations between Indian publishers and Pakistani writers are shifting as a consequence of the continuing political stalemate between the two countries. Earlier, a highly talented set of Pakistanis writing in English would regularly be published in India; their books available to both Indian and Pakistani readers. Ameena Saiyid, now Managing Director of Lightstone Publishers, who had earlier established the prestigious non-fiction list at Oxford University Press (OUP), Pakistan, says: “The first choice of Pakistani authors, particularly those writing fiction [in English], is to be published by American or British publishers as that gives them international reach and profile. In some cases, fiction writers get good royalty advances.” However, the reality is that access to such publishers is difficult; also, international publishing firms like Penguin or HarperCollins have representation in India but not in Pakistan. This makes India-based publishers the obvious choice for Pakistani writers. Manto to Zakaria “Publishing here never really developed in the way it did in India,” says Muneeza Shamsie, well-known Pakistani literary critic and author of the highly acclaimed literary history, Hybrid Tapestries: The Development of Pakistani Literature in English . She explains that Pakistani publishers were badly hit by the rising costs of paper in the 1980s and were never given the incentives that Indian publishers received in India. The upshot was that Indian trade publishers, particularly the larger international firms, established rich and diverse Pakistan lists. This allowed Indian readerships easy access to Pakistani works ranging from the classics of Saadat Hasan Manto, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Intizar Hussain and Fahmida Riaz to works by younger authors like Anam Zakaria ( The Footprints of Partition ), Sabyn Zaveri ( Nobody Killed Her ), Osama Siddique ( Snuffing out the Moon ), Faiqa Mansab ( This House of Clay and Water ), Omer Shahid Hamid ( The Prisoner ), Saba Imtiaz ( Karachi, You’re Killing Me! ), to name a few. Indian editions of novels by Pakistani authors who had international recognition — a stellar cast including Mohsin Hamid, Kamila Shamsie, Mohammed Hanif, Fatima Bhutto, Daniyal Mueenuddin, Moni Mohsin, Nadeem Aslam, among others — did very well here. But other authors, less well-known and many writing their first books, were also published and gained appreciative readerships in India and Pakistan. Further facilitating this process were Indian literary agencies such as Writer’s Side and Siyahi, which were very successful in placing Pakistani books with Indian publishers. There was a great deal of movement of writers between India and Pakistan for book launches and promotions. With the advent of literary festivals, such interactions in Delhi, Mumbai, Lahore and Karachi only increased. One of the advantages of this system was that Pakistani books would be easily available in Pakistan in affordable editions — and copies duly flew off the shelves. Despite hostilities The books sold well in both countries. Vijesh Kumar, General Manager Sales, Indian Publishing, at Penguin Random House India estimates that a healthy 50% of book sales by Pakistani authors were in Pakistan and the other half in India. Indian books were freely available in Pakistani bookshops and were widely read and reviewed there. Despite occasional hiccups when visas were delayed or denied, the Pakistani-Indian literary interface flourished in the last two decades. Novelists outnumbered non-fiction authors, as a sizeable number of Pakistani non-fiction writers preferred to publish with the Karachi-based OUP. While many Pakistani authors viewed publishing in India as a choice based on practicalities, in the sometimes heated bilateral political climate this choice also created controversies. Explaining why many leading Pakistani non-fiction writers chose to publish with OUP Pakistan, Ameena Saiyid, who was the MD of OUP Pakistan for nearly three decades, says, “There was an element of patriotism, as several writers told me they wanted distribution in India but wanted their primary publisher to be in Pakistan. This was also because of the maps in the books, which could not cross borders.” Pakistani writer Anam Zakaria has described the hostility she faced in Pakistan for publishing in India: she quotes a colleague telling her, “Don’t you feel disloyal to your country? Why wouldn’t you choose a Pakistani publisher? This is how India tries to buy Pakistanis”. Interrupted flow Nonetheless, a steady stream of Pakistani authors continued publishing in India. Cross-border ventures included books written jointly by Pakistani and Indian authors, such as The Spy Chronicles by A.S. Dulat, Aditya Sinha and Asad Durrani or The Begum by Deepa Agarwal and Tehmina Aziz Ayub. Recent releases included significant commentaries on Pakistan’s polity and history — Shuja Nawaz’s Battle for Pakistan and Yasser Latif Hamdani’s Jinnah: A Life , for instance, both published in India. Then came the Pulwama attack and the flow was suddenly interrupted. Kanishka Gupta, whose literary agency, Writer’s Side, has over 50 Pakistani authors on its rolls, explains: “The number of Pakistani authors approaching me was at an all-time high before the Pulwama terror attack. But after the trade standoff, I’ve hardly received any submissions — fiction or non-fiction — from Pakistan.” The old business model is cracking. Says Ameena Saiyid: “Books cannot be imported into Pakistan from India any more, and if they come from some other source they become overpriced.” Similarly, Indian publishers are being denied access to the Pakistani market. Gupta fears that Indian publishers will “majorly cut down on acquisitions of books by Pakistani writers because there is no way to get them to readers in Pakistan.” In order to fill this gap, says Muneeza Shamsie, “Pakistan has seen a growing if limited number of independent publishers in recent years such as Readings, Mongrel Books and Ushba Publishing, which provide an important platform for Pakistani English fiction.” According to Ameena Saiyid, in the case of existing books, “Some Indian publishers are now giving the rights to Pakistani publishers or authors to address the issue of non-availability [in Pakistan].” In fact, Saiyid’s new venture, Lightstone Books, seeks to be a platform for new Pakistani writing: “I have been receiving requests from Pakistani novelists and poets who have been published in India to publish their works here,” Saiyid says. Meanwhile, as the political standoff continues, readers from both nations miss out on interesting, high-quality writing from both countries. And a shared literary platform. The writer is former Deputy Publisher at Penguin Random House India and author ofDelhi Metropolitan: The Making of an Unlikely City.  The upshot was that Indian trade publishers, particularly the larger international firms, established rich and diverse Pakistan lists. This allowed Indian readerships easy access to Pakistani works
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||No time to waste on NPAs||Economics books rarely open with as much impact as Urjit Patel’s Overdraft : “I’ve been in the news.” For someone with a reputation for being uncommunicative, he can say a lot in a few words. He has readers’ rapt attention instantly, but he discloses nothing about what we have been waiting to hear from him. And yet, it is a compelling, urgent book that has yanked the political economy discourse closer to reality. Unwieldy mess Gushing economist-authors have for years glossed over inconvenient political-economy home truths, mythologised India’s economic promise and lulled policymakers into complacency. Even the cautiously optimistic go only as far as saying: India can grow if it can do the difficult reforms. Overdraft is a liberating break from those false narratives. The book is focused on banks. Every economic crisis of recent years has involved banking and the allocation of credit. Crises are brought under control by the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI); their root causes are left unattended. For, far too much rests on the fraught system of cronyism for politicians and business. The mess has meanwhile grown way too big to tidy up. The Modi government dared to attempt a clean-up. It wrote and passed the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC), its most significant reform initiative. Only to see it regress swiftly — to the advantage of the big loan defaulters that stood to lose the ownership of their firms under the new regime. Patel tells a transparent story of the early gains clocked against cronyism being at risk of becoming “a false dawn”. Willing accomplices, the RBI and banks, rolled back the IBC Framework and regulations for securing financial stability instituted in Patel’s tenure. Maximum exposure for banks to a business group permissible had been reduced. But it was relaxed. Recognition of bad loans for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and small companies has been allowed to languish. The case for how diluting its key features has robbed the IBC of credibility and reaffirmed the defaulters’ grip over the system is argued conclusively. Political surrender Patel devotes no more than a chapter to this narration, names no names and betrays no details. Still, the reader is left in no doubt over exactly what transpired and why. The drama unfolds, interspersed with passages discussing the economic consequences of the developments, written for most part jargon-free. Although the author could have been less sparing with the witty lines. The book portrays the unyielding capture of policy thinking and decisions, including in courts, by big business without reading like an expose on those who thwarted the clean-up efforts. It is concerned principally with questions of why capital allocation in India remains chronically discretionary, state-dominated and resistant to reform; how the market is subverted; why attempts to replace bankers’ leeway for being soft selectively on big defaulters with a non-discretionary rules-based approach get sabotaged. Patel argues that persisting macroeconomic rigidities have forced this abject political surrender. He shows that build-ups in non-performing assets (NPAs), losses, taxpayer-funded recapitalisation and bailouts recur frequently because governments rely on bank credit for pump-priming the economy. That is because there is never any fiscal room for spending to stimulate aggregate demand or private investments. Governments nag state-owned banks to provide credit liberally even if by going easy on defaulters. And so, despite repetitive failures to repay outstanding debt, big businesses secure fresh loans in a snap. The banking system stumbles from crisis to crisis, as governments seek to manage macroeconomic stress by choreographing a financial system dominated by entities they own and control—banks, insurers such as LIC and NBFCs.   Impact on growth What kind of growth does this sort of credit allocation produce? India has been taxing the productive economy to arrange — via recapitalisation and bailouts — uncurbed bank lending for defaulters. Patel calls these errant borrowers the living dead for they survive even after failing to service debt. Who takes the tab? Taxpayers and savers; and borrowers who repay loans diligently in the form of higher price for credit. The rich and powerful pocket a disproportionate share of the largesse; the liabilities are distributed widely. The system is suited for rationing favours to a chosen few and resists modernisation. But the party may have gone on long enough and could be drawing to an end already. New Delhi would be unwise to duck the book’s dire message when the COVID crisis is set to blow up what was already a disruptive build-up in NPAs. The book’s analyses render it easier for its author’s successors in the RBI to revive the derailed clean-up. The reviewer is the author ofThe Lost Decade.  Overdraft Urjit Patel HarperCollins  Rs. 599    The book is concerned principally with questions of why capital allocation in India remains chronically discretionary
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Experiment and experience||World Photography Day falls on August 19, and it is an apt anniversary to recall an elided history of image production from the post-Independence era. It is in those forgotten shadows that the life and works of the 83-year-old Om Prakash Sharma stand out as silent, strident markers that need due recognition today. It was O.P. Sharma who wrote to the Royal Photographic Society (U.K.) and the Photographic Society of America to recommend August 19 as World Photography Day. The request, supported by others, was accepted and the day celebrated globally from 1991. O.P. lives in Delhi and his legacy is yet to be celebrated via a retrospective, although he has been recognised internationally — becoming part of museum and private collections in Australia, Brazil, Germany, Russia, Norway, Switzerland, and the U.S. He has received the coveted Stuyvesant Peabody Award and Lifetime Awards from the Delhi College of Arts, the Pakistan Salon Group, and the Asian Academy of Film and Television. O.P. arrived in Delhi in the late 50s from Lucknow and began working at Modern School at the request of pioneering educationalist Mahendra Nath Kapur (father of art critic Geeta Kapur and of National School of Design ex-director, Anuradha Kapur) and Kanwal Krishna, head of the arts department, in order to establish the photo unit there. Those were the times of a heady post-Independence modernism, and through Sharma, Kapur saw the possibility of honing the skills of young students with hands-on experimentation in bracketing, vignetting, spot printing, and double-exposure techniques that soon became the compositional and creative tools of modern image-making. O.P.’s imagistic world drew upon a vast reserve of practitioners from across the world, especially from 1920s’ and 30s’ Europe: Man Ray, Brassaï and Rodchenko; and later, Canadian pictorialist Yousuf Karsh and T. Kasinath from India, and included elements from local subject matter — portraiture, landscape, flora and fragments. He used these to create new, subjective and innovative reconstructions. The beginnings Pictorialism in India has an extraordinary history. In Europe, one of the pioneers was Victorian art photographer Oscar Gustave Rejlander (1813-75) and then Henry Peach Robinson (1830-1901) published Pictorial Effect in Photography in 1869. Robinson later became a member of a photo-secessionist group called The Brotherhood of the Linked Ring, a group of like-minded practitioners who advocated and held salons to promote artistic photography (Shahpur N. Bhedwar from Bombay joined this fraternity and won several awards). Around this time, Anne Thackeray (1837-1919), daughter of English novelist W.M. Thackeray, published Records of Tennyson, Ruskin, Browning (1892), a work about the lives of these 19th century literary luminaries, which also included their portraits done in a pictorialist style. Those images were taken by Julia Margaret Cameron, the grand-aunt of Virginia Woolf, who was born in Calcutta and spent her later life in Ceylon. And by way of these complex historical roots, we arrive at individuals like Jehangir Taraporewala and D.R.D. Wadia, among others, and later, Jehangir N. Unwalla in Bombay. It was Unwalla who helped put together a photography volume in 1960 for Marg , a pioneering arts magazine established by Mulk Raj Anand in 1946, which will celebrate its 75th anniversary this September. Sharma often refers to Unwalla as a pioneer in the field, for whom he organised a tribute in the late 60s at Delhi’s Triveni Kala Sangam. It was at this time that a flurry of photographic salons and groups came up in the country. L’avenir (The Future) in Calcutta; the Aurobindo School inspired by Henri Cartier-Bresson’s journeys to India from the late 1940s onwards; and then the largest photo entity in the country, the Federation of Indian Photography, was established in 1953 under the secretaryship of author G. Thomas in Bombay before it moved to Bangalore. By the 1960s, The Photographic Society in Bombay was reported as having the largest number of members in the country, numbering 500. An important junction In 1980, Sharma and his wife Chitrangada, also a great photographer, were invited by arts patron Sundari Shridharani to establish a photography department at Triveni Kala Sangam. The department turns 40 this December, an anniversary that signposts the making of a cross-disciplinary arts space for dance, music, fine art and photography under one roof, founded by Shridharani and Uday Shankar in 1950, built in 1963, and later reinforced by the creation of the Art Heritage Gallery in the same complex in 1977 by the late Ebrahim and Roshen Alkazi. O.P. established the India International Photographic Council (IIPC) in 1983 and also authored four books dedicated to the lens-based practices of A.L. Syed, K.G. Maheshwari, T.F. Geti and Unwalla. An institutional tribute is being planned for O.P., but more than a commemorative moment, it will pay homage to the skill-based vocational and educational endeavours that individuals like the Sharmas devoted their lives to. Their work is being furthered by their son and practitioner, Aseem Sharma. What O.P. represents today is the need for an engagement with analog at a time of expanding digital cultures so that we may not only trace a history of representation as a disciplinary subject but also retrace the changing course of image-making through a hands-on approach. The writer is Curator, Alkazi Foundation for the Arts, and Founding Editor, PIX.  Sharma’s imagistic world draws upon a vast reserve of practitioners from across the world, and included elements from local subject matter — portraiture, landscape, flora and fragments
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A museum on your mobile||Do you know how tribal communities in Odisha measure grains or oil? The Oraon tribe weighs grain in an audaka, a pot that can contain approximately 1 kilo of grain, and the Juanga tribe measures oil in a small metal pot or pai . Did you know that the State’s tribal people craft 50 different types of weapons, including bows and arrows, axes, swords and guns? Or that tucked away in Odisha’s forests, the little-known Paroja tribe uses an array of natural preservatives and pest control techniques to increase the shelf-life of foods so that they can keep for months together: from cereals to pulses, mushrooms to fish? These, and other stories of 62 tribal communities — from the remotest parts of Odisha — are related at the famed Odisha State Tribal Museum, which has no less than 5,000 exhibits — from agricultural implements to household utensils, musical instruments to weapons. Last year, close to one lakh people visited the museum. Interactive insights And now, in keeping with lockdown times, the museum has launched virtual tours where visitors from anywhere in the world can get anthropological insights and a peek into the art, artefacts, tools, and customs of Odisha’s diverse indigenous communities. This includes a documentary on the craft of comb-making among the Juanga tribe — Juanga men fashion intricately designed combs from bamboo and wood, important courtship gifts in their society — and the indigenous knowledge of the Lanjia Saora people on irrigation management in terrace fields. You also get a glimpse into the indigenous knowledge system of Dongria Kondhs on labour cooperatives, and the traditional wisdom of Kutia Kondhs on healing practices. Real life stories Unlike other museums in the country, where exhibits are showcased for their antiquity, this museum has brought extant stories to life through interactive platforms. You learn that the Gonds live in single-room dwellings with walls brightly painted with their celebrated drawings; that kitchens in Chuktia Bhunjia homes are the earth’s most sacred space for them, where no one other than family members is allowed. You also learn about the lives of 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups. Visitors can also get to see 70 different types of ornaments. The museum divides artefacts into five segments, spread over 14 episodes. Each episode will be shown on multiple social media platforms for free every Sunday until November. “Museums have closed down across the country and if the situation persists, they are likely to lose their relevance and become mere warehouses of artefacts. Our aim is to take the museum to people even during the lockdown,” says Akhila Bihari Ota, Director of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, who has been instrumental in creating the unique museum. “We have made the best use of technology. We have packaged it in such a manner that viewers can tour the museum from the comfort of their homes, even on an Android phone,” says Ota. Developed as part of the Odisha government’s 5T (Teamwork, Technology, Transparency, Time leading to Transformation) initiative, the virtual tour is ready and can be accessed via all digital devices. “We hope that over three months, the artefacts, documentaries, short videos, photographs and virtual tours of the museum will become a comprehensive digital resource on the life and culture of tribal communities of Odisha,” says Ota.  You learn that the Gonds live in single-room dwellings with walls brightly painted with their celebrated drawings; that kitchens in Chuktia Bhunjia homes are the earth’s most sacred space for them
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The missing numbers||When the BBC interviewed ISRO scientist B.P. Dakshayani in 2018, they titled the feature ‘How to cook curry and get a spacecraft into Mars orbit’. The article told us all about her early life and her domestic routines — a sweet piece that gained instant popularity. The 2019 Hindi film Mission Mangal also spent a lot of reel time giving us generous peeks into the rocket scientist protagonists’ personal lives: we learnt that Eka was just another young millennial with a thriving dating life and a disdain for the desi , and that Tara was unshy about her passion for her job and was refreshingly unguilty about leaving domestic and parenting responsibilities to her husband. Similarly, in the newly released film Shakuntala Devi , the famous ‘human computer’ is portrayed as ambitious, flighty, flirty, fashionable and above all, a highly flawed parent. Mainstream Bollywood rarely allows its women these traits, without demonising them, so many of us loved it and these filmmakers gained accolades for being progressive. Indeed, popular media in India is finally waking up to our fantastic women in STEM (an acronym for ‘Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics’). So then, why are some of us still walking out of the theatre (or now, closing our laptops) with resigned sighs? More than their star casts and colourful promotions, what had drawn me to Mission Mangal and Shakuntala Devi was the promise of STEM. As a scientist, I was excited to see a familiar world. However, in both these movies, the role of science or maths in the lives of the protagonists was so superficial that I realised we could very well replace the animations of the rocket trajectories and cube root calculations with recipes or interest rate calculations, and voilà — we’d have a movie about a chef or a banker. I felt cheated. As a storyteller who makes a living researching the lives and contributions of women in science, I am only too familiar with the challenges of building a gripping narrative from the lives of scientists. But every so often there is a fantastic piece of work that reminds us that it’s not impossible for big science to capture the lay audience’s imagination. Take Interstellar (2014), for example. Although it’s a science-fiction film, the plot relies very heavily on real scientific theories, making it more watertight than it would have been otherwise. They even had Nobel Prize-winning physicist Kip Thorne on board as a producer and scientific consultant. Intricate tribute Similarly, the 2020 documentary Secrets of the Surface: The Mathematical Vision of Maryam Mirzakhani is a worthy tribute to the late Iranian mathematician because the filmmakers wove in the story of her life with the beautiful complexities of the conjectures she was trying to prove. With the help of maths journalist Erica Klarreich, the documentary team brought alive the mathematical aspect of Mirzakhani’s life for a lay audience while resisting any temptation to dramatise and probe into her personal life. In Shakuntala Devi , Vidya Balan’s performance fully convinces us that nothing brought a sparkle to this woman’s eyes like big numbers did. But what was it about numbers? In an interview with a Russian TV network in 2009, journalist Sophie Shevardnadze tried to explore this with the real Shakuntala Devi. Devi replied, “Numbers don't lie, that is their greatest strength. Numbers are very real, numbers are very true. The only truth in the whole world. Numbers are the greatest philosophy.” This love for an ultimate truth is reflected in the movie, with Devi’s unapologetic, sometimes brutal, honesty about her desires and ambitions. However, in the movie, her love for truth seemed to end there. As a viewer, I had immense trouble reconciling this with the apparent ease with which movie Devi deceives, gaslights and manipulates the people around her. Given the chance, this contrast could have been a fascinating one for the film to explore, but in its rush to pace through the real Devi’s eventful life, I was just left unconvinced. Of course, not all movies about women in STEM need to be science-heavy. Fortunately — for storytelling at least — scientific environments through history have been sites of as much drama and politics as any other. Take the 2016 Hollywood film Hidden Figures , for example. The film revolves around the experiences and accomplishments of a group of African-American scientists at NASA in the 1960s. One of the most powerful scenes has nothing to do with space or rockets. It’s when one of the scientists, Katherine Johnson, confronts her boss about being forced to walk half a mile to a washroom allocated for people of colour every time she wants to pee. Scholarly sisterhood There is an equally affecting anecdote related in Secrets of the Surface . When she won the Fields Medal in 2014, Mirzakhani was wary of the media frenzy that would come. It was the first time the medal — known as the mathematician’s Nobel Prize — was being awarded to a non-male since 1936. Fame was hardly new to the 37-year-old, but she preferred not to dwell on it, especially that year with her chemotherapy sessions ongoing. She had been diagnosed with breast cancer just months before. To ease the burden on Mirzakhani, Ingrid Daubechies, then the president of the International Mathematics Union (which awards the prize), and her fellow senior mathematicians devised a strategy they called ‘the MM shield’. They ensured that at least two women would be by Mirzakhani’s side at any point when she was out in public. “One of them would intercept a journalist and say, ‘Oh you are very interested in mathematics — let me tell you about my career,’ and so on, while the other would escort Maryam discreetly away,” reminisces Daubechies in the documentary. This display of sisterhood is sure to linger with viewers. Providing glimpses into scientists’ personal lives is, without doubt, an effective way to get the audience interested, but this is a tool that storytellers must use sparingly. Women in STEM usually prefer to be known as scientists, not as women, wives or mothers. Disproportionately highlighting their personal lives and reducing the role of their science to jazzy headlines or screen animations feels like a cop-out. Somewhere along the way, we seem to have accepted the idea that there’s only one way to make a scientist’s life seem exciting — to take out the science from her life. The writer is part of the feminist science media collective TheLifeofScience.com  We could replace the animations of the rocket trajectories and cube root calculations with recipes or interest rates, and voilà — we’d have a movie about a chef or a banker
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Plasma: cure or chimera?||In May this year, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) approved 38 hospitals across the country to participate in PLACID, or convalescent plasma therapy (CP) trials. Some 450 patients were reportedly recruited to study if plasma, or more specifically, the serum that is filtered from blood and shorn of blood cells could be used to treat moderate or severely sick COVID-19 patients. It is still unclear how many benefited. For something that bagged the first-ever Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1901, there is still much mystery around serum, the pale filtrate from blood that contains antibodies. Though a disease that seems to only mildly sicken most of those infected, COVID-19 wreaks devastation in at least one out of seven afflicted. Globally, that accounts for at least two million people and many of the 700,000-odd who have succumbed to the infection. For many of the seriously afflicted, there isn’t a clear treatment course. Attempts at destroying the virus with anti-virals have largely failed and most drug-makers and research scientists are scouring their cabinets for any, even half-promising, therapy or intervention. Elaborate defence The trillions of viral particles that infiltrate the lungs can only be stopped, researchers reckon, if the body learns to recognise them early on. Usually, the human immune system that has evolved over 500 million years from the last common ancestry we share with sharks, has an elaborate defence that produces sophisticated proteins, or antibodies, to stymie an array of offending viruses or bacteria. But SARS-CoV-2 is particularly insidious in that it manages to hoodwink the immune system and proliferate. Once jolted alert, the immune system acts in two ways: either it’s able to muster a regulated response or it acts in a frenzy that can often end up being worse than the disease, even resulting in death. To avoid that, it needs help. From another immune system that’s seen it all before and managed to thwart the coronavirus. This fundamental insight, that the victorious convalescent body produced something in those who recovered from an infection, came a little over a 100 years ago from an ancient disease: the ‘plague among children’ that killed nearly two in five children in the 18th century. In 1883, Edwin Klebs identified the disease, diphtheria, as being caused by a bacterium now known as Corynebacterium diphtheriae . The disease would start out as an infection of the respiratory tract and the bacterium would secrete a toxin that injured and then destroyed cells. A thick grey substance, from the cellular waste secreted from battling the bacterium, would envelop the pharynx and stick to the tissues and obstruct breathing. The effects of this could travel as far the heart and kidneys. Active immunity For most of the 18th and 19th centuries, the best shot at a cure — even for children — was to perform a tracheotomy to help breathing until the infection cleared out. But this too was mostly hit-and-miss. In 1890, a German scientist, Emil Adolf von Behring, and a Japanese researcher, Kitasato Shibasaburo, built on the work of several other scientists who had shown that when C. diphtheriae was cultured in a lab, it left a residual liquid which, when injected into animals, somehow protected them from infection. This was new. Ever since Edward Jenner injected a cowpox virus into eight-year-old James Phipps in the 1790s and made him immune to the lethal smallpox, it was known that injecting parts of the right virus or parasitic life-forms could stimulate the body’s defences to protect against a future infection. This was active immunity. But Behring found that you mostly didn’t actually need the virus or bacteria to mount a defence. ‘Sera’ or ‘serum’ contained some kind of ‘anti-toxin’ that appeared to protect guinea pigs re-exposed to lethal doses of the bacteria and toxin. It turned out that it was possible to ‘passively’ transfer the immunity in the guinea pigs to cure diphtheria in another sick animal by injecting it with that serum. Behring was conferred the first-ever Nobel Prize for Medicine “for his work on serum therapy, especially its application against diphtheria, by which he has opened a new road in the domain of medical science and thereby placed in the hands of the physician a victorious weapon against illness and deaths.” While not always victorious, this was certainly a weapon that opened up an entire vista that was immunology. The anti-toxins and the serum were portals to re-imagining the body as an eternal battleground between antibodies and antigens. The cliche, of a ‘magic bullet’, had its origins here, and was coined by another Nobel Prize-winning pioneer of immunology, Paul Ehrlich, to describe ‘antibodies’ that originate in the bone marrow and are constantly traversing the body in search of a target, or it’s very own custom antigen. The latter is the part of a foreign virus, bacteria or even another blood cell from another human being. Antibodies zoom in on antigens and, if they are the right match, click themselves snug like a key that’s found nirvana. Antibodies, or immunoglobulins as they are formally called, are highly specific and bind only to their own specific antigens. Transferable asset There are at least five kinds of immunoglobulins, and for every different disease — be it of viral or bacterial provenance — only some are helpful. The right antibody-antigen combination works well for a patient. A healthy immune system mass produces these key-like antibodies, and they prevent more antigenic viral particles from being made. They even facilitate a mass of other kinds of immune system cells — natural killer cells, macrophages, T cells — that can destroy and swallow whole residual infectious cells. To close the deal, once an infection has been thoroughly plugged, there are even ‘memory B cells’ (a class of antibodies) that are formed. They loiter around on the lookout for a recurrent infection, and if fuond, the blight is nipped quickly and so thoroughly that you on the outside wouldn’t even feel sick. Behring and the early immunologists’ insight that immunity was a transferable asset, where a recovered patient’s antibodies extracted from their serum can be used on another patient, unfortunately works only fitfully. Satyajit Rath, an immunologist and faculty member at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, listed out several reasons why convalescent plasma cannot always be a magic bullet. For one, the amounts of such plasma are inevitably always very limited. This means it cannot be widely used and even proper clinical trials are difficult to do (in fact, very, very few have been done). Secondly, any such transfer from one individual to another poses the risk of transferring infections (hepatitis viruses, HIV, etc.). Likewise, any blood/ plasma transfer has to deal with the possibilities of transfusion reactions as side-effects, making the whole process quite hard, more so when coupled with the fact that (unlike ordinary blood/ plasma transfusions) only a few people can be donors. Then, there is the additional complication that every potential donor does not have enough of the right kind of antibodies. Antibodies bind to antigens but some can’t overwhelm them enough to prevent them from replicating. In fact, as has been observed in dengue and Zika virus infections, such antibodies end up being sabotaged by the virus and are used by them to gain entry into healthy cells in a phenomenon known as antibody dependent enhancement, aggravating disease. What is actually useful to arrest an infection are the so-called ‘neutralising antibodies’ — those that not only bind but prevent the viral particles from replicating. Testing for neutralising antibodies in the plasma is an additional complication. “Finally, we have no idea, in most situations, just how much of neutralising antibody will be needed and therefore how much plasma to give. Given these factors, it is not surprising that it is always a therapy of last resort, and that few proper clinical trials have been done. It is likely to remain a hopeful/ wishful stop-gap measure,” says Dr. Rath in an email. ‘Serum sickness’ Early indications that plasma therapy was an untamed beast came from domesticated horses. Guinea pigs, in whom the original antibodies for diphtheria were tested, turned out to produce too little anti-toxin. So one needed bigger bodies. ‘Docile horses’ became the fall guys. However, in 1901— the same year Behring was awarded the Nobel — several children in St. Louis, U.S., died after being injected with horse-derived serum. It was traced to a horse infected by tetanus. There also emerged reports of ‘serum sickness’, or an adverse reaction, among children inoculated with horse toxin. Though serum from horses is still used to produce anti-venom against snakebite, the many complications from using it for diphtheria meant that there wasn’t a substantial dip in diphtheria deaths until a combined vaccine for diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus became routine in the 1940s. “Horse antibodies can be given to people safely only once, by and large. They are different enough to generate an immune response to the horse proteins on their own, and a second injection would then trigger an allergic reaction... which is why all horse serum injections need allergy testing first,” says Rath. Throughout various outbreaks of disease in history — polio, tetanus, to the more recent Ebola virus or the Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome — convalescent plasma therapy has always been an interim measure until a vaccine comes along. When the U.S. was racked by a series of polio outbreaks in the 40s and 50s, animal serum was the iffy last straw for doctors, until Jonas Salk’s polio vaccine proved successful (in what were then one of the earliest double-blind clinical trials) and then was mass-distributed.  In a 2016 edition of the journal, Blood Transfusion, a multi-author review notes: “Although many studies have reported the efficacy and safety of CP [convalescent plasma] infusion in the treatment of various infections (especially those caused by viruses), due to the lack of large-scale, randomised, well-designed clinical trials, we tend to consider CP an ‘empirical’ therapy.” “Most of the studies conducted so far... can only provide us with low-quality scientific evidence that may or may not be representative of the target populations.” So, promising as plasma therapy may look, and several trials are indeed under way to test its potential for treating COVID-19, a century of experience allows only for sober optimism.  When the U.S. was racked by a series of polio outbreaks in the 40s and 50s, animal serum was the iffy last straw, until Jonas Salk’s polio vaccine proved successful   It turned out that it was possible to ‘passively’ transfer the immunity in the guinea pigs to cure diphtheria in another sick animal by injecting it with that serum. And German scientist Emil Adolf von Behring was conferred the first-ever Nobel Prize for Medicine
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||No kidding, only coding||When my neighbour Donald Balasubramaniam (name changed to protect privacy) told me last week about Blue Lungi, my peace of mind broke, like a Harappan vase, into a million little pieces. Most of you would know about Blue Lungi. But for the benefit of those who are colour-blind and wear trousers, Blue Lungi is an ed-tech start-up that offers online coding classes for kids aged 2 to 10. Coding, I learned this week, is the first of the four ‘Rs’ of education, followed by reading, writing and arithmetic. I also learned what every Indian parent other than me already seemed to know: a child old enough to walk is old enough to code. If you want your kids to have a fair shot at becoming the next Sundar Pichai, then make sure that in addition to their mother tongue they also learn a motherboard tongue, or two. SEO-optimised I was blind to this parental responsibility until Donald called to tell me that his son Mickey Balasubramaniam (name changed to protect his identity) was conducting a virtual boot camp on ‘How to Use Implicit Parallelism on a NoSQL database rooted in a Model-view Controller for better MongoDB’. He said he could get me a slot at a special discount, if I was interested. “Nope,” I said. “I’m not interested in the parallelism of any manga or thenga .” “Not you,” he said, “I was checking if you wanted to enrol your son.” “But Kattabomman is just four years old!” “He is four?” Donald said. “What all languages he knows? “He can generate and manage SEO-optimised content in five languages,” I said. “Bangla, Hindi, Tamil, English, and Sanskrit. We wanted to play it safe, you know. What if tomorrow the three-language formula becomes a five-language formula? I didn’t want to take any chances.” Special webinar Donald burst out laughing. “These days every Tom, Dick and Harry is teaching his children five-five human languages. No competitive edge there. I’m talking about programming languages. My son Mickey, in July alone he created 72 apps in seven different languages.” “Really? You don’t look that old.” “What do you mean?” “Which college does Mickey go to?” “College?” Donald cackled. “Mickey turned six last month.” “At least he won’t starve,” I said. “The world will always need cyber-coolies who can code.” “I am still worried,” Donald said. “Sure, Mickey knows C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP, SQL and Ruby. But they are only the bare minimum in terms of a fall-back option.” “Fall-back option? You mean, if he doesn’t get a job?” “Of course not!” Donald looked offended. “By fall-back, I mean if he doesn’t get Series B funding for his start-up.” “Your son has a start-up?” “We thought, since he has created so many successful apps, why not convert one of them into a successful business? If he gets adequate funding, he can scale it up, sell it to Bezos or Pichai for a billion dollars, and retire comfortably by the time he is nine or 10.” “You want him to retire by 10?” I was incredulous. “What will he do for the rest of his life?” “ Machhi ,” Donald sighed. “You ask the most obvious questions. Use your common sense- da .” “I am using every ounce of my common sense,” I said. “I still can’t fathom what anyone would do if he makes a billion dollars by the time he is 10. I suppose he’ll become a monk and go live in a cave in the Himalayas.” “Don’t be silly,” Donald said. “With financial security assured for the rest of his life, Mickey will be able to afford going to a decent school, enjoy a normal childhood, and learn at his own pace without worrying about exams, grades, college admissions or job prospects.” Talk about planning for your child’s future. I immediately filled in the online application form at Blue Lungi and booked a slot on all their highest rated coding courses. So Kattabomman’s daily schedule now is quite packed. His day begins with his school’s nursery classes on Zoom, which are from 9 to 11 a.m. From 11 to 1, he is logged into Blue Lungi for C+, then after a one-hour break for lunch, bath, and the occasional, optional potty, it’s back to work with a Java class from 2 to 4, Python from 4 to 6, SQL from 6 to 8, followed by dinner break from 8 to 9, before rounding off the day with Swift, Scala and Delphi from 9 to 11. Kattabomman, as regular readers of this column would know, is an extremely fast learner. In fact, today I’ll be asking Donald to make sure Mickey is free at 9 p.m. next Friday. Why? Because Kattabomman is offering a special webinar for kids aged 6-8 years on ‘The Heuristic Evaluation of Nested Asynchronous Loops for Discrete Optimisation of Representational State Transfer in CRUD-based GUI’. In case any of you know of a start-up accelerator program for nursery kidtrepreneurs, do drop me a mail.  I immediately filled in the online application form at Blue Lungi and booked a slot on all their highest rated coding courses. So Kattabomman’s daily schedule now is quite packed
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How Instagram is shaping lives, now with Facebook’s help||America’s first telegram went out in 1844. The technology revolutionised messaging in unimaginable ways. Nearly 166 years later in 2010 came Instagram, blending ‘Instant’ and ‘Telegram’. Soon, it transformed social messaging in myriad ways, creating new habits, vocations and economies and in that process powering the attention economy. It’s this incredible journey that journalist Sarah Frier profiles in No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram . Like most recent works on social media giants and tech-economy products, No Filer is a racy read. The closest comparison can be Steven Levy’s Facebook: The Inside Story . As much as Levy’s Facebook is the story of Mark Zuckerberg, No Filter is the story of Kevin Systrom, Instagram’s ace co-founder. The startup culture Frier maps Systrom’s struggles and success meticulously. In the process, she unravels a portrait of America’s new nerd culture — its surreal surroundings, fantasies, psychologies, ambitions of the key actors and their maniacal obsession for success and scale. From Facebook’s Zuckerberg to Twitter’s Jack Dorsey to Instagram’s Systrom and Mike Krieger, the commonalities are obvious and striking. They were groomed by the reigning philosophies of the Silicon Valley where most startups — more than 90% — die but those that survive rewrite history and human life in unforeseen and often alarming ways. Frier doesn’t apply any filters to her story. It is non-judgmental and non-partisan. Frier’s focus, however, is not on the impact Instagram has on society. Like Levy, she too is mesmerised (and wants us to, too) by the nail-biting, edge-of-the-seat and eventful lifecycle of the product, which makes the book a riveting read. She presents Instagram’s success story as one of great timing. It was born in Silicon Valley, in the midst of a mobile revolution, in which millions of new smartphone consumers didn’t understand what to do with a camera in their pockets, she notes. But it was the counterintuitive choices that Systrom and Krieger made that set Instagram apart.  Reason behind sell-off But that was not to last long enough. Facebook, in an eye-popping $1 billion cash and shares deal — which became a “historic bargain in corporate acquisition history” — acquired Instagram in 2012. That was Facebook’s biggest acquisition then. Known for the predatory way it bought and dissolved rivals, Facebook, many of Instagram’s wellwishers feared, could strip the app into multiple entities and eventually bury it. But that didn’t happen. Instagram is among Facebook’s most important assets and has more than a billion active monthly users. The numbers are growing. Facebook couldn’t cannibalise Instagram. In 2019, Instagram posted about $20 billion in revenues. That was more than a quarter of Facebook’s overall sales. Instagram became as big as its founders thought it would become. That’s why they sold it to Facebook. But in that process, it also added features, characters and content that made it become, according to critics, a cultural icon or a cult that exerts all kinds of wrong influence on people. It became so pretentious that it was termed the opium of the asses, eventually leading to the exit of Systrom and Krieger over how Facebook throttled their autonomy.   Frier hints at such transformations, but doesn’t go the whole hog. She ends the Instagram story with a detailed account of how the $1 billion acquisition by Facebook changed the way the photo-sharing app had been functioning and how its philosophies and work culture were tweaked. As a former Instagram executive put it, “Everything breaks at a billion.” Instagram’s post-billion story is yet to be told. For everything else about the app, this is by far the best read.  No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram  Sarah Frier  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 566 (Kindle price)
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On August 16, 1858, U.S. President James Buchanan inaugurated the first transatlantic telegraph cable by exchanging greetings with a lady on the other side of the ocean. The message he sent fittingly said ‘It is a triumph more glorious, because far more useful to mankind, than was ever won by conqueror on the field of battle.’ Who was the person who received this message (after whom that time period is named)? 2French engineer brothers Claude and Ignace Chappe invented the semaphore, an optical system that relayed messages from hilltop to hilltop using telescopes. This series of two-arm towers between cities could signal all the letters of the French alphabet as well as some numbers. The French statesman André François Miot de Mélito gave the semaphore its more popular name when he put together two Greek words to make the word ‘télégraphe’. What do ‘tele’ and ‘graphein’ mean in Greek? 3Alfred Vail was central in developing the telegraph along with Samuel Morse. He was in charge of building and managing several early telegraph lines and adding the ‘send’ key. His vital contribution was the dots and dashes of the code (which have remained unchanged till today), that came about because of his visit to a printer. What information did the printer give him that helped him design the code? 4Noor Inayat Khan was the first female wireless operator to be sent from the U.K. into occupied France to aid the French Resistance during World War II. A follower of Gandhian principles, she wanted to help defeat the Nazis. She became a spy and was a huge asset to the Allied forces. Unfortunately, she was betrayed and executed at the age of 30. In 2019, she became the first woman of Indian origin to get a certain honour in the U.K. Her house in Bloomsbury was given a permanent sign that celebrated her life. What is this honour that is named for its colour and for the type of object it is? 5Founded in 1851, the New York and Mississippi Valley Printing Telegraph Companyworked with the goal of creating one great telegraph system. It was later renamed and by 1900 operated more than a million miles of telegraph lines. Eventually, it became the first company to maintain its own fleet of geosynchronous communications satellites. What is the modern name of this company, which in India is mostly used for Money Transfer operations? 6Telegraph use increased with the invention of the duplex circuit, which allowed messages to travel simultaneously in opposite directions on the same line. In 1874, an American inventor made it better by designing a double duplex called a quadruplex. It enabled the company to efficiently use its existing lines to meet seasonal increases in message traffic, and to lease excess capacity for private lines. The company tried to hire this inventor, but he declined and went on to invent other things. Who was he? 7William O’Shaughnessy was an assistant surgeon with the East India Company. Completely unaware of Morse’s work in the U.S., in 1833 he set up a 22-km-long demonstration telegraph system near Calcutta that relied on a coded number of shocks transmitted from an induction coil for reception by the hands of an operator. What was unique about his system was that he used only 18 km of wires but employed a naturally available flowing resource to transmit the electricity, thereby getting a continuous circuit. What did he use to complete the circuit, which if tried now might cause alarm to environmentalists? 8The most notable modern use of Morse code was by U.S. Navy pilot Jeremiah Denton when in 1966, after more than a year into imprisonment in Vietnam, he was forced to participate in a video. Though not saying anything verbally, he managed to convey toNaval Intelligence that he was being tortured. He disguised his clever message by acting as if the lights were too bright. How did Denton manage to get his message across? 9The Morse code for ‘SOS’ is three short dots (S), three long dashes (O) and three short dots (S). For a particular event, old Nokia phones play a sequence of three short dots, two longer dashes and three short dots. What does this spell out? 10During World War II, whenever the BBC broadcast news about British victories, they would play Beethoven’s iconic Vth symphony. This is the tune that starts ‘duh-duh-duh-daaa’. Coincidentally, this also happens to be the Morse code for a letter that was fitting for the occasion as it boosted morale among soldiers, was part of Winston Churchill’ signature publicity stunt and was in fact the name of the piece. What letter are the beginning notes of the piece code for? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for the big names?||More often than not, I’m wearing my airpods when I’m making rotis or chopping vegetables — tasks that seem to stretch under lockdown. My family learned quickly that my meal prep routine was sustained by podcast listening. Interruptions were likely to result in mis-shapen and charred phulkas or over-salted subzi . And I figure I’m not the only one who’s listening longer, and to a wider range of content while waiting for the hours to pass before life returns to what we used to call normal. Industry analysts estimate that podcast audiences have jumped considerably since the start of the pandemic. The CEO of HubHopper Gautam Raj Anand pegged the rise to as much as 30%, across platforms, in the early days of lockdown, also noting a jump of 70-80% in content creation during this period. But like much else, not all podcasts are created equal. Some have the heft of a Big Name and others come with an enviable history. July saw two big events in the US podcasting world, both offering a sense of just how serious a business streamed audio has become. The first was the $25 million acquisition of Serial Productions by The New York Times , and the launch of a new mini-series under this partnership. [Quick refresher: Serial, hosted by Sara Koenig, is the true-crime podcast that is credited with ushering in the era of committed listenership.] Riveting storytelling The new show, Nice White Parents , is an in-depth examination by reporter Chana Joffe-Walt of how the American public school system has been shaped by a group that has effectively abandoned the idea of integration — middle class white parents. It’s a provocative assumption, and one that Joffee-Walt teases out through archival research and oral history, making for some riveting storytelling, even if one may question some of the conclusions she draws. The other big news was the launch of a Spotify exclusive: The Michelle Obama Podcast, which launched on July 28. Designed as a series of intimate conversations between the former US First Lady and those in her circle of friends and family, the series allows Obama to reflect “on life after the White House, finding her truth, and the relationships that have shaped her.” The episodes that have dropped since the launch have featured conversations with former President Barrack Obama and NPR journalist Michele Norris. In each episode, Obama and her guest engage in a relaxed, free-wheeling exchange that opens up a variety of themes, from individual responsibility to the power of community networks to parenting and — of course — becoming , in the fullest sense of the word. In the first episode, the Obamas manage to resist nostalgia as they look back on childhood and the influence of parenting styles, while in the second, the two old friends smoothly weave between discussing family routines under the lockdown to the continuing tragedy of racism in American society. Nurturing & reflective Given the success of her memoir Becoming , and the Netflix documentary that followed it, Michelle Obama’s saleability as a media presenter was not in much doubt, and Spotify has capitalised on her persona as a nurturing, reflective individual who is much more than a cardboard celebrity figure. While one can be cynical about media packaging and the commodification of personality, there’s much to enjoy about The Michelle Obama Podcast. It’s relaxed and thoughtful — and it’s the ideal soundtrack for dinner prep. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Built to grow||A story goes that three men engaged in laying bricks responded differently when asked what they were doing: one said he was merely laying a brick; the second said he was building a wall; the third proudly smiled and said he was building a cathedral. A variant of this story, which appears in Above and Beyond: How to Build Impactful Businesses , possibly best describes the ethos of such an organisation. Valuable anecdotes The authors argue that a business with a larger purpose, beyond just profitability and excellence, gives it a greater chance of endurance and success. Once the purpose is clearly articulated, it is easier to get people aligned to the goal. Young entrepreneurs with dreams of building institutions, as much as seasoned businessmen, who want to take stock of where they are, will derive valuable lessons from the book. To help them identify where in the journey their companies and employees are, the authors neatly lay out the evolutionary phases of both organisations and people — from seeking profitability or merely a job, to making a difference. Anecdotes from the authors’ own working lives make it easy to understand the truisms they bring forth. Case in point is that of Lakshmi, a regional accountant in a private bank. She had flagged some bills from regional managers that did not ‘look right’ to her. Her manager, with whom she had had some friction, was furious that she was throwing a spanner in the works merely because someone just ‘bent the rules’. Told to pass the bills, Lakshmi ended up asking herself if this was where she wanted to be in her career. This is one of the examples that set the authors thinking as to how the Indian subsidiary of Germany’s Widia was different — as a maker of tungsten carbide cutting tools — from other companies. (All three authors had worked in Widia India.) A humorous jibe the authors take at a popular acronym evokes a smile but also signals what red flags to watch out for: if your employees are relieved at the end of the week, saying ‘TGIF — thank God it’s Friday’ — then something is not right with your organisation. Widia India was not content with supplying the right tools. Others were already doing that. It wanted to help customers with technical inputs to use the tools for better output. Note the difference between making money from selling a useful product and the pursuit of a larger goal in which sales naturally occurred. And to boot, a vision statement alone does not make a company. People do. Employees find meaning when they work in a secure atmosphere that allows questioning the management freely and in which ideas come out uninhibited. The creation of an entire division in Widia, which emerged from a young engineer’s wild suggestion, exemplifies this. What niggles the reader is the question of objectivity as the authors use the evolution of Widia India as the basis for the book, while that of other employees in the company serve as the proof of good practices in play. But the honesty of the writers inspires a counter: ‘Who better than the authors themselves to show you how companies ought to be built?’  Above and Beyond: How to Build Impactful Businesses  R. Srinivasan, Shrihari Udupa, R. Mukund  Notion Press  Rs. 600
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Back with a bang||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Surprise! Surprise! Pleasantsurprise! Mr. Mathrubootham has returned like MGR with new audio in superhit film Kaavalkaran . Whether people in your esteemed office are already running away shouting old man has returned, escape escape!? One hundred percent this is the truth. Don’t put lies morning itself. All editors in India are lying worse than Charles Sobhraj. You also please don’t start ok? Ok. Last one month what happened to Mr. Mathrubootham? Has he vanished from face of the earth? Whether he has shifted to overseas? Maybe he has joined Madras underworld? Wrong wrong, thousand times wrong. Suddenly one story is coming to mind. Shall I tell? I will tell. This is very old story. Back during Bank of India days when I was manager in Periyakottai branch. Or maybe Alapatti branch? Memory is going. So, I am sitting in the manager cabin and enjoying executive experience. Just two-three months after promotion. Nice luxury feeling. Ceiling fan is working. Two-three nice paperweights on table. One money-plant type plant in the corner. Chair means with cushion and all. Every five minutes peon coming to ask manager you want anything saar? I will say nothing nothing. After five minutes again he will come and ask. I will say no thanks. After two-three weeks I told him if he steps inside my office again I will throw paperweight what nonsense is this? Manager cabin or Guruvayoor temple for people to come and go anytime? Suddenly one day one man is walking quickly into branch and coming directly to my cabin. I said, excuse me, what is the matter. He said, sir, myself local industrialist, planning to build big house. Whether any house loan is available? I said, welcome sir, you are in Bank of India branch, relax and enjoy. We are giving house loan like vegetable shop is giving sambar vegetables. You please give me all details. He sat for 45 minutes and gave full details of family, business, education, house plan and elevation, number of bedrooms, etc. I thought shabaash Mathrubootham, you will easily meet monthly target with this customer. In between ennamo noises are coming from outside market. I said, sir, let me go and check. He said, excuse me, I am a busy businessman, no time to see market circus. You please give loan details. Then, while I am telling interest rate, he suddenly stood up and said, very good, Bank of India is my final choice. My office will contact in two-three days. He took my visiting card and left. Ten minutes later another visitor is in my cabin. It is SI from local police station. What happened I asked? He said someone has stolen necklace from nearby jewellery shop and run off. Did you see one man? I said, what man? He said, man is wearing blue check shirt. I said, one businessman came wearing blue check shirt, but he was businessman. He said, thief is wearing green pants. I said, businessman is also wearing green pants but must be coincidence. Then SI said, he is carrying one manja pai , necklace is inside. I said, businessman is also carrying one manja pai . SI said bloody fool, whether any businessman will carry manja pai ? I said, thank you for information, but man left just 10 minutes ago. SI got very angry. I said, sir please sit and relax, shall I get tea and bajji? He said, ok. Madam/ Sir, this is one and only interaction between Mr. Mathrubootham and underworld. But I forgot to tell main story. What happened for one month? For one month we are staying in neighbour Dr. Shankaramenon’s flat. Poor fellow is getting middle of the night heart trouble. Whether children can come from abroad? Never. Because of Corona. So both of us decided to take care of old friend. Madam/ sir, what and all adventure happened in Dr. Shankaramenon’s house. I will write in next letter ok? Ok.  Yours in criminal conspiracy,   J. Mathrubootham
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Gaming the lockdown fads||There is a growing sense of panic in me when I hear rumours that our PM may be speaking on TV again. My fear is that the lockdown may be fully lifted, and I still don’t know where on earth to get a “sourdough starter” or what is Dalgona coffee. I’m afraid I may have given my Facebook pals the impression that I had whipped up these lockdown rages. Neither did I attempt railway cutlets or Mulligatawny soup from the Anglo-Indian recipes group I joined — after commenting “Making these rightaway!”, I took a nap rightaway. Back in the day, when the “Mask” was only a Jim Carrey film, we never imagined a mask would become compulsory wear. So I told many people that I was all set to make designer masks. But about one million faster-thinking entrepreneurs beat me to it — including a jeweller from Gujarat who is now putting beautiful diamond chains across masks and selling them for lakhs apiece. Nor has my idea for designer T-shirts with clever lines gone anywhere. “Stay 6ft away or go 6 ft under” is still in my scribbling pad. Spicing up I am terrified I will be found out for more false impressions I have inadvertently put out there. Like pretending my tray of balcony-grown micro-greens are thriving and that I put them in salads every day, when actually they died in a heavy downpour — immediately after I proudly posted the first signs of tiny green sprouts on Instagram. Anything looks better in a tight close-up (except nostrils, which are what I see most of the time in some Zoom birthday parties I have been attending). The close-ups of Irish roasted potatoes got 48 likes in an hour! And with comments like “Wow, you’ve become pro chef now”, I live in dread that someone will find that image on Pinterest. But I admit I am a real liar for posting the 10 favourite books on my shelf, ever since my literary friends challenged me to it on Facebook. I found out we can easily Google famous book covers, so I immediately put up Of Mice and Men and made such a huge impression around the world (“wow, you love Steinbeck too?”) when I am wondering, “now what exactly did he write about”? Must Google him fast. I’m guilty I bluffed that I am joining online tutorials on Tarot card reading, prompting emojis of claps galore. My Yoga master thinks I do six surya namaskars a day, when actually the real surya does a namaskar to me, as I sit lazily on my balcony, catching up with WhatsApp gossip. indubee8@yahoo.co.in
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ticket to travails||The other day, while booking a train ticket online in the comfort of home, my thoughts went back to January 1965 when I had my first experience of booking one. It was for my elder brother who had to go to Delhi for an interview. There was a long row of ticket counters at the Madras Central Station, and the entire process was done manually. For booking a ticket for a particular train, you had to approach a particular window. Behind these windows sat the booking clerks on stilted chairs. They would write down particulars such as name, age and sex of the passenger in a heavy ledger. Then they would pull out the ticket from a slot in the shelf in front of them and start scrawling once again in the limited space available the details recorded in the ledger. If a clerk takes a break, your wait prolongs. Every day, the windows opened at 6 a.m., but people would queue up from 4 a.m. Nomads who stayed in tents on a ground near the Central Station area made good money by selling positions in queues. Even if you succeed in getting your ticket booked, only on seeing your name on the passenger list pasted on the coach could you be sure of a berth. I had witnessed fights between passengers as the booking clerk had mistakenly allotted one berth to two. Ultimately, one would get the berth, and the other would share the floor of the coach with cockroaches and mice. The one question people those days often asked was, “Do you know anyone in railway reservation?” A friend of mine got a job in a big private concern just because he mentioned in the interview that his father was a railway booking clerk. Members on the interview panel exchanged meaningful glances and declared in unison, “You are selected.” mr.m.r.anand@gmail.com
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety denied||Thanks for today’s deal goes to Larry Cohen and his great web site — larryco.com. The auction above is a possible route to six hearts — a pretty good contract despite only 26 combined high-card points. South wins the opening club lead in dummy and leads a low trump. East follows with the two and declarer must decide what to do. The safety play in the trump suit is to play low, guarding against East holding all three of the missing trumps. Should this play lose to West, the ace of hearts will draw the last trump later and declarer can then take the spade finesse for his contract. But is that the right play here? We don’t think so. Declarer should rely on the normal 2-1 split in trumps in order to greatly improve his chance to pick up the spade suit without a loser. South should play his ace of hearts and is in great shape when West follows. He should then lead a diamond to dummy’s king, ruff dummy’s remaining club, and then cash two more diamonds. He can then exit with a trump. Should West win the trump, as in this deal, it is all over. West must yield a ruff-sluff or lead a spade into declarer’s king-jack. Should East win the trump, he would also have to lead a spade rather than give a ruff-sluff. South plays low from his hand and makes the contract whenever East has either the queen or the 10 of spades. If it turns out that East has the last trump and both spade honors are with West, South can go talk it over with Hard Luck Louie. The contract was not makeable on that lie of the cards with normal play
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘This port does not exist’||Enter a sea which lacks detail like glass./ take your emptied mind there — to the deep”: these opening lines of ‘The Deep’ read like an invitation to the deep sea rooms that are the poems in Shorelines. Adil Jussawalla’s poems take us not just to the shoreline of Bombay but also to other connected shorelines, and an entire spectrum of timelines — past, present and future. Shorelines and timelines coalesce in this work, becoming “rooms that share a door”. And really, why should they remain separate when the imagination sees them as one? All castaways The title poem does its work of stage-setting with minimum fuss. Jussawalla casts his opening dice with crisp, clear images — “a new moon rising in rain”, “a shore buttressed with shanties” and “a woman in a doorway” who says, “We’re all castaways here”. Poems work by planting insidiously that one line or image in your head that you know you won’t be able to shake off. The poems in Shorelines are big-time offenders in that respect, their precise, lyrical lines and maritime images folding you into their universe from the word go. “We’re all castaways here” is one of many such lines, a line that occurs again in ‘Castaway City’ except this time it is “someone in passing” who says it to the narrator. The poems are peppered as much by people-portraits and conversations as they are by seas, ships and harbours. The live ammunition that is Aunt Janu now silenced by a stroke, the quixotic shipbuilder Wadia, the poets Byron and Yeats are all part of Jussawalla’s canvas. They come and go easily, leaving behind their distinct presence. The sea, of course, forms the centrepiece — the sea with other shorelines beyond this one, the deep sea with fish “dangling from a trawl line’s hooks/ like a drowned city’s lamps”, the sea at Den Haag which has no horizon, even a cousin who is “overseas”. The figure of the castaway, shipwrecked and stranded, not so much in Bombay — that archipelago of islands — but in the island space of the mind full of other castaways is the trope around which the poems arrange themselves. Past sailing Abandonment and the comradeship between castaways is what many of these poems appear to be about. They form the emotional centre of the work and play out in poems such as ‘The Days’: “His mother goes alone./ She won’t be coming back./ Each day ends like this:/ she won’t be coming back.” Even ports and harbour masters can turn their backs on people and disappear, as we see in ‘A Message from the Harbour Master’: “This number does not exist./ This port does not exist./ They should have told you.” Jussawalla gets his maritime images to do the work of storytelling. ‘Navigation Marks’ begins with references to beacons, bell buoy, floats and yachts but goes on to describe a different sort of navigation altogether — the “unmapped tracks” of a druggie who makes “sounds that belong/ to lands nobody knows,/ not in this world,/ past sailing, past understanding”. These poems are a kind of navigation, their course charted as though from a dream. The reviewer is a professor of English at IIT Madras. Her latest book is the poetry collection,The Unmistakable Presence of Absent Humans.  Shorelines  Adil Jussawalla  Paperwall  Rs. 250    The poems are peppered as much by people-portraits and conversations as they are by seas, ships and harbours
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Pink Line: Journeys Across the World’s Queer Frontiers||Mark Gevisser  HarperCollins  Rs. 699 Six years in the making, this book follows protagonists from nine countries all over the globe to tell the story of how LGBT Rights became one of the world’s new human rights frontiers in the second decade of the twenty-first century.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Muscular India||Michiel Baas  Context/Westland  Rs. 699 After spending a decade studying gyms, trainers and bodybuilders, Baas finds in them a new way to investigate India. He walks readers through the homes and workspaces of these men and also into their most intimate worlds of ambitions, desires and struggles.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Rules of Contagion||Adam Kucharski  Profile Books/Hachette  Rs. 599 A professor working on global outbreaks like the Ebola epidemic offers insights into human behaviour and explains how we can get better at predicting what happens next. He explores how innovations spread and why useful predictions aren’t necessarily the ones that come true.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3113||Across  1Dear Dandelion, unusual Victorian novel (6,7) 8 ‘Well ... well ...’; that’s indifferent (2-2) 9 Irascibility shown by US solider eating steak on headland (10) 10 Stick commercial in this place (6) 11 Unveiling – not very excitedly – some pasta (8) 12 Sucks it up again, uneasily sore with barbs (9) 14 Heaven’s, they say, a Scottish island (4) 15 Fire axe (4) 16 Fat ... warrior at heart ... criminal; a little celebrated in this country? (5,4) 20 Writer not beginning to describe capture in game (8) 21 Heartless orc in long book, not present-day (2,4) 23 Exhibitions, ones that impart finer vision (10) 24 Recalled Michelangelo mixing a little spot of pigment (4) 25 Small dog. Brown, perhaps. Conked out in French mountain (6,7)  Down  1 Risky opening with backgammon piece (2-2-3) 2 Not a soul with energy after midday (2,3) 3 Artist’s joy (mostly) rising about cobalt (2,5) 4 As a product of Smith and Wesson might be? (6-9) 5 Regret sports lesson, having torn around (6) 6 Granny gets food, eating trout for starters somewhere in Massachusetts (9) 7 Cab seen, unusually: it’s a scarcity (7) 13 Invest in figurative painter that might come from Tamworth (4,5) 15 Struggled with piano replacing Latin quintet in bands (7) 17 Scratching head, prejudiced craftsman (7) 18 On location for filming, ‘attended’ fictional court (7) 19 Primarily, something African fauna adjudge ‘really irritating’? (6) 22 Oddly claim ‘Hero’s a small role’ (5)
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||snippets||The U.S. Democratic Party’s presidential nominee, Joe Biden, announced that California senator and former State attorney general Kamala Harris, 55, would be his running mate, following a long and drawn-out selection process in which many names were touted. Harris, born to immigrant parents from Jamaica and Tamil Nadu, is the first woman of colour to be the vice-presidential candidate for a major U.S. political party.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Rape trial||The Kottayam Additional Sessions Court framed rape charges against Franco Mulakkal, the Catholic bishop of Jalandhar, who is accused of sexually abusing a nun in Kerala between 2014 and 2016. Hearings are due to start on September 16. The nun first filed a complaint with the police in June 2018, but trial has been repeatedly deferred in the highly publicised case.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Indori no more||Eminent Urdu poet, lyricist and songwriter Rahat Indori, known for his fearless and evocative couplets, passed away on Tuesday at an Indore hospital. Indori, 70, had tested positive for COVID-19 and suffered two heart attacks. His couplets — such as ‘Sabhi ka khoon hai shamil yahan ki mitti mein/kisi ke baap ka Hindustan thodi hai’ — were used widely during the anti-CAA protests.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ruthless response||Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko cracked down hard on ongoing mass protests against alleged vote rigging in the recent presidential election, which he won with over 80% of the vote. More than 6,000 people were arrested and at least two died, with the police deploying tear gas, water cannon and, later, live ammunition. The main opposition candidate, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, was forced to flee to Lithuania.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Aftershocks||Lebanon’s government, led by Prime Minister Hassan Diab (above), resigned in response to public anger at the neglect and corruption that led to the recent detonation in Beirut. More than 2,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a port warehouse exploded on August 4, killing more than 200 people. President Michel Aoun asked the government to stay on in a caretaker capacity until a new cabinet is formed.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Cautious truce||The feud between the factions led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot (above), which caused a rift within Rajasthan’s Congress government, looked to have been patched up. An uneasy truce was declared as Pilot, reportedly persuaded by the party’s top leadership, called off his revolt and was welcomed back. Gehlot urged MLAs to “forgive and forget” even as things stayed somewhat tense.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Tangled web||The Centre told the Supreme Court that 4G Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir — suspended for over a year — would resume on a trial basis in two districts, one in Jammu and one in the Valley. These will be districts where terrorist activities are considered to be “low intensity”, and the government will review the situation after two months.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Violent clash||Three people were killed in a police firing in Bengaluru, after a crowd torched cars outside Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house. Violence spread to other areas, with 2,000 rioters on the streets; 110 were arrested and 60 policemen injured. This was triggered by a Facebook post by Murthy’s nephew P. Naveen, reportedly insulting Islam.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Sudden death||Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi, 52, a national spokesperson for the party, collapsed minutes after he had appeared virtually from his Ghaziabad home for a TV debate. He was pronounced dead in hospital after medical efforts failed. Senior party leaders expressed their condolences, while Youth Congress President Srinivas B.V. alleged on Twitter that Tyagi had suffered a heart attack after being attacked and called names during the debate.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||To You, With Love||Shravya Bhinder  Penguin Metro Reads Rs. 250 Sahil and Arya are like chalk and cheese: while Sahil is a carefree brat, Arya is reserved and shy. Naturally, they are attracted to each other. As their lives unravel, an uncomfortable truth about Arya’s life is revealed. Will their love survive the revelation and what it brings in its trail?
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Death of Vivek Oji||Akwaeke Emezi  Riverhead Books Rs. 2,160 Raised by a distant father and an overprotective mother in a Nigerian town, Vivek suffers moments of disconnection between self and the surroundings. He finds solace in his worldly, confident cousin, Osita, but they end up committing an act of unforgivable violence.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Antkind||Charlie Kaufman  Fourth Estate Rs. 1,358.86 (Kindle price) B. Rosenberger Rosenberg, neurotic and underappreciated film critic, chances upon a hitherto unseen film. B makes it his mission to show the film to the world. The only problem: the film is destroyed, leaving B to recreate the lost masterwork in a world which hardly understands its merit.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How Much of these Hills is Gold||C. Pam Zhang  Hachette Rs. 699 This Booker longlisted novel is the story of two siblings, Lucy and Sam, who make their way in the American West in the twilight of the Gold Rush, encountering a cast of sinister characters. Greed and wealth are the new gods: the siblings must come to terms with them and with each other.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Making India Great||Aparna Pande  HarperCollins  Rs. 599 This volume examines challenges India faces in social, economic, military and foreign policy areas. Pande points to the dichotomy that lies at the heart of the nation: the belief in becoming a global power and the reluctance to implement policies that would help to achieve that goal.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||T cell immunity prevents recurrent severe COVID-19 disease||Natural exposure or infection with the novel coronavirus may “prevent recurrent episodes of severe COVID-19”, a paper published in Cell says. This is because, once infected with SARS-CoV-2, the immune system elicits “robust, broad and highly functional memory T cell responses”. The study published by a team led by Marcus Bugger from Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden, found SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells even in family members who have been exposed to the virus but have tested negative on antibody blood tests. SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells were also seen in convalescent individuals with a history of asymptomatic infection and mild COVID-19 disease. Robust responses All categories of people — recovered from moderate or severe COVID-19 disease, or in the convalescent phase after mild or severe disease or exposed family members or healthy people — exhibited “robust memory T cell responses months after infection, even in the absence of detectable circulating antibodies specific for SARS-CoV-2”, they write. They were able to detect similar memory T cell responses directed against the internal and surface proteins (membrane and/or spike) of the virus in some people in whom SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies could not be detected. This indicates a “previously unanticipated degree of population-level immunity against COVID-19”, they note. This implies that seroprevalence as an indicator may underestimate the extent of immunity in the population, they note. “The dissociation of antibody (its absence) and a robust T cell response is noteworthy. It reinforces how much we miss by focusing on antibodies out of convenience, since T cells response is only assessed in research labs,” Eric Topol, Scripps Research Director and Founder, Scripps Research Translational Institute, says in a tweet. The phenotype of the memory T cells during the acute phase of infection was different from the convalescent phase SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells, which were “polyfunctional and displayed a stem-like memory”. Studies undertaken in rhesus macaques had found that once infected, the animals were fully protected from reinfection. Till date, no documented case of reinfection has been found in people anywhere in the world, whether they had recovered from mild or severe COVID-19 disease or even been asymptomatically infected. While many have been focusing on induction of neutralising antibodies, antibodies may not be detectable in those who have had mild or asymptomatic infection. At the same time, while SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells have been identified in humans, the kind of T cell immune response connected with clinical course of the diseases and serostatus was not known. To address this lacuna, Dr Bugger’s team characterised different T cells in 206 people in Sweden with known clinical outcomes and serostatus. Clear segregation They found a “clear segregation” between memory T cells from patients who have recovered from moderate or severe disease, and convalescent individuals and healthy blood donors. The SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells also acquired an early differentiated memory phenotype in the convalescent phase, which gives the T cells stem-like properties characterised by extensive proliferation and polyfunctionality. The study has some limitations, though. Since it is a small study with limited clinical follow-up, it is not known if robust memory T cell responses, when circulating antibodies can be detected, can indeed lead to protection against severe COVID-19 disease. However, both 2002 SARS and MERS have been able to induce potent memory T cell responses that persist even when antibody responses wane. Adaptive immunity Even as antibodies wane with time, robust T cell memory formed after SARS-CoV-2 infection suggests that “potent adaptive immunity is maintained to provide protection against severe re-infection”. Like the team from La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, California, Dr. Bugger’s team too found pre-existing cross-reactive memory T cell against spike or membrane proteins in 28% of the unexposed healthy blood donors. The pre-existing cross-reactive memory T cells are from previous exposures to common cold coronaviruses, and the biological relevance remains unclear. “But it is tempting to speculate that such responses may provide at least partial protection against SARS-CoV-2, and different disease severity,” they write.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Every child is a scientist, keenly observant and natural||At the recently held ‘Virtual Consultation on Science for Resilience, Food, Nutrition and Livelihoods: Contemporary Challenges’, organised by the M S Swaminathan Research Foundation, a particularly relevant talk on science education was delivered by Bruce Alberts of the University of California at San Francisco, U.S. The theme was science communication - particularly relevant now, with the new National Education Policy to be put in practice soon. Small s, big S Prof. Alberts is famous across the world for his involvement in science communication and has served as the Editor-in-Chief of the journal Science. His book ‘Molecular Biology of the Cell’, is a ‘bible’ of every biology graduate student. Let me give some key points from his lecture at the above meeting.  Before turning to science education, Prof. Alberts reminded us of what the physicist Pierre Hohenburg said: “The activity of a scientist is science with a lower case, or “s”, while the upper case (or capital) “S” emerges from “s” as a collective public knowledge – universal and free from contradiction, only after repeatedly tested by independent scientific investigators”. (Unless a claim by a scientist is verified to be reproducible by other scientists using the same procedure, it is but a claim and not true). For example, Norman Borlaug’s discovery that the Mexican dwarf variety of wheat plants offer higher yields was independently tested and proved to be true by M S Swaminathan; this led to the Green Revolution in India; or ‘s’ became “S”, and a publicly acknowledged and accepted practice for societal value. This is also referred to as translational research (Of course, “s” here refers to all areas of STEM, medicine, agriculture and social sciences as well). Turning to science education, Prof. Alberts started with the statement that every child is a scientist. How true! Be she/he a baby or a school-going one, the child is aware of the immediate environment, the people, animals, plants and trees nearby, the soil and the dirt around. The child is keenly observant. Information gathering is natural to her/him. It is to promote this ability and allow it to flourish that the so-called ‘white sox’ experiment was introduced in several schools. White sox experiment This involved 5-year-old school going children in the US. Each of them is asked to take off the shoes, and walk with the white sox (part of the uniform) on their feet, and walk around the campus. They were then asked to collect the dark specks stuck on the white sox, and classify them: which are the seeds and which just dirt. The teacher then asked each student to analyse them using a low-cost microscope invented by Stanford University (Facebook Watch “The $1 microscope! By Jim and Manu”), and confirm whether their earlier conclusions on which were seeds and which dirt are correct or not. Many students confirmed by microscopic analysis that their earlier guess that the regularly shaped ones were indeed seeds. They could also check whether their friend’s guess was right by getting his/her sample and checking it out through microscopy. The white sox study is thus a simple set of experiments involving the use of technology, confirmation (or otherwise) of earlier gut-feeling, and peer review. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT), India, has been collaborating with Prakash Lab of Prof. Manu Prakash, to procure low-cost paper-folding microscopes and centrifuges to many students. (Watch a ted.com talk by Manu Prakash). Adapting in India Happily, India has many NGOs across the country, working in several languages, that attempt to popularise science, and the State and national science academies and governmental agencies too support such efforts. These groups can easily adapt the white sox experiments suited to local conditions. The media too can play a role in highlighting local efforts by students and innovators. Now, under the NEP, such innovative experiments should be taken up right through the 5+3+3+4 level and through universities in their graduate and higher degree programmes. And, as Krishna Kumar points out (“Schools without freedom”, in The Hindu, August 4) these must be planned and executed by the teachers familiar with the local environment, and not by official dictat. Useful resource For universities, a very useful resource is the book “Reaching students: what research says about effective instruction in undergraduate science and engineering”, by Nancy Kober, and the pdf version is freely available at www.nap.edu. And a new project by the World Science Academies: “Science driven by local action” is available through the Smithsonian Science Education Center (SSEC) upon writing to Dr. Carol O’Donnell at <O’Donnell@si.edu>. Special role for young academies of science Prof. Alberts also emphasises the need for academies for younger scientists, which can play a key role in this endeavour. To date, such young academies of science are set up in 40 countries, of which India, with its Indian National Young Academy of Science (INYAS) is one. Generally, young scientists are more easily accessible and accepted than ‘old fogies’. So, INYAS - here is your role! dbala@lvpei.org
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Fifty years ago, when the black hole whispers were first plotted||In August 1970, in a paper in Nature, relativist C. V. Vishveshwara first published a calculation and plot of the signal that would be given out by a single perturbed back hole. This was the disturbance, or gravitational wave, that would emerge from a black hole when it was hit by a bunch of radiation. It implied that when a black hole is struck, it gives off a sound like a bell, only that it muffles quickly – more like a wooden bell than a silver bell. When he did this calculation, Vishveshwara was a Research Associate at the Institute of Space Studies at New York. “Those were the times when the concept of the existence of black holes itself was not easily accepted. It took a couple of decades to believe in their existence,” recalls Saraswathi Vishveshwara, spouse of VIshveshwara, who is a professor emeritus at the Molecular Biology Unit of Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. Quasi-normal mode Many years later, Vishveshwara would tell his then PhD student, Rajesh Kumble Nayak, “You can disturb a black hole with anything and out comes this clean, well-defined signal.” This signal is what is known as the quasi-normal mode. In contrast with a normal mode, which can be a sine wave, which consists of a train of waves of the same amplitude (or height), this wave form looks like a wave of high amplitude followed by a series of waves with diminishing amplitude. Prof Nayak is now the head of Center of Excellence in Space Sciences, Kolkata. In January 2016, when LIGO’s big discovery – the first detection of the merger of binary black holes was to be announced, Vishveshwara and Prof Saraswathi were invited to IUCAA, Pune, where it was going to be live-streamed. “Although he was aware of LIGO efforts, he was neither actively involved in the experiments nor the numerical [activity] required to detect the signal,” says Prof. Saraswathi. “All the friends and well-wishers wanted to surprise him and were trying to hide what it was about… Soon after the LIGO finding was announced, they stopped the streaming and asked Vishu to say a few words. It was like a dream coming true for him.” For his PhD thesis, Vishveshwara had been given the problem of calculating the gravitational waves emanating from a black hole merger. Exactly what LIGO and other detectors have observed now. Halfway through his defense of the thesis, the examiner from the mathematics department raised a query - why should one bother to prove the stability of an object that was impossible to observe and was of doubtful existence in the first place? Visheshwara’s advisor took exception to this and a verbal wrangle followed. Relevant question But in Vishveshwara’s mind only one question remained - how do you observe a solitary black hole? To him, the answer was obvious. It had to be through scattering of radiation, provided the black hole left its finger print on the scattered wave. During the next years, as a postdoc, he arrived at the answer to this question.  “We have still not detected the spectrum of quasi-normal modes from these coalescing binary systems that Vishu predicted,” says Bangalore Sathyaprakash, professor at Penn State University, U.S., and a senior member of the LIGO Collaboration. He refers to the fact that LIGO and VIRGO have so far only detected with significance the inspiral and merger portions of gravitational waves from binary black holes but not similarly the quasi-normal modes from the remnant black hole. “But I am confident we will get there within the next 10 years.”
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Identifying brain damage hours after birth||“The piercing first cry of babies is not just a symbol of new life but a desperate puff for air... lack of oxygen to the brain for whatever reason can cause a wide range of neurological damages, and in some cases, even death,” explains Prof. C.N. Kamalarathnam from the Institute Of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Chennai. He was part of a team that has designed a new blood test to identify if a newborn baby deprived of oxygen at birth is at risk of developing neurological disabilities later. Such babies are known to have trouble in learning and hearing, low IQ, and even develop cerebral palsy. Gene activity The team collected blood samples soon after birth from 47 babies in India (Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram) who experienced this oxygen deprivation and studied their gene activity. They identified 855 genes that were “switched on or off” at the time of birth in the babies who had neurological disability later, compared to those who did not. They point out two genes named RGS1 and SMC4 which were the most significant .  “By identifying babies that have a different gene activity soon after birth, we can track down [those]who will have adverse outcomes and need specific care. This is a preliminary study and tests on larger cohorts are essential. The results suggest that such blood profiling may be a promising rapid and cheap tool in developing and underdeveloped countries,” adds lead author of the paper published in Scientific Reports, Dr. Paolo Montaldo from Imperial College, Centre for Perinatal Neuroscience, London, in a Skype call to The Hindu.  Hypothermia study This study was part of a trial called HELIX (Hypothermia for Encephalopathy in Low and middle-income countries). The study is being carried out in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, where the researchers examine the use of whole-body cooling in oxygen-deprived babies. “In India, after prematurity and infection, lack of oxygen to the brain is the cause of neonatal mortality or death within 28 days of birth. In Western countries, this therapeutic hypothermia or cooling is well documented and is even the standard care for such babies,” explains Dr.B.H. Prathik from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Bengaluru, an author of the paper. “Newborn babies’ body temperature is usually at 36.5 to 37.5 degrees Celsius. But in this treatment, they are wrapped in a small blanket of 33.5 degrees Celsius for 72 hours and gradually rewarmed. We are still studying if this method will work in our country and can help reduce mortality and neurological damage. The results are yet to be published,” he adds.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Smell matters||What causes body odour to smell pungent? Scientists have finally solved the mystery behind the armpit’s ability to produce the pungent smell of body odour. Bad odour in the armpit is mainly due to a mixture of volatile organic compounds with volatile fatty acids and thioalcohols being the primary components. Thioalcohols are found in trace amounts but are the most pungent. Thioalcohols are released as a by-product when certain bacteria (Staphylococcus hominis) convert compounds present in sweat. The role of the microbes in the armpit for the formation of body odour is well known. But the molecular mechanism of how the bacteria seen in armpits produce body odour was not known. Researchers at the University of York, U.K. traced the source of underarm odour to a particular enzyme in a certain microbe that lives in the human armpit. The enzyme converts a precursor alcohol to thioalcohols. The researchers found that the odour-producing bacteria have this enzyme, according to a study published in Scientific Reports. This gives the S. hominis bacteria the ability to produce thioalcohol, which was previously unknown. The understanding of how specific bacteria biochemically contribute to malodour in human armpits will help in developing more targeted strategies to inhibit body odour.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How will the Israel-UAE pact impact the Gulf?||The story so far: On Thursday, U.S. President Donald Trump announced that Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had reached a peace agreement. He tweeted a joint statement issued by the UAE, Israel and the U.S., and called the deal a “historic breakthrough” in Arab-Israel relations. Many countries, including the European powers and India, have welcomed it, while the Palestinian leadership as well as Turkey and Iran have lashed out at the UAE. What does the deal say? According to the joint statement, the UAE and Israel would establish formal diplomatic relations and in exchange, Israel would suspend its plans to annex parts of the occupied West Bank. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had earlier vowed to annex the Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The Trump administration, as part of the President’s peace plan announced in January, had backed the annexation plan despite international criticism. But now, as part of the agreement, Israel “will suspend declaring sovereignty over areas” of the West Bank and “focus its efforts on expanding ties with other countries in the Arab and Muslim world”. The statement also said delegations from Israel and the UAE would meet in the coming weeks to sign bilateral agreements regarding “investment, tourism, direct flights, security, telecommunications, technology, energy, healthcare, culture, the environment, the establishment of reciprocal embassies, and other areas of mutual benefit”. How significant is the deal for Arab-Israeli relations? It’s a landmark agreement given that the UAE is only the third Arab country and the first in the Gulf region to establish diplomatic relations with Israel. Arab-Israeli ties have historically been conflict-ridden. Arab countries, including Egypt, Transjordan, Syria and Iraq, fought their first war with Israel in 1948 after the formation of the state of Israel was announced. The war ended with Israel capturing more territories, including West Jerusalem, than what the UN Partition Plan originally proposed for a Jewish state. After that, Israel and Arab states fought three more major wars — the 1956 Suez conflict, the 1967 Six-Day War and the 1973 Yom Kippur War. After the 1967 war in which Israel captured the Sinai Peninsula and Gaza Strip from Egypt, East Jerusalem and the West Bank from Jordan and the Golan Heights from Syria, Arab countries convened in Khartoum and declared their famous three “‘Nos’ — no peace with Israel, no talks with Israel and no recognition of Israel”. But it did not last long. After the death of Egypt President Gamal Abdel Nasser, his successor Anwar Sadat started making plans to get Sinai back from Israel. His efforts, coupled with American pressure on Israel, led to the Camp David Accords of 1978. A year later, Israel and Egypt concluded their peace treaty, as part of which Israel withdrew from Sinai in return for Egyptian recognition. In 1994, Jordan became the second Arab country to sign a peace treaty with Israel. In 1988, after an initial agreement reached between the two countries collapsed, Jordan abandoned its claims to the West Bank and said it would accept a deal between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel. Following the Oslo Accords, under which the PLO recognised Israel and was allowed to form the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Gaza, time was ripe for an Israel-Jordan deal. The enmity between the two countries came to an end in July 1994 with the Washington Declaration on the White House lawn by Jordan’s King Hussein and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin under the watch of U.S. President Bill Clinton. The UAE-Israel agreement comes after 26 years. If more countries in the Gulf follow the UAE’s lead, it would open a new chapter in Arab-Israel ties. Why did the UAE sign the agreement? The old enmity between Arab countries and Israel has dissipated. The Sunni Arab kingdoms in the Gulf region such as Saudi Arabia and the UAE had developed backroom contacts with Israel over the past several years. One of the major factors that brought them closer has been their shared antipathy towards Iran. Both these blocs were wary of U.S. President Barack Obama’s Iran outreach. When Mr. Trump became the President, his administration brought these two blocs of West Asia, both American allies, together. In February 2019, the U.S. brokered a security conference in Warsaw to build a global strategy against Iran. The meeting brought leaders from Israel, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and several other countries. Following this conference, in August 2019, the U.S. arranged secret talks between the UAE and Israel. These meetings laid the foundations for the agreement. Arab countries have signalled that they are ready to live with Israel’s occupation of Palestine. What they do not want is a major change in the status quo which would put them under political and diplomatic pressure. Mr. Netanyahu’s plan to annex the West Bank would have drastically changed the status quo, further putting in peril the two-state solution. The UAE-Israel agreement has averted that outcome. It also allows Mr. Netanyahu to label the suspension of the annexation to his right-wing religious allies in the government as a victory. Further, this is an election year in the U.S. If a Democratic President comes to power and restores the Iran deal, both the Israeli and the Arab blocs in West Asia would come under pressure to live with an empowered Iran in what President Obama called “cold peace”. A formal agreement and enhanced security and economic ties make the Arab and Israeli sides better prepared to face such a situation. So there is a convergence of interests for the UAE, Israel and the U.S. to come together in the region. Where does it leave the Palestinians? Unlike the past two Arab-Israeli peace agreements, Palestinians do not figure prominently in the current one. When Egypt and Israel made peace, the latter agreed to return the Sinai back to Egypt and signed “A Framework for Peace in the Middle East” agreement, which promised the establishment of an autonomous self-governing authority in the West Bank and Gaza and called for the full implementation of the UNSC Resolution 242 that demanded Israeli withdrawal from the occupied territories. The Jordanian-Israeli treaty came after Israel agreed to the formation of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Gaza. But in the UAE-Israel deal, Israel has not made any actual concession to the Palestinians. The annexation plan was a threat. The withdrawal of the threat was packaged as a concession, which the Emiratis accepted. That is why Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said, “Who would have ever dreamed there would be a peace agreement with an Arab country without our returning to the 1967 borders?” The Palestinians are understandably upset. They called the UAE’s decision “treason”. What are the geopolitical implications of the deal? The agreement could fast-track the changes that are already under way in the region. The Saudi bloc, consisting of Egypt, the UAE, Bahrain and others, see their interests being aligned with that of the U.S. and Israel and their support for Palestine, which Arab powers had historically upheld, is dwindling, while Turkey and Iran emerge as the strongest supporters of the Palestinians in the Muslim world. This tripolar contest is already at work in West Asia. The UAE-Israel thaw could sharpen it further.  Arab countries have signalled that they are ready to live with Israel’s occupation of Palestine. What they do not want is a major change in the status quo which would put them under pressure
16 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Social distancing takes precedence on I-Day||Amid multilayered security and mandatory adherence to social distancing guidelines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hoisted the National Flag at the ramparts of Red Fort. However, unlike previous Independence Day celebrations, during which he used to break security protocols and meet schoolchildren, Mr. Modi this time waved his hand towards COVID-19 warriors and NCC cadets from inside the car while leaving Red Fort in his cavalcade. Following strict social distancing norms and avoiding the gathering of crowds, entry to Red Fort was only by invitation. Only 100 VVIPs were allowed to sit on the ramparts. The remaining VVIPs and diplomats were accommodated on the right side of the fort. The left side of the fort was reserved for corona warriors and NCC cadets. The chairs for guests were placed five feet apart and security personnel deployed inside the enclosure were instructed to ensure guests maintained social distancing and wore masks. A kit that contained a white towel, water bottle, hand gloves, sanitiser and mask was kept on each chair for the guests. Thermal screening The guests, mainly VVIPs and senior defence officers, were allowed entry only after thermal screening and hand sanitisation at entry point. The event was restricted for the general public. To meet any emergency situation or in case any guest had COVID-19 symptoms, four medical booths were set up around the premises. A senior police officer said the venue was sanitised early in the morning and all security personnel were briefed to maintain a high level of hygiene while dealing with guests. The security personnel at frisking points were instructed not to touch the guests and an extended handheld metal detector was used to avoid close contact. The members of the guard of honour had been put under quarantine ahead of the celebrations. A senior police officer said that Delhi Police had made multilayered arrangements in connection with the celebrations. All agencies worked in close coordination with each other to cater to all kinds of threat inputs. SWAT teams and Parakram vans had been strategically stationed. Delhi’s borders were also sealed.
16 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Political crisis casts shadow on I-Day celebrations in Rajasthan||The recent political crisis in Rajasthan cast its shadow on the celebrations marking the 74th Independence Day here on Saturday, with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot reiterating his charge that the BJP-led government at the Centre was weakening the democracy and the BJP leaders were misusing constitutional institutions to topple the governments in the Opposition-ruled States. Unfurling the Tricolour at different places in Jaipur, including Sawai Man Singh Stadium where the State-level function was organised, Mr. Gehlot called for keeping democracy intact and said the “divisive forces”, which had conspired to destabilise his government, had faced a “resounding defeat”. Congress leader Sachin Pilot was conspicuous by his absence in Jaipur on the Independence Day as he left for New Delhi after attending a special Assembly session. The Congress MLAs supporting Mr. Gehlot left for their respective constituencies and participated in the Independence Day functions. Mr. Gehlot hoisted the national flag first at his official residence and later at the Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters, Badi Chaupar in the Walled City, State Secretariat and Sawai Man Singh Stadium. He said though the governments would keep changing, everyone had the responsibility to ensure the existence of a robust democratic system.  Separate functions Governor Kalraj Mishra unfurled the Tricolour at Raj Bhavan and launched a plantation drive in the State’s universities. He planted a night jasmine saplingin the Raj Bhavan garden. Rajasthan High Court’s Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty hoisted the national flag at the Jaipur Bench of the Court, while Speaker C.P. Joshi unfurled the Tricolour on the State Assembly premises in the presence of Assembly Secretary Pramil Kumar Mathur and senior officials.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The verdict on women’s right to property||The story so far: On August 11, the Supreme Court of India held that daughters, like sons, have an equal right to inherit ancestral property. The legislation that conferred coparcenary status on women dates back to 2005, when the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 was amended. The verdict answers the question whether the coparcenary right of daughters comes into effect only if the father — through whom the right is claimed — was alive on the day the amendment came into force. The top court ruled that a daughter’s right flows from her birth and not by any other factor. What is coparcenary property in Hindu law? A Hindu joint family consists of lineal descendants of a common ancestor. In other words, a male head and his descendants, including their wives and unmarried daughters. A coparcenary is a smaller unit of the family that jointly owns property. A coparcenary consists of a ‘propositus’, that is, a person at the top of a line of descent, and his three lineal descendants — sons, grandsons and great-grandsons. Coparcenary property is named thus because the co-ownership is marked by “unity of possession, title and interest”. The English term itself is borrowed from common law, but the concept is found in Hindu law. In the Mitakshara school, which prevails in most parts of India, a male’s right to be a coparcener is by birth. But if a newborn male is the fifth lineal descendant — that is a great-great-grandson, while the common ancestor, his son, grandson and great-grandson are alive — the right to be included in the coparcenary will ripen only when the common ancestor dies. In other words, a coparcenary has succession up to four degrees of lineal descent. It is believed that this is based on the Hindu tenet that only males up to three degrees can offer spiritual ministration to ancestors. And only males can be coparceners. What was the traditional position and how was it changed by codified law? In Mitakshara law, on the death of a coparcener, his interest became merged with that of the surviving coparceners. Sons inherited property only by virtue of being or becoming coparceners. When the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, was enacted, this position was largely preserved by Section 6. It said that when a male Hindu died after the Act came into force, his interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary shall go to the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the Act. However, a proviso was added to preserve the interest of female children. It said if the deceased left behind a Class I female relative (daughter, widow or mother, etc.) or a male relative claiming through such female kin, his interest would go to them by testamentary (by will) or intestate (without a will) succession, and not by survivorship. This meant that even the codified law did not address the conventional discrimination against women. Although by separate colonial-era laws, some limited rights of inheritance were conferred on daughters (in respect of intestate, non-coparcenary property in the Hindu Law of Inheritance (Amendment) Act, 1929) and widows (whose right to succeed to husband’s property was equated to that of the son in the Hindu Women’s Rights to Property Act, 1937), women were denied coparcenary status. These laws were repealed by the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. What changes did the 2005 Amendment bring? In its statement of objects and reasons for the amendment, the Union government said the recognition given in the 1956 Act to the rule of devolution by survivorship and its retention of the Mitakshara coparcenary property without including women in it meant that women could not inherit ancestral property in the same way as men. It said: “The law by excluding the daughter from participating in the coparcenary ownership not only contributes to her discrimination on the ground of gender but also has led to oppression and negation of her fundamental right of equality guaranteed by the Constitution....” Therefore, it amended Section 6 to remove the discrimination and confer equal rights on daughters too. It declared that a coparcener’s daughter would become a coparcener in her own right by birth, in the same manner as a son; and would have the same rights that she would have, had she been a son. The amendment came into force on September 9, 2005, but it contained a proviso that it would not invalidate any disposition of property by partition or will that had taken place prior to December 20, 2004 — the day the amendment was introduced in the Rajya Sabha. What is the verdict’s significance? As laws are generally deemed prospective, civil cases relating to coparcenary property threw up questions such as whether it would apply only to daughters born after September 9, 2005, or whether, if they were born before that, it would be limited to those whose father — the coparcener through whom they will inherit the status — was also alive on that day. Many courts took the view that only a living coparcener’s daughter would get the benefit of the new law. It was argued that if a man had died before 2005, his interest would not have passed on to his daughter, as the amendment was yet to come into force. Allowing coparcenary status to such women would imply that the amendment had retrospective effect. The Supreme Court in Prakash and Others vs. Phulavati (2015) ruled on these lines, holding that it had no retrospective effect, and only living daughters of living coparceners (as on the date of its coming into effect) would get its benefit. As another judgment took a different view, this was posted before a three-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. Tuesday’s verdict has upheld the stand that coparcenary status of daughters is created by birth, and is not dependent on whether the father was alive or not on the date on which it came into force — a daughter has the same status as a son as soon as she is born. The significance of this verdict is that it has put an end to all doubts about when the amendment comes into force, and whether some women could be left out of it on the ground that it can only have prospective application.  As laws are generally deemed prospective, civil cases relating to coparcenary property threw up questions such as whether it would apply only to daughters born after September 9, 2005
16 August 2020||MOHALI,||‘Punjab will be at forefront of fighting enemies’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that with tensions at the borders continuing, India has to be prepared to deal with any eventuality. The Chief Minister, in his Independence Day address here, said Punjab would always be at the forefront of fighting the enemy at the borders. “While Pakistan continues to resort to firing every day, China talks about friendship but remains a danger to our nation,” he said. India had always given Pakistan a befitting response, which was the only way to deal with them, he said. He added that China also needed to be handled with the same iron hand. Capt. Amarinder also announced a slew of welfare measures, including facilitation of another 6 lakh jobs for the youth over the next two years, of which one lakh will be in the government sector. While reiterating his government’s commitment to provide incentives for the industry to attract more investment to the State, he said Rs. 63,000 crore worth of investment had already been realised on the ground, with potential for 2 lakh jobs. He also announced debt relief of Rs. 520 crore to landless farmers and workers, and a new land leasing law.
16 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Kafeel Khan’s detention extended||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended Kafeel Khan’s detention under the National Security Act, 1980, by three more months. The order signed by Vinay Kumar, Deputy Secretary, Home (Security) Department, said the decision was being taken on the basis of reports submitted by the NSA advisory board and the District Magistrate of Aligarh. There were “sufficient grounds” for his continued detention, the order said in Hindi. Dr. Khan is lodged in Mathura jail since February this year for an alleged provocative speech made at Aligarh Muslim University on December 12, 2019, against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. Initially booked under Section 153A of the IPC, Dr. Khan was arrested from Mumbai on January 29 and brought to Aligarh. Later, Sections 153B and 505(2) were added to the FIR. He was granted bail on February 10 by an Aligarh court but on February 13, the U.P. government slapped the NSA on him. His lawyer Ali Ghazi said on Saturday that the order was received by Dr. Khan’s family on Friday. He emphasised that the order had come after the Supreme Court on August 11 asked the Allahabad HC, where a habeus corpus petition against his detention was pending, to dispose the matter in 15 days. A look at the order shows that it was passed on August 4 and despatched on August 10. The Allahabad HC last heard the matter on August 5 and asked the U.P. government to respond within 10 working days. “The matter is now listed for August 19 in the HC,” said Mr. Ghazi. He said no prima facie case had been made out against his client and the government was misusing its powers. Meanwhile, in a video clip released by Dr. Khan’s wife Shabista on Saturday, she wondered how a doctor who worked for the poor could be a danger to society. “On Independence Day, I want to ask if we are truly independent?”
16 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to send teachers to students’ villages||The Odisha government is not likely to open schools in the month of September in the wake of sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in the State. The way COVID-19 cases are increasing, there is little chance of situation becoming normal in September, School and Mass Education Minister Sameer Ranjan Dash said while speaking to the media after unfurling the Tricolor at Jajpur. The State government is contemplating to launch a new programme ‘Siksha Sampark Yojana’, under which the teachers will visit villages of the students facing cellular connectivity problems. “Teachers would find out ways to impart teaching to a small group of students, preferably two days in a week,” said Mr. Dash. Earlier, the Minister said only 22 lakh out of the 60 lakh children in the State were availing e-education due to unavailability of mobile connectivity. He said the government would soon come out with revised syllabus in a week as considerable time has been lost due to the pandemic. Odisha on Saturday registered its highest single day COVID-19 spike by reporting 2,496 cases. The State’s tally jumped to 57,126 cases. Nine persons died of COVID-19, taking the State’s death toll to 333 on Saturday. There has been a steady rise in the cases across all districts in the month of August. The State government, however, said it was increasing per day tests to nearly 50,000. On August 14, it conducted 47,887 tests – highest in a day so far. Positivity rate falling The government claimed the positivity rate was coming down sharply. On July 21, 10,000 tests were conducted and 1,078 samples were found to be positive. So, the positivity rate was 10.78%. Over the next three weeks, the tests were increased by five times to close to 50,000, whereas positivity rate came down to around 5.2%.
16 August 2020||August 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Hurdles to Naga peace||The story so far: Fresh hurdles have emerged in the road to peace in Nagaland. After a framework agreement was signed in 2015 between the Centre and the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim, or the NSCN (I-M), the largest of the extremist groups in the peace process since 1997, there have been more than 100 rounds of talks and several twists and turns. The latest involves the demand by the NSCN (I-M) to remove Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi as the Centre’s interlocutor for the 23-year-old peace process and his alleged tweaking of the original framework agreement. What has made the peace process wobble? Talks, fatigue and growing impatience across the Naga domain gave way to optimism when Mr. Ravi was made Nagaland’s Governor in July 2019. His appointment was seen as a message from New Delhi that the solution would be found soon. As the Centre’s interlocutor, Mr. Ravi had signed the framework agreement in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But in October 2019, he issued a statement blaming the “procrastinating attitude” of the NSCN (I-M) for the delay in a mutually-agreed draft comprehensive settlement. He also said the NSCN (I-M) imputed “imaginary contents” to the framework agreement while referring to the government’s purported acceptance of a ‘Naga national flag’ and ‘Naga Yezhabo (constitution)’ as part of the deal. In June this year, the NSCN (I-M) took offence to Mr. Ravi’s letter to Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio in which he referred to them as “armed gangs” running parallel governments. The NSCN (I-M) reacted by demanding Mr. Ravi’s removal from the peace process but the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a conglomerate of seven rival groups, and some social organisations want him to stay. What is the ‘framework agreement’? On August 3, 2015, the Centre signed a framework agreement with the NSCN (I-M) to resolve the Naga issue, but both sides maintained secrecy about its contents. The optimism among some Naga groups eroded a bit when the NNPGs were brought on board the peace process on November 17, 2017. This agreement ostensibly made the peace process inclusive but it created suspicion about Delhi exploiting divisions within the Nagas on tribal and geopolitical lines. It was also a throwback to the first peace deal, the Shillong Accord of 1975 that Naga hardliners rejected. That had led to the birth of the NSCN in January 1980. Differences surfaced within the outfit a few years later over initiating a dialogue process with the Indian government. It split into the NSCN (I-M) and NSCN (Khaplang) in April 1988 who often engaged in fratricidal battles. Why is the ‘agreement’ in the news? A few days ago, the NSCN (I-M) released the contents of the framework agreement. The outfit said Mr. Ravi had “craftily deleted the word ‘new’ from the original” line that referred to “shared sovereignty” between India and the Naga homeland and provided for an “enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence”. The NSCN (I-M) claimed “new” was a politically sensitive word that defined the meaning of peaceful co-existence of the two entities (sovereign powers) and strongly indicated a settlement outside the purview of the Constitution of India. The group said it had refrained from publishing the contents of the framework agreement respecting the “tacit understanding reached between the two sides not to release to the public domain for security reasons”. But, it claimed, Mr. Ravi took undue advantage and started manipulating the framework agreement to mislead the Nagas and the Centre. The Governor said the framework agreement was an “acceptance of the Indian Constitution” by the outfit. What are the other hurdles? In his ‘Naga Independence Day’ speech on August 14, NSCN (I-M) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah insisted the Nagas “will never merge with India”. But States adjoining Nagaland, where the peace headquarters of NSCN (I-M) is located, are apprehensive of the sovereignty issue. This is because of the NSCN (I-M)’s idea of Greater Nagalim — a homeland encompassing all Naga-inhabited areas in Nagaland and beyond. Apart from Myanmar, where many of more than 50 Naga tribes live, the Greater Nagalim map includes large swathes of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Manipur. The Assam government has vowed not to part with “even an inch of land”, the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union warned against any “territorial changes” while finding a solution. Manipur Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said he has received the Centre’s assurance that the peace deal with the NSCN (I-M) will not affect the territorial integrity of Manipur. But non-Naga groups are suspicious since the Tangkhul community, forming the core of the NSCN (I-M), is from Manipur and the outfit may not accept any agreement that excludes areas inhabited by them. The NNPGs, whose members are primarily from Nagaland, are also a factor; their inputs for a final solution could be at variance with those of the NSCN (I-M).  In his ‘Naga Independence Day’ speech on August 14, NSCN (I-M) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah insisted the Nagas ‘will never merge with India’. States adjoining Nagaland are apprehensive
16 August 2020||new delhi,||HC restricts its functioning till August 31||The Delhi High Court decided on Saturday to restrict its functioning, as well as that of the district courts in the city, only to urgent matters till August 31 in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the HC, headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel, also directed that subject to complete availability of public transport and the situation in Delhi remaining stable, a plan be evolved for gradual opening of physical courts from September 1 onwards. “To begin with, on experimental basis, around one-fourth of the courts can resume physical functioning on a rotational basis while the rest can continue taking up matters through video-conferencing,” read an office order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain.
16 August 2020||Bhadohi (U.P.),||Bhadohi police arrest Gyanpur MLA||A Bhadohi police team on Saturday arrested Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, detained by the Madhya Pradesh police in Agar Malwa for the lawmaker’s alleged involvement in a case of criminal intimidation and wrongful confinement, said a senior officer. Bhadohi SP Ram Badan Singh said after arresting the MLA, his district police team, led by Dy. SP Kalu Singh, produced him in a court at Agar Malwa and is bringing him here on transit remand. Vijay Mishra, his wife Ramlali Mishra, a U.P. MLC, and son Vishnu Mishra were booked on a complaint by his relative under various IPC sections on August 4. The Nishad Party MLA would be produced before a court here on Sunday, the SP added.
16 August 2020||Noida,||3 children hurt as porch falls on them in Noida||Three children were injured after a porch of a fourth-floor flat fell on them in Noida on Saturday. One child has been discharged after first-aid, but the other two are still in the hospital.
