16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||China has massively deployed troops along LAC, says Rajnath||China has mobilised a large number of troops and armaments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as well as in the “depth areas”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. He pointed out that there were several friction areas in eastern Ladakh, including Gogra, Kongka La and the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake). “In response, our armed forces have made appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected. We made it clear to the Chinese side, both through diplomatic and military channels, that China was, by such actions, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. It was categorically conveyed that this was unacceptable,” Mr. Singh said. On the violent clash at Galwan on June 15, he claimed that Indian troops had inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese side. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the incident. The Minister said the nature of the current stand-off with China was different “both in terms of scale of troops involved and the number of friction points”. Mr. Singh said the amassing of troops by China went against the 1993 and 1996 agreements. Respecting and strictly observing the LAC was the basis of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and that was explicitly recognised in the agreements, he noted. Build-up since April The Chinese actions on June 15 at Galwan and the attempts to alter the status quo of the south bank of the lake on August 29 and 30 “reflect a disregard of our various bilateral agreements,” he said. “While our armed forces abide scrupulously by it, this has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side.” Mr. Singh said that since April, a build-up of troops and armaments by the Chinese side adjacent to eastern Ladakh was noticed. In early May, the Chinese side took action to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area, causing a face-off, he said. On the September 4 meeting in Moscow with his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Wei Fenghe, Mr. Singh said he made it clear that “even as we wanted to peacefully resolve the issue and would like the Chinese side to work with us, there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity”.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Fishermen worried as sea waters turn green||The waters of the Arabian Sea turning green off Surathkal and Mukka coast since Monday has left fishermen worried as they fear the change in colour could be due to industrial effluents. A seven-kilometre stretch of the sea, from Kulai till Sasihithlu-Munda, has turned green in colour. A few traditional fishermen said that they have not been able to land a catch following the development, and even as their nets were found to be coated with oily green substance, others said that they were able to catch some fish. Sudhir, a traditional fisherman from Surathkal, said that they used to witness this phenomenon regularly. It is an annual occurrence, he added. However, Shobendra Sasihithlu, a traditional fisherman from Sasihithlu, told The Hindu that though the sea waters had turned green earlier too, this year, it was on a higher scale. The colour was dark green and the sea waters contained small floating particles, he said and showed water that he had collected in a glass. He said that the change could be due to high inflow of industrial effluents. Principal Scientist and Scientist in-charge of Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Mangaluru, Prathibha Rohith, said that the occurrence resembles algal bloom. A few days ago, a similar development was reported off Kasargod coast in Kerala too, she said. Scientists from her institute are collecting water samples from Surathkal and surrounding beaches and only after examining the samples, she could exactly comment about the development, Dr. Rohith said. She said that besides natural reasons, algal bloom could be a result of industrial effluents that were rich in nitrogen and other components. Algae are rich in nutrients upon which fish feed. If there was a crash after the bloom, the concentration would not be that good for marine fauna, she added.
16 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Farmer of Hagarga converts barren land into a self-sustainable green farm||A matriculate progressive farmer Lakshmikant Hibare from Hagarga village, about 15 km from Kalaburagi, is a living example for the farming community as he has adopted agroforestry along with various techniques for conservation of natural resources, while earning a good income cultivating in his three acres of land. The untiring efforts of the farmer have helped him convert his barren piece of land into a self-sustainable green farm. It is indeed difficult to believe that the farm, which now has 850 sandalwood trees, 850 red sanders trees, 800 drumstick trees, 225 Java plum trees, 225 Lucknow 49 guava plants, 225 Thai orange trees, 225 red orange trees and 125 timber plants and 125 melia dubia trees, along with vegetable plantations, was once a barren land, without water. The farmer has also planted lemon trees and fever nut trees as border fencing. Though he has a borewell and a water harvesting pond on the farm, he has installed a drip irrigation system for water supply. Lakshmikant Hibare has adopted the organic way of farming and composting process for improving soil fertility. Besides growing fruits and vegetables, Lakshmikant Hibare has established a poultry farm that breeds a special variety of chicken, BV-380. The farmer earns between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 50,000 per month by selling eggs, vegetables and fruits from his farm. Lakshmikant Hibare, who planted sandalwood and red sanders two years ago, also runs a nursery. Replying to a query, he explained that it takes at least 15 years to 18 years to procure usable sandalwood from the plantation. Meanwhile, farmers from across the district and students from agriculture colleges visit his farm to take his advice and to learn more about his farming techniques.
16 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 20,482 new cases||Maharashtra reported 20,482 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its total case tally to 10,97,856. With 515 more deaths, the State’s toll has touched 30,409. Of these, 302 fatalities are from the last 48 hours, while 116 occurred last week. The remaining 97 occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. The number of active cases has now risen to 2,91,797. As many as 19,423 patients were discharged, pushing the total recoveries to 7,75,273. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.62%, while its case fatality rate is 2.77%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 4,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,39,481. The district reported 50 deaths, pushing its toll to 4,888. As per the Pune district administration, there are less than 41,000 active cases and the recovery rate is more than 79%. Nagpur district reported 88 deaths as its toll surged to 1,446, while 1,800 new cases took its tally to 53,853, of which 20,975 are active. Mumbai reported 1,586 cases to take its case load to 1,73,596, of which 30,938 are active. With 49 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 8,230. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 18 new deaths as its toll climbed to 1,694, while over 700 new cases saw its tally cross 57,000. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 26 deaths and 429 cases to take toll to 764 and tally to 39,660. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported 49 deaths as its toll rose to 1,017. As many as 531 new cases took its case load to 33,745, of which 9,508 are active. Sangli reported 38 deaths as its toll climbed to 809. With 987 new cases, its tally has surged to 26,646, of which 10,418 are active. Highest single-day spike Satara reported its highest single-day jump of 1,117 cases, pushing its tally to 25,980, of which 8,847 are active. Seven new deaths took its cumulative toll to 607. Solapur recorded 16 deaths and 635 cases as its tally rose to 28,342, of which are 7,350 are active. The death toll has reached 986. Cases continued to pile up in Nashik district which reported more than 1,400 fresh cases as its total tally reached 57,037 of which 12,048 are active. With ten deaths today, the district’s toll has climbed to 1,071.
16 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s farmers hit out at Centre’s onion export ban||Onion farmers across Maharashtra protested on Tuesday over the Narendra Modi government’s decision to ban export of the bulb. Sharp condemnations were issued by major farmer outfits like Raju Shetti’s Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), and the Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Kranti Sanghatana, all of whom ascribed political motives behind the Centre’s move. In the onion-producing hub of Nashik, protests erupted in Lasalgaon — which houses Asia’s largest onion market — as well as in Manmad, with irate farmers raising slogans against the Central government while demanding an immediate rollback of the export ban. Dr. Ajit Nawale, State general secretary, AIKS, said the Centre, by banning onion exports under the Foreign Trade Act, 1992, had betrayed farmers in Maharashtra and the country. “The Modi government’s decision has been taken purely in light of the upcoming Bihar elections in a bid to appease the public by reducing onion prices. So, in effect, Maharashtra’s farmers have been sacrificed at the altar of realpolitik to please Bihar’s electorate,” claimed Dr. Nawale. The steady rise in wholesale onion prices (with the average trading price per kg of onion in Lasalgaon hovering around the Rs. 35 mark) is believed to have been one of the chief reasons behind the ban on exporting onions. Dr. Nawale said the ban had once again exposed the anti-farmer face of the Modi government. He said, “The Centre recently announced the exclusion of five types of essential commodities, including onions. Pro-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) farmer unions as well as other outfits had hailed the Modi government’s announcement and exulted in it. This cruel U-turn has revealed the government’s true colours.” Observing that the country had a record production of onions this season, Dr. Nawale said despite onion prices increasing slightly in September owing to supply chain issues, the rise, however, was only temporary. “Besides, onions produced in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka will also be available in the market. In such a scenario, it is unlikely that any serious problem of scarcity will arise in the near future,” he said, adding that the AIKS would hit the streets and oppose the export ban. ‘Astounding betrayal’ Mr. Shetti said the government’s sudden decision to ban export of onions would have a major impact on farmers already distressed economically by the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. “Since the past four months, farmers had been selling onions at throwaway prices at Rs. 4-Rs. 5 per kilo. Now, when farmers have started to make some money owing to surplus production of onions, comes this astounding betrayal on part of the Centre. Just a few days ago, this same Centre was talking of justice for onion growers,” Mr. Shetti said, adding that whenever any opportunity has arisen for farmers to make a profit, the Centre came up with some anti-farmer measures. Mr. Khot said owing to the Centre’s sudden volte-face, thousands of tonnes on onions were languishing in more than 300 container trucks that had been halted on the Indo-Bangladesh border, and a further 400 containers primed for loading at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust in Mumbai. “On the one hand, the Central government tries to put a farmer-friendly face with its ‘Kisan Rail’ and Ek Desh Ek Bazaar [One Nation One Market] schemes, while putting such autocratic export bans on the other. Are these schemes mere lip service?” questioned Mr. Khot, whose outfit is an ally of the National Democratic Alliance in Maharashtra. Remarking that farmers had borne enormous financial losses in the six months of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, he said he would personally join the protesting farmers in Nashik. ‘Might sever ties with BJP’ “We may even consider severing ties with the BJP if the Centre does not roll back the export ban,” Mr. Khot warned, adding that such sudden measures taken without issuing any proper notification, had sown distrust among farmers regarding the Centre’s policies. Terming the decision a “big mistake”, State Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse said the ban needs to be immediately revoked. “Maharashtra contributes to more than 70% of India’s onion exports… this decision is a grave injustice for the State’s farmers. I believe Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be speaking with the Prime Minister over this matter,” said Mr. Bhuse.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||New Bill on powers of Delhi govt., L-G soon||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is likely to introduce a legislation in the ongoing Parliament session to amend a 1991 Act pertaining to the powers and functions of the Delhi government and the Lieutenant-Governor. The National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to “bring ease in implementation of certain provisions of the Act”, is among more than 20 Bills proposed to be introduced in this Parliament session. The Bill is yet to get the Cabinet’s nod and it was not taken up at the Union Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. A Home Ministry spokesperson did not respond to requests regarding the provisions of the Bill. According to a source, the Bill proposes to clearly spell out the functions of the Council of Ministers and the Lieutenant-Governor by giving more discretionary powers to the L-G. Proposed changes According to changes proposed in the new Act, the L-G could act in his discretion on any matter that is beyond the purview of the powers of the Assembly of Delhi in matters related to the All India (Civil) Services and the Anti Corruption Branch (ACB). It will also give more teeth to the L-G, and the validity of any decision taken as per such discretion shall not be questioned. The Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government is often at loggerheads with the Centre regarding administrative matters in the Capital. A clutch of petitions were filed in the Supreme Court against a 2015 notification by the MHA, which said that the Delhi government had no powers in services-related matters and the ACB could not register cases against any employee, officer or functionary of the Central government. The Union Territory of Delhi with a Legislative Assembly came into being in 1991 under Article 239AA inserted by the ‘Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991’. It said that the UT of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi, and the administrator thereof appointed under Article 239 shall be designated as the Lieutenant-Governor. According to the existing Act, the Legislative Assembly of Delhi has the power to make laws in all matters except public order, police, and land. The apex court is still examining the services matter. In 2018, a five-judge Bench of the SC had unanimously held that the L-G was bound by the “aid and advice” of the Delhi government and both had to work harmoniously with each other.
16 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Incessant rain wreaks havoc in Kalaburagi district||Incessant rain that lashed Kalaburagi district throughout Monday night threw life out of gear in many parts. Low-lying areas in towns and cities were inundated and many houses collapsed. Traffic movement was disrupted in many areas. Three people suffered injuries after their house at Siddeshwar Nagar in Kalaburagi collapsed in the early hours of Tuesday. Two people, Rukkappa (40) and Raju Battu Yadav (50), who were stranded in a cattle shed near an overflowing stream between Hagaraga and Khaja Kotanur villages were rescued by Fire and Emergency Services personnel. Many houses at Puja Colony and Rajaji Nagar off Kusnur Road, some areas off Shahabad Road, Ganga Nagar in Kalaburagi city and Siragapur and Mahagaon villages in Kamalapur taluk were flooded and household articles damaged. Floodwaters flowing from the Itaga, Khaja Kotanur and Bolewad villages submerged the Korawar bridge disrupting vehicular traffic on the State Highway between Kalaburagi and Kalagi. Many buses, trucks, tractors and other vehicles were found stuck on either side of the bridge on Tuesday morning. Many agricultural fields along the Bennetora canal were flooded. Chittapur taluk also received widespread rainfall. A small bridge near Hadanur village was submerged cutting off connectivity to other villages. Floodwaters cut off connectivity between Mattimud and Inganakal. Houses were flooded in Gundagurthi village and Baharpet locality in Chittapur town.
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID toll crosses 5,000 in State||The COVID-19 toll in the State has crossed the 5,000-mark and reached 5,041, with 69 new deaths reported in the past day as of Tuesday morning. During the same period, 8,846 new infections were reported and the infection tally climbed to 5,83,925. The number of recoveries increased to 4,86,531 and recovery rate to 83.32% as 9,628 more patients recovered. There are 92,353 active cases currently. The State’s COVID death rate at 0.86% remains lowest when compared to States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka that have been witnessing huge numbers of infections. Of the total 5,041 deaths, half (2566) were reported in the past one month since August 15 during which period over 3.10 lakh cases were detected. The number of new cases and deaths and positivity rate of the tests being conducted are coming down gradually. The first COVID death was reported in Krishna district’s Vijayawada on April 3. Krishna district continues to stay on the top with the highest death rate and Chittoor's toll was highest and only one above 500. The death toll and death rate of the districts are as follows: Chitoor (543 and 1.07%), Guntur (469 and 1.01%), East Godavari (464 and 0.58%), Kurnool (425 and 0.81%), Anantapur (420 and 0.84%), Nellore (398 and 0.89%), West Godavari (396 and 0.75%), Prakasam (389 and 1.03%), Visakhpatnam (368 and 0.82%), Krishna (357 and 1.63%), Kadapa (315 and 0.85%), Srikakulam (293 and 0.88%), Vizianagaram (204 and 0.70%). More number of deaths were seen in Nellore, Kadapa, Prakasam and Chittoor in the past month than what they witnessed in the first five months of the pandemic. Meanwhile, East Godavari has been consistent in reporting highest single day peaks and it reported 1,423 cases in the past day while Prakasam saw 10 deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,423 and 6), Prakasam (979 and 10), West Godavari (955 and 4), Nellore (820 and 4), Srikakulam (678 and 3), Kadapa (661 and 5), Guntur (641 and 4), Visakhpatnam (574 and 5), Chittoor (572 and 9), Vizianagaram (532 and 4), Krishna (398 and 6), Kurnool (314 and 3) and Anantapur (299 and 6). Anantapur tally crossed the 50,000-mark and so far five district tallies are above it. East Godavari's tally is close to the 80,000-mark. The district tallie are as follows: East Godavari (79,643), West Godavari (52,520), Kurnool (52,280), Chittoor (50,718), Anantapur (50,088), Guntur (46,645), Nellore (44,950), Visakhapatnam (44,912), Prakasam (37,865), Kadapa (37,152), Srikakulam (33,425), Vizianagaram (28,959) and Krishna (21,873).
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||TS, APSRTC talks hit a fresh roadblock||Talks between the top officials of the Road Transport Corporations (RTCs) of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Vice-Chairman and Managing Director M.T. Krishna Babu met his Telangana counterpart Sunil Sharma in Hyderabad in an attempt to break the ice and resume inter-State operations, which were stopped after declaration of lockdown on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The discussions hit a fresh roadblock with the Telagana officials broaching the issue of “route parity along with parity in kilometres.” “Except route-wise and kilometre parity, there is no other issue. Our Executive Directors have done a detailed study, which has been conveyed to the APSRTC,” said Mr. Sunil Sharma, emerging from the talks. ‘No clarity’ Mr. Krishna Babu, speaking to the media, said that APSRTC buses operate on 71 routes in Telangana, while the neighbouring State runs its vehicles only on 28 routes in A.P. “Route-wise parity does not exist in any State agreements. There is no clarity. We need to see what Telangan expects from us, whether it will offer to run its buses on 71 routes in A.P. or ask us to operate only on 28 routes in that State,” said Mr. Krishna Babu, adding that the APSRTC EDs would study the technical issues involved before meeting for the next round of talks. The Andhra Pradesh government had agreed in principle on parity in km, but with Telangana broaching the parity in routes issue, the discussions hit a new roadblock. According to the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, both the States can operate buses without any permit for five years. But the operations had to be stopped due to the lockdown. From covering a distance of 3.73 lakh km in Telangana in the past, the APSRTC reduced its operations there to 2.64 lakh km, while TSRTC increased its operations from 95,000 km to 1.52 lakh km in A.P. The stalemate is over a difference of 1.10 lakh km.
16 September 2020||Kolkata,||Nobel Laureate suggests open-air pandals||A global advisory board for management of COVID-19 in West Bengal, headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee, has suggested that Durga Puja pandals should be kept open from the sides to ensure air circulation which can help contain the pandemic in the State. Welcoming the suggestion, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she would ask organisers to follow this advisory. “Durga Puja is a big challenge. In Bengal, it is almost a national festival. Let the pandals be kept open so that there is circulation of air,” Ms. Banerjee said at the State Secretariat. Meeting on Sept. 25 The Chief Minister has called a meeting on September 25 with representatives of Durga Puja clubs to discuss this year’s celebrations. The State government has been taking note of the suggestions from the advisory board. Video messages by Prof Banerjee were circulated across the State earlier this year urging people to report to front line medical staff if they have symptoms of the disease. The week-long Durga Puja festival starts on October 22 this year and many organisers have already started erecting the pandals. Mahalaya which marks the beginning of the autumn festivities will be observed on September 17. Many organisers feel the latest advisory is difficult to implement as the pandals are erected around a particular theme and often display art works centred around that theme. Several organisers are also grappling with financial issues and the community festival is funded through subscription and sponsorship. There are about 28,000 community pujas in West Bengal. The number in Kolkata alone is around 3,000. Smaller idols Meanwhile, a number of idol makers have decided to make smaller Durga idols this year. Artisans of Kumartuli, the famous potter’s colony in the city, said that financial slowdown is having an adverse impact. “While people are not willing to pay more, the size of pandals where the idols will be kept has also reduced. Moreover, we are also facing issues relating to labour with not enough work force available in Kumartuli,” an artist said.
16 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Call for united regional front for next year’s Assam election||The call for a regional front against the BJP and other mainstream political entities has become shriller after two major students’ organisations launched a political party on Monday. The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP) had on September 14 floated the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). Leaders of these two organisations and affiliates who spearheaded the six-year Assam Agitation had similarly formed the Asom Gana Parishad in 1985, now a minor ally of the BJP. The AJP could contest 100 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats. “We are keen on being a stakeholder in a united regional front and we hope other regional parties will join for the sake of the indigenous people of Assam,” said Adip Kumar Phukan, working president of the Asom Songrami Mancha, whose birth preceded that of the AJP. Eye on BPF Other regional parties that could be a part of the proposed front ahead of the 2021 State elections include Asom Gana Mancha, formed a few months ago, the Gana Shakti Party and the Autonomous State Demand Committee. The regional parties also hope to rope in the Bodoland People’s Front that is believed to be drifting away from ally BJP.   The proposed front may also accommodate the party that the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti led by jailed activist Akhil Gogoi is expected to form soon. Prior to the formation of the AJP, Mr. Gogoi had said too many regional parties could hand the BJP an easy victory through division of votes. “It is imperative that all groups against the BJP and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act are on the same platform,” he had said while being taken for a health check-up a few days ago. The Congress resented the AASU-AJYCP’s refusal to its proposal for teaming up against the BJP. “All anti-BJP and anti-CAA forces should ideally unite,” said State Congress president Ripun Bora.
16 September 2020||Kolkata,||3,227 new cases in West Bengal, deaths in Kolkata touch 1,500||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,227 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total numbers to 2,09,146. The State recorded 59 deaths in the same period taking the total fatalities in the State to 4,062. Of these 59 deaths, 11 were reported in Kolkata and 15 in North 24 Parganas. The deaths in Kolkata climbed to 1,500 while in North 24 Parganas the total number of deaths reached 914. The two districts account for more than 60 % of deaths in the State. Kolkata recorded 487 infections in the past 24 hours taking the case tally to 47,628. North 24 Parganas, the second worst-affected district recorded 516 fresh infections taking the total number to 42,669. The two districts account for 45 % of all COVID-19 cases in the country. The active cases in the State climbed at 23,942 and the discharge rate in the State was 86.61%.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||United States welcomes India’s role in Afghan peace talks||Three days after India took the plunge on engaging with the Taliban at the first Intra-Afghan Negotiations, U.S. Special Envoy on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad met with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla during a brief four-hour visit to New Delhi. “Mr. Khalilzad appreciated India’s participation in the Intra-Afghan Negotiations (IAN) held in Doha on September 12. He briefed about the U.S. assessment of the IAN and shared the U.S. perspective on the Afghan peace process,” official sources said. “The two sides discussed future steps and possible cooperation between India and the U.S. in furthering the Afghan peace process,” the sources said.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India has surplus medical oxygen: govt.||India on Tuesday raced past the 50 lakh mark, registering 85,716 new COVID-19 cases. The overall tally stood at 50,12,736 at the time of going to print. With 1,340 fresh fatalities, the death toll rose to 82,169. The development comes on a day the Union Health Ministry said there was no shortage of supply of medical oxygen, and the country had surplus production. The Ministry, however, cautioned that hospitals should have robust inventory management and encouraged rationalised use of oxygen to ensure that no artificial scarcity was created. Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said a little over 6% of patients were currently on oxygen support. Of them, 3.69% were on oxygen support, 2.17% on ICU beds with oxygen support and 0.36% on ventilator support.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala to have certified snake handlers||Becoming the first to institutionalise snake handling in the country, the Kerala Forest Department has framed guidelines for rescuing snakes from human dominated places and releasing them in uninhabited areas. The move to certify snake handlers comes amid allegations of unscientific approaches by snake catchers that tend to create stress to the animal and pose risk to their and others’ lives. Kerala has reported 334 deaths and 1,860 other cases of snake-bites in the past three years, according to chief wildlife warden Surendrakumar. There have also been allegations of snakes being supplied for criminal purposes. The murder of Kollam native Uthra after being bitten by a snake that was allegedly planted in her room by her husband dominated the headlines recently. The guidelines make it mandatory for snake handlers, aged between 21 and 65 years, to seek certification. The applications will be screened by the Assistant Conservators of Forest (ACF, Social Forestry) to prepare lists of snake handlers in each district. Various parameters, including experience, age, health as well as track record, will be considered during the selection process. Those short-listed will be required to undergo a mandatory training on safe and scientific handling of snakes. While the certification will be valid for five years, the respective ACFs can withdraw or cancel the same if the snake handler is found to be involved in any illegal or unethical practices. The protocol tasks certified snake handlers with responding to alerts of snake presence in human habitations, informing the caller of the immediate precautions to be adopted, and to intimate the concerned ACF of the activity. They will be required to wear protective gear and equip themselves with safety equipment while on the task. Rescued snakes will also have to be released in the presence of forest officials at the earliest. If found injured, the snake can be released only after ascertaining its fitness. Non-native species, however, cannot be released and have to be handed over to the Forest Department. Beat Forest Officers will also be imparted training on safe handling of snakes at State Forest Training Institutes. As many as 318 Forest Officers completed the first phase of training recently.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Amid Cong. threat stir, Pawar meets Goyal||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said the Centre’s move to ban export of onions will benefit other countries and urged the Union government to reconsider the decision. Mr. Pawar, a former Union agriculture minister, met Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal in New Delhi and apprised him of the plight of onion growers. “I pointed out to him that these onion growers are mainly small land holders and jirait farmers,” Mr. Pawar said. The Centre’s decision is expected to trigger political backlash with the Congress already announcing a State-wide agitation. Proposing the agitation on Wednesday, the State Revenue Minister and Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Balasaheb Thorat said, “Prime Minister Modi talks about making farmers self-reliant. How can anyone be self-reliant through such self-destructive decisions? Onion farmers were getting better price for their produce and this abrupt decision will break their back. We will hold State-wide protests against this decision.”
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||State allows lawyers to travel on locals||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that lawyers who have to attend physical hearings will be allowed to travel by local trains in Mumbai on an “experimental basis” from September 18 to October 7. The government said advocates who need to be present before one of the four Benches can write to their respective registrars, obtain a certificate and then approach the railway authorities to issue them a travel pass for that particular day. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni produced a note explaining the arrangement before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni. On behalf of the Railways, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh agreed to set in motion the proposed arrangement. Special suburban train services are being run amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. won’t allow Mekedatu dam: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami asserted in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Tuesday that his government would not allow Karnataka to build a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. In his reply to DMK’s deputy floor leader Duraimurugan in the House, Mr. Palaniswami pointed to the Supreme Court judgment in favour of Tamil Nadu in this regard. “They [officials of the Karnataka government] brought this issue in the [Cauvery Water] Management Authority on three, four occasions. It was dropped after we strongly opposed it,” the Chief Minister said, and pointed to the cases pending before the Supreme Court in this regard. Earlier, Mr. Duraimurugan referred to a report published in The Hindu   , which said a delegation of Karnataka Ministers was planning to call on the Prime Minister in Delhi to urge him to allow the construction of a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. The DMK leader urged Mr. Palaniswami either to take a team of leaders, including those from the Opposition, or lead a delegation to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reiterate Tamil Nadu’s stand on the issue.
16 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bamboo left damaged by Cyclone Amphan turns into sanitiser dispenser||Thousands of bamboo plants, destroyed at the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah by Cyclone Amphan in May, are being recycled as sanitiser dispensers. The cyclone left thousands of bamboo plants and trees uprooted. Even clearing the debris in the garden, spread over 270 acres, proved to be an arduous task. However, an innovative idea emerged from the devastation when an employee made a sanitiser dispenser using the fallen bamboos. In wake of COVID-19 pandemic several institutions, including the Botanical Survey of India ( BSI), had placed orders for sanitiser dispensers. While the gardens were being cleared, a staffer, C.K. Sharma, thought he could use the bamboo to make a dispenser model for the garden. “Initially, I did not think that it would work. But when I saw the first prototype, I realised that with some alterations it could actually work. The dispenser is not only now used at the garden or our offices but also in some other organisations in Howrah,” said A.A. Mao, director, BSI. The Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change, has lauded the initiative and put up photographs of the dispenser. The Ministry said this “indigenously built eco-friendly sanitiser dispenser has gained much popularity among the staff during the prevailing situation.” “More than a dozen such dispensers are distributed in the different establishments of @bsi_moefcc in Kolkata & Howrah region, which are being used not only by the garden but also have been given to a number of institutions,” MOEFCC added.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS opposes ‘changes’ in Electricity Act||The State Legislative Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution, voicing its strong opposition to the proposed amendment to the Electricity Act 2003 by the Central government. The resolution demanded that the Centre immediately rescind its moves that were harmful to the interests of the people, farmers and under privileged sections in particular. Moving the resolution in the House, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao described the proposed amendment as “draconian and dangerous” and totally against the federal spirit of the Constitution. Explaining the highlights of the draft Bill circulated to the States, he said meters would be fixed for every connection including more than 25 lakh pumpsets of farmers and bills should be paid every month without any exception. The regulatory commission to be set up at the Central level would decide the charges without subsidy. Telangana provides subsidy in excess of Rs. 10,000 crore every year towards free power to farm sector.
16 September 2020||Belagavi/Mangaluru/Hassan,||Medical bulletins affected in several districts||The protest by government doctors affected the announcement of bulletins in several North Karnataka districts on Tuesday. Health Department officials said that the district bulletins would not be issued till Friday. Meanwhile, as per a State-level bulletin, North Karnataka reported 12 deaths. Belagavi and Haveri registered three deaths each, while Vijayapura and Uttara Kannada reported two each. The region saw 922 patients discharged on Tuesday. A total of 854 positive cases were reported from the region, with Belagavi registering 249, Uttara Kannada 195 and Vijayapura 131. Bagalkot recorded zero fresh positive cases. Dakshina Kannada In Mangaluru, District Government Doctors Association President Navinchandra Kulal and other office-bearers submitted a memorandum to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Meanwhile, the district reported five COVID-19 deaths and 316 new cases. A similar non-cooperation movement was launched by government doctors in Udupi also. In Hassan, medical officers began their protest seeking an upward revision in their salaries. They refused to give the day’s bulletin.
16 September 2020||Vijayawada,||High Court restricts publication of details on former A-G’s case||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday restricted publication of any news related to the details of FIR and further proceeds in which a former Advocate-General is involved. Following a writ petition filed by the former AG, the High Court stayed further enquiry and investigation. The order stated that no electronic or print news be published in respect of FIR no. 8/RCO-ACB-GNT/2020 of ACB, Guntur, dated September 15, 2020, and connected events until further orders of the High Court. The court has also issued directions that social media posts shall also not be published. The case is listed for further hearing after four weeks. A copy of the order is communicated to Secretary, Home, Govt., of A.P.; DGP, State Information and Public Relations Department, and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Govt. of India, and connected stakeholders.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Case reporting drops as doctors strike||With government doctors in Karnataka on a strike, fewer number of COVID-19 positive cases and discharges were recorded in the State on Tuesday. Many doctors across the State have decided not to update the reports till the government meets their demands. While the doctors are treating patients and attending to other duties, they are not uploading reports related to COVID-19 and those under the National Health Mission. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, nine districts did not report a single patient discharge, while no new COVID-19 case was reported from Bagalkot district. According to the media bulletin, 7,406 patients were discharged and 7,576 new cases were reported in the State on Tuesday. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 too were apparently not reported accurately and only 97 deaths were recorded on Tuesday. Sources in the department admitted that the number of recoveries and positive cases was low as doctors had decided not to upload the data. “The number of discharges and positive cases are likely to have been in the range of 8,000 to 9,000,” said an official in the department. G.A. Srinivas, president of Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA), said doctors had decided not to update cases till their strike was called off. They will take a final call on Friday. The office-bearers of the association had a meeting with Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramalu, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Dr. Srinivas said: “They have said they will fulfil our demands. We will discuss with our members and then take a decision.” The doctors want salaries on a par with the Central government health scheme scale and there are 4,000 doctors under KGMOA. Dr Ashwath Narayan said the State government had decided to meet their demands “to some extent”. “We will provide them incentives and have told them to call off the strike as there is a crisis, and we are in the middle of the pandemic,” he said. However, the testing has not declined and 68,365 tests were conducted on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in the State so far stands at 4.75 lakh, while the number of discharges stands at 3.69 lakh. The total death toll due to COVID-19 now stands at 7,481.  We will provide the doctors with incentives and have asked them to call off the strike as there is a crisis. We are in the middle of a pandemic and people are suffering.  C.N. Ashwath Narayan  Deputy Chief Minister
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Golden harvest||
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays broadcast of TV show||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the broadcast of Bindas Bol aired by Sudarshan News channel till further orders, prima facie observing that the object of the programme is to vilify the Muslim community and accuse it of surreptitiously trying to infiltrate the civil services. “Episodes broadcast till now show the nature and objective of the programme. Pending further orders of the court, Sudarshan News stands injuncted from making any more broadcasts on this subject on any other name too,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud ordered.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Heavy rainfall forecast||India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rainfall for the next five days with heavy to very heavy rainfall from September 18 to September 20 across the coastal region. A bulletin here said that the coastal region will witness heavy rainfall starting Wednesday with rainfall exceeding 65 mm. From September 18 to 20, there was a likelihood of heavy to very heavy rainfall across the coast, up to 115 mm. The bulletin has cautioned fishermen against venturing into the sea during the time, particularly on September 17 when the Arabian Sea is likely to witness strong winds with speeds up to 45-55 kmph.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Golden harvest||
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. refuses discussion on LAC face-off||The government on Tuesday refused the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the India-China face-off in eastern Ladakh, citing sensitivities related to “national security”. At a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the Lok Sabha, where floor leaders of all political parties meet, the Congress raised the demand. ‘Not the right time’ Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, who represented the government at the meeting, said the issue was sensitive and was related to national security, and thus could not be discussed at a public platform. Government sources said that as troops were currently deployed at the border amid a tense face-off, the time was not right to have a public discussion on the state of play.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. welcomes India’s role in Afghan talks||Three days after India took the plunge on engaging with the Taliban at the first Intra-Afghan Negotiations, U.S. Special Envoy on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad met with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla during a brief four-hour visit to Delhi. “Mr. Khalilzad appreciated India’s participation in the Intra-Afghan Negotiations (IAN) held in Doha on September 12. He briefed about the U.S. assessment of the IAN and shared the U.S. perspective on the Afghan peace process,” official sources said.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Swirling Krishna||
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 3,215 new COVID-19 cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise with the State reporting 3,215 new cases on Tuesday. There were also 2,532 recoveries. The number of tests done in the last 24 hours was 41,054. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the outbreak began now stands at 1,14,033 cases. With the total recoveries at 82,341, the number of active cases is 31,156. The total number of deaths rose to 466, with the Health Department confirming 12 more deaths, which occurred earlier in the week in various districts, as due to COVID-19. Five of the deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three in Thrissur and one each in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Palakkad. Of the new cases, 3,102 out of 3,215 were local transmission ones. Authorities have not been able to trace the source of infection in 315 cases. The number of health-care workers who tested positive in the last 24 hours was 89 -- 30 of them being in Kannur and 23 in Thiruvananthapuram. Thiruvananthapuram reported 656 new cases on Tuesday, the highest amongst all districts.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug racket: Actor-couple to be questioned||Continuing investigations into the drug racket involving the Kannada film industry, the Central Crime Branch, on Tuesday, issued a notice to actor-couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrita Ray, directing them to appear for questioning on Wednesday.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Constructions on ‘B’ kharab land to be regularised||The State Cabinet on Tuesday decided to regularise constructions on ‘B’ kharab land in and around Bengaluru after imposing a penalty. While the penalty will be four times the guidance value of the land for the general category, it will be two times the guidance value for SC and ST categories.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Onion export ban hurts ‘Bangalore Rose’||Farmers growing ‘Bangalore Rose’ onions could be in trouble, as the Centre has notified an immediate ban on export of all onion varieties owing to a spike in domestic price of onions. Trouble stems from the fact that this variety is not popular domestically, but has high demand in Southeast Asian countries.
16 September 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata Metro relaxes entry norms for senior citizens||Kolkata Metro on Tuesday allowed senior citizens to board trains without an e-pass during non-peak hours, provided they furnish identity proof at the gates. The facility will be available for them from 11.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. The move follows complaints by several elderly persons saying they were finding it difficult to download e-passes from the Metro Railway app. “Considering their difficulty, it has been decided that senior citizens will be allowed entry on basis of Aadhar card, PAN card, voter ID, passport, or driving license through which age can be ascertained,” the statement said.PTI
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Record testing in Delhi; 4,263 new cases reported||As many as 4,263 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,25,796. The city also witnessed the highest number of tests conducted in a single day — 62,669.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Facebook India V-P’s no-show irks House panel||Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan did not appear before a Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony on Tuesday despite being summoned via notice. The panel is looking into FB’s alleged role in Delhi riots.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Riots probe conducted in unbiased manner’||Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava has given a written response to retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro’s letter reiterating that the probe into the February riots is not biased towards any community. On September 12, Mr. Ribeiro had written to him seeking an impartial probe.
16 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Two arrested, ganja seized in two cases||The Kalaburagi Police have arrested a ganja peddler and seized 30 kg of ganja plants valued at Rs. 1.2 lakh in Singapur village in Chincholi taluk on the Karnataka-Telangana border. The police team raided an agriculture field belonging to Chandar Bikku Pawar and arrested him. A case has been registered at the Konchavaram Police Station. In another case, the Bidar Police arrested a ganja peddler from Ghodwad village in Humnabad taluk of Bidar and sized 3.5 kg of ganja valued at Rs. 35,000. The police arrested Mohammad Ghouse Bonge when he was selling ganja. The police also recovered Rs. 4,900 in cash from him. A case has been registered at the Humnabad Police Station.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Railways to run ‘clone’ trains on popular routes||The Railway Ministry has decided to operate 20 pairs of “clone” trains from September 21 to cater to passenger demand on popular routes, including services between Bengaluru-Danapur and Yeshwantpur-Hazrat Nizamuddin (Karnataka Sampark Kranthi Express). A September 14 notification from the Railway Board said that the “clone” trains would be in addition to the Shramik Specials and the regular Special trains.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Third plea filed against coverage of actor’s death||The Bombay High Court has issued notices to the Central government, the Law Commission and the Press Council in a third plea filed on Tuesday regarding the media coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The petition seeks “expanding the Contempt of Courts Act to include starting point of the pending proceedings in a case to be from the registration of FIR”. The third petition was filed by a registered trust, Pursuit of Justice. The petitioners call the “extent of media frenzy concerning all issues and non-issues involving the said incident is quite ‘disturbing’”.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana seeks Rs. 2 cr. in damages from BMC||Actor Kangana Ranaut amended her petition before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday and sought Rs. 2 crore as compensation from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the demolition of her bungalow in Bandra. The amended petition says the BMC demolished 40% of the actor’s office, and lists furniture, antiques and books as collateral damage.
16 September 2020||Tirunelveli,||Stir against NEET||Members of Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate in Tirunelveli on Tuesday against NEET. The protesters said the NEET, which had already consumed several lives in Tamil Nadu, recently claimed three more lives in a day.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Bill on quota for govt. school students passed||The Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed a bill providing 7.5% horizontal reservation in the undergraduate medical admissions on a preferential basis to government school students who clear NEET.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Stalin demands resolution against Centre on NEET||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh supremo Mohan Bhagwat will be on a two-day visit to Kolkata from September 22 to look into the organisational aspects of the RSS in West Bengal, where it has made deep inroads in the last few years. A senior RSS official on Tuesday said that Mr. Bhagwat will reach the city on September 22 morning and will hold closed-door meetings. “He will meet functionaries at the RSS office. Due to the pandemic, he will not visit any other place. Issues related to our organisation and welfare work done during the pandemic will be discussed,” he said.PTI
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||13 T.N. varsities opt for online examinations||All the 13 universities in Tamil Nadu that come under the jurisdiction of the Higher Education Department will conduct the final semester exams through the online mode this year. A govern-ment order to this effect was issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department on Tuesday.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala counts past deaths as case graph rises||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise with the State reporting 3,215 new cases on Tuesday. Fresh tests stood at 41,054 and the cumulative case burden at 1,14,033 cases, 31,156 of them active cases. The toll from the virus was also going up with an average of 10-15 deaths being added daily. Total deaths were 466 on Tuesday, with the Health department adding another 12 deaths that occurred earlier in the week in various districts under the COVID-19 head. Five fatalities were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Thrissur and one each from Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Palakkad. Locally acquired infections constituted 96% of new cases on Tuesday. A source for infections was not traced in 315 cases. The number of healthcare workers who tested positive was 89. Thiruvananthapuram reported 656 new cases. Andhra Pradesh added 69 new deaths on Tuesday, besides 8,846 new infections. There were 92,353 active cases. The State claimed a COVID-19 death rate of 0.86%, and said it the lowest compared to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Krishna district had the highest death rate and Chittoor’s toll was the highest at above 500. More deaths were seen in Nellore, Kadapa, Prakasam and Chittoor in the past month than in the first five months of the pandemic. With government doctors in Karnataka on strike over higher pay, fewer COVID-19 positive cases and discharges were recorded on Tuesday. While doctors were treating patients and attending to other duties, they were not uploading reports on COVID-19 and National Health Mission. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said nine districts did not report a single discharge, while no new case was reported from Bagalkot. There were 7,576 new cases on Tuesday and 97 deaths. However, testing had not declined and 68,365 tests were conducted on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu reported 5,697 new cases of COVID-19 and 68 more deaths on Tuesday. Of this, 989 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai and 485 in Coimbatore, while the cases surged in Tiruppur as 262 persons tested positive for the infection. Till now, a total of 5,14,208 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Chennai’s overall tally of cases crossed 1.50 lakh and the toll crossed 3,000. As of Tuesday, a total of 46,806 persons are under treatment in the State. Of this, Chennai’s active cases dropped to 9,883 as 1,530 persons were discharged. A total of 80,623 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. With this, the total number of samples tested so far crossed 60 lakh.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Modi govt. scared of questions’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government are scared of the questions that will be asked on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which is why the Opposition was not allowed to speak after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement in the Lok Sabha, the Congress said after staging a walkout from the House. Floor leader of the Congress, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said there are many questions but the Congress on Tuesday only wanted to express solidarity with the Army. “But we were not even granted half a minute ... not even to speak in support of Mr. Singh’s statement,” he said. He also sought to remind that when BJP leader and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee demanded a discussion after the 1962 Indo-China war, the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru agreed for it and Parliament debated the subject for two days. ‘Deliberately silenced’ “Why was Prime Minister Narendra Modi absent from Parliament on a day his government has tabled such an important statement?” Mr. Chowdhury asked. His deputy in the House, Gaurav Gogoi, said the Congress was deliberately silenced. He said PM Modi, speaking outside Parliament on Monday, had said we should all speak in one voice and that is what the Congress wanted to do. “We wanted to send a message of solidarity to our troops and a stern warning to China that they should not test our patience. Unfortunately, this government feels that they alone can speak in support of the Army,” Mr. Gogoi said. The intention, Mr. Gogoi said, was to silence the party. The Prime Minister, even after 20 soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley, maintained that the Chinese army did not enter the Indian territory, he said. “This is also the position of the Chinese government and PM Modi’s statement has only undermined India’s position and strengthened them,” Mr. Gogoi said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is abroad accompanying his mother for medical treatment, in a tweet took a dig at Mr. Modi exhorting him not to be scared of naming China. “It is clear from the statement of the Defence Minister that Modiji misled the country on Chinese encroachment. Our country has always been, and will remain, with the Army. But Mr. Modi when will you stand against China? When will we take back the land of our country from China? Do not be afraid to name China,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||10 States account for 77% of active COVID-19 cases: govt.||Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that only 10 States — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu , Chhattisgarh, Telengana, Odisha, Assam and Kerala — contribute to 77% of the active COVID-19 cases in the country. There is evidence, according to the World Health Organization, which suggests that transmission occurs primarily through direct, indirect or close contact with infected people through saliva and respiratory secretions, he said. “Airborne transmission of the virus can occur in healthcare settings where specific medical procedures, called aerosol-generating procedures, generate very small droplets called aerosols.” The Centre, in its guidelines on the rational use of personal protective equipment (PPE) issued on March 24, has accounted for the possibility of airborne transmission in aerosol-generating procedures and has recommended appropriate PPE for such settings, he said.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ajit Doval walks out of SCO interaction||India on Tuesday responded strongly after Pakistan displayed the newly-unveiled political map of the country during the meeting of the National Security Advisers of the member countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who was participating in the virtual interaction, left the meeting mid-way after Pakistan displayed the map prominently behind its delegation. Fictitious map “Pakistan’s use of a fictitious map as a backdrop for its representative depicting sovereign Indian territories as part of Pakistan is a blatant violation of the SCO Charter and against all its established norms of safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of SCO Member States,” an informed source said. The official said the SCO chair Russia “tried very hard to persuade Pakistan not to do so” and Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary of the National Security Council of Russian Federation, expressed his personal appreciation to Mr. Doval for his participation.  Russia’s response “Russia does not support what Pakistan has done and hopes that Pakistan’s provocative act will not affect India’s participation in SCO and definitely not cast any shadow on Mr. Patrushev’s warm personal relationship for NSA,” said the source. Pakistan on August 4 unveiled the map which depicted the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir as part of its territory. It also showed Junagadh and Manavadar as part of its territorial claim. India had protested the move and described it as “political absurdity”.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. refuses demands to restore MPLADS funds||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to cut salaries of MPs by 30%. The debate however saw the entire Opposition uniting to ask for a concomitant restitution of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLADs) fund which the Centre froze for two financial years till 2022 as an austerity measure. Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Pralhad Joshi, steering the Bill, thanked MPs for the bipartisan support but kept mum on the question of restitution of MPLADS, despite almost every non-treasury bench speaker demanding it. Dean Kuriakose of the Congress moved a resolution before the debate on the Bill, stating his disapproval of the Bill without any restitution of MPLADs. DMK MP Kalanidhi Veeraswamy spoke on the need for MPLADs as a fund sensitive to local developmental needs. “The cut in salary will raise a maximum of Rs. 54 crores, while the Union government is set to spend Rs. 20,000 crore for a new Parliament, a needless expense at this time of austerity and crisis,” Mr. Veeraswamy said. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy pointed out that the government had not allocated the last tranche of the funds due for 2019-20. “I had allocated Rs. 50 lakh for a COVID-19 hospital in my constituency from the funds due from 2019-20 financial year but even that has not been disbursed by the government,” he said. “Even BJP MPs feel this way but since Prime Minister Modi has 303 MPs in the Lok Sabha, he doesn’t value their opinion,” he added. The BJD and the YSRCP echoed these sentiments. Pinaki Mishra of the BJD said, “It is not our fund; it is a fund for the people, by the people, of the people.” At this, N.K. Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, who was occupying the presiding officer’s chair, said the sentiments expressed by Mr. Mishra were perhaps “the Sense of the House”.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||U.K. hands over 3 Indian antiquities||Antique bronze idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, which were reportedly stolen from Nagapattinam in the 1970s, are set to return home due to efforts taken by art enthusiasts, officers of Idol Wing CID, and the High Commission of India (HCI), London. In August 2019, the HCI, London, was informed by members of the India Pride Project that four antique idols — Rama, Sita, Lakshmana and Hanuman, stolen from a temple built during the Vijayanagara period in Tamil Nadu and smuggled out of India, may be in the U.K. It was conveyed to HCI that the idol of Rama was suspected to be in the possession of an individual collector in London. “Once the idol was verified by comparison with relevant records, the matter was taken up with the Art and Antique Unit of the London Metropolitan Police as well as the Idol Wing of Tamil Nadu police,” said Rahul Nangare, First Secretary, HCI, London. The Idol Wing of Tamil Nadu police, headed by Additional Director General of Police Abhay Kumar Singh, sent a report confirming that the theft took place in 1978 at Rajagopalasamy Temple in Anandamanglam, then in Mayuram taluk. The Art and Antique Unit of the London Metropolitan Police, who investigated the matter based on information and documents provided to them, contacted the present owner of the statue and conveyed the Mission’s request to return the statue as it appeared, prima facie , to be a stolen idol from a temple in India. The art collector turned out to be a good faith purchaser, who had carried out due diligence checks including through a check of the Art Loss Register Certificates. The Met Police further found that the vendor involved was now deceased due to which there were no grounds to open any investigation in the U.K. Interestingly, the owner of the Rama idol informed the HCI and Met Police that he was in possession of two other idols, of Sita and Lakshamana, which he has handed over to the High Commissioner Gaitri Issar Kumar on Tuesday at India House. On Tuesday, all three idols were formally handed over to Tamil Nadu government through a virtual meeting attended by Union Minister for Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel. Mr. Patel thanked the British police, the Tamil Nadu government’s Idol Wing, the Archaeological Survey of India, and the HCI for making the recovery possible. ( With inputs from   Damini Nath in New Delhi )
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kashmir has grassroots democracy: India||India on Tuesday made an indirect reference to Pakistan’s involvement in fomenting terrorism in Kashmir and said despite such challenges, grassroots-level democracy has flourished in the volatile region. Speaking at the 45th regular session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, Permanent Representative of india Indra Mani Pandey expressed regret after High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet in her “Global Human Rights Update” referred to the law and order in Kashmir where a partial lockdown remains in place more than a year since India ended the special status under Article 370 of the region. Mr. Pandey said India remained committed to upholding “all human rights”. “We regret that the High Commissioner in her oral update made a reference to the situation in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. In this context, I would like to underline that, since the changes made in August 2019, people in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have been enjoying the same fundamental rights as people in other parts of India,” Mr. Pandey said. He argued that the decision to end the special status of the region under Article 370 had brought grassroots democracy to the citizens and safeguarded human rights. “We have been able to revive grassroots democracy and provide a new momentum to social and economic development, despite the challenge posed by COVID-19 pandemic and persistent attempts by one country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process,” said Mr. Pandey without naming Pakistan. Police violence Earlier on Monday, Ms. Bachelet referred to the continued tension in Kashmir. She said “incidents of military and police violence against civilians continue, including use of pellet guns, as well as incidents related to militancy”. Ms. Bachelet was one of the earliest to point out the difficulties created by the communication lockdown that was imposed just before Kashmir’s special status was ended on August 5, 2019. Crucial session The human rights session is crucial as it indicates the agenda before the U.N. General Assembly which will convene later this month. The High Commissioner welcomed some of the initiatives of the government of India at the political front but insisted for greater political liberty in the volatile region. “While I welcome the release of some political and community leaders, hundreds of people remain in arbitrary detention, with many habeas corpus petitions still pending — including those of many of Jammu and Kashmir’s political leaders,” said Ms. Bachelet. She also referred to the hostilities between India and Pakistan and urged for peace between the two South Asian neighbours in the context of the tension over Jammu and Kashmir and said, “My office is committed to continuing its engagement with both India and Pakistan, to uphold the rights of the Kashmiri people — which is the best way to prevent further tensions and conflict.” Ms. Bachelet also referred to several other global hot spots for human rights including Hong Kong where a new National Security Law has increased concern over the civil liberties of the citizens.  ...people in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have been enjoying the same fundamental rights as people in other parts of India Indra mani PandeyPermanent Representative, UNHRC
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays broadcast of TV programme||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the broadcast of Bindas Bol aired by Sudarshan news channel till further orders, prima facie observing that the object of the programme is to vilify the Muslim community and accuse it of surreptitiously trying to infiltrate the civil services. “Episodes broadcast till now show the nature and objective of the programme. Pending further orders of the court, Sudarshan News stands injuncted from making any more broadcasts on this subject on any other name too,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud ordered. The court said it was “insidious” to use the freedom of press to make “rabid” allegations and mount an attack on a religious minority community. ‘UPSC jihad’ The court was hearing a plea alleging that the show makes communal remarks about the entry of members of the Muslim community into the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission). At one point, it said, the anchor used the phrase “UPSC jihad”. The court said, “The edifice of a stable democratic society and observance of constitutional rights and duties is based on the co-existence of communities... India is a melting pot of civilisations, cultures and values... Any attempt to vilify a community must be viewed with disfavour”. The court noted that it was duty-bound to ensure adherence to the Programme Code framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. Justice Chandrachud said “as the Supreme Court of the nation, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating civil services”. Referring to the content of the programme, the court said it would not tolerate if the channel tried to portray that students of Jamia Millia were a part of a group trying to infiltrate the civil services. “How rabid can it get? Targeting a community for appearing in the civil services exam? Such insidious charges put a question mark on the UPSC exams itself. Can such programmes be allowed in a free society?” the court asked. Senior advocate Anoop Chaudhari, for petitioner Firoz Iqbal Khan, said the show was “blatantly communal” and had become a “focal point” of hate speech. It was a nine-part show and only the first few parts were over. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for the channel, said he was instructed it was an investigative story done keeping in mind public interest and national security.  Mr. Divan agreed to file a detailed reply by Thursday (September 17), the next date of hearing.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Amazon India augments facilities in Telangana||Amazon India on Tuesday said it has opened two new fulfilment centres and expanded a sorting centre in Hyderabad. This will help sellers offer a wider selection and enable faster deliveries of customer orders within the region and neighbouring States ahead of the upcoming festive season. Amazon now has a storage capacity of more than 4.5 million cubic feet spread across four fulfilment centres for its more than 23,000 sellers in Telangana. Post the expansion of the sort centre, over one lakh sq.ft. of processing area is available across two such sorting facilities in the State. “This network expansion will help create thousands of work opportunities and further help us support small and medium businesses in the region to fulfil their customer orders seamlessly. It will also provide an economic boost to the Telangana e-commerce ecosystem across packaging, transportation and logistics,” said Prakash Kumar Dutta, director of Fulfilment Centres and Supply Chain, Amazon India. Telangana Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said Amazon India’s continued investment in Telangana is a “testimony of our business-friendly policies and provision of high quality infrastructure. These new facilities will provide tremendous growth to the SMB sector and create job opportunities for local talent.” The expansion in Telangana is a part of the company’s recently announced plans to add 10 new fulfilment centres and expand seven existing sites, across India, the release said.  This network expansion will help create thousands of work opportunities and also provide an economic boost to the Telangana e-commerce ecosystem across packaging, transportation and logistics. Prakash Kumar Dutta, Director, Fulfilment Centres and Supply Chain, Amazon India
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CVC drops action against top officials of Train18 team||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has advised the Ministry of Railways to drop action against top officials of the Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai, who were part of the core team that made Vande Bharat Express, India’s first semi-high speed train. According to sources in the Railways, the CVC advised that no action be taken against then General Manager Sudanshu Mani, principal chief mechanical engineer Shubhranshu, principal chief electrical engineer N.K. Gupta, chief design engineer S.P. Vavre and others facing allegations of irregularities in the purchase of three-phase propulsion equipment for electrical multiple units, mainline electrical multiple units and Train18 (Vande Bharat Express). In a note, the CVC said the clause “found restrictive by the Railway Board does not appear to be restrictive in view of the response received against the tenders”. The Commission put on record its disagreement with the Disciplinary Authority and the Principal Executive Director (Vigilance), Railway Board, and advised ‘No Action’ against Mr. Vavre, who retired from service on August 31. Action was also dropped against Mr. Mani and Mr. Gupta, both retired; and Mr. Shubhranshu, Chief Administrative Officer, Rail Wheel Factory, Bela. Meanwhile, the Vigilance Directorate of the Railway Board has initiated a fresh case against Mr. Shubhranshu, whose name was dropped from the panel of officers approved by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet for posting as General Manager in zonal Railways. In another communication to the Railway Board, the CVC took a “serious view” of undue delays in submission of interim reports and final investigation reports. Referring to provisions under the Indian Railway Vigilance Manual, 2018, it was pointed out that complaints referred to the CVC “must be investigated on priority”, and in all cases interim and final investigation reports should be sent within 12 weeks and six weeks. Following this, the Board wrote to all Senior Deputy General Managers/Chief Vigilance Officers of zonal Railways, saying delays in submission of reports on complaints referred to the CVC should be avoided. In justified cases, extension of the target date for submission of reports should be sought well in advance.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||New powers for aviation regulators||The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was passed by the Lok Sabha on March 17, was passed by Parliament on Tuesday after a heated discussion in Rajya Sabha over privatisation of airports. The Upper House passed the Bill by a voice vote. The Bill gives statutory powers to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri said the changes were necessary for the growth of the sector. The Bill empowers the DGCA to levy enhanced penalties of upto Rs. 1 crore, from the existing Rs. 10 lakh, on airlines, airports and other aviation entities. The amendments also address several regulatory shortcomings that were highlighted by aviation watchdogs of the United Nations and the U.S. — the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the Federal Aviation Authority — during their audits on safety and security in the Indian aviation ecosystem. The changes include recognising regulatory bodies such as the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau, which were set up through various government notifications but did not have a defined role under the parent Act, as well as air navigation services. Mixed reactions During the discussion, Congress MP K.C. Venugopal hit out at the government over the privatisation of six airports that had been given to the Adani Group. He demanded an inquiry into the matter, saying it was “crony capitalism”. “Airports Authority of India has become AAA — Airports Authority of Adani,” Mr. Venugopal alleged. BJP MP G.V.L Narasimha Rao responded by saying the “real crony capitalism” was prevalent in the UPA government’s tenure in the 2G spectrum and coal block auctions. Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi said as a former pilot he understood the problems facing the civil aviation sector. He said there was need to do away with the entire Aircraft Act, 1934. On the impending sale of Air India, Mr. Trivedi said: “If Air India was not there, the private sector wouldn’t be there. So please don't sell Air India”. Former Civil Aviation Minister and NCP MP Praful Patel said the Bill was important as the aviation sector grows, the regulations have to be in line with international requirements. However, he said it was not clear how these regulators would be appointed. He also said there was a need to increase the number of airports in the country, citing the examples of the pending Jewar and Navi Mumbai airport projects that were approved in 2007 and 2005 respectively. On the issue of privatisation, Mr. Puri cited the example of Delhi and Mumbai airport being privatised in 2006, leading to the AAI getting Rs. 29,000 crore in revenue that helped in developing airports in the country. He said the six airports that were awarded in 2018 accounted for 9% of traffic, while Delhi and Mumbai accounted for 33% of traffic and earnings. He also said that for Air India, the choice was not between privatisation and non-privatisation, but between “privatisation and closing down”. On COVID-19, Mr. Puri said domestic air traffic would return to pre-pandemic level by year-end.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scientists document cases of asymptomatic reinfection||Researchers have reported what may possibly be the first instance of people in India being infected twice over by SARS-CoV-2  but remaining asymptomatic. Moreover, one of those infected appeared to carry a variant that conferred resistance to neutralising antibodies. The report appears in a paper that has been posted on a pre-print repository, meaning it has not been peer-reviewed. Globally and in India, there have been intermittent reports of people being infected at least twice and confirmed positive by an RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test. However, they have almost always involved the person being symptomatic at least once. “Our analysis suggests that asymptomatic reinfection may be a potentially under-reported entity,” say the authors of the report that include a team of doctors and geneticists from the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB). Healthcare workers The people who tested positive are healthcare workers at the Government Institute of Medical Science, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, and their infections were picked up as part of routine surveillance that the hospital conducts on its staff. The fact that the patients were infected twice could be reliably established because the viral samples gleaned from their nasal swabs underwent a whole-genome sequencing. This ruled out potential instances of their lab samples being contaminated or a false positive, or an old infection getting reactivated. The healthcare workers first tested positive on May 5 and May 17 respectively, and were hospitalised according to the hospital policy even though they were asymptomatic. They tested negative on May 13 and 27 respectively. After they resumed work, they again tested positive on August 21 and September 5 respectively. They were home quarantined, and tested negative again 14 and six days later respectively. “Both individuals were asymptomatic but had a higher viral load in the second episode of reinfection,” the authors note. “This was posted as a research communication because we need to let people know of the chances of reinfection, particularly among healthcare workers, and thereby a need for greater surveillance,” said Sridhar Sivasubbu, scientist at CSIR-IGIB and one of the co-authors of the paper. With increased access to RT-PCR testing and the virus having spread to every corner of the country, reports of reinfection are increasing. “There are reports of four cases in Mumbai, at least one in Delhi. The number of cases [of possible reinfection] where the IGIB is involved, but we haven’t finished the genome sequences, are 16. There are several more research studies forthcoming where we have reported reinfections,” said Anurag Agrawal, Director, IGIB. To establish such reinfections beyond doubt, the virus samples from both episodes were required and of the 16, the IGIB only had 9 samples from both episodes, said Dr. Agrawal. “It is noteworthy that a genetic variant 22882T during reinfection in [one of the patients] possibly confers resistance to neutralising antibodies,” the authors note. Neutralising antibodies are a type of antibody that binds to viral particles and prevents them from infiltrating the body’s cells. Earliest case The earliest case of confirmed reinfection emerged from Hong Kong, where a person first tested positive in March and then was found positive again after an airport screening in August, according to a report in Clinical Infectious Disease , published by the Oxford University Press. This, too, was confirmed by genomic sequencing. At a press briefing on Tuesday, Dr. Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “Reinfection is very rare with COVID-19. What has been observed so far is that whenever this occurs, both infections have been very mild. So it is not really a serious concern now”.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. opposes Electricity Act amendment||The State government has resolved to present a strong case against the proposed amendment to the Electricity Act 2003 by the Central government terming it as a “unilateral decision and a blatant attempt against the federal spirit aimed at usurping the States’ powers”. The State Legislative Assembly adopted a resolution voicing its strong opposition to the proposed amendment, claiming it was aimed at centralisation of powers and would impose a huge burden on States. The resolution demanded that the Centre immediately rescind its moves that were harmful to the interests of the people, farmers and under privileged sections in particular. Moving the resolution in the House on Tuesday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao described the proposed amendment as “draconian and dangerous” and totally against the federal spirit of the Constitution. “If the dictatorial Bill is passed, the States will lose their control over the energy sector,” he said adding the distributor sub-license method mentioned in the new Act would lead to backdoor entry for private companies in power distribution. Explaining the highlights of the draft Bill circulated to the States, he said meters would be fixed for every connection, including more than 25 lakh pumpsets of farmers, and bills should be paid every month without any exception. The regulatory commission to be set up at the Central level would decide the charges that should be paid by farmers and other consumers without subsidy. With over 25 lakh pumpsets in the State, the distribution companies should spend around Rs. 700 crore towards installation of meters and appoint 2,500 meter readers across the State with an average expenditure of Rs. 7.5 crore every month towards their salaries. The load dispatch centre would be shifted to Delhi and the clauses relating to open access policy would allow consumers to procure power from anywhere along with the power supplied by the distribution companies. No cross subsidy The new Act would enable consumers to procure more power through open access system and this would adversely affect the distribution companies. “For States like Telangana which are giving cross subsidies, this will be a very heavy burden,” he lamented. The State was providing subsidy in excess of Rs. 10,000 crore every year towards free power to the farm sector. Further, power purchase agreements, their administration and management would all go into the hands of the Centre and States would be forced to reduce power generation in their plants under the merit order system. “This will cause immense losses to the State-owned generation companies,” he said. The same was the case with the insistence on purchase of at least 20% of energy through renewable sources. Power should be procured from the new expensive hydel plants without any consideration for power generated by State projects like Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam. “Failure to procure renewable energy as per the proposed Act will ensure penalties to the extent of Rs. 0.50- 2 a unit, imposing huge burden on the States,” he said. Tariff structure There would be changes in the power tariff structure affecting the subsidised power being provided to various sections of consumers. Categorisation of consumers would be done as per the tariff policy and the State government could not extend any benefit or power subsidy to the poor. The State’s control over the electricity regulatory commission would also cease to exist as the Centre would appoint members to the ERCs. The Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority would take care of all the matters pertaining to contracts, power purchase agreements, their implementation, sale and purchase of power and related issues. “This will adversely affect the States’ powers,” he said.  ‘No response’ The Chief Minister said though he had addressed a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 2 to withdraw the proposed amendments, there was no response as yet. “The proposed new Act is against the interests of the States, federal spirit and is aimed at usurping the States’ power. The State government is therefore opposing the Bill tooth and nail,” he averred. Demanding that the BJP MPs from the State respond to the proposed Act, he said chief ministers of several States, including Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Delhi, were in touch with him on the issue.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Sasikala’s jail term may end on Jan. 27||V.K. Sasikala Natarajan, close aide of late former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, lodged in the Central Prison at Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru since 2017, may be released on January 27, 2021, the Prison Department has confirmed. It has also said that Sasikala may undergo one more year of imprisonment, till February 27, 2022, if she failed to pay a fine. T. Narasimamurthy, city-based social activist, had filed an RTI query seeking details of her release in August, but his request was initially turned down. After he approached higher authorities, the information was shared on September 11. Sasikala, convict No. 9234, is serving her term in the Central Prison since February 15, 2017, after the Supreme Court set aside a High Court acquittal and upheld the trial court conviction in the disproportionate assets case, which also involved the late Jayalalithaa. The court had ordered Sasikala to pay a fine of Rs. 10 crore, beside serving four years of imprisonment. Sasikala’s nephew Sudhakaran and her confidante J. Ilavarasi are also serving jail terms.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fewer than 34,000 inter-State migrant workers in 2019-20||In the last five years, there have been no inter-State migrant workers registered in the Delhi, Dehradun or Patna regions. Nationwide, there were less than 34,000 workers registered in 2019-20 under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (ISMW) Act, 1979, according to a response to a recent Right to Information (RTI) Act request. In response to another recent RTI request, the Indian Railways said it only keeps data on “casualties arising from consequential train accidents”, and thus has no information regarding deaths on the Shramik Special trains that transported migrants during the lockdown. On Monday, the Labour Ministry told the Lok Sabha that it had no data on the migrant workers who lost their jobs or lives during the lockdown. However, it claimed that over one crore migrant workers returned to their home States during the lockdown. The ISMW Act, which came into force four decades ago, is meant to protect vulnerable workers who leave their own home State for employment. It applies to every establishment and contractor who has five or more migrants on their rolls and prohibits their employment without a certificate of registration. According to the Act, each registered worker must be issued a pass book with details of employment, wages and benefits. In response to an RTI request filed by activist Anjali Bhardwaj, the Central Labour Commissioner (CLC) provided data showing that only 33,776 migrant workers were registered under the Act in 2019-20, according to monthly reports from regional offices. The highest number of registrations came from the Kochi regional office in Kerala, with over 7,800 workers, followed by Dhanbad in Jharkhand (almost 7,496) and Chennai in Tamil Nadu (6,623). On the other hand, Delhi, Dehradun and Patna regions registered zero migrant workers last year, and for the last five years. Despite this clear evidence of failure to follow the law, there have been less than 200 inspections carried out under the Act from March to December 2019, the CLC data said. Although more than 2,000 irregularities were identified in this period, less than a thousand were rectified, and just 40 prosecutions were launched under the Act. “The lackadaisical approach towards this law meant that when the sudden lockdown was imposed, the government had no information about migrant workers,” said Ms. Bhardwaj. “Millions of people were left with no means and resources and forced to walk hundreds of kilometres... This could have been prevented had the law been properly implemented.” Ms. Bhardwaj also filed an RTI with the Railways, asking for the details of people who died on Shramik Special trains since May 1. “The Safety Directorate of Railway Board maintains the data of casualties arising out of consequential train accidents only. During the period from May 1 to June 25, there were no deaths on the Shramik Special trains due to the consequential train accidents,” said the response. In a case filed in June in the Supreme Court, faced with reports of more than 80 deaths on Shramik Specials, the Centre claimed that all the deaths were due to earlier illnesses, not due to lack of food, water or medication.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Actor couple called for questioning in drug case||Continuing investigations into the drug racket involving the Kannada film industry, the Central Crime Branch (CCB), on Tuesday, issued a notice to actor-couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrita Ray, directing them to appear for questioning on Wednesday. The names of the actor-couple cropped up after the CCB found their association with absconding accused Sheikh Faazil, sources said. Faazil allegedly organised high-end gambling parties at a casino in Sri Lanka, which the other accused attended and peddled drugs. Actors Ragini Dwivedi, who is now in judicial custody, and Sanjjanaa Galrani, who is in CCB custody, as well as celebrities, such as Aindrita, were the star guests of the parties to promote the event. Aindrita is said to have attended one such party recently and even promoted the event on social media. This brought her under the CCB scanner, officials said. The couple is presently out of station and is expected to appear before the CCB at the scheduled time of 11 a.m. Aindrita wrote on Twitter on Tuesday: “We have received a telephonic notice from the Central Crime Branch for an ongoing enquiry at 11 a.m. tomorrow. We will be present and fully cooperate with the CCB.” According to the police, Faazil’s arrest could lead the CCB to get more information on the drug racket. The CCB continued to question Sanjjanaa while Ragini, who is lodged in the central prison at Parappana Agrahara, completed her first day in judicial custody.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Education Plus career counselling event from Sept. 19||The Hindu-Education Plus Career Counselling conclave will take on a digital avatar this year for its 18th edition. The digital conclave aims to help students make informed career choices and chalk out their future, while setting a benchmark in educational and professional guidance. The four-day digital conclave will act as a platform to connect students and parents with speakers and educational institutions, and equip them with the necessary counselling and guidance to pick the right career choices. To be held from September 19 to 22, the conclave will have subject experts addressing sessions covering commerce, architecture, pure sciences and medicine, as well as sessions on how to crack the Civil Services exams, among others. Students of Classes IX to XII, as well as those looking for options to pursue their post-graduation can attend the conclave. Interested participants can register for free to attend the sessions on all four days. To login and register, students can go to http://bit.ly/THEPEDIT or scan the QR Code. They will also be able to access the schedule of the conclave. Students who WhatsApp their email IDs to 9964648444 or 9449343420 will receive a free soft copy of The Hindu Education Plus career counselling handbook. Hard copies of the book are available at The Hindu ’s offices across Karnataka. Insights IAS is the gold sponsor for the event; and East West; Acharya Bangalore B-School, the Institute of Company Secretaries of India; and the Shaheen Group of Institutions, Bidar are the silver sponsors for the event.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘NEP aims at education rooted in Indian ethos’||To a question on whether the National Education Policy (NEP) would propagate secular, democratic and socialist values, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told the Lok Sabha that the Policy envisions an education system “rooted in an Indian ethos”, which will encourage students to bond with their country and contribute directly to make India a global knowledge superpower. Earlier this year, a revision of the CBSE syllabus for the COVID-19-shortened school year attracted controversy when sections on secularism and democracy were excluded. The question came from Rajmohan Unnithan, a Congress MP from Kerala, who asked if there is “any clear-cut direction in the National Education Policy 2020 regarding the propagation of secular, democratic and socialist values in educational institutions” and also if there was any concrete direction to impart “the constitutional values of Justice [social, economic, and political], Liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith, and worship, Equality of status and opportunity and Fraternity ensuring the dignity of individual and unity and integrity of the nation”. In his written response on Monday, Mr. Nishank said NEP 2020 “envisions an education system rooted in Indian ethos that contributes directly to transforming India, that is Bharat, sustainably into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society, by providing high-quality education to all, and thereby making India a global knowledge superpower”. The Policy stipulates that “ethical reasoning, traditional Indian values and all basic human and Constitutional values will be developed in all students,” said the Minister, adding that all higher education institutions will include community service projects and value-education courses.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Film industry is being flogged to shift focus’||In the wake of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide and subsequent arrest of his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty over involvement in an alleged drug racket, which has dominated news channels over the past many weeks now, Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan said that the film industry was being “flogged” to “divert attention” from the depressing financial situation. Ms. Bachchan, speaking during Zero Hour, in which MPs can raise issues of national importance, said the film industry employs 5 lakh people daily and 5 million people indirectly. “At a time when the financial situation is in a depressing state and employment is at the worst level, in order to divert the attention of the people, we are being flogged by the social media,” she said, adding that this was happening with support from the government. She also sharply rebutted BJP Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kishan’s statement made in the Lok Sabha on Monday. Mr. Kishan, a popular actor in Bhojpuri films, raised the drugs-related allegations that have emerged against the film industry in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation. He alleged a “conspiracy” by Pakistan and China to destroy the country’s younger citizens. “Just because of a few people, you cannot tarnish the whole industry...” Ms. Bachchan said. She exhorted the government to stand by the industry, which she said has always come forward to help, be it in the form of monetary help or to raise awareness.  Because of a few people, you cannot tarnish the whole industry Jaya Bachchan Samajwadi Party MP
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. MP flays govt.’s soft response to flight ruckus||Congress MP Vivek Tankha on Tuesday said in the Rajya Sabha that “selective punishment” had been meted out to comedian Kunal Kamra for “one conversation” on board a flight, but the mediapersons, who created “turmoil” on a recent flight from Chandigarh to Mumbai that actress Kangana Ranaut took, were given just a warning. Mr. Tankha was speaking during the discussion on the Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that gives statutory powers to aviation regulators. “You are giving them a statutory shape, but even without being statutory, they could have been fair and bipartisan,” he said. He cited a tweet of Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri in January advising other airlines to impose restrictions on Mr. Kamra, who was banned by Indigo for heckling television anchor Arnab Goswami on a flight. Mr. Tankha contrasted this with the response to mediapersons’ behaviour on a flight with Ms. Ranaut on board, saying only a warning was issued.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Don’t fell trees for construction of medical college in Nilgiris: HC||The Madras High Court has restrained the State government and the Nilgiris district administration from felling fully grown trees for the ongoing construction of a government medical college hospital in the hill station on lands that were once given on lease to Hindustan Photo Films Manufacturing Company (HPFMC). A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha passed the interim order on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate V. Ramesh. The judges asked Advocate General (A-G) Vijay Narayan to explore the possibility of using the existing buildings of HPFMC for some allied requirements of the hospital. They said even if the existing buildings of the company could not be converted into a hospital, as prayed for by the petitioner, they could be used as staff quarters for the employees of the hospital or for other uses such as a laboratory. They wanted to know government’s decision by next month. However, Additional Solicitor General R. Shankaranarayanan brought it to the notice of the court that HPFMC, a central public sector enterprise, could not be termed as defunct. He said the company had only stopped operations since 2003 and that winding up proceedings were still pending before the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR). He said HPFMC had recently filed a writ petition before a single judge of the High Court against resumption of 292.71 acre by the Nilgiris Collector without the approval of the Union Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises and that notices had been ordered to the State government and the Collector on that petition. On the other hand, the A-G informed the court that the government medical college was being built only on 25 out of nearly 300 acre that had been resumed from HPFMC. He said the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests had approved the construction. He added that it would not be possible to utilise the existing buildings of HPFMC for the hospital since they would not conform to latest norms for construction of a hospital. After hearing all of them, the judge made it clear that the government go ahead with the construction but ordered that the fully grown trees alone need not be disturbed.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,||Dileep seeks ban on reportage of proceedings||Actor Dileep has moved the special court trying the actor rape case against the “illegal act of publishing matters in relation to the in-camera proceedings in the case.” He contended on Tuesday that the publication of the matter was calculated to injure his reputation and violate his fundamental right to fair trial. Mr. Dileep has arraigned 10 media houses, including The Hindu , as respondents in the case, which, according to him, have caused the publication of the objectionable news items. He sought directives to the investigating officer to submit a report regarding the violation of the court order and the action taken against the violators. He has also sought to issue notices to the media houses to take appropriate and stringent action for violating the court order. B. Raman Pillai, the counsel for Dileep, told The Hindu that the trial court had prohibited the publishing of the court proceedings in the case. The publication of the news violates the court order. Hence the petition, he said. Posted for Friday The trial court considering the prosecution petition to cancel the bail posted the case for Friday. The prosecution submitted that the actor violated the bail conditions.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India has surplus medical oxygen: govt.||“We have been in touch with States to ensure that there is no delay in the supply of oxygen. Each State needs to ensure proper inventory management so that oxygen can be replenished in time,” he said. Mr. Bhushan added that the States, including Delhi, Bihar, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, have been directed to increase their COVID-19 testing numbers to ensure that “we are able to catch any missing persons”.  Importance of RT-PCR “We have written to States about the importance of RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) tests of symptomatic negatives in antigen tests. To chase the virus, you have to catch missing persons,” Mr. Bhushan said at a press conference. Replying to a question about a possible second wave that the country may be seeing, Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “Several countries had a COVID peak, then it came down, but India has been able to curb very high peaks, thanks to very effective lockdown. We have learned from other countries and keep our deaths under control.” He added that the cases of re-infection continue to be rare and mild so far. Speaking about the effectiveness of plasma therapy for COVID-19 treatment, he said it had been used in the Ebola outbreak, etc. “Studies have been done and are still being peer reviewed. Once that’s done, national task force will look at it,” Professor Bhargava said.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China has massively deployed troops’||Later, on September 10, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, met in Moscow where they agreed on a five-point plan for disengagement and reduction of tensions. On this, Mr. Singh said that if implemented “sincerely and faithfully” by the Chinese side, it could lead to “complete disengagement and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. In July, addressing troops near Pangong Tso, Mr. Singh said the “progress in the talks [with China] should lead to a resolution of the issue” but “there was no guarantee to what extent the issue would be resolved.” In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said the Foreign Ministers reached an important consensus on “easing up the situation” and the two sides would remain in communication with each other through diplomatic and military channels “to push for settlement of the issues remaining on the ground”. “We hope India will work with China to follow these important agreements and make concrete efforts to improve the situation on the ground,” Mr. Wang said. Since the meeting, there has been an uneasy calm in Ladakh, including on the north and south banks of Pangong, which saw a rise in tensions in the past two weeks. The two sides have since agreed to hold another round of Corps Commander-level talks to discuss disengagement which, an Army source said, is likely to be held this week.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kashmiri leaders contest claim on house arrests||The Centre told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that 223 people are under detention in Jammu and Kashmir and no one is under house arrest. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the government of Jammu and Kashmir has reported that in view of the constitutional changes effected by Parliament regarding the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir in August, 2019, various measures were taken to maintain public order which included preventive detention of certain persons. “As on 11.09.2020, 223 persons are under detention. No person is under house arrest in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir,” Mr. Reddy told the Lok Sabha in a written reply. Responding to the claims, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Waheed ur Rehman Para said the Centre was lying and he continues to be under house arrest. “It is unfortunate that after a year of detention they are telling us you were never detained. I still continue to remain under house arrest and the irony of the situation is that now the onus is on me to prove that I am not under house arrest. Peddling lies in the temple of democracy has shamed the entire country. From a cop deployed at my house to the MoS in Parliament all are lying. Who do we complain to?” Mr. Para told The Hindu . He said 11 political workers of the PDP were also under house arrest. Former J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti continues to be detained under the Public Safety Act. Sajad Lone, president, Peoples Conference, tweeted, “What a sad state of affairs. Y do they have to do this. If someone is under house arrest. Just say it. Either the state administration is lying to the Union govt or it is the Union govt’s own initiative. We live here. We r telling u. People r under house arrest”. Congress leader Salman Anees Soz, son of former Union Minister Saifuddin Soz, said the “government lies to Parliament blatantly”. Mr. Reddy also said the number of terrorist incidents has reduced significantly after the bifurcation of the erstwhile State on August 5 last year. From June 29, 2018 to August 4, 2019 (402 days), there were 455 terror incidents and from August 5, 2019 to September 9 (402 days), 211 such incidents took place in the newly created Union Territory.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. refuses discussion on LAC face-off||The meeting was followed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement in the Lok Sabha on the situation. However, with Leader of the Congress legislative party in the Lower House Adhir Ranjan Choudhary not being allowed to express his views after the statement, the Opposition walked out. Mr Singh will be making a statement in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday where clarifications can be asked for by the Opposition under the rules.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. welcomes India’s role in Afghan peace talks||“The two sides discussed future steps and possible cooperation between India and the U.S. in furthering the Afghan peace process,” the sources said. During the talks, both sides stressed on the need for regional support for the Afghan peace process, that could see the Taliban being brought into the political mainstream in Kabul, and on the importance of ending transnational terrorism from Afghan soil. “The United States and India share the view that the peace process must continue until there is agreement on a political roadmap and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire. The Afghan sides should ensure their territory must not be used by any terrorist group against any other country,” said a statement issued by the U.S. Embassy in Delhi. On Saturday, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar spoke via video-conference at the inaugural session of the Intra-Afghan Negotiations (IAN) in Doha, the first time that an Indian official has addressed a gathering that included the Taliban (which India has thus far considered a terror group). New Delhi also sent a high-level official delegation, led by the MEA point person for Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan, J.P. Singh. The MEA did not respond to a question on whether the Indian officials had met with Taliban representatives directly. However, a senior government official said that “by participating in IAN at Doha, India has already engaged all parties,” signalling a major shift in Indian policy. This was Mr. Khalilzad’s 5th visit to New Delhi since he was appointed the U.S. Special Representative on Afghanistan Reconciliation by U.S. President Donald Trump in 2018. In an interview to The Hindu in May 2020, Mr. Khalilzad had advocated an official India-Taliban engagement, saying it would be “appropriate” given India’s importance in Afghanistan. However, the government had refused to comment on the statement then. Mr. Khalilzad flew into New Delhi on a special plane on Tuesday directly from Pakistan. With the Intra-Afghan negotiations under way in Qatar, the U.S. Special Envoy is pushing for a ceasefire, and during his meetings with the Pakistani army Chief General Bajwa and Pakistan’s special envoy on Afghanistan, Mohammad Sadiq, he reportedly asked for Pakistan’s support in convincing the Taliban to commit to a reduction or cessation of violence.
16 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand HC rejects man’s plea for relief||The Jharkhand High Court has rejected anticipatory bail application of a man accused of circulating a post through a WhatsApp group indicating that a woman of Malaysian origin was responsible for spreading coronavirus. The plea came up for hearing in the court of Justice Mr. Rongon Mukhopadhyay in Jharkhand HC, Ranchi, on September 9. The petitioner Snesh Nah Yadav, a government employee, had applied for anticipatory bail apprehending his arrest in connection with a case filed in Jharia police station in Dhanbad district. According to the judgment, “The post prompted comments targeting a particular community.”
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||MVD to issue online PUC certificates||The National Informatics Centre (NIC) has begun work to link the emission-related data of 1.44-crore motor vehicles registered in the State with the Transport Mission mode project’s pan-India application VAHAN for vehicle registration. Once the linkage is provided, the Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificate will be provided to the motorists only through the server of the Motor Vehicles Department after the emission data are provided from the 550-odd testing stations. “We hope to complete the trials soon. The aim is to begin issuing PUC certificates online in October,” Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath told The Hindu . With this, the MVD will be able to monitor the emission testing being carried out by the testing centres, check the use of pirated software, check automobile pollution, and address the complaints of issuing certificate without testing as a uniform certificate is to be provided. SMS alert For the motorists, the MVD is planning to issue an SMS alert at the registered mobile number of the vehicle owner well before the expiry of the PUC. The PUC certificate will be uniform in appearance. The Joint Transport Commissioner said that testing centres using old machines for detecting the emission level needed an upgrade. With the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, the motorists have to face revised penalties for driving vehicles violating air pollution standards. As per the Act, the information should be made available in electronic form on m-Parivahan and e-Challan platforms.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Essential Commodities Bill passed||The Lok Sabha passed the Essential Commodities Amendment Bill by a voice vote on Tuesday evening. The Bill proposes to deregulate the production, storage, movement and sale of several foodstuffs, including cereals, pulses, edible oils and onions, except in the case of extraordinary circumstances. With thousands of farmers rising up in protest against the Bill in Punjab, one of the allies of the ruling BJP, the Shiromani Akali Dal MP and president Sukhbir Singh Badal, expressed concerns and misgivings about the proposed legislation during the debate in the House. He questioned the manner in which the Bill was brought without consultation with farmers’ organisations. Punjab farmers were the worst affected, he said. The Bill is meant to replace an ordinance promulgated in June, in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. It says stock limits can only be imposed if retail prices surge 50% above the average in the case of non-perishables and 100% in the case of perishables.
16 September 2020||Srinagar,||Hizb, Al-Badr modules busted, 5 held||Five militants and their associates were held on Tuesday in Kashmir as two modules of the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Al-Badr outfits were busted. Meanwhile, militants managed to escape from an encounter site in Pulwama. A police spokesman said two militant associates were arrested in south Kashmir’s Awantipora. “Acting on specific information, the Awantipora Police and security forces held the two militant associates at Ladhoo crossing when the duo were travelling on a two-wheeler from Shopian to Khrew,” the police said. The police identified them as Rayees-ul-Hassan and Mushtaq Ahmad Mir. “Incriminating material of the Al-Bader has been recovered apart from Rs. 6 lakh in currency,” the police added.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘FB trying to hide facts on role in riots’||Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan on Tuesday did not appear before a Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony, which is looking into Facebook’s alleged role in the Delhi riots in February, despite being summoned via a notice, said the committee. Committee chairman Raghav Chadha said that Facebook India officials had “objected” to the notice. “Your refusal to appear before the committee is an attempt to conceal crucial facts in relation to Facebook’s role in the February 2020 Delhi violence,” Mr. Chadha said. The committee decided to give Facebook one more chance to appear before it.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI conducts searches in J&K land case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday conducted searches at multiple locations in Jammu and Kathua in connection with a land grab case against R.B. Educational Trust, run by former State Minister Choudhary Lal Singh, and others.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scheme for health sector extended||The ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package insurance scheme for health workers fighting COVID-19’ has now been extended for another 180 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The scheme was announced on March 30 for 90 days and was extended for 90 days (up to September 25). This Central sector scheme provides an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to healthcare providers who may have to be in direct contact and care of COVID-19 patients, and therefore is at risk of being infected. It covers private hospital staff/retired/volunteer/local urban bodies/contract/daily wage/ad-hoc/outsourced staff requisitioned by States/Central hospitals/autonomous hospitals of Central/States/UTs, AIIMS & INIs/hospitals of Central Ministries drafted for COVID-19 related responsibilities.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Atal tunnel offers all-year connectivity||The soon-to-be-opened Atal tunnel being built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) under the Rohtang pass in Himachal Pradesh will ensure connectivity to Leh and forward areas all round the year, a senior Army officer said on Tuesday. The Army is in advanced stages of completing winter stocking of rations, clothing and accommodation for the large number of troops deployed in high-altitude regions of Ladakh at 14,000 feet and above due to the ongoing standoff. The tunnel is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi end of this month.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC grants relief to Sumedh Singh||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave former Punjab Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini protection from imminent arrest while asking the State government to respond to his plea for bail in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. “This case is of 1991. After 30 years, what is the hurry to arrest him?”, a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked the government side.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||MPs unite over Punjabi for J&K||In a rare show of unity, a day after Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari raised the demand that Punjabi be included in the list of official languages in J&K after a new Bill left it out, Shiromani Akali Dal MP Sukhbir Singh Badal and National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah echoed the demand during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha. Mr. Badal said J&K had been for many years part of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh’s Sikh empire and Punjabi was spoken by many in the State. He pointed to Dr. Abdullah and said, “Dr. Abdullah will bear out what I’m saying, he himself speaks fluent Punjabi.” Dr. Abdullah acknowledged that Punjabi was indeed spoken widely, and added that Pahadi and Gojari language too should be added to the list.
16 September 2020||KOCHI/Thrissur,||Swapna’s police custody after medical examination||The Special Court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will decide on the application for the police custody of Swapna Suresh, an accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, after assessing her health conditions. The Special Judge announced the decision on Tuesday while considering the application of the NIA. Angiogram suggested A medical board constituted for examining Swapna, who had complained of chest pain, suggested an angiogram test for her. Swapna’s counsel Geo Paul argued that the application for her police custody should be considered only after obtaining her medical report. The court accepted his arguments and said it will wait for the report to decide on her case. At the same time, the court allowed the police custody of Sandeep Nair, Muhammed Shafi and Muhammad Ibrahim, the other three accused in the case who were produced in the court, till Friday. Data extracted The investigation agency has extracted 2TB each data from the digital devices seized from the accused and it wanted to confront them with the data. It had also submitted before the court that the initial scrutiny of the data was completed on September 11. The mirror image of the devices owned and connected to the accused were also obtained by the agency, according to its submission in the court. Back in Viyyur jail According to a Thrissur report the medical board found that Swapna did not have any serious illness. She and K.T. Rameez, another accused in the case, who were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, were sent back to the Viyyur jail on Tuesday. Rameez was admitted to the hospital with stomach ache and vomiting. Swapana was in hospital for six days following chest pain earlier. Personnel warned Meanwhile, Thrissur City Police Commissioner issued warning against six women police personnel who took selfie with Swapna at the hospital. Earlier there were allegations that Swapna had used the cell phone of nurses in the hospital to contact some people. However, the nurses have refuted the allegation. The investigation agency has collected call records of hospital staff who were on duty during Swapna’s hospitalisation.
16 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,||TS govt. suspends two revenue staff||Taking a serious note of irregularities in assignment of government land the government has initiated action against erring revenue officials and private persons who benefited from the fraudulent order. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders on Monday suspending two revenue officials. According to sources, revenue officials of Jinnaram mandal committed grave irregularities in assignment of government lands in survey number 181 at Khajipally village in Jinnaram mandal. Those who worked at Jinnaram in the past and were placed under suspension included — the then Jinnaram Tahsildar G. Narender and then deputy tahsildar K. Narayana. The officials informed that that the role of other officials and staff involved in the process will be investigated and action will be initiated against them. The persons whose role in the order is under scanner are: then Khajipally VRO J. Venkateswara Rao, then mandal revenue inspector G. Vishnuvardhan, then mandal surveyor N. Linga Reddy, then senior assistant R.M. Eswarappa, then superintendent M. Sahadev and then RDO of Sangareddy during 2019. The government has decided to initiate criminal action against the officials as well as private persons and the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration and Sangareddy Collector have been directed to furnish draft article of charge immediately to the government. The government has also directed the officials to cancel at once the assignment pattas reported to have been issued to Venkateswarlu, Uppu Ranganaikulu, N. Nagender Rao and M. Madhu, who were allotted 5 acres each under ex-servicemen quota.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. aims to be South Asia’s ICT hub, says Revenue Minister||The State government is actively promoting IT in the State with the objective of becoming the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) hub of South Asia by creating a knowledge driven ecosystem, leveraging entrepreneurship and promoting socially inclusive growth to achieve a 25% production share of the Indian ICT industry, said R.B. Udhayakumar, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, and Information Technology. Addressing the inaugural session of CII Connect 2020 — the flagship annual ICT conference and exhibition, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry in partnership with the Government of Tamil Nadu — the Minister requested the industry to take advantage of the investor-friendly policies of both the Central and State governments and establish IT industries in emerging technologies like blockchain, artificial intelligence and IoT and in electronics manufacturing, thereby increasing employment opportunities in the State. Increased exports Mr. Udhayakumar pointed out that the State attracted investment of Rs. 11,974 crore in the IT/ITeS sector during the second Global Investors Meet held in January 2019. IT/ITeS exports increased by nearly 12% to Rs. 1.39 lakh crore in 2019-20 as against Rs. 1.23 lakh crore the previous year. Employment by the sector increased again by nearly 12% to 7.4 lakh in 2019-20. Hans Raj Verma, Secretary, Information Technology Department, indicated that the State government would be releasing a series of policies for the IT sector. “Using COVID-19 as an opportunity, the IT sector with all its strategic partnerships, all the stakeholders can look for a bright future,” he said. Hari K. Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council, said that the current pandemic had created both challenges and opportunities for the Indian IT industry. “Due to COVID, a lot of opportunities have opened up in the IT industry, such as the growing need for 5G technology. Telehealth is one of the developing industries. This could help people to get diagnosed, treated and operated without the need of a physician to be physically present. A lot of apps have been built in the past few months to help achieve this,” he said. Mr. Thiagarajan said there were many patients — who were in self-quarantine, who needed medical supervision and medical assistance every day — and these applications could help them achieve that. Many success stories C.K. Ranganathan, deputy chairman, CII Southern Region, said Tamil Nadu was an innovation-based economy with a strong presence in manufacturing and services. “Chennai has also become a hub for software-as-a-service startups with many success stories from players in the State,” he said, highlighting that senior leaders should link up mentors and startups. Suresh Raman, chairman, CII Connect 2020, mentioned that over the last few years, the event had been successful in implementing several initiatives in the State — like ICT Academy, specialised technology parks, new developments in the aero park, MRO hub and IT consortium for skill development — which could be attributed as a direct outcome of Connect.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 5,697 fresh cases; 68 deaths take toll to 8,502||Tamil Nadu reported 5,697 fresh COVID-19 cases and 68 more deaths on Tuesday. Chennai reported 989 cases and Coimbatore 485. The cases surged in Tiruppur as 262 persons tested positive. So far, a total of 5,14,208 persons have tested positive in the State. Chennai’s overall tally of cases crossed 1.50 lakh and toll stood at 3,004. Another 5,735 persons were discharged following treatment. With this, 4.58 lakh persons have been discharged in the State. The State’s toll touched 8,502. Of the 68 deaths reported on Tuesday, 40 occurred at government hospitals and 28 at private hospitals. Twelve persons died in Chennai, nine in Salem and five each in Cuddalore and Tiruvallur. Among the eight persons who died of COVID-19 and had no co-morbidities were four in their 40s. One of them was a 40-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai who died at the Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital on September 12 owing to viral pneumonia, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 42-year-old man died at the Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital, Chidambaram, on September 13 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. As on Tuesday, a total of 46,806 persons were under treatment. Chennai’s active cases dropped to 9,883 with the discharge of 1,530 persons. Chengalpattu continued to report a high number of cases with 324 persons testing positive. There were 292 cases (including one imported case) in Salem, 283 in Tiruvallur and 268 in Cuddalore. Kancheepuram and Tiruvannamalai reported 198 and 189 cases respectively. Ten other districts reported 100-plus cases. They included Erode, 135, Thanjavur, 160, Vellore, 134, Villupuram, 134, Tiruvarur,129, and Nagapattinam, 111. A total of 80,623 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested so far has crossed 60 lakh. U.T. toll crosses 400 COVID-19 fatalities in Puducherry breached the 400-mark on Tuesday, with 11 deaths and 380 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours. The capital reported 10 deaths and Yanam one. The toll rose to 405. The patients were in the 38 to 80 age bracket. The steadily increasing case fatality rate stood at 1.97%.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to get World Bank funding for CMWSSB projects||Some significant projects to improve water supply and sewage treatment in the city are likely to get a fillip soon. Technical assessment is under way for projects of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), for which funds have been sought from the World Bank. The board has sought Rs. 2,600 crore under the “Chennai City Partnership” programme, a model that focuses on sustainable development of the city. The water board has proposed to execute four projects in the southern suburbs of the city with World Bank funding. These include providing underground drainage network in five added areas of Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, Neelankarai, Okkiyam Thoraipakkam and Injambakkam, the officials said. Funds would be released in a phased manner under the “programme for results” instrument developed by the World Bank. Under this, the release of funds is linked to achieving specific milestones during project implementation. Another significant project was capacity expansion of tertiary treatment plants at Perungudi and Nesapakkam by up to 110 million litres a day. Work is in progress to implement the pilot ‘recycle and reuse’ projects to treat and release treated wastewater to recharge waterbodies and indirect potable use of recycled water. Equitable supply Chennai gets 700 mld on alternate days. On increasing the water supply, an official said: “We don’t see the need to increase the quantity now. But we are working on improving equal water distribution to all households in an area.” The water agency has proposed to improve the distribution system in zones X and XIII covering localities such as T. Nagar, Mylapore and Kodambakkam under the demand management plan as a pilot project. This envisages water supply with adequate pressure to reach the tail-end areas by strengthening and replacing old pipelines. “We have asked for funds to provide last mile connectivity to households covered with the underground drainage network in added areas,” said the official. The water agency would provide connections without any application and residents can pay the bill later in instalments. There are plans to execute the “ Illanthorum Inaippu” project in areas such as Ullagaram Puzhuthivakkam, Karapakkam, Sholinganallur and Perungudi. The CMWSSB has identified nearly one lakh sewer connections need to be given in various added areas.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill for quota in medical seats to govt. school students passed||The Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed a Bill to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation in undergraduate medical admissions on a preferential basis to government school students who have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). This would apply to undergraduate programmes in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homoeopathy. It would not apply to seats under the all-India quota. “Students who studied in government schools shall also be entitled to compete for the government seats, other than those set apart on a preferential basis, along with the students who studied in private schools,” read a provision in the Bill, which was moved by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Students who studied from Class VI to Higher Secondary Course in government schools, including Corporation schools, municipal schools, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare schools, Kallar Reclamation schools and Forest Department schools and those managed by government departments would benefit from this legislation. The AIADMK government took the decision on recommendation made by a commission headed by P. Kalaiyarasan, a retired High Court judge. “It is evident from the Commission’s report that there exist de facto inequalities between the government school students and the private school students,” the legislation said. The government decided to take affirmative action so as to bring about real equality between students of government schools and of private schools. Existing quota When the Bill was taken up, DMK MLA R. Masilamani (Mailam) urged that the horizontal reservation be eventually expanded to students studying in government-aided schools. To his question whether the existing reservation would be implemented in the 7.5% horizontal reservation, Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam answered in the affirmative. After a voice vote conducted by Speaker P. Dhanapal, the Bill was passed. The commission had said in its report that government school students were placed at a disadvantage, compared with private school students, “owing to the cognitive gap created by socio-economic factors such as caste, wealth, parental occupation, parental education and gender, and these psychological and socio-economic barriers cannot be bridged by a few months of intensive coaching for NEET, even if provided free.” The commission had recommended that 10% of the MBBS seats could be set apart on a preferential basis to students who studied from Class VI to Higher Secondary Course in government schools and qualified in the NEET.  The Bill provides 7.5% horizontal reservation in undergraduate medical admissions on a preferential basis to government school students who have cleared NEET
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly sittings see a declining trend||The current year — 2020 — may create a “record of sorts” with the 15th Assembly having the lowest number of sittings in a year. This year, the House met on 23 days, including the first two days of the ongoing session. Wednesday is going to be the last day for the current round of sittings. Though the COVID-19 pandemic was the major reason for the curtailment of the duration of the Assembly when the demands for grants for various departments were taken up in March, the trend in recent years is the declining number of sittings per year. Highest average Between 1952 and 1991 (up to the end of the Ninth Assembly), the average number of sittings per year varied from around 50 to 68. In fact, the highest average of 68.4 was registered during June 1980-November 1984 when the House met on 301 days. The trend of the State legislature meeting less and less number of times began with the 10th Assembly (1991-96). Since then, the average number of sittings exceeded the 50-day mark only once — during 1996-2001. But this is not confined to Tamil Nadu. Parliament and other State legislatures are no exception. Over the years, several constitutional experts have called for steps to increase the number of sittings per year. The National Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution (2000-02), headed by former Chief Justice of India M. N. Venkatachaliah, had prescribed that the Houses of State legislatures with less than 70 members should meet for at least 50 days a year and other Houses at least 90 days. R. Avudaiappan, former Speaker of the Assembly (2006-11) and senior DMK leader from Tirunelveli, says the trend is not healthy. It would be ideal if demands for grants for one or two departments are taken up on a day. But, sometimes, even 10 departments are covered in a day, something that should be avoided. Likewise, sufficient time should be given for discussion of the pros and cons of Bills. AIADMK leader Anwhar Raajha, who had served in both the Assembly and the Lok Sabha in the past, reiterates the demand for a constitutional amendment with regard to the number of sittings per year for the State legislature and Parliament. He feels that unless this is done, there would not be much improvement. C.K. Thamilarasan, a four-time former legislator and now heading the Indiya Kudiyarasu Katchi, says the rising cost is one of the major factors for the trend. In the present circumstances, what the presiding officers should do is to conduct the proceedings impartially, giving fair opportunities to all members to participate in debates, he adds.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Driver rescued from wreckage||Personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services, Tambaram, rescued a 35-year-old driver who was caught in a mangled lorry that had rammed into a container vehicle on the Maduravoyal bypass near Tambaram early on Tuesday. Lorry driver M. Gopi, who was driving the garments-laden vehicle from Sivakasi towards Ponneri, lost control and rammed the rear of a moving container vehicle. The front portion of the lorry was damaged, and Mr. Gopi was trapped inside while his assistant managed to escape. The fire control room received a call at 5.30 a.m. and personnel of the Tambaram station rushed to the spot after they were alerted. Fire and Rescue Service personnel used an electric machine, and Mr. Gopi was pulled out from the wreckage after an hour.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET, student suicides rock Assembly session||Sparks flew in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Tuesday after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami alleged that NEET was first implemented during the government of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), of which the DMK was a constituent. The DMK’s alliance with the Congress-led UPA was the reason for the suicide of 13 students over the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), he said. Though Mr. Palaniswami let Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar reply to the issue raised by the Opposition, he eventually joined the debate to counter the charges made by the DMK and the Congress. A visibly angry Mr. Palaniswami said it was because the DMK supported the Congress-led government at the Centre in 2010 over NEET that 13 students had died. During the debate, Speaker P. Dhanapal ordered the eviction of Congress MLAs, after they insisted that the remarks made against Nalini Chidambaram, wife of senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram, be expunged. She had appeared as a lawyer favouring NEET in a case before the Supreme Court. Earlier, DMK president M.K. Stalin raised the issue of students committing suicide and called for a resolution in the Assembly against the Centre, and another one against Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for his remarks on the issue. The debate eventually witnessed the AIADMK and the Opposition accusing each other of failure to stop the Centre’s attempts to introduce the test. When the DMK criticised the AIADMK for failure to act now, the ruling party alleged that the DMK had supported the UPA whose government introduced the NEET. When Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar asked Mr. Stalin to explain how he intended to scrap the NEET in eight months, Mr. Stalin said he would take the ordinance route and exert pressure on the Centre as the AIADMK did on the jallikattu issue.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 7,167 crore spent to contain COVID-19, says Deputy CM||The Tamil Nadu government has spent Rs. 7,167.97 crore towards containing COVID-19 and mitigating its effect on the general public, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam informed the Assembly on Tuesday. In his reply to a special calling attention motion moved by Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin, Mr. Panneerselvam (who also holds the Finance portfolio) said the panel headed by former RBI governor C. Rangarajan would soon submit its report. The panel was constituted to advise the government on short- and medium-term responses to COVID-19 in the State. Stating that austerity measures were necessary at this point in time, Mr. Panneerselvam elaborated on the various measures taken by the State government. As the State government decided to freeze the dearness allowance for government employees and pensioners for three half-years as per the Centre's guidelines, it is expecting to save an estimated sum of Rs. 4,947.23 crore during 2020-21. Another sum of Rs. 2,448.82 crore is expected to be saved during 2020-21, following its decision to temporarily freeze the payment over earned leave of government employees, Mr. Panneerselvam said. However, the Deputy CM maintained that the AIADMK government would continue implementing people’s welfare schemes. Mr. Panneerselvam added that the AIADMK government would implement all the announcements made by Ministers as well as the CM in the Assembly. He also underlined the demands made by the Chief Minister to the Centre, pressing for funds to fight the pandemic.  The AIADMK government would continue implementing people’s welfare schemes
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13 universities in T.N. opt for online examinations||All the 13 universities in Tamil Nadu that come under the jurisdiction of the Higher Education Department will conduct the final semester examinations in the online mode this year. A government order to this effect was issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department on Tuesday. The order follows a request from the Higher Education Department and the Directorate of Technical Education for permission to conduct the terminal (final semester) examinations for the academic year 2019-2020 in September. Blended exam Consequent upon this, the RDMD has permitted the universities to conduct the exams. All but Mother Teresa Women’s University will conduct the exams online. Mother Teresa University will conduct a blended exam, according to the order. While exams for Alagappa University students began on Tuesday, the University of Madras and Bharathidasan University will hold exams from September 21 to 25. Madurai Kamaraj University has scheduled exams from Sept. 17 to 30. Anna University will conduct the exams from Sept. 22 to 29; Bharathiar University’s exams will be held from Sept. 21 to Oct. 7. Manonmaniam Sundaranar University and Annamalai University will conduct the exams from Sept. 21 to 30. Periyar University has scheduled its exams from Sept. 21 to 29. Tamil Nadu Open University students will take their exams from Sept. 19 to 30 and Tiruvalluar University students will take their exams from Sept. 16 to 29. The students of Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University will take their exams from Sept. 17 to 29. The DoTE will conduct its exams from Sept. 23 to 29. “Online off campus” mode According to the University of Madras Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri, the university will follow the “online off campus” mode of examination. The students can download the question papers, write the answer and then scan their answer sheet and upload it. Speed post The candidates will be given six hours and if unable to upload answer sheet they can send the answer paper by speed post to their principals.   The Universities have provided all details on their websites to enable students access them.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes: panels to check for compliance with norms||The Director of Matriculation Schools has asked Chief Educational Officers to ensure compliance with the guidelines issued for conducting online classes in Tamil Nadu, and has identified safety protocols to be followed by schools. At the district level, monitoring committees, headed by the CEO, with district educational officials, two headmasters from private and government schools as well as a police official would be formed to monitor and supervise whether the guidelines and directions for conducting online classes were being complied with. This committee would meet once a month. In a circular, A. Karuppasamy, Director of Matriculation Schools, said Education Department officials have been asked to speak to schools about using end-to-end encrypted safe platforms for the classes. Details of students participating in the classes, which include their name, e-mail ID and device ID that would appear on the screen when they attend the classes should be given to the teachers in advance. “Teachers will check these details once every four weeks to ensure that the student is participating under the ID that they have submitted,” the circular said. During the class, if any obscene or unwanted content appears, teachers, parents or students have been asked to take a screenshot of the same and file an online complaint with the cyber crime division, after informing their school heads. When they file a complaint, the first line should have ‘School-Online Classes-Violation of IT Act’ so that the police can identify and act on these complaints on a high-priority basis.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital does cartilage surgery||Doctors have performed a cartilage defect repair surgery on a 32-year-old man with osteochondral defect. According to a press release, a team of doctors led by A.B. Govindaraj, director, Institute of Orthopaedics, MGM Healthcare, performed the procedure on the patient, who suffered from painful locking of his knee. The patient had undergone knee ligament reconstruction surgery seven years ago. He was diagnosed with chondromalacia patella and was undergoing treatment with medication and physiotherapy. However, his symptoms continued to worsen. At MGM Healthcare, doctors repeated the MRI scan using cartilage mapping to identify and quantify the size of the chondral defect. Various treatment options were discussed before finalising on the all autologous cartilage regeneration, a single-stage procedure unlike autologous cartilage implantation. Using arthroscopy, doctors harvested cartilage from other parts of the joint. The cartilage was mixed with PRP (platelet rich plasma) and the defect was filled with the graft prepared using a mini-open technique. Post-surgery, the patient was being mobilised on a knee brace to prevent knee bending for up to six weeks, the release said.  The patient underwent knee ligament surgery seven years ago
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP, AIADMK responsible for NEET: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday criticised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for stating in the Assembly that the Congress and the DMK were responsible for implementing the NEET exam in Tamil Nadu. “This is an attempt to defame the UPA II government, in which the Congress and the DMK were together,” he said in a statement on Tuesday. NEET was implemented in Tamil Nadu only after 2016, he pointed out and rejected the criticism that the exam was being implemented since 2009. Mr. Alagiri said that Simran, Jain and others had filed a case in the Supreme Court in 2009 stating that around 35 entrance examinations were being conducted for admissions into 425 medical colleges in the country. In December 2010, the Supreme Court directed the Medical Council of India to organise a single all-India exam for medical admissions. However, since the Union Health Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad and then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Karunanidhi opposed it, the plan was dropped, he recalled. Mr. Alagiri underlined the fact that till the UPA was in power in 2014, NEET was not implemented.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Submit White Paper on anti-COVID-19 measures’||DMK president and Opposition leader M.K. Stalin on Tuesday demanded a White Paper on the measures taken by the AIADMK government to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak and the financial and economic loss caused by the pandemic. Speaking in the Assembly, he said the White Paper should explain aspects like the procurement of medical equipment, the tests conducted in every hospital, the number of people infected by the virus, those who were discharged after treatment and the money spent from the State Disaster Management Authority. “There is no transparency in the purchases and appointments (of medical staff) made during the pandemic,” he alleged, adding, “The House will be in session for just one more day. The government should place the White Paper before that.” Alleging that the government had rejected his demand for an all-party meeting to chalk out plans to deal with the situation, Mr. Stalin said over 5 lakh people had been affected by COVID-19 in the State so far. “The government failed totally in its efforts to contain the virus, and the State economy is staring at a bleak future,” he said. He demanded disbursement of Rs. 5,000 to every family affected by the pandemic-induced lockdown. In his reply to the special calling attention motion moved by the DMK and others, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the death rate due to COVID-19 remained at 1.67%, the lowest in the country, due to the AIADMK government’s efforts. If one had to look for purely COVID-19-related deaths, it stood at 0.3%, and the remaining 1.3% were cases with co-morbidities, Mr. Vijayabaskar said. The Minister also appreciated the services of frontline workers and other officials involved in the fight against COVID-19. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami joined the debate to say that the State government was making all-out efforts to manage the pandemic. “You are all aware that there is no medicine for this as of yet...Even so, the government has made efforts to reduce the spread of the infection as per the suggestions made by medical experts,” he said.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to enrol 25 lakh members online||The DMK launched a party membership campaign, ‘Ellorum Nammudan’ (All are with us), on the occasion of party founder C.N. Annadurai’s birth anniversary. Party president M.K. Stalin, who launched the campaign from Anna Arivalayam, set a target of enrolling 25 lakh members online in the next 45 days. A statement from the party said one lakh party office-bearers and cadres would meet people in connection with the drive. Anyone who has completed 18 years could use the website https://www.dmk.in/joindmk and become a member. There is no fee. “Those who become members online will enjoy rights on a par with regular members. But when they want to vote in the organisational poll, their background details would be verified by the local party representative. They should also complete one year to participate in elections. They can vote in the election if they enrol 25 more members,” the party said.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan rules out poll alliance with PMK||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday ruled out any possibility of an alliance with Pattali Makkal Katchi in the 2021 Assembly election. In an interview to The Hindu , he said his party would not be a part of an alliance that features the PMK due to their fractious and tumultuous recent past. “We have taken this stand after thinking about it calmly and deeply about merits and demerits over a period of time. An alliance with the PMK would be a major compromise, opportunistic and constitutes foolishness,” he said. When asked if he would be open to a dialogue if the PMK reached out with an attempt to reconcile differences, Mr. Thirumavalavan said he was not in a position to lay down conditions for reconciliation. “He [PMK founder S. Ramadoss] has had a cordial relationship with me and, at the same time, he has expressed extreme animosity… to the extent that my personal safety was compromised. There was a time when he kept moving his pieces against me with no reason whatsoever… I have no personal animosity against him and I have no differences with him. In fact, we have worked with him closely for five years in Tamil Padhukappu Iyakkam,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan felt that Dr. Ramadoss’ recent comments in an interview to a television channel that VCK (or any other party) and the PMK are not sworn enemies were “meaningless”. “He came across as a very revolutionary force in the beginning — someone who cared for Tamil culture, people, a crusader for social justice and someone who embraced Dalits… He came across as an Ambedkarite, a Periyarist and a Marxist and we wanted to work with him politically on that basis. But, then again, he went back to caste,” he charged. Mr. Thirumavalavan accused Dr. Ramadoss of resorting to caste-polarisation for political gain. “Whenever he loses political clout, he goes back to caste politics. He doesn’t seem to care even if poor working class people — those who herd animals, who work in the farms, etc. — are affected by this. To achieve polarisation between non-Dalits and Dalits [working classes], he is sharpening the differences between them. I am not saying he is creating the split between Dalits and non-Dalits — the split already exists in society due to caste, but he is using the caste conflict for political gain. This is dangerous — we should work to remove differences between people, not use those differences,” he said.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man from Malaysia treated for spinal TB||Doctors at Kauvery Hospital here successfully treated a 31-year-old man from Malaysia, who was diagnosed with a rare case of double-level (neck and lower back) symptomatic tuberculosis, amidst the COVID-19 restrictions. According to a statement from the hospital, after sustaining a minor injury in late 2019, the patient developed severe back pain, for which he was prescribed pain killers initially. As the pain worsened, he underwent further tests in April and was diagnosed with spinal tuberculosis, which required surgery. However, the COVID-19 restrictions made it difficult for him to undergo surgery. Meanwhile, he became completely paralysed, the statement said. His family subsequently arranged for teleconsultation with G. Balamurali, senior consultant spine surgeon, at Kauvery Hospital. “On seeing his scans, I observed a rare vertebral bone collapse at two levels with severe compression of spinal cord at the junction of the neck and back,” he said. The statement said the hospital liaised with the family and the Consulates of India and Malaysia to arrange for his travel. He was operated on and later underwent spine rehabilitation. He has returned to Malaysia. Aravindan Selvaraj, executive director, Kauvery Hospital, congratulated the team of doctors and other staff for successfully coordinating the patient’s travel and surgery.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electrocution: 2 engineers suspended||The Greater Chennai Corporation has suspended two engineers in connection with the electrocution of a 35-year-old woman in Pulianthope on Monday. The woman reportedly stepped on a live electrical cable in a waterlogged area of Narayana Samy Street in Pulianthope on Monday. Two days before the the accident, residents had filed a complaint about civic issues on Narayana Samy Street, pointing to the risk of electrocution in such waterlogged areas of the city. According to officials, the engineers had reported that work on rectifying the defect had been completed after the complaint was registered by residents on September 12. But the accident reportedly occurred after the civic officials rectified the defect. “It is unfortunate,” said a civic official. After the incident, the civic body has started assessing the issues reported by residents in all 200 wards of the city. Residents have complained that the risk of accidents to pedestrians has increased owing to poor maintenance of streetlights and electrical cables in many of the 39,000 roads in 15 zones of the city. The civic body directed 700 workers to identify defects in 2.85 lakh streetlights and 7,220 pillar boxes in the city. Dug-up streets According to estimates by civic officials, more than 10% of the streets have been dug up by various line agencies ahead of the northeast monsoon, increasing the risk of such accidents. Some residents have dug up roads without permission. Residents in various neighbourhoods have pointed to a delay in rectifying defects reported under the existing system to redress grievances. Many residents who call Corporation helpline 1913 have complained that there has been a delay in response from officials.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t politicise NEET, says BJP State chief Murugan||BJP State president L. Murugan on Tuesday said that the NEET issue should not be politicised and asked politicians not to play with the lives of students. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Murugan said that DMK president M.K. Stalin should stop instigating the students for political gains. “Stalin should stop instigating students for his own political gains. Since the DMK was focused on the 2G scam, they did not open their mouths when they were in alliance with the Congress,” he said. Nobody, including Mr. Stalin and actor Suriya, should politicise NEET, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17 will be celebrated across the State by the party by planting saplings and providing annadanams , Mr. Murugan added.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands resolution against Centre for failure to cancel NEET||Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday demanded that the Assembly adopt a resolution against the Centre for its failure to cancel the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). He alleged that the Centre had failed to respect the earlier resolutions adopted by the Assembly seeking exemption of the State from the test, as well as the sentiments of Tamil Nadu students. Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Stalin said he also wanted a resolution to condemn Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for his remarks that the State had not made any request to cancel the NEET. “The State government should take steps to ensure that admission to medical colleges takes place based on the marks scored in the Plus Two examination,” he said.  Mr. Stalin urged the government to mount pressure on the Centre to cancel the NEET in a manner similar to how it succeeded in getting permission for jallikattu three years ago. “A ban on jallikattu was made based on the Supreme Court’s order. The AIADMK was in power at that time and the Deputy Chief Minister [O. Panneerselvam] was the Chief Minister then. You went to Delhi and put pressure on the Centre, which resulted in an ordinance in favour of jallikattu,” he said. He said the DMK would follow a similar procedure “when it comes to power after eight months” and would not conduct the NEET in Tamil Nadu. Pointing out that the all parties were fighting against the NEET, Mr. Stalin said that while the DMK won a legal battle against it, the AIADMK could not succeed in its efforts.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Psychotropic drugs seized, one arrested||Chennai Air Customs intercepted and seized psychotropic drugs destined for Florida in the U.S. at the Foreign Post Office. A press release here said 3,440 tablets falling under Schedule ‘X’ and ‘H’ of the Drug and Cosmetic Rule, 1945, and covered under the NDPS Act, 1985, were seized. The parcels were found booked by a Chennai-based person running a pharmaceutical wholesale business. He was arrested after searches were conducted on his premises.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New system for fast disposal of petitions||The State will launch an Integrated and Inclusive Public Grievance CM Helpline Management System to address the grievances of the general public, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced in the Assembly on Tuesday. He said a help desk would be set up in the first phase, and would be expanded if needed. “We noticed that multiple petitions are submitted by the same persons at the district and State levels. So, coordination is necessary between the forums,” Mr. Palaniswami said.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call to conduct supplementary exams by October-end||The Tamil Nadu Medical Students’ Association has urged the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University to conduct the supplementary examinations for second- and third-year MBBS students by the end of October. In a statement, the association said the results of the university examinations for second- and third-year medical students conducted in February 2020 were released recently. Some students did not pass the examinations. Fear among students Usually, the results of the examinations are released in April/May and supplementary examinations are held in August. However, the regular supplementary examinations schedule was disrupted due to the COVID-19 situation. This has led to fears among second- and third-year medical students regarding the supplementary exams and course extension. In view of these issues, the association requested the university to conduct the supplementary exams for second- and third-year students by the last week of October. The association noted that the university had held the supplementary examinations for fourth-year medical students who did not pass the February 2020 university examinations in August.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre, State govt. to blame for student deaths: Stalin||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Tuesday blamed the BJP government at the Centre and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the deaths of medical aspirants. Responding to the charge that NEET was originally introduced during the UPA regime, he said: “But I charge that the Centre and the State government killed the students,” he said while addressing the Mupperum Vizha of the party. Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government did not have the power either to oppose the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) or get an exemption from the NEET for Tamil Nadu. “But the Chief Minister is touring districts and shuttling between (his native) Salem and Chennai. Nonetheless your gimmicks will not cut ice with the people,” he said.
16 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to remove birds from list of ‘pet animals’||The Madras High Court on Tuesday expressed its reservations over entertaining a public interest litigation petition which opposed the inclusion of birds under the definition of ‘pet animals’ that could be domesticated and kept in captivity under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shop) Rules of 2018. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the prayer sought for by the litigant to declare Rule 2(k) as unconstitutional to the extent of inclusion of birds under the definition of pet animals would amount to asking the court to legislate and decide the contents of statutory rules. The judges suggested that petitioner Vinod O. Jain of Chennai could instead withdraw the PIL plea and pursue the matter with the government authorities concerned. In his affidavit, the petitioner contended that birds were a fundamental part of the ecosystem and were necessary for a healthy environment. They aid in pollination of flowers which, in turn, led to growth of fruits and vegetables. “By capturing birds and putting them in cages, this process is reduced drastically,” he said. The petitioner contended that inclusion of birds in the definition of pet animals would lead to misrepresentation and even smuggling of prohibited species. He pointed to a news report last month regarding certain exotic birds smuggled across the India-Bangladesh border and sold for Rs. 14.2 lakh a pair. He said the Gujarat High Court inAbdul Kadar Mohamed Azam Shaikh versus State of Gujarathad held that birds had a fundamental right to fly in the open skies and that keeping them in cages amounted to illegal confinement. A similar view had been taken by a single judge of the Delhi High Court also, he submitted.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant stays put||Efforts by the Forest Department to tranquillise and treat an injured wild elephant within the limits of the Mettupalayam forest range were stalled as the ailing animal continued to remain in interior forest. Forest Department officials said the elephant, with multiple wounds, stayed put 5 km away from the forest boundary on Tuesday. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said the tusker, aged around 25, was stationed at an elevated place, named Thaneerpallam, on the lower slopes of the Nilgiris on Tuesday. The area is rich in terms of availability of water and fodder, and the elephant, therefore, did not move to other places. The official added that the elephant would be tranquillised only when it reaches plain terrain.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||73-year-old woman trampled to death||A 73-year-old woman from Pannimadai near Coimbatore, was trampled to death by a wild elephant in the early hours of Tuesday. V. Neelavathi, a resident of Pappanaickenpalayam village near Pannimadai, was attacked by a lone male elephant around 5.30 a.m. She died on the spot. The incident took place when the woman had come out of her house to go to a temple in the locality. According to Forest Department officials, the tusker had strayed into the village from a nearby reserve forest area of the Coimbatore Forest Range of the Coimbatore Forest Division. The body of the woman was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. The Forest Department handed over Rs. 50,000 out of the Rs. 4 lakh given by the Government as solatium to the family of the deceased as immediate relief. Ten persons have lost their lives in wild elephant attacks in the Coimbatore Forest Division so far this year. One person was killed in an attack by a wild boar during the same period.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Onion prices drop after export ban||Prices of big onion, which went up slightly in Coimbatore on Monday afternoon, came down later in the day as the Central Government banned export of onions. According to M. Rajendran, president of Thyagi Kumaran Market vegetable traders’ association, the wholesale price of big onion here on Monday morning hovered around Rs. 26 a kg. As the auction prices jumped by nearly Rs. 10 a kg at Nasik, one of the main onion markets in the country, the prices increased here too. However, with reports trickling in that the Government had banned export of onions, the prices dropped by Monday evening. “There was hardly any big onion arrival here on Tuesday and the arrivals on Wednesday are expected to be less. The prices are likely to be the same as that of Monday. However, there is a possibility of the prices spiralling in a month as rains have damaged onion crops in Karnataka,” he said. Meanwhile, according to sources, perishable commodities - vegetables, fruits and flowers - were among the main items exported by air from the Coimbatore International Airport during the last five months. Though onion was not a major commodity exported from here, the ban is expected to have a slight impact on export of perishables from here.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have arrested a 25-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl after abducting and marrying her. Police said the man from Pogampatty, near Sultanpet, was working as a watchman in a wind farm. He was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s father. The accused and the girl were from the same locality and in a relationship for more than a year. As per the complaint lodged by girl’s father at the Sultanpet police station, she left home in the early hours of September 2 and the accused abducted her in a mini van. Police registered a case against the man and a few others who assisted him in the abduction. They managed to trace the accused and the girl on Monday. Police altered the First Information Report registered with regard to abduction and added various Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and a provision of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act to it. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant remains in interior forest||Efforts by the Forest Department to tranquillise and treat an injured wild elephant within the limits of Mettupalayam forest range were stalled as the ailing animal continued to remain in interior forest. Officials with the Department said that the male elephant with multiple piercing wounds on its body was stationed at least five km away from the forest boundary on Tuesday. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said that the tusker aged around 25 was stationed at an elevated place named Thaneerpallam on the lower slopes of the Nilgiris on Tuesday. The area is rich in terms of the availability of water and fodder and the elephant did not move to other places. The official added that the elephant will be tranquillised only when it comes to a plain terrain. Two kumkis - Suyambu and Venkatesh - from Chadivayal elephant camp and their handlers were camping near Nellithurai reserve forest area where the injured tusker was last spotted on September 12. Though the elephant remained in interior forest, the field staff of the department were placing fruits stuffed with medicines for the animal based on the directions of veterinarians. Cameras were also placed in the forest to check whether the elephant was taking the fruits.
16 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Joint efforts in wildlife management discussed||Senior officers of the Tamil Nadu and Kerala Forest Departments held a meeting through video conferencing on Tuesday to discuss human-animal conflict related to wildlife in the inter-State border areas of Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Palakkad districts. Issues concerning the wildlife in the Palakkad-Mannarkad-Coimbatore landscape and Nilambur South–Nilgiris landscape, including status of poaching, sandalwood smuggling, and possibility of joint efforts, were discussed at the meeting. Officials took decisions on continuous exchange of information, starting of a real-time dynamic sharing of information on wildlife movement through a common social media group, sharing of already collected database on wildlife, details of sick animals, exchange of details of habitual offenders in wildlife crimes and good conservation practices. The meeting also resolved to conduct joint patrolling and inter-State meetings of officials and staff once in three months. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle); K. Vijayananthan, Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife, Palakkad); Pramod, Chief Conservator of Forests (Territorial, Palakkad); Vysak, Deputy Director of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve; Kurra Srinivas, Wildlife Warden of Silent Valley; District Forest Officers D. Venkatesh (Coimbatore), Narendra Nath Veluri, District Forest Officer (Palakkad), Sunil Kumar (Mannarkad), Shaji (Nilambur south), Sumersh Soman (Gudalur) and Gurusamy Dabbala (Nilgiris) took part in the meeting.
16 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online counselling for junior assistants post||Online counselling for the post of eight non-teaching junior assistants will be held on September 17 and 18 at the Chief Educational Officer’s office. Candidates. who had not received their letters for online counselling, can contact Coimbatore Chief Educational Office on Raja Street, Town Hall. Candidates must bring original documents for the counselling.
16 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mahalaya Amavasya rituals banned||As part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, the district administration has banned congregation of devotees at temples or water bodies close to temples to conduct Mahalaya Amavasya rituals on September 17. District Collector K. Rajamani said in a release that owners of private halls near temples must get permission from the authorities before renting the premises for these occasions. HR&CE Department officials said that the crowds are expected at Perur Patteeswarar Temple, Karamadai Aranganatha Swamy Temple and Thekkampatti Vanabadrakaliamman Temple in Coimbatore district. While the rituals are not allowed, the temples will be open for devotees with the usual COVID-19 precautionary measures.  Erode Staff Reporter adds  The Erode district administration has also banned congregation of devotees at temples and river beds on September 17. Collector C. Kathiravan, however, said that devotees can offer prayers at temples.
16 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kerala-based gang that duped resort owner busted||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have busted a Kerala-based gang that duped a resort owner of Rs. 1.72 crore earlier this month. While five members of the gang were arrested on Monday, two, including its leader, were detained on Tuesday. The Anamalai police arrested M. Sathish (30) of Palakkad, A. Seemjith (24) of Malappuram, Manoj Xavier (30), S. Biala (26) of Ernakulam, and T. Sasikanth (25) of Kasaragod on Monday. Police seized Rs. 5 lakh, a car, four knives, an air pistol, pellets and live rounds of pistol from them. On Tuesday, police arrested the gang leader, Anoopkumar of Palakkad, and another accomplice and seized a pistol from them. According to police, M. Muthu (67) of Kilavanpudur Pirivu, near Anamalai, sold his resort for Rs. 1.35 crore in July this year and deposited the amount in his bank account in which he already had Rs. 37.50 lakh. Anoopkumar had stayed at Mr. Muthu’s resort and they became close, said the police. Mr. Muthu withdrew Rs. 1.72 crore from the bank at Singanallur on September 2 and returned to Anamalai with Anoopkumar and his friend Sathish. Mr. Muthu allegedly requested Anoopkumar to keep the money with him for a day and give it the next day. However, as per the complaint lodged by Mr. Muthu, Anoopkumar did not return the money. Police are yet to record the arrests of Anoopkumar and his accomplice. Man held with country-made bombs The Forest Department, on Tuesday, arrested K. Moorthy (48) of Seeliyur on charges of possessing two country-made bombs used for hunting, raw materials for making bombs and an air pistol.
16 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs for early decision on extension of moratorium||Even as the Micro, Small, and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) wait for the Supreme Court order regarding extension of moratorium for bank loans, some banks have deducted the interest for the current month and some have reworked the interest due for the last six months into loans. “There is only confusion among the MSMEs. The uncertainty regarding the loan repayment has only affected business,” said R. Ramamoorthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, said that banks had deducted the interest, in some cases even for three to six months, if the units had money in the account. Industry sources say that since the Supreme Court has asked the banks to not insist on repayment till September 28, there is some relief for the units now.
16 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage road roko, traffic hit||A large number of people including women from as many as 30 hamlets resorted to a road roko. As a result, vehicular movement was affected for about three hours on the Sempatti-Batlagundu stretch on Tuesday. There was a good inflow into Kudaganaaru after widespread rain along the Western Ghats. Villagers in and around the area were jubilant as they were witnessing water flow after seven years. However, farmers of the Rajavaikal Farmers’ Association and Periyar Dam Retrieval Association insisted on suspending the water flow from Kudaganaaru immediately. Officials rushed to the spot. The agitators insisted on talking to the Collector. Farmers agreed to have a peace meeting under the leadership of Revenue Divisional Officer after persuasion.
16 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Over 150 kg ganja seized||Narcotics Intelligence Bureau, Salem, seized over 150 kg of ganja worth Rs. 15 lakh from a mini van that was bound to Bengaluru on Tuesday. The NIB arrested Prakash Raj, a resident of Kanakapura in Bengaluru.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||83 test positive in Madurai||A total of 83 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases to 15,477. According to the State health bulletin, all of the cases were indigenous. The number of persons discharged reached 14,371 as a total of 41 people recovered. The death toll was 374 as two people died. There were 732 active cases as on date. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded 41 fresh COVID-19 positive cases taking up the total number of positive cases to 13,767. However, with the discharge of 26 patients from various hospitals, the total number of discharged patients has increased to 13,162. With this, the number of active cases has stood at 400. Meanwhile, the death toll in the district increased to 205 after the death of a 65-year-old woman at a private hospital in Madurai on Monday. Theni Theni has reported 81 fresh cases with which the tally moved to 13,914. There were 97 discharges from the hospitals and so far, 13014 patients were discharged after treatment. Dindigul Dindigul has 61 cases reported with which the tally stood at 8,001. The hospitals had discharged 107 people from the hospitals. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram has 26 new cases and the total number of patients so far stood at 5,233. There were three patients discharged from the hospitals and as on date, 4,849 people had been successfully discharged. Sivaganga Sivaganga tested 28 new cases of covid-19 virus and the total moved to 4845. There were 28 discharges from the hospitals and so far 4238 people were treated and discharged. Tirunelveli Though the district did not witness any COVID-19 death, Tirunelveli added 117 new cases to take the tally to 11,309. After 77 patients were discharged from hospitals, Tirunelveli has 1,065 active cases even as the fatality stood at 191. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district added 103 fresh cases. It took the tally to 11,197 even as 814 patients are undergoing treatment after 41 patients got discharged from hospitals. The district’s total fatality moved up to 210 following death of two positive patients. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi district, while discharging 74 patients, recorded 84 new cases. Its tally increased to 12,458 and number of active cases stood at 719. The district did not record any death. Tenkasi In Tenkasi district, 3 more patients succumbed to the viral infection while 56 fresh cases were reported to take the tally to 6,400. A total of 615 patients are undergoing treatment now.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘It’s time to open weekly vegetable markets’||Vegetable vendors who used to set up weekly markets in various parts of the city, have had no sustainable income for seven months. With the relaxation of the lockdown by the government, several vendors and association representatives have submitted representations to the district administration, seeking a way to earn a livelihood again. T. Packiam, a vendor from Villangudi area says that during the lockdown, the district administration and the Madurai corporation provided space for those selling at standalone markets like the ones in Mattuthavani, Thayir Market and at Terkuvasal, to sell their goods at makeshift markets in places like Race Course Road. “We were completely ignored in the process. The only way some of us managed to survive was by begging vendors from various markets to give us some place to sell our goods. There was no intervention from authorities," she says. Before the lockdown, she says that she would sell vegetables at different locations on different days. Her list included places like Anaiyur, Iyer Bungalow, Karuppayurani, Kadachanendal and Fathima College. “Without an income for long months, my family has had to struggle. Although many say that they understand our problems, I do not believe that they can empathise easily. Only those who have had to forego meals during the lockdown can understand my pain,” she says. M. Tamilpithan from Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam who represented these weekly vegetable vendors, said that the worst affected are the women. “Usually, many women, particularly widowed women sell vegetables at the ‘santhai' because it is a safe space for earning money. Several women have come up to the organisation to complain about the debts they have accumulated. Considering all other markets have now opened, why not open the weekly ones too,” he asks. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the district administration would inspect sites where weekly markets were usually put up. “Thereafter, we will check with the District Disaster Management Authority and take a call as to whether it will be a safe option as social distancing and masking have to strictly followed,” he said.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider enhancing upper age limit of temporary employees: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) to consider enhancing the upper age limit for contract or temporary employees from 58 to 59 years, for engaging them on a need basis. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that if Tasmac does take such a decision, it would not mean that all contractual or temporary employees would be entitled to seek job extension up to 59 years of age. The court said that Tasmac could consider each individual/deserving employee and on a need basis extend the contracts of those who have completed 58 years. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by Tasmac employees, who sought the enhancement of their retirement age from 58 to 59 years as per the government order that was issued on May 7. As per the government order, the age of superannuation of government servants — who were in regular service as on May 31, 2020 — would be enhanced from 58 to 59 years and the benefit of the order would be applicable to its regular employees. During the course of the hearing, Tasmac clarified that the government order was applicable to those employees who were in regular service and not those who were engaged on a contractual basis.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Retired TNSTC employees stage protest||Members of the TNSTC Retired Employees Welfare Association staged protests in various depots across the city, seeking long pending retirement benefits which are yet to be released to the members, here on Tuesday. The members particularly emphasised on the need for medical insurance from the State Government. General Secretary of the association, R. Devaraj, said that a total of 30 retired members of their association had died since January 2020 without receiving any health benefits from the government. “All retired employees who have been in service including teachers have been provided the option to pay Rs. 350 as premium for the insurance in case of medical emergencies. This has however not been extended to TNSTC employees. We are also ineligible for the Chief Minister Comprehensive Health Insurance according to the State Government. Providing insurance would reduce our dependence on others,” he said. The general secretary also said that dearness allowance was raised every six months. However, retired members last saw a raise in November 2015. “Arrears have not been adjusted for 58 months,” he said. He added that members who retired in 2019 are yet to receive gratuity and other benefits as well. “We hope our grievances are redressed at the earliest,” he said. Virudhunagar A protest was also held at the TNSTC Virudhunagar depot on Tuesday. The protesters, led by branch president Pandiyaraj and secretary Bose said that retirement benefits had not been given to pensioners since April 2019. The protesters also wanted the government to implement medical insurance for them.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation will lead to rise in train fare: SRMU||Privatisation of Railways will lead to increase in train fare and concessional fare would be denied to various category of passengers, Southern Railway Mazdoor Union has warned. Speaking at a protest organised by the union here on Tuesday, its Madurai divisional assistant secretary V. Ramkumar said that Indian Railway was offering various social services to the tune of Rs. 40,000 crore. This included up to 75% concession fare to various category of people like senior citizens, physically challenged and patients affected with various diseases. Similarly, 3,000 former and sitting MPs, along with an attendant, are offered 2 AC journey free of cost. “Despite all these concession, the Railways was making profit,” he said. Mr. Ramkumar said the Railways was a mighty organisation integrating the country and linking various backward areas for economic development. The Railways has been serving as a basic infrastructure for the mobility of farmers, students, traders, government and private employees, middle class and the poor. The protest was led by its divisional secretary N. Azhagu Raja and president A. M. M. Ravi Shankar. As part of the awareness week against privatisation of railways, members of its Loco Running Staff wing covered their mouths with black cloth.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||3 held for killing minor girl||Madurai district police have arrested three persons, in connection with the murder of a minor girl, Jayasakthibala, in V. Ammapatti near T. Kallupatti on Saturday night. The police said that Jayasakthibala’s husband, T. Muthupandi (20) of Mathiyasenai in Virudhunagar district, had conspired with two of his minor friends, to murder her. “When Jayasakthibala and Muthupandi got married, both were underage. This came to light when the girl went to a police station in Virudhunagar following a domestic dispute. They were then separated,” Deputy Superintendent of Police, Peraiyur, S. Mathiazhagan, said. The girl was living with her parents in V. Ammapatti. Muthupandi, who had doubts over her fidelity, lured her through his friend. The friend promised to get her a new phone and took her to a secluded spot in V. Ammapatti on Saturday night, where Muthupandi and another friend were waiting. All the three stabbed her to death and fled. The police have seized the motorbike, weapons and the girl’s mobile phone from the accused. All the three were sent to judicial custody on Monday night.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Engineers Day||Engineers Day was celebrated at Solamalai College of Engineering, here on Tuesday. Various competitions were held with students exhibiting their talents, via video conferencing. Assistant Manager, Rane TRW Steering System T. Ranganathan assessed the projects that were exhibited and appreciated the students. Executive Director of the Institute S.P. Arvind and Principal G. M. Balamurugan participated in the event.
16 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||road roko||Villagers of Vachchampatti near Keezhavalavu staged a road blockade on Madurai-Tiruppattur highway protesting against Keezhavalavu police for allegedly assaulting a history-sheeter, S. Ramesh (31), on Tuesday evening. According to police, Ramesh was intercepted during a vehicle check and was subsequently let off. However, Ramesh got himself admitted to the Government Hospital at Melur complaining that Sub Inspector of Police Kamalamuthu had assaulted him. Meanwhile, a section of villagers, led by Rajaram, a DMK functionary, blocked the road. However, after police pacified them, they dispersed. Ramesh was later referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital.
16 September 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter end lives||Poverty has driven a family of three to make suicide attempt here in the early hours of Tuesday. While the mother and a daughter died in the attempt as they drowned in a pond, another daughter is undergoing treatment. Police said Vadivelmurugan, 75, a goldsmith from Ozhuginaseri here, died on Monday. As the family lost its sole breadwinner, who was bedridden for over a year, the family did not have money to perform the last rites. After buying new dhoti and a towel, his wife Pankajam, 75, kept them near the body and locked the house. Taking her unmarried daughters Mala, 48, and Sachu, 45, in a bus early on Tuesday to Suchindram, the trio decided to commit suicide. After tying their hands with ropes, they jumped into Ialaiyanainarkulam around 4.45 a.m. When one Sekar, a local, went to the pond to collect lotus, he found the trio floating on the water and informed the Suchindram police. While Sachu was alive, Pankajam and Mala died. The bodies were sent to the Government Medical College Hospital. The condition of Sachu is said to be “stable”. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
16 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||PU among top ten Central varsities||Pondicherry University was ranked ninth among Central Universities and 45th overall in the Universities and Institutions category in the recently released Outlook – ICARE India University Rankings 2020. According to a press note, PU finished with an overall 647.63 out of 1000 points, marking a significant improvement over the performance of previous years and, in a first, ranking among the top 10 Central Universities. Pondicherry University had secured 67th place in 2019. It has moved up by 22 ranks and is among the the top 50 educational institutions in the country. While hailing the achievement, Vice Chancellor Gurmeet Singh urged faculty, officers, staff, research scholars and the student community to keep performing their best and aim to make Pondicherry University one of the top most Universities in India.
16 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bio-incubator facility launched in U.T.||Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth (SBV), which administers the Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (MGMCRI), has launched a bio-incubator for the development of indigenous and affordable healthcare products to combat emerging infections, chronic diseases and other healthcare needs. According to a press release, M.K. Rajagopalan, Chancellor of SBV, launched the facility recently. S.C. Parija, Vice-Chancellor of SBV, said the institute had taken the lead in promulgating Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) related activities in health sciences universities that are in compliance with the revised National policy. SBV had already commercialised a patented product ‘Universal back resting device’ developed at a constituent college. S.R. Rao, vice-president (Research and Innovation), said the bio-incubator would accommodate 15 startup companies with access to all infrastructure facilities and faculty, besides legal and regulatory advice for the development of products and technology validation through clinical trials and real-time use in healthcare setting of hospitals.
16 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) stages demonstration||Accusing two public sector banks in Mandapam of not releasing loans to the differently abled persons for the last four years, members affiliated to the CPI (M) staged a demonstration in front of the bank here on Tuesday. Leading the demonstration, CPI (M) district secretary P. Selvaraj said that despite a government order issued in 2016, the banks discouraged the loan requests from the differently abled, who intended to set up small shops and meet their needs to an extent. The differently abled welfare association office-bearers said that as many as 25 applications were submitted, but none was approved. They were pending for flimsy reasons. The officials at the Collectorate here said they had forwarded the applications to the banks for consideration. When contacted, Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said he would examine the reasons for non-release of loans by the bankers.
16 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Shops sealed in Kumbakonam||Five shops in Kumbakonam were sealed by a flying squad on Tuesday for overcrowding and failure to ensure physical distancing among customers. Shops selling mobile phones, books, electrical goods and fancy items were among those sealed during the drive ordered by Collector M. Govinda Rao. Mr. Govinda Rao, in a press release, said nine teams had been formed at the taluk level to maintain vigil on whether the standard operating procedure (SOP) was followed in public places including commercial establishments, hotels, and shops. It was essential that physical distance was maintained at all shops and establishments. All employees should wear face masks. Vigil had been stepped up with more officials being deputed to monitor the situation. Till September 11, Rs. 50.60 lakh had been collected as penalty from 46,599 people for violating pandemic preventive guidelines. Since Saturday, the penalty had been increased to Rs. 500 and Rs. 39,400 was collected from 191 violators. Cases would be booked against those obstructing action against violations, he added.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI begins flyover work on Tiruchi-Thanjavur highway||The National Highways Authority of India has begun flyover construction work near Ganesan Point in front of BHEL complex on Tiruchi-Thanjavur highway. The new bridge was sanctioned following persistent demands from the public in view of frequent accidents around Ganesa Point Roundabout, which was considered too big. While the highway caters to a huge volume of traffic, a large number of BHEL employees cross the highway at the point for their commute to work every day as it runs through the industrial complex and township. The roundabout was built after widening of Tiruchi-Thanjavur highway by NHAI some years ago. With many vehicles capsizing while negotiating the sharp curves around the roundabout, calls turned shrill to construct a flyover at the spot and remove the roundabout or reduce its size. The flyover is to be built at a cost of nearly Rs. 50 crore and some BHEL lands have been acquired for the purpose. Last year, BHEL translocated some fully grown trees from the roadside to interior parts of its campus. NHAI has started work on laying of service lanes and work is under way on construction of drains and culverts. The work has now been under way for nearly two months. Once the service lanes are ready on either side of the highway, traffic will be diverted through them to facilitate construction of the flyover on the main carriageway.
16 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvanaikoil temple complex gets green belt||Authorities of Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple at Tiruvanaikoil here have created a green belt on an area measuring four-and-half acres inside the temple complex to raise fodder for the temple elephant and cows maintained in the 'ghoshala' so as to avoid buying them from outside. In addition to raising grass, saplings of various tree species have also been raised inside the large patch that is situated between the East Gopuram and the Sankareshwarar Gopuram inside the temple complex. The authorities have deployed a team of temple staff and labourers to maintain the green patch and for cutting fodder every day for the elephant christened 'Akila' and for 15 cows, bulls and calves maintained in the ghoshala also functioning within the ancient shrine. Help from donors has enabled the temple authorities in creating the green belt which remained a barren area until a few months ago. The famed Tiruvanaikoil temple situated on nearly 20 acres is a ‘pancha bootha sthalam’ representing one of the five elements - water. Coconut, mango saplings ‘Besides raising ‘koondha panai’ to be fed to the temple elephant and special type of grass, the temple authorities have also planted about 500 coconut saplings, 50 saplings of mango and saplings of badam, nelli, naaval and vilvam trees at different places within the huge area. Besides these, flowers of different varieties such as 'adukku nandhiyavettai', magizham poo, manoranjitham and pavazhamalli have also been grown inside the complex. A senior temple official said the idea to make good use of the large tract of bushy and barren area near the Eastern Gopuram emerged in June last year. The whole area was at first cleaned up using an earthmover with complete assistance from the temple staff. A couple of borewells were sunk and the entire area was covered by pipelines and valves all along the stretch for watering the saplings and green grass every day, said the official. A walking path has been created around the green belt to a distance of about 1 kilometres by laying thick tiles. Ever since the green belt was created, green fodder for the temple elephant and cows were no longer being purchased from outside. Only occasionally, dry hay is purchased for the cows. In addition to green fodder, cooked rice and other diet as prescribed by the Forest Department were being fed to 18-year-old 'Akila' which is housed in a separate shelter. Special grass The special type of grass raised on the patch grows automatically after a period requiring watering everyday. Organic manure was being used for the green belt. “Akila relishes the green fodder grown inside the temple,” said the temple official adding that milk from the cows maintained in the 'ghoshala' was being used for abhishekam to the deities, annadhanam and for pooja.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||679 more positive cases in central region||Six hundred and seventy-nine more cases of COVID-19 and five deaths were recorded in central districts on Tuesday, a medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department said. Nagappattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts continued to register more than 100 fresh cases a day. COVID-19 cases, which were on the decline in Tiruchi for the last few days, witnessed a marginal rise than Monday and crossed the three-digit mark on Tuesday. Thanjavur topped the list among the eight central districts with respect to the number of fresh cases and was followed by Tiruvarur. While Thanjavur district recorded 160 cases, 129 patients tested positive for the virus in Tiruvarur district. In Nagapattinam, 111 patients tested positive and in Tiruchi reported 103 fresh cases, Pudukottai 63 and Karur 61. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts were at bottom of the list with 26 cases each. As far as COVID-19 related deaths were concerned, Thanjavur accounted for two out of the five deaths in the central districts. Tiruchi, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam recorded one death each. A 65-year-old male patient from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to Government Hospital at Mayiladuthurai on September 9, died on Monday due to acute respiratory disease syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 60-year-old male patient from Thanjavur with coronary artery disease and type-II diabetes mellitus was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on September 5.and tested positive for the virus next day. But, he could not recover and died on Sunday. He had many ailments including coronary artery disease, acute pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock Another patient, who died of COVID-19, from Thanjavur was 78 years old. He was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College on September 6 and succumbed to the virus on Sunday. He too had multiple ailments including cardiogenic shock, coronary artery disease, type-II diabetes mellitus, acute pulmonary edema. The lone patient, who died due to COVID-19 virus infection, from Pudukottai was a 57-year-old man. He had co-morbidities including coronary artery disease, acute respiratory failure, chronic kidney disease and type-II diabetes.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online booking must for ‘Purattasi’ Saturday darshan at Srirangam temple||Devotees who wish to visit the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy temple on Saturdays during the Tamil month of ‘Purattasi’ have to make advance bookings online. Temple authorities on Tuesday said that only devotees with online bookings would be allowed inside the temple complex for darshan on the four Saturdays during Purattasi, falling on September 19, 26 and October 3, 10. Online bookings have to be made for both free and paid darshan. Bookings can be made on the temple websitewww.srirangam.org An official release from the temple Joint Commissioner /Executive Officer P. Jayaraman said the move was intended to ensure physical distancing among devotees in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and to reduce wait times for darshan. The temple witnesses a huge turn-out of devotees on Saturdays in Purattasi. Mr. Jayaraman appealed to the devotees to make use of the booking facility and offer worship at the specified timings on the four Saturdays.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lumpy skin disease in cattle subsiding’||Lumpy skin disease, an infectious disease in cattle caused by a virus of the familypoxviridaehas been reported in different parts of the district. The disease is spread through flies and mosquitoes. The animals affected by the disease experience fever, swelling in the limbs, enlarged superficial lymph nodes and multiple nodules on the skin. When the animals are affected with high fever, the superficial lymph nodes become enlarged. It takes a week to 19 days for full recovery. According to veterinarians, the mortality rate among the affected animals is low. But, the reduction in milk yield may last for an extended period. They also faces poor growth, infertility and abortion “There are sporadic incidences of lumpy skin disease in cattle. But there is no cause for concern. Steps have been taken to treat the animals as well as control the spread of the disease,” Esther Sheela, Regional Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, Tiruchi. She toldThe Hinduthat cattle with symptoms of the disease should be quarantined. This would control spread of the disease and cattle-rearers had been sensitised on the disease.Animals exhibiting symptoms should be taken to neighbouring hospitals or dispensaries for treatment. Dr. Sheela said that there were 112 veterinary hospitals, dispensaries and clinics in different parts of the district. Of them, seven were hospitals. Sufficient medicines had been stocked to treat the affected animals. Concerted steps had started showing results. The disease had begun to subside and it would be controlled soon.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Quack held in Tiruchi||A female quack, who performed an abortion procedure on a 19-year-old girl, was arrested by police near Manachanallur on Tuesday. The quack, identified as Raji, did not have any medical qualification, but performed the procedure on the girl at her house in August leading to severe infection. The girl complained of severe pain in the abdomen subsequently approached a private practitioner in Tiruchi. She was later referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Medical College Hospital where doctors operated upon her and also removed her uterus to save her life. She is still under treatment in the hospital. A team of Health Department officials, along with police, visited the quack’s house on Tuesday and took her into custody, an official release said.
16 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SFI holds stir against NEET||Members of Students Federation of India and Democratic Youth Federation of India were arrested in Thanjavur on Tuesday after they resorted to picketing opposing NEET. The agitation was organised in front of the Collectorate. The demonstrators demanded the cancellation of NEET and condemned the State government for not mourning in the Assembly the death of students who allegedly ended their lives fearing NEET. They attempted to barge into the Collectorate when they were blocked by police. All those arrested were later released.
16 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration against NEET||Members of Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate on Tuesday against NEET. The protesters said the NEET, which had already consumed several lives in Tamil Nadu, recently claimed three more lives in a day even as the people from all walks of lives and the political parties were clamouring against it and urging the Centre to withdraw it or exempt Tamil Nadu from this selection process as the State had already put in place an effective admission system. In Thoothukudi, members of Students Federation of India staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate. They also condemned the “police excess” on the SFI cadre when they organised an agitation in Chennai on Sunday last against the national-level exam. Virudhunagar SFI and DYFI members staged a protest here on Tuesday seeking scrapping of NEET. The protest was led by SFI Virudhunagar district present K. Samayan, and DYFI treasurer A. Jayanthi.  SFI district secretary, K. Madasamy, DYFI president, M. Jayabharat, spoke.
16 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments evicted||Twenty-seven houses that had been built on the government land near Sivan Temple Tank in Palayamkottai were removed on Tuesday with police protection. More than 30 families that were residing in Ambikapathi Street and Emperumaan Street near Sivan Temple Tank in Palayamkottai for more than 50 years were facing eviction since the land on which these houses had been constructed belonged to Department of Revenue. As steps were taken to evict the encroachments even as the residents facing eviction, they petitioned the Collector seeking alternative house sites. They also approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court for a possible legal remedy that went in vain. When the district administration and the Corporation served notices recently to these families asking them to vacate their houses within a week, some of the families threatened to shift their residences to the Collectorate premises. However, the protest ended within a few minutes as the officials informed them that alternative site would be given to them. On Tuesday morning, the Corporation and the revenue officials started the eviction drive with heavy equipments in which 27 houses were brought down with police protection even as the affected families were in tears.
16 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,300 kg of ration rice seized||Civil Supplies – CID police on Monday night seized 1,300 kg of ration rice near Kovilpatti even as the essential commodity was being smuggled. Sources in the Civil Supplies – CID police said a vehicle check was conducted on Kovilpatti – Manthithoppu Road on Monday night after Civil Supplies – CID Inspector Thillai Nagarajan received information about smuggling of ration rice. When the police team intercepted a load van around 11 p.m., the policemen found that 50 bags of ration rice, weighing about 1,300 kg, were being taken in the van. As the police grilled Veyilukaalai, 52, of Ganesan Nagar near Manthithoppu, N. Mari Krishnan, 20, of Iluppaiyoorani and K. Nagarajan, 34, of Valluvar Nagar in Kovilpatti, all in the vehicle, the trio told the police that they were taking the ration rice, collected from various ration shops, was being taken to be polished and repacked for resale in the open market for a premium. The police team arrested the trio and seized the vehicle.
16 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Official held on bribe charge||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police arrested a deputy tahsildar on Tuesday when he allegedly received bribe for giving patta. DVAC sources said Anbu of Mela Moontradaippu had applied for patta for an ancestral property in Naanjaankulam near Maanur. As Deputy Tahsildar Mariappan demanded Rs. 15,000 as bribe for giving patta, Mr. Anbu filed a complaint with Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police. Subsequently, Deputy Superintendent of Police Escol and Inspector Robin Gnanam trapped Mariappan when he took the bribe from Anbu on Tuesday. Investigations are on.
16 September 2020||TIRUPATHUR,TAMIL NADU||Geospatial marking prevents accidents near Tirupathur||Earlier this year, four road accidents were reported within a few hundred metres of the Tirupathur block police station. After the police started marking the geospatial spread of the accidents in the district and took preventive measures, the number of accidents has dropped to zero, officials said. There are 19 police stations in Tirupathur district, and the district police have started mapping accidents, both fatal and non-fatal, and crime incidents on Google Maps. Besides, P. Vijayakumar, Superintendent of Police, Tirupathur, has invited suggestions and information from the public on accident spots. Members of the public can send their feedback on WhatsApp to 9994790008. “We have mapped over 300 accident spots in the district. Earlier, we used to have data for the number of accidents. Since it is easy to comprehend visual representations, we decided to mark them on the map. Based on this, we can plan intervention such as placing more barricades and signboards. This is what we did near the Tirupathur block police station and Ambur. We have seen a significant drop in accidents,” said Mr. Vijayakumar. The SP said the move to get suggestions from the public was to encourage their participation in reducing accidents. Yuvaraj Soundarajan, a bank employee who has been sending suggestions frequently to Mr. Vijayakumar on social media, said this was a welcome move. “On the highway, trucks occupy the slow and fast lanes. Hence, cars try to manoeuvre through them and meet with accidents. Another reason is haphazard parking of vehicles at junctions on the highway. The police have to set right this issue. The public should drive responsibly and follow traffic rules,” he said. Crime mapping Apart from accidents, the Tirupathur district police is mapping property offences in the district. “The map is sent to the police stations with the weekly occurrence report. “This will help personnel understand the crime pattern in their jurisdiction. This helps in anticipating the move of the burglar and in introducing preventive patrolling within a particular radius,” said Mr. Vijayakumar.
16 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings die in road accident||A man and his brother died after a bus belonging to a private garment company collided with their two-wheeler near Avinashipalayam here on Monday. The deceased were identified as K. Narayanan (45) and K. Arumugam (43). While Arumugam died on the spot, Narayanan died during treatment at the Palladam GH. Bus driver Aravinthan, who was ferrying about a dozen labourers from the garment company, fled the spot after the accident.
16 September 2020||Udhgamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector continues to struggle in Nilgiris despite easing of travel restrictions||Almost a week after the Nilgiris was reopened to tourism, businesses dependent on the tourism and hospitality sector continue to struggle due to lack of visitors to the district. The Nilgiris was reopened to tourists on September 9 after being closed for almost six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Hotels, restaurants and other businesses had been hoping that the relaxation of rules would translate to more business. According to official figures from the horticulture department, a total of only 2,607 tourists have visited the seven parks and gardens till Monday. “Roughly, this translates to around 450 people visiting the parks each day,” said an official from the department. The Government Botanical Garden, which would expect to host more than 20,000 visitors each weekend during other “normal” years, has seen only 1,076 visitors since it was opened on Wednesday, averaging around 174 visitors each day. “Many of these visitors are day-trippers, who come to the Nilgiris in the morning and leave by evening, while a percentage of the visitors will be locals, meaning the number of actual tourists are even lower than what the numbers suggest,” said N.Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association. Mr. Chandrashekar said that part of the problem lies with a cap on the number of tourist passes being approved by the district administration. “Very few passes are being approved and this is unfair to the businesses in the Nilgiris as people are allowed to travel freely across the State,” he said, calling on the system to be scrapped, or for the district administration to significant increase the cap on the number of tourists being allowed into the district. A number of restaurants and hotels have had to close down again due to low occupancy rates. “We were hopeful that the tourist pass system would ensure that we make enough money to at least cover operational costs, but due to very few tourists being allowed into the district, many hotel and restaurant owners have had to shut down their businesses again till they get sufficient demand,” said a hotel owner from Udhagamandalam who closed his hotel and restaurant business a few days after reopening.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 485 new cases, Salem 292||Coimbatore district reported 485 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally so far to 23,147. The district reported the death of four persons, taking the toll to 361. Besides, sources with the Health Department said a 60-year-old asymptomatic patient from Vadavalli died at the COVID-19 Care Centre at Codissia Trade Fair Complex on Tuesday. In Salem, City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar was among the 292 persons who tested positive. Five patients aged 44, 55, 61, 72 and 75 died in Salem. Erode and Tiruppur reported one death each. The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital administration on Tuesday denied reports that it was insisting on one attender to stay with COVID-19 patients. Dean P. Kalidas said attenders of patients were not allowed in COVID-19 ward. Though one attender was allowed for every patient whose test results were pending, they were, however, not allowed into the isolation ward. “More than one attender of a single person used to stand outside the isolation ward earlier. We have limited the number to one now,” he said. Collector K. Rajamani on Tuesday held a meeting of various officials and representatives of private laboratories offering COVID-19 testing. He instructed the private laboratories to not charge more than the price fixed by the government for the testing. They were also instructed to issue the test results within 12 hours. With the reporting of 262 cases, Tiruppur district’s overall tally crossed the 5,000-mark as the total cases stood at 5,200. Tuesday saw the discharge of 291 patients. Two accused, both aged 32, arrested by the Palladam police last week tested positive. Both have been isolated inside the jail premises and would be shifted soon to a hospital, sources said. Of the total cases in Salem, 291 were indigenous including 209 in the Corporation limits. Nine patients returned from Villupuram, Tiruchi, Namakkal, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Erode and Krishnagiri. In Namakkal, 97 persons tested positive, of which over 20 returned from Tiruppur, Karur, Hosur, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Chennai, and Thenkasi, and two from Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry. Erode district reported 135 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,803. A total of 143 persons were discharged and 1,046 persons are under treatment. In Krishnagiri, 75 persons tested positive and Dharmapuri recorded 88 cases. With 85 persons testing positive in the Nilgiris, the total number of cases stood at 2,528.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Markings painted for exclusive two-wheeler lanes in Tiruchi||Ahead of creating exclusive two-wheeler lanes along select thoroughfares in the city, the traffic police wing has painted markings from Head Post Office junction to MGR statue in the first phase. The markings have been made on either side of the entire stretch in coordination with Tiruchi Corporation to denote the exclusive lane. The yellow markings will make it easier for bike riders to follow the lane at night, police sources said. According to a senior police officer, symbols of two-wheelers will be painted on both sides of the stretch from Head Post Office to MGR statue junction, covering Bharathidasan Salai, on Tuesday. The date of enforcement will be decided by police authorities soon. City police has identified three more stretches: Head Post Office to Tiruchi railway junction; MGR statue to Uzhavar Sandhai and from MGR statue to Periyamilaguparai via Collectorate where it has decided to create exclusive two-wheeler lanes. The thoroughfares have been selected as they witness heavy vehicular traffic especially two-wheelers. The city police has decided to create the exclusive lanes after it was found that two-wheelers accounted for a majority of accidents reported within the city limits.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal keen on exam centre status for JEE, NEET||To mitigate problems faced by students in the enclave in appearing for JEE and NEET exams at distant locations, the Karaikal administration has initiated measures to approach the National Testing Agency (NTA) through the Puducherry government seeking sanction of an exam centre for the district. Due to lockdown impact, the district administration arranged Puducherry Transport Corporation (PRC) buses for over 300 students for the entrance exams this year. On Sunday, PRC buses were operated to Puducherry, Virudhachalam and Cuddalore, officials said A maximum of 30 students were accommodated free of cost in each bus. But their attendants had to pay about Rs. 450 per head for the two-way travel. There were a handful of students from Tranquebar and other areas on the Tamil Nadu side of the border who utilised the PTC service, sources said. Until last year, students had to make their own arrangements. They had to go to Puducherry on the previous day itself. Though PRC buses were operated between Karaikal and Puducherry, the timing was inconvenient for students. For instance, JEE (Main) exam candidates had to be at the centre in Puducherry at 7.30 a.m. Due to indications that NTA would conduct the entrance exams only in online mode from next year, details of the presence of National Institute of Technology Puducherry, and other institutions where there were sufficient facilities to act as centres would be furnished, an official said. An exam centre at Karaikal would be immensely useful to students in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai as well, the official said.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC supervisor robbed of Rs. 3.3 lakh by gang||A three-member unidentified gang robbed Rs. 3.3 lakh in cash from a TASMAC supervisor by brandishing knives in Padalur, in Perambalur district, on Monday. The TASMAC supervisor Manivannan and a helper, Suresh, were riding a motorcycle when they were intercepted by the gang at a dimly-lit area some distance away from the liquor shop. The motorcycle-borne gang robbed the duo of the cash — the proceeds of sales at the Tasmac shop — kept in a bag inside the pouch over the motorcycle’s petrol tank. On a complaint lodged by Manivannan, Padalur police registered a case.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ryots withdraw protest against IDPL project||The indefinite protest launched by the farmers in Tiruppur and Erode against the Bharat Petroleum’s proposed Irugur – Devangonthi Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project was withdrawn after talks with Revenue Department officials on Tuesday. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R. Kumar said nearly 40 farmers participated in the protest at Kandiyankovil village panchayat in Tiruppur on Tuesday, following which Revenue Divisional Officer A. Kavitha, Tiruppur South Tahsildar Sundaram and police officers held talks with the farmers. In Erode, a meeting was held at Modakurichi in which Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen, Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi, Erode DSP, Modakurichi Tahsildar and the Federation members participated. The protest was withdrawn after officials assured the farmers that their demands would be forwarded to the State government.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||JD(S) leader passes away||Janata Dal (secular) state general secretary K John Moses (73) passed away in Madurai on Tuesday. According to family members, he was unwell for the last two days and was admitted to a hospital. He leaves behind his wife and three sons.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till September 15  No. of cases on Tuesday: 485 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 23,147 Indigenous cases: 23,103 Imported cases: 44 No. of active cases: 3,593 Persons recovered: 19,193 No. of persons died: 361    Cases on Tuesday: 262 Persons tested +ve so far: 5,200 Persons recovered: 3,321 Deaths: 87 Active cases: 1,792
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Annadurai’s portrait yet to be garlanded||DMK leader Duraimurugan, while welcoming all the remarks of legislators remembering former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai on his birth anniversary, pointed out that the late leader’s portrait in the Assembly hall had not been garlanded. The CM said the portrait would be garlanded on Wednesday.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Minister for Expunging Remarks’ jibe at Jayakumar||When Minister D. Jayakumar rose for the second time to point out objectionable comments made by DMK leader Duraimurugan and pleaded with the Speaker to expunge the remarks, the DMK leader said, in a lighter vein, that the former could be called the ‘Minister for Expunging Remarks’.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Legislation passed to replace Ordinances||The Assembly on Tuesday passed four legislation to replace Ordinances that were promulgated earlier to amend the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, and the Tamil Nadu Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani moved the first and last two Bills respectively. The Bills were eventually passed by the House after a voice vote.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CITY CINEMA 16-09-2020||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA NAADA INBAM, 24993210 Today 6-15 p.m. on Parivadini Music Channel in You Tube(www.youtube.com/Parivadini music)Concert by J.A. Jayanth - Flute, B. Ananthakrishnan, Sai Giridhar&Vijay Natesan.Online only.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 44% wear mask correctly, shows survey||At least 90% of the people are aware of the need to wear masks to protect themselves from COVID-19 infection, but only 44% of them are completely compliant in terms of wearing it correctly and in all relevant situations, a survey has found. The nationwide survey by ApnaMask, an initiative by EkDesh, a Bengaluru-based organisation, was conducted across 18 cities in July among close to 2,000 people to understand the overall compliance around wearing of masks. When it came to overall practice, compliance was low, especially among the lower social strata. The survey also pointed out that the key reason that people cited for not covering was difficulty in breathing (50%), followed by discomfort and inconvenience (44%). The survey also found that 45% of respondents assumed that as long as social distancing was maintained, a mask was not required. People in the age group of 26 to 35 believe that social distancing suffices as a preventive measure and were indifferent to being infected and were not convinced about the ability of a mask or cover to control spread of virus. The highest compliance of wearing a mask was among those in the age group of 36 to 55. Another finding revealed in the survey was that only 28% of respondents ensured to be masked-up while they were picking up their home deliveries. ‘Corona Soldiers’ Following the survey, ApnaMask has started a pan India campaign called ‘Corona Soldiers’. “Corona soldiers pledge to wear a mask every time they step out of their homes and also encourage others to do the same,” said Poonam Kaul, co-founder of EkDesh. So far, they have identified two lakh “corona soldiers”.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Onion export ban hurts ‘Bangalore Rose’||Farmers growing ‘Bangalore Rose’ onions could be in trouble, as the Centre on Monday notified an immediate ban on export of all onion varieties owing to a spike in the domestic price of onions. Trouble stems from the fact that this variety is not popular domestically because of its pungent nature, but has a high demand in Southeast Asian countries. The Centre, when it banned export last year too, later provided an exemption for the export of Bangalore Rose for this reason. Stuck at port “Nearly 90% of Bangalore Rose onions are exported and we do not have a local market for this variety. Following the ban, nearly 40 containers of onion headed for export are stuck at the Chennai port. We have been severely affected by the ban,” said S.R.V. Ramasamy, director of the Chennai-based Ramasamy Exports and Imports Pvt. Ltd. He said the government should have given a window for the completion of exports, as was done in the past. Grown on about 5,000 acres around Chickballapur, Bengaluru Rural, and Kolar districts, Bangalore Rose onion received the GI tag in 2014 for its exclusivity. The crop is also grown in pockets of Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. While 80% of the production comes in the rabi season, about 15% comes in kharif season, and the remaining comes as summer crop. The annual production of this variety is estimated to be around 60,000 tonnes, of which about 90% is exported to Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, and Taiwan, among other Southeast Asian countries, where it is used in seasoning, pickling, and in the form of dehydrated powder. According to Mr. Ramasamy, farmers too will feel the heat of the ban. “Many exporters may end up deferring payments since overhead costs are very high. This is a highly perishable product. Because of the heavy rains this year, the shelf life has been reduced. The longer it remains with us, the greater will be the losses. If the onions lose weight because of evaporation of moisture, it will affect us further,” he said. Echoing the sentiments of exporters, sources in the Horticulture Department said there was no need to ban export of rose onion as traditionally it had no takers domestically. “While the rabi crop has been exported, the summer crop still remains with the farmers, who will not be able to sell it in the local market. The export potential of the onion had helped farmers get a good price for their produce,” an official said. ‘Make an exception’ Another official said the price had dropped to as low as Rs. 6 a kg at farm gate during the early part of the COVID-19 lockdown when exports were affected. “On an average, farmers realise between Rs. 16 and Rs. 18 a kg, which is a good price. If the ban stays, farmers will be affected severely,” he said, adding that the responsibility of convincing the Centre to give exemption was with the State government. “When export of Bangalore Rose onion was banned last time, the Horticulture Department got an exemption and a team of officials sat in Chennai to certify the onions that were being exported,” he recalled.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to borrow Rs. 33,000 crore in 2020-21||Karnataka government, facing severe financial constraints on account of COVID-19 pandemic and reduced economic activities, on Tuesday decided to borrow Rs. 33,000 crore to meet various expenditures during 2020-21. The Cabinet on Tuesday decided to amend Section Four of the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, to raise the borrowing limits of the State from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5% of the GSDP. The amendment would enable the government to borrow Rs. 33,000 crore against the maximum of Rs. 36,000 crore in 2020-21, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. These borrowings of the government would be in addition to borrowings of Rs. 18,289 crore allowed to make up for the GST revenue shortfall, under option one opted by the State. “The borrowing would be utilised for various developmental expenditure. The government has been facing difficulties on the revenue front owing to reduced economic activities in the ongoing pandemic,” said the Minister. Expecting a shortfall in revenue owing to COVID-19, the Centre has raised the borrowing limit of the governments from 3% of GSDP to 5% in 2020-21, he added. The State has been mobilizing revenue so far by borrowing State Development Loans through the Reserve Bank of India and auctioning BDA sites in Bengaluru.The Centre, however, has asked States to undertake specific reforms such as universalisation of one-nation-one ration card, ease of doing business initiatives and so on.  Electricity companies For providing more liquidity to electricity supply companies in the State, the Cabinet has allowed them to borrow loans of Rs. 5,075 crore to avoid default. The government would provide guarantees to financial institutions to raise these loans, he said. The S.M. Krishna Residential Layout has been developed by Hassan Urban Development Authority (HUDA) on 453 acres in Hassan. For installation of transformers and other development at the final stages of the layout project, it was decided to sanction Rs. 15.34 crore to HUDA, he said.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB searches Aditya Alva’s property||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the police, on Tuesday, searched the sprawling property of Aditya Alva, son of former Karnataka minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi, in connection with his alleged role in the drug racket. The raid was conducted nearly two weeks after Aditya’s name figured in the FIR along with the other accused. Aditya is on the run. The CCB obtained a search warrant from the court before heading to ‘House of Life’, the property in Hebbal. Officials searched the premises for several hours and questioned the employees. No family member was present at the time. According to the officials, Aditya is addicted to drugs. Allegations The accused, who are in CCB custody, have alleged that Aditya hosted parties in his house to sell the drugs. Many people, including film actors and businessmen, attended these parties, which took place even during the lockdown, sources said. Residents in and around the locality had raised objections and complained to the police about the nuisance. Officials suspect that Aditya may have fled the country.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Criminal complaint against malpractice during NLAT||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has said that it has lodged a criminal complaint against those who were allegedly involved in malpractices during the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020. According to an NLSIU release, “We aim to eliminate any and every candidate who has indulged in any malpractice from further consideration in the admission process. Some cases of examination malpractice deserve criminal investigation and the university has already lodged a criminal complaint against some actors.” The release also states that NLSIU has a zero tolerance policy for examination malpractice in NLAT 2020 that was held on September 12 and the re-test that was held on September 14. It has also said that they have access to a comprehensive record of candidate conduct during the exam. “This policy builds on the Online Proctoring Protocol and the Candidate Guide for Online Assessment, which were made available to all candidates before the exam,” it said. NLSIU had disqualified a few candidates during the examination. However, a few candidates had claimed that the proctoring was ineffective as many of them were constantly being warned even when they were working on problems. Further, NLSIU has claimed they have been subjected to an “orchestrated and malicious vilification campaign that rests on speculation, lies and outright fabrication.” It further stated that they have been falsely accused of being exclusionary.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New waste disposal system comes into force||Govindarajanagar became the first ward to implement the new waste disposal system where collection and transportation of solid waste – wet, dry, and sanitary waste – will take place separately. With an aim to encourage and ensure that segregation of waste takes place at source and also that contractors do not mix the waste and dump it in the landfill, new tenders for collection and transportation of solid waste management have been finalised for 38 wards in the city. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad visited Govindarajanagar ward to inspect its implementation. Under the new system, wet waste and sanitary waste would be collected separately every day. Dry waste would be collected twice in a week by a designated dry waste collector. Randeep D., Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management and Health), BBMP, said the new waste disposal system will be implemented in 38 wards by September 20. “By the end of September, we will have a robust tracking and payment system. This will be performance based,” he said. He also said that the civic body has given acceptance letters for contractors of 78 other wards who are likely to implement the new waste disposal system by the end of this month. Re-tendring will have to take place in a few wards.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Construction on ‘B’ kharab land to be regularised||The State Cabinet on Tuesday decided to regularise constructions on ‘B’ kharab land in and around Bengaluru after imposing a penalty. While the penalty will be four times the guidance value of the land for the General category, it will be two times the guidance value for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe categories. ‘B’ kharab land would be regularised within an 18-km radius of Bengaluru city by amending Sections 64 (2) and 69 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. ‘B’ Kharab land belongs to the government, but is occupied by private people for construction of commercial buildings or houses. According to official sources, there are about 21,000 acres of such land in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. The Revenue Department would send notices to people who have occupied kharab land and ask them to regularise such plots by paying the penalty, he said. However, the Cabinet decided against extension of the same policy for ‘A’ kharab land in rural areas. In rural areas, kharab land is classified as unfit for agriculture at the time of survey. But kharab land may form part of the land held under private ownership. It might be used for farm buildings or threshing floors. Therefore, such land is exempted from the land revenue assessment in rural areas. Earlier decisions After the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government is coming up with various plans to generate revenue. Earlier, it had taken a decision to permanently grant leased land to private organisations that include educational institutions and industrial units. In Bengaluru alone, the government is hoping to generate Rs. 2,250 crore. The order issued in July states that if the organisation wants permanent grant of land for the purpose for which the land was leased, then it has to pay the guidance value, and for use for other purposes, the organisations have to pay double the guidance value. At the same time, as per instructions of the State government, the BDA is auctioning corner sites. It has already completed two rounds of e-auctioning and the bidding process is on to e-auction more than 400 sites in the third phase. The decision to sell prime land in the city has come under attack from opposition parties.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel to study prosecution of former KPSC members||The State Cabinet on Tuesday decided to constitute a sub-committee headed by Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C, Madhuswamy to seek President Ram Nath Kovind’s permission to prosecute former chairman and former nine members of the Karnataka State Public Service Commission (KPSC) for their alleged role in the recruitment scam. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar are members of the panel. The CID conducted an inquiry into alleged irregularities in the selection of candidates for Gazetted Probationary Group A and B for the year 2011. Several candidates complained of corruption in the selection process. “There are some legal hurdles. We will study all reports of inquiries, High Court orders and the previous Cabinet decisions and submit a report to the State Cabinet,” the Minister said.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s recovery rate stands at 76.8%||The recovery rate of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has been increasing over the last few days and it now stands at 76.8%. An analysis done by the State COVID-19 war room as of Sunday states that out of the total 4.59 lakh positive cases reported in the State, 3.52 lakh patients have been discharged. The number of active cases in the State as on Sunday was below the 1 lakh mark and stood at 99,203. Several districts have reported higher recovery rate than the State average. Many of these districts have taken up intensive surveillance activities and are conducting rigorous testing so that COVID-19 positive cases can be detected early and patients with comorbid conditions and senior citizens can get quick medical intervention. The highest recovery rate has been in Vijayapura, which has recorded 90.8%. Udupi, with a recovery rate of 85.7%, stands second. Eighteen out of 30 districts have a higher recovery rate than the State average. The lowest recovery rate has been reported in Uttara Kannada, with 70.3%. The recovery rate in Bengaluru Urban, which has reported the highest number of cases, stands at 74.5%. P. Sunil Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Vijayapura, said that they were focusing on keeping the number of positive cases low and trying to effectively contain COVID-19. “If patients have severe symptoms, then we start treatment even before the COVID test results are out,” he said. Early detection G. Jagadeesha, Udupi Deputy Commissioner, said they were focusing on early detection of COVID-19 cases and conducting tests in the vulnerable group so that the primary contacts, symptomatic patients and vulnerable population were tested on time. “Besides conducting health survey, our ASHA workers have been monitoring the oxygen saturation levels of those with comorbidities and if they fall below 95%, they are referring such cases for immediate testing,” he said. Discharge policy Health experts point out that the State’s recovery rate has spiked after the discharge policy was revised in August. The new discharge policy states that no repeat test is required for asymptomatic, mild and moderate cases at discharge as before. It has reduced the 14-day home isolation after discharge to seven days with self-monitoring.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism policy approved||The Chief Minister will unveil a new tourism policy - 2020-25, on September 27 - Tourism Day. The Cabinet has approved the policy. The draft of the new policy, finalised recently, emphasises aspects such as attracting more domestic and international travellers to place Karnataka on the tourist map of the country; and giving a boost to various kinds of tourism such as heritage, wildlife, spiritual, cultural, adventure, coastal, nature, health, and agriculture.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Penalty of Rs. 8.1 crore levied on three dental colleges||In a rare instance, the High Court of Karnataka has imposed a penalty of Rs. 8.1 crore on three dental colleges for admitting 81 students to the Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) course in 2015 and 2016 though they had not appeared for the mandatory Common Entrance Test (CET). The court also directed the students, who were the beneficiaries of admission in violation of the law, to give an undertaking of serving one year in rural service in Karnataka as a condition for approval of their admissions and recognition of their degree by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). A Division Bench comprising Justice Krishna S. Dixit and Justice P. Krishna Bhat passed the order on the petitions filed in 2015-16 by the accused colleges and 82 students (one of them was later said to be found to be assessed in CET). S.B. Patil Institute of Dental Sciences and Research, Naubad, Bidar; the Hyderabad-Karnataka Development Education Trust’s Dental College Hospital and Research Institute, Humnabad, Bidar; and S. Nijalingappa Institute of Dental Sciences and Research, Kalaburagi, and the students had approached the court after RGUHS declined to approve their admissions. The colleges had admitted these students to the seats that were vacant under the government quota. The petitioners continued the course during the pendency of the petitions. While some of the students have already completed theircourse, others will complete it shortly. Causing anxiety The Bench said that “the petitioner-colleges have taken a tangent route in gross violence to the law of the land”. It said their conduct exhibited a recalcitrant attitude i.e. ‘come what may, we will neither obey the rule of law nor the rulings of the highest court of the country’, and this offended law, reason and justice. “The petitioner-colleges have caused a great deal of anxiety to the innocent students and obviously to their parents too. The time has come to tell that howsoever high you may be, the law is above you. Lawbreaking should be proved to be counter-productive and terribly punitive,” the Bench observed while directing the colleges to pay, to the Chief Minister’s COVID/Calamity Relief Fund within two months, an exemplary cost of Rs. 10 lakh each for every illegal admission. On the students, the Bench said it had to come to their rescue and relieve them of the difficulty of not having recognised educational qualifications because of the fault of others, as it had found “no reason to assume that the students or their guardians were hand in glove with the erring management of the colleges”. However, as the students were beneficiaries of a violation of the law regardless of their “arguable guiltlessness”, the Bench said they needed to render community service.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 120 crore for new Karnataka Bhavan building in Delhi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for a Karnataka Bhavan building in New Delhi on Friday (September 18). A State Cabinet meeting chaired by the Chief Minister has sanctioned Rs. 120 crore for a new building of the Karnataka Bhavan. The existing Karnataka Bhavan 1 and 2 buildings would be demolished and a new building with a built-up area of 7,635 sq meters will be constructed, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. A private firm – Balaji Krupa Private Limited – will construct the building, he said. The government proposed this building four years ago at an estimate of Rs. 89 crore. Now, the Cabinet has approved the revised estimate of Rs. 120 crore. As part of the security and safety measures to x-ray units in government hospitals, a sum of Rs. 11.66 crore has been sanctioned from the budget of the State Health and Family Welfare Department. The Autonomic Energy Regulatory Board has recommended safety measures to x-ray units in hospitals. The Cabinet provided iron-ore mining permission on 600 hectares at Donimalai in Sandur taluk in Ballari district. ‘C’ category mining would be allowed as per the mining rules and this would fetch royalty to the State.
16 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Slew of programmes to mark Modi’s birthday||The BJP has launched week-long programmes to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The programmes, which are being held as per the direction of the party’s national president J. P. Nadda, include donating plasma to 70 COVID-19 patients through some hospitals. While Mr. Modi’s birthday is on Thursday, the programmes have been on since Monday. According to a release from BJP State vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana and general secretary Siddaraju, the proposed programmes include the distribution of artificial limbs to 70 physically challenged persons in each Assembly constituency, holding 70 blood donation camps in every district, and the distribution of free spectacles to 70 poor people. Cleanliness drives will be held in 70 villages and 70 public places in every district. Also, an oath will be taken to desist from using single-use plastic, the release said. To mark Gandhi Jayanti, the party plans to hold another string of week-long programmes, from September 25 to October 2, including a public awareness drive to promote the use of khadi and other local products under the ‘Vocal for Local’ campaign, the release said. The party has also planned various programmes to mark the birth anniversary of its ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya on September 25.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||6 COVID Care Centres shut||The COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) — touted to be one of the largest such facilities in the country — was officially closed by the State government on Tuesday. Poor admission was cited as the reason for shutting down of the centre. While opening the centre in the last week of July, the State government had termed it one of the largest facilities in the country to treat mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. It was embroiled in controversies over renting of beds, cots and others items. Senior IAS officer Rajendra Kumar Kataria, who was also head of the task force of CCC, said that out of the 12 CCCs, six have been closed, including the ones at University of Agriculture Sciences and Bangalore University. “At BIEC, 3,800 to 4,000 people have availed the facilities. When the centre was operationalised, SoP on home isolation of COVID-19 positive people was not introduced. At that time, mild and asymptomatic patients were sent to CCC and others to hospitals. After guidelines came for home isolation, the number of people visiting CCC dropped. There are other factors too, such as private hospitals providing more beds and some hospitals using hotels to treat mild cases,” he said.
16 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Education corridor to come up in Chickballapur||The government plans to build an education corridor in the Muddenahalli-Nandi region in memory of Bharat Ratna Sir M. Visvesvaraya, said Medical Education Minister Dr. K. Sudhakar after laying the foundation for a building for the Sir M. Visvesvaraya International Institute for Super Trainer organisation at Muddenahalli in Chickballapur.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LED bulbs for Mysuru||The State Cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to replace thousands of sodium vapour street lamps with LED bulbs in Mysuru City Corporation limits in the next seven years at a cost of Rs. 109.91 crore. The project will be taken up on the PPP model and is expected to result in savings of Rs. 58 crore during the seven years. The project would be implemented from Mysuru and extended to other city corporations based on the outcome. Private parties would maintain the bulbs. The project of replacing sodium vapour street lamps with LED bulbs in cities was proposed when D.K. Shivakumar was the Energy Minister in the Congress government. It was decided that a revised estimate of Rs. 84.69 crore would be sanctioned for construction of the Deputy Commissioner’s complex in Mysuru. Earlier, the proposed cost was Rs. 59 crore.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Bill to be tabled||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill would be tabled during the legislature session, which would start on Monday. The government has sought suggestions from the ruling and opposition party members to frame the bill. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said administrative approval was given for Rs. 30 crore for laying a 2.5-km pipeline to supply 50 MLD of water from Agara lake in the city to Anekal.
16 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL donates ambulances||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) on Tuesday,  donated two ambulances to Institute of Nephro Urology (INU) on Victoria Hospital campus and Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital. “Considering the ongoing pandemic, we are doing whatever we can to strengthen the health infrastructure,” said R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL, in a release. The ambulances are equipped with facilities such as air conditioning, basic life support system, analogue oxygen delivery system, auto loader stretcher trolley with floor mounting mechanism, and separate doctor’s seat. The release said that these ambulances are useful for patients who require medical monitoring while in transit and need non-invasive airway management. The handing over event was held at HAL corporate office.
16 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||3D digitisation of heritage structures planned||The Department of Archaeology will, in the association with other agencies, take up 3D digitisation of heritage monuments in Shivamogga district. The programme will be launched on Wednesday. The department has selected 12 monuments for the programme to be implemented in association with the Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat, the Karnataka State Council of Science and Technology and the Sahyadri Heritage Development Authority. The monuments selected for the programme include Shivappa Nayak Palace, Kote Anjaneya Temple, Bheemeshwara Temple, Lakshmi Narasimha Temple at Bhadravati, Salageri Umapathi Temple at Salageri in Hosanagar taluk, Shivappa Nayak and Jain basadis. Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat M.L. Vyshali will launch the programme. 3D digitisation would help retain the structures for future generations. Even if the structures are damaged due to natural calamities or any other reason, they could be restored with the help of 3D images. Besides, it would help people make a virtual tour of the monuments, said a communiqué from the district administration.
16 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bal Vikas Academy plans to take up extensive programmes for children||The new chairman of Karnataka Bal Vikas Academy (KBA), Iranna Jadi, has said that various programmes aimed at facilitating the overall personality development of children would be taken up extensively across the State. Speaking to presspersons after taking charge as the new chairman of the academy in the presence of Minister Jagadish Shettar and others in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Iranna said that he would make every effort to extend the activities of the academy across the State. More programmes that would help children develop interest in literature, music, art, culture, education and facilitate the development of scientific temperament would be chalked out in addition to the existing programmes, he said. He said that children should take interest in all fields and to facilitate this, programmes would be chalked out in consultation with experts and officials. “At present, the academy is getting grants of Rs. 3 crore annually which is not adequate for holding programmes extensively across the State. I will request the government to increase the grants,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that the new chairman would get necessary assistance and cooperation from the government for executing his plans.
16 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Caught red-handed||Assistant Director of Agriculture, Jewargi, Sunilkumar Javalagi, was caught red-handed by the Anti Corruption Bureau when he was accepting Rs. 50,000 bribe on Tuesday. Action was taken after Sharangouda, a farmer, complained that the officer demanded bribe for clearing a bill.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traders say road works can be taken up in staggered manner||The bad condition of the main road and other roads in the busy Bunder area here has led to traders urging Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) to take up the underground drainage and road works in a staggered way. The traders, mostly Kirana merchants, made the demand during their meeting with Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, Mayor Diwakar Pandeshwar and MSCL officials at the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Tuesday. Ratnakar Nayak, a Kirana merchant, said that the main road leading to Bunder from Badria College and other roads have been dug up for development works. This has made it difficult for lorries to enter and exit from the area. He asked MSCL officials to complete works first on one road, before taking up works on the other roads. “This is a busy area; we need proper arrangements for entry and exit of vehicles,” he added. Shamsuddin, husband of Bunder councillor Zeenat Shamsuddin, said that water was flowing on the road from Badria College to the Old Municipal Office in such a way that it has become difficult for motorists and residents to figure out potholes on the road. Another trader said that very few workers were engaged for the works in the area. A member of Kirana Association Panduranga Bhandary and Port Ward councillor Lateef pointed out the problems being faced by traders because of regular closure of gates by the State Port Department. Mr. Bhandary also said that the Mangaluru City Corporation was yet to inaugurate the public toilet built near KCCI two years ago. Construction of another public toilet near Vartakara Bhavan was going on at a slow pace, he said. Mr. Kamath said that a meeting of Kirana and other traders in the area will be held on Saturday at the KCCI. MSCL will make presentation of the works to which traders can give suggestions. “MSCL will incorporate the suggestions,” he said. Port officials will also be invited to the meeting, he added. MSCL Managing Director Mohammed Nazeer was among those who attended the meeting on Tuesday.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railways to operate 20 pairs of ‘clone’ trains on popular routes||The Railway Ministry has decided to operate 20 pairs of “clone” trains from September 21 to cater to the passenger demand on popular routes, including services between Bengaluru-Danapur and Yeshwantpur-Hazrath Nizamuddin (Karnataka Sampark Kranti Express). A September 14 notification from the Railway Board said the clone trains would be in addition to the Shramik Specials and regular special trains that are already in operation, and they would run on notified timings. They will be fully reserved trains with an advance reservation window of 10 days. Train No. 06509 Bengaluru-Danapur will leave Bengaluru at 8 p.m. on Mondays while Train No. 06510 Danapur-Bengaluru will leave Danapur at 6.10 p.m. on Wednesdays and travel via Chennai, Vijayawada, Nagpur, Itarsi, and Prayagraj. The Yeshwantpur-Hazrath Nizamuddin (Karnataka Sampark Kranti) will leave Yeshwantpur (06523) at 1.55 p.m. on Wednesdays and Saturdays, while Train No. 06524 will leave Nizamuddin on Saturdays and Tuesdays. It will run via Hubballi, Belagavi, Miraj, Pune, and Bhopal. One pair of clone trains, No. 04251/04252 Lucknow-Delhi-Lucknow special, will utilise the rakes of Jan Shatabdi coaches with 15 chair cars, five AC chair cars, and two luggage-cum-generator vans, and will have Jan Shatabdi fares. The remaining 19 pairs will utilise Humsafar rakes, 12 three-tier AC coaches, four second-class sleeper coaches, and two luggage-cum-generator van coaches, and will have Humsafar fares, the notification said. However, zones can review the coach composition of clone special trains, the ministry said. Commercial halts will be limited to operational halts or divisional headquarters en route, while suggestions from the State governments concerned should also be kept in mind while restricting halts, the ministry said.
16 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Do not pay heed to rumours on COVID-19 treatment, says DHO||Free treatment is being given to COVID-19 positive patients in government and private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat scheme without differentiating between APL and BPL card holders, Udupi District Health Officer Sudhirchandra Sooda has said. As such, people should not go by rumours but instead, take the benefit of the scheme, he told the Zilla Panchayat meeting in Udupi on Tuesday. Responding to Health and Education Standing Committee Chairman Prathap Hegde Marali’s question on confusion among people about treatment and bill, Dr. Sooda said that COVID-19 treatment is given free at government hospitals. Patients admitted to private hospitals on government recommendation too get free treatment, while those getting admitted directly to private hospitals would have to bear the treatment cost, he said. Responding to Agriculture and Industry Standing Committee Chairman Sumith Shetty’s demand to install more dialysis machines at the district hospital, District Surgeon Madhusadhan Nayak said that space was not available at the district hospital. As such, proposals were already sent to provide dialysis machines at Byndoor and Brahmavar hospitals, while fresh proposals would be made to have such machines at Hebri and Kaup hospitals. Panchayat president Dinakar Babu presided over the meeting.  Exhibition  Meanwhile, Mr. Babu inaugurated an exhibition-cum-sale of handloom products produced by weavers in the district at the district office complex in Rajatadri, Manipal, on Tuesday. The exhibition is being jointly organised by the Department of Handlooms and Textiles and Udupi District Handloom Weavers Association. Mr. Babu said that Udupi Saris were the proud products of the district and urged the general public to patronise local products in support of the Prime Minister’s call, Vocal for Local. There was a need to provide better marketing facilities for Udupi Saris, he said and added that even West Bengal Chief Minister Mamatha Banerjee uses Udupi Saris.
16 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSOU resorts to ‘open-book exam’||Unlike other universities in the State, the Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) has resorted to a first-ever and one-time ‘open-book examination’ for its undergraduate and postgraduate students instead of promoting them directly to the next semester/academic year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The students can safely write the exam from their homes. The students who are in the first and second years of their degree courses and those in the first year of their PG programmes can appear for the exam at their respective places and send their answer scripts to the evaluation section of the university. Other universities in the State are promoting students other than those in the final year of their courses on a 50:50 formula, where 50% of the marks will be considered from internal assessment and the other 50% will be based on their performance in the previous semester or year. The students have been asked to pay online 50% of the exam fee. The last date for paying the fee (with fine) is September 30. The dates of the exam are yet to be announced, but the exam is expected to be held before October as per the University Grants Commission guidelines. For the final-year degree, final-year M.A. and M.Com, fourth-semester M.Sc and MBA students, KSOU will conduct the exam in the regular pattern under UGC norms.
16 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After 10-year wait, Vishnuvardhan memorial to become a reality||After a 10-year wait, the foundation stone for a memorial for the late Kannada actor Vishnuvardhan was laid at a village near Mysuru on Tuesday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa virtually laid the foundation stone from Bengaluru at Halalu village near Udbur, off H.D. Kote Road, in Mysuru taluk. The late actor’s family members, including his wife Bharathi Vishnuvardhan, daughter Keerthi, and son-in-law and actor Anirudh, former Ministers G.T. Deve Gowda and S.A. Ramdas, local representatives, and many fans attended the event. The memorial will have a built area of 1,454.70 sq.m. A sum of Rs. 11 crore was allocated in the 2010-11 Budget for constructing the memorial. A Bengaluru-based architect has designed it in consultation with the late actor’s family, and the project has been awarded to a Mysuru-based contractor. The memorial will have a gallery chronicling the late actor’s cine journey, a ‘kada’ sculpture (Vishnuvardhan was wearing a ‘kada’ or a wristlet on his left hand), and an auditorium. A 6-ft-tall statue of Vishnuvardhan and a branch of the Film and Television Institute, Pune, are part of the project. A museumwith rare photographs will showcase Vishnuvardhan’s journey in the world of cinema.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kisan Rail service from State to commence on Sept. 19||The first ‘Kisan Rail’ from the State will be operated between KSR Bengaluru and H. Nizamuddin in Delhi on September 19. The train will run via Mysuru, Hubballi and Pune, covering a distance of 2,751 km. South Western Railway (SWR) officials say the service will help farmers transport agricultural products at a cheaper rate. A release from the SWR states that between September 19 and October 17, train number 00625 will leave KSR Bengaluru at 4.45 p.m. on Saturdays and reach Nizamuddin at 11.45 p.m. on Mondays. On the return journey, train number 00626 will leave Nizamuddin at 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and reach Bengaluru at 1.45 a.m. on Fridays. “This train will help in setting up logistics for optimum supply chains, which will tremendously benefit farmers. South Western Railway has contacted the State's Horticulture Department and informed them about the launch of the new Kisan train service. We are coordinating with them on the movement of perishable commodities. APMCs on the route in Karnataka have been asked to avail this service,” said E. Vijaya, Chief PRO, SWR, adding that that the first Kisan train from southern India was operated last week from Anantpur in Andhra Pradesh to New Delhi. Introduction of Kisan Rail services was announced in the 2020-21 budget. The Kisan train from Karnataka will have stoppages at Mysuru, Hassan, Arsikere, Davangere, Hubballi, Londa, Belagavi, Miraj, Pune, Manmad, Bhusaval, Itarsi, Bhopal, Jhansi, Agra Cantonment and Mathura in both directions. The train will have 10 high-capacity parcel vans and two luggage-cum-generator cars. The release further states that passengers will not be allowed to travel in this train.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Case reporting plummets as doctors strike||“The number of discharges and positive cases are likely to have been in the range of 8,000 to 9,000,” said an official in the department. G.A. Srinivas, president of Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA), said doctors had decided not to update cases till their strike was called off. They will take a final call on Friday. The office-bearers of the association had a meeting with Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Dr. Srinivas said: “They have said they will fulfil our demands. We will discuss with our members and then take a decision.” The doctors want salaries on a par with the Central government health scheme scale and there are 4,000 doctors under KGMOA. Dr. Ashwath Narayan said the State government had decided to meet their demands “to some extent”. “We will provide them incentives and have told them to call off the strike as there is a crisis, and we are in the middle of the pandemic,” he said. However, the testing has not declined and 68,365 tests were conducted on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in the State so far stands at 4.75 lakh, while the number of discharges stands at 3.69 lakh. The total death toll due to COVID-19 now stands at 7,481.  We will provide the doctors with incentives and have asked them to call off the strike as there is a crisis. We are in the middle of a pandemic and people are suffering. C.N. Ashwath Narayan  Deputy Chief Minister
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CSR initiative||
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs seized||The police arrested three persons in separate incidents and seized 1.65 kg of marijuana from them on Monday. The Jnanabharati police arrested Jayamallu, 23, and Dhanush N., 31, from Uttarahalli while they were allegedly selling drugs near a private college. The duo was arrested under the NDPS Act and taken into custody to ascertain the source of the drugs. In another incident, City Market police arrested Purushotham, 39, and seized 450 gram of marijuana from him. The accused was caught selling the contraband in the market.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Weighing options||
16 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Daily cases touch 338 in Alappuzha||In the biggest single-day spike so far, the district logged 338 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Among the fresh cases, 299 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Twenty-eight people who came from other States, 10 from abroad, and a health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 299 locally transmitted cases include 60 from Alappuzha, 45 from Kayammulam, and 24 from Pallippuram. Local bodies Other local bodies that reported a high number of contact cases include Purakkad (14), Chettikkad (11), Bharanikavu (10), Pulinkunnu (9), Ambalappuzha (8), Bharanikavu (8), Thazhakara (8), Chettikulangara (7), Thekkekara (7), Kuthiathode (6) and Thamarakulam (6). Meanwhile, 234 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The district so far registered 8,374 COVID-19 cases. While 6,192 people made full recovery, 19 succumbed to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,163. Wards 11 in Arattuppuzha, 2 in Krishnapuram, 11 in Thrikkunnapuzha and parts of ward 1 and 11 in Mararikulam North were declared as containment zones.
16 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||SWTD to launch water taxis in Alappuzha next month||Just like hiring an autorickshaw or taxi, the people of Alappuzha can soon hire a boat for travelling from one place to another through the backwaters. In a first in the State, the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) is all set to launch water taxi services in the district in the first half of October. According to Shaji V. Nair, director, SWTD, a catamaran diesel-powered craft will be used for the purpose. Orders placed “We have placed orders for four boats, of which the first boat will set sail next month. It is a taxi service on waterways. The boat with a seating capacity for 10 passengers will provide comfortable travel. For hiring a water taxi, people should contact a number that will be published soon,” he says. Mr. Nair says the public can use the service at reasonable rates. “The tariff will be announced after getting the approval from the government,” he says. Speed Water taxis can cruise at a maximum speed of 19 knots (35 km/hour). The vessels are being constructed by Kochi-based Navgathi Marine Design and Constructions Private Limited, which built the country’s first solar ferry Aditya. Sandith Thandasherry, CEO of Navgathi, says that the first water taxi would be delivered to the SWTD by the month-end. “With multiple hulls, catamarans need less power. The design is in a way that the boat can be used as taxis and as a rescue vessel. Due to its smaller size, the craft can reach anywhere,” Mr. Thandasherry says. The boat comes with a 250-horse power outboard diesel engine imported from Sweden. Location and launch of the rest of the three water taxis will be decided later.
16 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Body of missing child washed ashore||A two-and-a-half-year-old child swept away by a strong wave on the Alappuzha beach earlier this week was found washed ashore on the Galilea beach, near Punnapra, on Tuesday. The boy, identified as Adhikrishna, went missing in the sea while his mother was attempting to take a selfie with him and two other children on the beach on Sunday. According to the police, the mother, identified as Anitha, her two children, and her brother’s son from Palakkad reached their relative’s house here a few days ago after attending a wedding ceremony. On Sunday afternoon, Anitha and the three children were taken to the beach by their relative Binu. After the police denied them permission to go to the beach in view of the rough sea, they came to the beach near the ESI Hospital, evading security personnel. Anitha and the children who were trying to take a selfie on the beach got hit by strong waves and swept away to sea. Seeing this Binu rushed to the spot but could only save the woman and two children. The police said the body would be handed over to the family after completing the post-mortem examination.
16 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman’s death: panel registers case||The State Women’s Commission has registered a suo motu case in connection with the death of a 21-year-old woman at Arattuppuzha. The deceased Archana ended her life allegedly after her boyfriend backtracked on his promise to marry her. Commission member M.S. Thara directed District Police Chief P.S. Sabu on Tuesday to submit a report immediately. According to the Thrikkunnappuzha police, the woman died on Friday after her boyfriend’s marriage was fixed with another girl. R. Jose, circle inspector, Thrikkunnappuzha police, said that they had launched a probe based on a complaint filed by the parents of the deceased. The women’s family alleged that the man had sought dowry and later withdrew from the marriage. (Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA 0471 2552056, 1056).
16 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Rs. 17.93 crore for Kannur Medical College Hospital||Health Minister K.K. Shailaja has said that Rs. 17.93 crore has been sanctioned for bettering the functioning of the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, Pariyaram. The Minister said that Rs. 10.75 crore was sanctioned for purchasing hospital machinery and equipment, and Rs. 7.17 crore for allied equipment. The allocation was made as part of upgrading the medical college to level of other institutions in the State, she said. An innovative Cath lab was being set up at medical college for Rs. 5.5 crore. This was in addition to the two Cath labs already functioning there. About one lakh Cath lab procedures had been performed here so far, Ms. Shailaja said. According to a survey by the Cardiology Society of India, Kannur Medical College was the fourth in India and the first in Kerala in the number of Cath lab procedures done. With the addition of one more lab, it would be possible to perform more procedures.
16 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Investor scam: employee of firm assaulted||An employee of Fashion Gold International, which is under investigation in connection with an investor scam, was allegedly assaulted on Monday when he went to attend a meeting held to settle the case. The police said the meeting was organised by the core committee, formed by the Indian Union Muslim league (IUML), and the action council, constituted by investors, on Monday. Fashion Gold International, Fashion Ornaments Private Limited, and Kamar Fashion Gold Private Limited are under investigation after investors filed 47 cheating cases against M.C. Kamaruddin, IUML MLA from Manjeswaram, who is the chairman of Fashion Gold International, and Pookoyol Thangal, managing director of the company. The police registered a case against 10 persons, including coordinating committee chairman K. Mahim Haji, on the charge of assaulting Mustafa, 50, public relations officer of the companies. Melparamba Sub-Inspector Benny Lalu said the meeting was organised at the house of Mr. Haji. Twelve people, including members of the core committee, action council, and employees of the three companies attended the meeting that began at 1.30 p.m.
16 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Partial opening of schools not ruled out||The Education Department has not ruled out partial reopening of schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 for taking guidance from teachers on a voluntary basis as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union Ministry of Health. The Chief Minister said on Monday that schools in the State would not reopen in September or October. “However, we have not ruled out the possibility of having limited teacher-student interaction for Classes 9 to 12 based on the SOP. It will be done based on inferences gathered from a field-level assessment report, which is expected in a day or two,” senior officials said. Voluntary basis The Union Ministry of Health had said on September 8 that students of Classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside containment zones on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers subject to written consent of their parents/guardians. Students from Classes 9 to 12 will have the option of attending the classes remotely/virtually or physically only. The Kerala CBSE School Managements Association says it is ready to conduct interactive sessions for senior classes in a restricted manner from September 21 as per the directives issued by the Centre. Half-day sessions “The plan is to have at least two sessions on either alternate days or twice a week for different subjects. It will be half-day sessions while ensuring adequate physical distancing and safety measures,” said T.P.M Ibrahim Khan, president of the association. As per the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry, the seating arrangement should be done in an order to ensure a distance of six ft between chairs or desks. The classroom activities should be done in a staggered manner, with separate slots to allow adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises. Mix of online, offline The academic scheduling should have an intermix of regular classroom teaching and online teaching/assessment. Sharing of laptops, notebook, stationery among students will not be allowed.  CBSE schools ready to conduct interactive sessions for senior classes in a restricted manner from September 21.
16 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Reverse quarantine keeps the elderly in district safe at home||Less than 10% of the COVID-19 patients in the district are over 60 years old, according to health authorities. Even among patients over the age of 60, a majority fall within the 60 to 70 age bracket. This could be a result of reverse quarantine measures, said a release here. Around 22.77% of patients are in the 21 to 31 age bracket, and 18.89% in the 31 to 41 age group. About 60.8% of COVID patients in the district are men. Out of every 100 tests conducted, 8.24 people tend to return positive results. Testing has been intensified among symptomatic people and all symptomatic people are advised to remain in quarantine. So far, 1,41,000 samples were tested. Daily, about 3500 samples are collected. A total of 239 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. An ASHA worker from Rayamangalam, four health workers at private hospitals, a health worker at the Government Hospital in Kothamangalam and another health worker have tested positive. Other positive cases of the infection were reported from areas including Aluva, Alangad, Kothamangalam, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Rayamangalam, Kaloor, Kalamassery, Kavalangad, Keezhmad, Thripunithura and Thoppumpady. A total of 209 people recovered and tested negative for the disease. About 21,652 people are in quarantine, while 3292 people are being treated for it. For testing, 1,420 samples were sent from government facilities and 1,722 samples were collected at private hospitals and laboratories.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prices of veggies rise despite fall in demand||The sale of vegetables has dimmed considerably in the fortnight after the Onam festivities but prices are seen moving up, buoyed by a shortage of supplies in the lean season as well as continuing restrictions on the movement of transport vehicles across State borders. Vegetable sales have come down to about 50 per cent of the normal levels at the Ernakulam wholesale market. The pre-COVID-19 normal supplies comprised about 25 lorry loads of supplies. It has come down to 12 loads a day, said N. H. Shameed, Ernakulam Market Stall Onwers’ Association secretary and veteran wholesaler. The price table published by the Vegetables and Fruits Promotion Council Keralam showed that produce like cowpea, carrot, beetroot, French beans, ginger, and tomato were selling at a higher level compared with the prices a fortnight ago. Ginger was ruling over Rs. 100 a kg in the retail market while tomato was selling for Rs. 57 a kg. Bhindi costs Rs. 50 a kg while drumstick prices ruled Rs. 58 a kg in the retail market. Henry Suro, a vegetable farmer said that there was a subdued demand for vegetable produce, including nendran banana, which was selling for Rs. 55 a kg in the retail market. Farmers were not getting great remunerative price. He said that the price was about Rs. 35 for ordinary nendran banana per kg while organic produce fetched Rs. 42 a kg in the wholesale market. Mr. Shameed said that the price of big onions had to be watched now. The Union government had banned the export of onions in view of the market tendency. The price of small onions (shallots) was Rs. 60 a kg in the retail market in Ernakulam on Tuesday. A shortage of supplies was the main reason for the price-rise, especially for vegetables produced outside Kerala, he said.
16 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Protests by parents seeking fee reduction intensify||Protests by parents against a section of school managements here for not reducing fee despite the institutions remaining shut in view of the pandemic have intensified. The police removed parents protesting in front of Al-Ameen Public School, Edappally, on Tuesday. The parents said that they were conducting peaceful stand-up protest by holding placards for the past 17 days demanding reduction in the tuition fee by 50%. “There was no provocation from our side, but the police tried to forcibly remove us on behalf of the management,” they said. Mujeeb Rahman, president of the collective of parents, said that two parents were injured after the police tried to forcibly remove them. A Sub Inspector also slapped a protesting parent, he alleged. Two arrested The Elamakkara police arrested Mujeeb Rahman and Rasal in connection with the skirmishes between the police and protesting parents over fee hike. They were produced before the court and remanded. The Circle Inspector of Elamakkara police station said that a case had been registered under Section 332 of the Indian Penal Code against nearly 30 persons for trying to obstruct the police from discharging their duties. On the allegation that a Sub Inspector had assaulted a protester, the official said that he was not aware of it. Management’s stand Siyad Kokker, manager of the school, said that the management was not in a position to accept the demand by parents to reduce the fee by 50%. “We have to pay the salary for nearly 200 teaching and non-teaching staff despite not having regular classes,” he said. On whether the police action was based on the complaint filed by the management, Mr. Kokker said that the High Court had granted police protection to the school based on its request. The united forum of parents at Toc H Public School, Vyttila, said that they would not pay fee until they get a favourable fee reduction. K. Varghese, Manager, said that no decision had been taken on the demand by parents. “It has been postponed to next week,” he said.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Game addiction can cause behaviour disorders’||Just days after the Union government banned PUBG, a popular multi-player online combat game, a 12-year-old boy addicted to online gaming was taken to a noted psychiatrist in the city. The villain, unsurprisingly, was the banned game itself. If parents thought that inaccessibility to his favourite game may finally bring about some welcome change to their child’s gaming addiction, they were in for a surprise. “Rather than being dejected about the banned game, he turned out to be highly optimistic about finding an alternative. In fact, he said that one was already in the horizon,” said psychiatrist C.J. John, who has been treating the child for behavioural disorders emanating from addiction to online games. Extreme aggressiveness, turning argumentative, spending long hours in front of the screen are some of the tell-tale signs of gaming addiction that starts as early as pre-teens and may even last through to adulthood. Dr. John said that as in everything else, “catch them young” should be the guiding principle in addressing such addiction. Often, parents turn a blind eye to such signs by taking comfort in the fact that they were, after all, staying at home and then suddenly turn excessively stern when grades begin to slip. By that time, it would be too late and the child turns rebellious at any attempt to control his screen time. “The ban on PUBG should be used as a window of opportunity by parents to convince their wards that the game they were addicted to was so bad that the government had to ban it and enforce an online etiquette. Else, there is the danger of them turning into a similar or more dangerous online alternative,” said Dr. John. Immense popularity The immense popularity of PUBG could be gauged from the fact that a group of youngsters even took out a protest march against its ban at Vaipur in Pathanamathitta district. Akhil Johnson, a techie, who was introduced to the game by his colleagues a year ago, vouches for how engrossing the game can be. “There is this high of entering a battle arena with your friends as a squad against real people and see the jumps in ranking with successive completions of each level,” said Mr. Johnson who is an avid follower of the YouTube sessions of acclaimed players with millions of followers. Notwithstanding their emotional connect to the game, he said that professional players were hardly going to wallow in sadness but move on to other games. ‘Causing obesity’ M. Narayanan, president of the Kerala chapter of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said that gaming such as gambling addiction can lead to waste of time and cash besides causing obesity owing to lack of physical exercise. “There was this case of a 15-year-old boy who consistently dug into his grandmother’s money for online gaming without her knowledge after being put under her care by his parents who were abroad. Apart from parental control, government should also keep tabs on such gaming platforms,” he said.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Book narrating history of Mattancherry firing released||Journalist Abdulla Mattancherry’s book Adayalam is about the history of the struggle led by the workers of Mattancherry who protested the chappa system of work guarantee which meant whoever got the copper pieces thrown in the air would get work at the Cochin harbour for the day. The struggle against the inhuman system had begun on July 1, 1953, but ended with the police firing at the protesters on September 15. Veteran Communist leader M.M. Lawrence released the book, published by Pranatha Books, by handing over the first copy to K.J. Maxi, MLA, at an event at the Ernakulam Press Club. Mr. Lawrence said that the labour-friendly laws obtained by the workers as a result of long-drawn struggles were being shelved one by one, signalling more onslaught on the workers in the times to come. He said that the country was being governed by those who unleashed untold atrocities against workers. The onus, he said, was therefore on the workers to stand shoulder to shoulder against caste, language and class divides. Mr. Lawrence said that the Mattancherry firing incident was the creation of the job-givers, not the workers. John Fernandes, MLA, presided over the function.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fee cut: Producers crack the whip||The Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA) has said it will not clear projects in which the lead actors do not reduce their fee by at least 30%. The association has sent a letter to the Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) requesting that the production executives need not entertain projects in which the lead actors are found increasing their salary or refusing to reduce their present wages by at least 30%. The Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes earlier accepted a request by the producers to reduce the fee of actors in view of the financial crisis that has hit the industry owing to the COVID-19 outbreak. However, some actors are found to have increased their fee by 50% for projects announced in these times, according to representatives of the KFPA. The salary reduction has been proposed for actors taking a pay packet of Rs. 3 lakh and above per project, they say.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for FB post against COVID protocol||Five days after registering a case for an incendiary and provocative Facebook post calling for boycotting COVID-19 protocol, the Central police on Tuesday arrested a person in this connection. The arrested was identified as Nizar, 48, of Kalamassery. He is accused of giving a call for boycotting the protocol through the Facebook page of one Muhammed Ashraf. Both of them are accused of propagating similar messages through a WhatsApp group of which one Rafeeque of Perumbavoor was the admin. The police said that the other two accused were absconding and were reportedly attempting to secure anticipatory bail. The Central police had registered a case against two Facebook profiles of Muhammed Ashraf and Rafeeque. The post sought to organise a protest against the COVID-19 protocol at the High Court Junction on September 18 at 3 p.m. It claimed that top doctors and professionals would speak out the “real truth” about the pandemic at the event. Among the slogans it raised were “no more lies,” “no more masks,” “no more social distancing,” and “no more lockdown”. It called for boycotting the COVID-19 protocol and restoring all freedoms.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ruling, opposition fronts spar over land||With the local body elections not very far away, the ruling and opposition fronts in the Kochi Corporation are squabbling over 16 cents of land in the heart of the city. The LDF had raised a hue and cry at a recent council meeting pointing out that the corporation had failed to protect its land on MG Road, or put it to any fruitful use. The Mayor had then scheduled a site visit to determine the issues with the area. The site visit on Tuesday by the Mayor, Opposition leader and chairpersons of the standing committees revealed that private individuals in the area had been using the land as parking space. Mayor Soumini Jain said that over a year ago, the corporation council had decided to construct a wall and protect the land, but an individual from the area had gone to court and obtained a stay on the construction, she said. The corporation would now proceed with getting the stay vacated and claiming ownership over its land, she said. The current financial year’s budget had proposed the construction of a multi-level parking complex on the land, but instead of making way for it, private individuals were being allowed to take over the property, said Opposition leader K. J. Antony.
16 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Don’t expel students from online classes: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed St. Joseph Public School, Manalimukku, Ernakulam, not to expel any student from online classes for not paying fee. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive on a petition filed by Biju C.N. and six other parents challenging the removal of their children studying in the school from online classes because of their inability to pay the full school fee. When the petition came up, the counsel for the Central Board of Secondary Education submitted that the board did not encourage expulsion of students from classes on grounds of not paying fee. The court also directed the petitioners to inform it the time frame within which they were ready to pay the fee. The petitioners said that most of the parents who belonged to lower middle class families had become jobless and financially broke due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. They alleged that the school authorities had removed 270 students from online classes for non-payment of full fee.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Periye victims’ kin move HC against SPC||The parents of two slain Youth Congress workers in Periye on Tuesday approached the Kerala High Court seeking to initiate contempt of court proceedings against State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera for not handing over the diary relating to the murders to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Youth Congress workers Kripesh, 21, and Sarathlal, 24, were murdered at Kalliot, near Periye, in Kasaragod on February 17, 2019. The High Court has ordered a CBI probe in the double murder case. Petitioners’ charge The petition said Mr. Behera was intentionally delaying handing over of the case diary files to the CBI at the instance of the ruling political party with a malicious intention to protract the investigation and cause disappearance of evidence.
16 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ayurveda must evolve constantly, says Venkaiah||There is a need to further explore the properties of Ayurvedic medicines through well-documented scientific evidence and Ayurveda must evolve constantly to remain relevant as an effective healthcare system, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday. He was speaking at the inauguration of the 4th edition of the Global Ayurveda Summit, a conference on emerging opportunities for Ayurveda during the COVID-19 pandemic, being held via videoconferencing. The meet is being organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry in partnership with the Ministry of AYUSH.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Writer files plea to appoint administrator||A petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Tuesday by writer M.K. Sanoo, a member of the Aruvipuram Sreenarayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (ASDPY), Kollam, seeking to appoint an administrator for the day-to-day management of the Yogam and conduct election to its board of directors. He also sought to restrain SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, president M.N. Soman and vice president Thushar Vellappally from functioning as directors of the ASDPY.
16 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court restrains media coverage in rape case||The Sessions Court, Kottayam, trying the nun rape case in which bishop Franco Mulakkal has been arraigned as the accused, has restrained the print and electronic media from publishing any matter relating to the trial and the procedure of the case without its permission. It was on a petition from the bishop that the court issued the order on Tuesday. According to the court, the proliferation of media and the increased competition among the visual media have accelerated the coverage of news, but often at the risk of its accuracy and quality. The opportunity afforded through visual media to make lengthy discussions about matters over which the panellists and moderators have no direct knowledge has made the situation more grim. The common man often misapprehends their comments as true words, noted judge G. Gopakumar in his order.
16 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||234 more cases on Kollam list||The number of active cases in the district touched 2,409 with 234 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The patients include 229 contact cases, three persons from abroad, and two others who had travelled from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Kollam Corporation has the highest number of new patients with 57 persons testing positive while Thevalakkara and Karunagappally also reported a spike with 22 and 19 cases respectively. Kollam currently has 21,212 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,50,966. While 738 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 29,377 primary and 6,279 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present 16 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are operating in the district and the number of recoveries on Tuesday is 151. So far, more than 250 persons from the district have been placed in home care and nearly 50 patients among them have recovered. The Health Department has permitted home isolation for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients following the WHO protocol. “Patients in home care should take medicines along with a balanced diet and have proper sleep as per the instructions of medical officer. If they develop any symptoms, the authorities should be informed and asymptomatic patients should take antigen or RT-PCR test on the 10th day,” said Dr R. Sreelatha, District Medical Officer.
16 September 2020||kottayam,KERALA||Kottayam reports 192 fresh cases||A total of 192 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam district on Tuesday taking the total number of active cases to 2,200. Out of the newly infected, all except four were through local contact when 3,295 fresh tests results were out. The new cases include a health worker from Erattupetta. At 36, Kottayam municipality accounted for the most number of infections through local contract. Other places Among the other places from where cases were reported, 18 were from Thiruvarppu, 16 from Vazhappalli, 14 from Aymanam, 12 from Erumeli, 11 from Pampady, 10 from Panachikkadu, nine from Thrikkodithanam, six from Erattupetta, five each from Ettumanoor and Manarkkadu, and four from Kadanadu. Recovered A total of 147 people recovered from the disease taking the total number of recovered patients so far to 4,271 out of the 6,474 infected. Nearly 20,200 people remain in quarantine in the district.
16 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Many injured as continuing protests turn violent in Malabar||Continuing protests by youth and student organisations affiliated to the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel led to clashes with the police in front of District Collectorates in the northern districts on Tuesday. As the protests turned violent, the police used force to disperse the protesters, leaving several of them injured. The police personnel caned the protesters and used water cannons to break the protests. In Kozhikode The protest march taken out by the activists of the Kerala Students Union (KSU) to the Collectorate in Kozhikode turned violent with the protesters clashing with the police in the morning. The riot police confronted the protesters with water cannons and followed it up with a lathi charge when the agitators attempted to break the barricade and barge into the Collectorate. The police resorted to lathi charge when the protesters refused to disperse after employing water cannons and picketed the Kozhikode-Wayanad road. About 15 activists, including KSU district president V.T. Nihal, were injured in the lathi charge. In Kannur Kannur turned a battleground as various political wings of the Congress and the BJP clashed with the police while staging a protest march demanding the resignation of Ministers K.T. Jaleel and E.P. Jayarajan. The police used water cannons and batons to disperse the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) protesters led by their leader Sandeep Warrier, when they staged a protest march towards the house of Mr. Jayarajan at Pappinesseri. The situation turned tense when the police vehicle carrying arrested BJYM protesters came under attack allegedly by the CPI(M) and DYFI activists. At least 10 protesters were injured in the incident. The police also lathi-charged and used water cannons against Youth Congress workers, who staged a march to the Collectorate. In Wayanad In Kalpetta, separate protest marches taken out under the aegis of the KSU and the Muslim Students Federation (MSF) to the District Collectorate took a violent turn. The police caned the protesters to disperse them, when the KSU activists tried to break the barricade erected across the Collectorate. The police arrested MSF State vice president P. Shyjal and district secretary P. Ramees. Later, the protesters staged a sit-in protest on the Kozhikode-Kollegal National Highway 766. In Palakkad, Malappuram The protest march taken out by the BJYM to the Palakkad Collectorate also ended in a clash with the police. The police resorted to lathi charge when the BJYM protesters tried to break the barricade. About two dozen protesters were injured in the clash. The BJYM activists blocked the road for about an hour. Youth Congress activists too blocked the road near the municipal bus-stand in Palakkad in protest against the police attack on Shafi Parambil, MLA, in Thiruvananthapuram. In Malappuram, Mahila Morcha and KSU activists took out marches to the Collectorate, raising the resignation demand.
16 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cases rise in Kozhikode Corporation||The number of recoveries well exceeded that of new infections in Kozhikode district on Tuesday when 306 people were cured and 260 were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. More than half of the new cases are from within the Kozhikode Corporation, where 140 persons tested positive. As many as 129 of the cases are through local transmission of the infection. Two deaths have been reported at the Government Medical College Hospital since Monday. While an 83-year-old man from Parappil died on Monday, a 74-year-old man from Madassery died on Tuesday. As many as 217 people in the district got the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 32 people is not known. There are six health workers on the list of the newly infected. The number of active cases from the district is 2,820. In Malappuram As many as 348 people tested positive for in Malappuram on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases in the district to 3,071. District officials said that 304 of the new cases were caused by local transmission. However, there were 20 cases with an untraceable source of infection. Among the new cases were eight health workers. There were 306 recoveries in the district on Tuesday. Officials said 32,617 people were quarantined across Malappuram. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 136 people tested positive on Tuesday. As many as 99 of them contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection could not be identified in 35 cases. There were 120 recoveries on Tuesday. In Kannur As many as 213 people tested positive in Kannur on Tuesday. Of them, 161 were infected through contact. A total of 230 people recovered on Tuesday. BJP leader tests positive BJP national executive committee member P.K. Krishnadas tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. He was asymptomatic, and had undergone the COVID-19 test after returning from Hyderabad. He was admitted to the Thalassery General Hospital. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 172 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. All of them contracted the disease through local contacts. District Medical Officer A.V Ramdas said 260 people tested negative. In Thrissur As many as 188 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday. While 184 people were infected through contact, the source of infection for four persons is not known. There are 2,176 active cases and 120 people have recovered. Police trainee dies A 29-year-old from Kavalam, who was undergoing training at the Integrated Police Training Centre at the Kerala Police Academy died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Many trainees at the training centre have tested positive in the last two weeks. In Wayanad Wayanad reported 64 cases on Tuesday. Of the cases, 63 were infected through contact. Sixty-three people recovered on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
16 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students concerned over clash of test dates||The entrance tests for various Central universities and the Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER) are being scheduled on the same day and parents claim that students will be forced to make a difficult choice. The Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admission to various Central universities is scheduled for September 18. The entrance tests for admission to the IISERs and Pondicherry University also fall on the same day. Many students from Kerala write these exams. According to a parent from Kozhikode the reporting time for the IISER entrance test is 7 a.m. and the test will be held between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. The CUCET is held for two hours in morning and afternoon sessions and the students are required to be present at the exam hall an hour before. The CUCET is for admission to 18 Central universities and the IISER test is for taking students to the seven premier autonomous science institutes under the Union Ministry of Education. While IISER has an integrated BS-MS course, the Central universities and the Pondicherry University too are conducting admission to five-year courses. Students who wish to apply to all these institutions may miss the chance, he said. There is also some confusion over the choice of centre for Pondicherry University. “The university website says there are centres in Kerala. However, my son has been allotted a centre in Mangaluru,” the parent said. This would force the students and the accompanying parent to be in quarantine after their return to Kerala, he added.
16 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Jobless anthropologist goes down history lane||The popular witticism - when the going gets tough, the tough get going - has literally set off a young anthropologist-cum- archaeologist to author a book for children on Kunjali Marakkar, the legendary hero of the 16th century. For N.K. Ramesh, a guide at the Kunjali Marakkar Memorial Museum at Vadakara, it was an opportunity to trace the history of the four Kunjali Marakkars when his contract was terminated after the museum was closed to the public from March. On writing for children “Certainly a difference existed between writing for children and for adults. So I put down a simple narration and included illustrations based on important events during the period of Kunjali Marakkar and also a picture of a mural painting of a sea war,” he says. Kunjali Marakkar was a honorific title given to the Muslim naval chief of the erstwhile Zamorin of Calicut. “The four Kunjali Marakkars who were the naval commanders of Zamorin fought against the Portuguese from 1507 to 1600. In fact, the Kunjali Marakkars were maritime merchants and supporters of Arab trade who lived in the coastal regions of Kayalpattinam, Kilakarai, Thoothukudi, and Karaikal. But they shifted their trade to Kochi and then migrated to Ponnani after Portuguese trade interference,” Mr. Ramesh says. Book in 4 months He took about four months to pen the book with 104 pages. The book has already hit the stands although the official launch has been deferred in view of the COVID-19 protocol. Historian M.G.S. Narayanan has given an introduction to the book on Kunjali Marakkar, whose battles against the Portuguese were portrayed as a symbolic national movement. The book also delves into the objective of the construction of a fort by Pattu Marakkar, the third Kunjali Marakkar, at Iringal (Kottakkal) in 1571 and the political dispute between his nephew Mohammed Marakkar, who became the fourth Kunjali Marakkar, and the Zamorin. Later, the Zamorin joined hands with the Portuguese to defeat the last Kunjali Marakkar. The fort was also demolished and Kunjali executed by the Portuguese. The decline of Kunjali Marakkar, he says, led to the establishment of Dutch Dominion and later British rule in India. Mr. Ramesh holds a postgraduate degree in anthropology from Kannur university and Post MSc Diploma in Museology from Aligarh Muslim University.  Tough life For a living, the 34-year-old is now engaged in dehusking at farms and odd jobs at Nadapuram.
16 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chargesheet submitted||The Kozhikode Rural police have submitted a chargesheet before the Thamarassery Judicial First Class Magistrate’s Court against three persons in the case relating to the rape of an elderly woman at Mutheri near Mukkom. According to the police, Mujeeb Rehman raped a 65-year-old woman and decamped with her gold ornaments in July while she was travelling in an autorickshaw driven by him.
16 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elephant tramples tribal man to death||A tribal man was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Veettikkundu, near Sholayur in Attappady, on Tuesday. Mottayya, 75, had gone into the forest to collect firewood. Local people said that Mottayya was hearing impaired and he would not have heard the trumpeting of the wild elephant that had spread fear in the region in the past few days.
16 September 2020||pathanamthitta,KERALA||Pathanamthitta has 146 fresh cases||One person died and 146 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta district on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as a 72-year-old from Thiruvalla who tested positive on September 7. He died in a private hospital. He was suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and heart-related ailments. Of the total who are infected, 102 are through local contract while the cause of infection is not clear in the case of at least 25. While 13 came from abroad, 31 are from other States. The test positivity rate for the district is 5.1% while the death rate is 0.65%. So far, 4,952 have been infected in the district, of which 3,264 contracted it locally. The total death toll in the district stands at 32. This is in addition to three infected persons who died owing to other complications. A total of 147 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday taking the total number of recovered patients in the district to 3,968. Out of the 949 residents of Pathanamthitta tested positive, 925 are undergoing treatment in the district and 24 outside the district. While 162 are in Pathanamthitta general hospital, 113 are in Kozhancherry district hospital. A total of 104 persons who tested positive but are asymptomatic are being treated at their homes while 1,007 persons are in isolation in various hospitals. This is in addition to 15,088 who are under surveillance. Results on 1,669 tests are being awaited.
16 September 2020||Special Correspondent,KERALA||RGIDS to host development summit||Thiruvananthapuram The Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies (RGIDS) is organising a development summit named ‘Pratheeksha 2030’ to prepare a blueprint for the development of the State over the next 10 years.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s highest single-day spike in capital at 656||Marking a massive leap as COVID-19 testing picked up yet again, the capital district recorded its highest single-day spike as 656 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. As many as 629 swab samples were collected, nearly thrice the 256 tests done on Monday. The number of active cases touched 5,503. The death toll in the district rose to 154 with five more deaths — of natives of Parassala (60 years old), Beemapally (64), Vilappilsala (89), Poovar (54), and a 67-year- old man whose native place is yet to be ascertained — being attributed to the disease. The emerging COVID-19 situation lend credence to the district administration’s projection of a sharp spike, partly attributed to the Onam rush. The recent spate of demonstrations here is also feared to have contributed to the increased caseload.  Local transmission remained unabated as it accounted for almost all cases except four imported ones from other States. The sources of infection in 97 cases were yet to be known. Twenty-three health workers are among those affected. A total of 268 people recovered from the illness on the day. The Central Prison at Poojappura was declared COVID-19-free on Tuesday after 42 infected prisoners tested negative, a few days after several others recovered from the illness. As many as 485 people, including the inmates and jail officials, had been diagnosed with COVID-19 a month ago. With the prison regaining normalcy, the Kerala Prisons have restored all of its services, including the food manufacturing unit, cafeteria, men’s saloon, cloth store, petrol pump, and the organic vegetable stall. Five people, including four of a single family, tested positive at Pulimath, Kilimanoor. Cases continued to mount at Attingal where three people were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Tuesday.  Pregnant women The district administration has exhorted pregnant women to ensure strict room quarantine in light of the COVID-19 situation. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu said pregnant women must be quarantined in well-ventilated rooms having attached bathrooms. Under no circumstances must they come in close proximity with those who frequently leave their houses for various purposes. Visits by relatives must also be strictly restricted.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anti-govt. protests continue to rock State||Anti-government protests triggered by the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case flared up across the State for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday. Congress and the BJP workers swarmed the streets demanding the expulsion of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel from the Cabinet. They clashed with the police in several districts, resulting in injuries on both sides and potentially risking an accelerated spread of COVID-19. The demonstrations also targeted Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on the charge that Central agencies had found evidence financially linking his son to an accused in the smuggling case. The police used water cannons and tear gas to disperse a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha march to Mr. Jayarajan’s house in Kannur. Kerala Students Union activists demanding the resignation of Dr. Jaleel blocked the Wayanad-Kozhikode National Highway. They later clashed with the police in front of the district headquarters. BJP protesters grappled with law enforcers in Palakkad. In Thiruvananthapuram, multiple marches by diverse political organisations buffeted the Secretariat. Social Democratic Party of India activists burned Dr. Jaleel in effigy. The police baton-charged BJP workers who attempted to breach the barricade. They trained their water cannon on Youth Congress workers to prevent them from storming the Secretariat. Comparably belligerent protests broke out in Kochi and Thrissur. Life disrupted The wave of demonstrations disrupted everyday life in some measure in the State. City centres and district headquarters remained cut off to vehicular and pedestrian traffic for the better part of the day. Meanwhile, the Congress and the BJP rejected Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement on Monday that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had found no wrongdoing on the part of Dr. Jaleel. The agency had questioned the Minister last week purportedly to seek information on his transactions with the UAE consulate, including the acceptance of an unusually large consignment of the Koran and food kits last Ramzan. ‘No clean chit’ Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran rejected the government’s claim that the ED had given a clean chit to Dr. Jaleel. The leaders reiterated their allegation that the import of the Koran and dates for distribution during Ramzan was a cover for gold smuggling. Their statements came against the background of conflicting news reports about whether the ED had given a clean chit or not to Dr. Jaleel.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth outfits, police clash again||The protracted stand-off between the government and Opposition parties over the gold smuggling case resulted in yet another violent street fight as youth organisations clashed with the police in the State capital for the fourth straight day on Tuesday. Refusing to back out from their demand for Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel’s resignation, the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party youth outfits — Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha — undertook Secretariat marches, leaving several activists injured as the police resorted to force to quell the agitations. The police lathicharged the protesters after many activists perched atop the barricades erected in front of the Secretariat and chose to ignore the repeated calls made by the law enforcers to disperse. While several rounds of water jets were sprayed on the protesters, the police also had to resort to the use of smoke grenades and tear gas shells. Traffic along MG Road came to a standstill for around three hours. The Youth Congress agitation, which began at 11 a.m., was led by MLAs Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinadhan, the State president and vice president of the organisation respectively. With initial attempts to remove the agitators turning futile, the police posse adopted aggressive means. While five activists who sustained injuries were shifted to hospitals, the others clashed with the police again, accusing the latter of manhandling the legislators. Yuva Morcha march Shortly afterwards, a long march taken out by Yuva Morcha in protest against the death of Vellarada native Anu S., who committed suicide two weeks ago citing unemployment, reached the Secretariat. O. Rajagopal, MLA, inaugurated the valedictory meet of the long march, and the activists soon trained their focus on their demand for Dr. Jaleel’s resignation. Nearly 15 activists, including Yuva Morcha State president C.R. Prabhul Krishna, were injured in the clash. Later, BJP workers led by district president V.V. Rajesh laid siege to MG Road for nearly an hour before concluding their agitation by 2 p.m. He announced that party State president K. Surendran will lead a mass demonstration in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday. Security lapse The Secretariat Annexe I witnessed a security lapse after six Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists barged into the premises while the security officials were taken by surprise.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One online admission option from tomorrow||Students in critical containment zones and those under surveillance for COVID-19 and unable to visit schools to seek Plus One admission before the last date will be given a chance to take admissions online in the candidate log-in from Thursday. They can upload scanned copies of certificates required for admission on the ‘Online joining’ link in the candidate log-in. Those who have the first option should express readiness for permanent admission and others for temporary or permanent admission. Principals of the schools allotted should verify the certificates online in the candidate log-in and give permission on its basis. The fee can then be paid through the link ‘fee payment’ and admission taken. Such students should submit the certificates and fee to the Principals at the earliest date they can make it to schools.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Unusual situation in State: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday that the unusual situation in the State following the widespread dissemination of COVID-19 was akin to what the world had been through during the Spanish Flu and that every individual in the State had a huge responsibility to prevent history from repeating itself. He said everyone had an individual as well as collective responsibility to ensure that they did not violate the COVID protocol, especially universal mask wearing and physical distancing, which alone could check disease transmission. However, even when disease transmission was going up, people continued to violate these safety precautions, Mr. Vijayan said. On Tuesday, there were 5,901 cases of violation of the mask rule, while cases had been registered against nine for violating quarantine norms.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. accelerating COVID spread: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday warned stringent action against protesters who break COVID-19 protocol and unleash violence on the street. The government, he said, would not impose any restrictions on the mass expression of political dissent. “Such a move would be unhealthy for democracy. But speedy prosecution would follow.” Opposition parties had potentially accelerated the spread of the pandemic by “uncaringly” driving their cadres to mass protests. Mask and physical distance compliance were non-existent at Congress and BJP rallies, he said. Violation of HC ban Such a “callous” action would roll back the public health gain from the State’s carefully calibrated COVID-19 prevention strategy. It was also in contravention of the High Court ban on large street assemblies and demonstrations, he added. The Chief Minister rejected reports that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had found that Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel had erred in accepting the Koran and food kits from the UAE consulate during Ramzan and would question him again. The UAE had handed the items to Dr. Jaleel as an expression of cultural goodwill. He had accepted the gifts in his capacity as Minister for Minority Welfare and Waqf. Dr. Jaleel has convinced the ED of his blamelessness, the Chief Minister said. ‘Grouse against Jaleel’ The BJP and the IUML had joined forces against Dr. Jaleel because he had crossed over to the LDF. “It is normal for the BJP to oppose the distribution of Koran. It is strange why the IUML has found acceptance of Koran a crime,” he said. The Congress and the BJP were spreading extreme lies against the government. The BJP had accused the Chief Minister and his family of corruption without any shred of evidence, Mr. Vijayan said. “BJP leaders dream up some conspiracy theory at night and pronounce it as a verifiable truth the next day. The LDF government has remained untainted by corruption,” he said.  Mr. Vijayan indicated that arrests might ensue in the cheating case involving Indian Union Muslim League legislator M. C. Kamaruddin soon.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1.55 lakh landless people get land: Minister||The government’s determination has led to 1.55 lakh landless people in the State getting land in the past four-and-a-half years, Minister for Revenue E. Chandrasekharan has said. He was inaugurating the district-level distribution of title deeds at the Collectorate conference hall here on Tuesday. The Minister said delay in identifying land was delaying the distribution of title deeds in some places.   The government, he said, had been able to hand over title deeds and possession certificates to the landless in all 14 districts. Distribution of land in the southern districts was lesser than that in the other districts owing to lack of ‘puramboke’ land. Land with government departments and local self-government institutions too was being acquired to give it to the landless. In the northern districts, revenue land was available in plenty, the Minister said. In the district, title deeds and other documents will be given to 500 people, bringing to an end a decades-long wait for them. As many as 2,004 landless had been given title deeds in the district since the present government came to power. Special powers  The government specifically intervened in cases caught up in legal and other tangles for years. Seventy-five people were living on puramboke land on the Manacaud bund for three-and-a half decades. The government used its special powers to ensure rightful land for people at Balaramapuram, Attipra, and Manambur villages, Minister for Devaswoms Kadakampally Surendran, who presided over the function, said. Ten people were distributed title deeds by Mr. Chandrasekharan.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Family of three found dead in Varkala||In a case of suspected suicide, three members of a family were found charred to death at their home near Varkala during the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Sreekumar, 60; his wife Mini, 55; and their daughter Ananthalakshmi, 26. The incident is suspected to have occurred at Vettoor by around 3.30 a.m. On hearing a big sound and noticing a fire breakout from the two-storeyed house, their neighbours alerted the Fire and Rescue Services. The charred bodies of the trio were found after the fire was doused. While the bodies of Mini and Ananthalakshmi were found in a bedroom on the ground floor, Sreekumar was found partially burnt in a bathroom. They were all confirmed dead at a hospital. According to the preliminary findings, Sreekumar is suspected to have killed his wife and daughter by dousing them in petrol and setting them ablaze while they were asleep. He later could have committed suicide, the police said.  Financial troubles Sreekumar was a contractor who undertook infrastructure projects commissioned by the Military Engineer Services. Ananthalakshmi is known to have been pursuing PhD in Aeronautical Engineering in Hyderabad. According to the police, the family that used to be financially well-off fell on difficult times. In a purported suicide note, Sreekumar accused a Thirumala-based sub-contractor of having cheated him. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 - 2552056).
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM kicks off work on damaged beach road||The reconstruction of the damaged road running parallel to the Shanghumughom beach and leading to the Thiruvanathapuram international airport’s domestic terminal, was kicked off by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconferencing on Tuesday. Swell waves and sea erosion over the last three monsoons had engulfed the beach and the road forcing the Public Works Department to come up with Phase I works that cost Rs. 4.29 crore. The roadwork has been awarded to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) .
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid sought for child||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights will seek financial assistance for a minor girl suspected to have been sexually exploited at Palathayi in Kannur. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar said a report seeking the assistance would be submitted to the government. An investigation will be held into the complaints of the girl and her family that the investigation officials did not believe them. Mr. Kumar said he had gone to the child’s house to record her statement ahead of conducting a sitting at the Thalassery. He said police officers informed him of contradictions in the child’s statement.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Snake handling now comes with norms||Becoming the first to institutionalise snake handling in the country, the Kerala Forest Department has framed guidelines for rescuing snakes and releasing them in uninhabited areas. The move to certify snake handlers comes amid allegations of unscientific approaches by snake catchers that tend to create stress to the animal and pose risk to their and others’ lives. Kerala has reported 334 deaths and 1,860 other cases of snakebites during the last three years, according to Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar.  Criminal activities There have also been allegations of snakes being supplied for criminal purposes. The murder of Kollam native Uthra after being bitten by a snake allegedly planted in her room by her husband had dominated headlines recently. The guidelines makes it mandatory for snake handlers, aged between 21 and 65 years, to seek certification. Various parameters including experience, age, health and track record will be considered during the selection process. Those short-listed will be required to undergo mandatory training on safe and scientific handling of snakes. While the certification will be valid for five years, the respective Assistant Conservators of Forest (ACF) (Social Forestry) can withdraw or cancel the same if the snake handler is found to be involved in any illegal or unethical practices. The protocol tasks certified snake handlers with responding to alerts of snake presence in human habitations, informing the caller of the immediate precautions to be adopted, and to intimate the ACF (Social Forestry) concerned of the activity.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel orders compensation||Compensation should be sought from the builders of an anganwadi at Udumpunthala in Thrikkarippur panchayat in Kasaragod, the Kerala State Child Rights Commission has said. Commission Chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar said children could not be taught or allowed to stay in the hazardous structure. The district child protection officer should submit a report in this regard. The building, constructed two years ago at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh under a district panchayat project, developed cracks on the wall. Commission member P.P. Shyamaladevi visited the site following reports in the media.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Junior doctors’ strike today||About 860 junior doctors in the State, who had been inducted as temporary medical officers for a period of three months by the government to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, are striking work on Wednesday in protest against the government delaying to issue orders regarding their salary norms. President of the Kerala Junior Doctors’ Association Ousam Hussein said that the junior doctors would boycott the outpatient clinics in all PHC/CHC/FHCs in the State on Wednesday.
16 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keltron to make ventilators||The State-owned Kerala State Electronic Development Corporation (Keltron) is foraying into the health sector by launching ventilators. Keltron has inked a pact with the Society for Bio Medical Technology (SBMT) for getting the technical know-how.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||On-grid solar plant at SCERT||Minister for Electricity M.M. Mani will on Wednesday inaugurate via videoconferencing an on-grid solar plant that has been set up at the office of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and its guest house as part of the council’s silver jubilee celebrations.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veterinary institute gets new facilities||Minister for Animal Husbandry K. Raju inaugurated a 20-kW solar plant, a butterfly park, and medicinal plant garden at the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals, Palode. The solar plant has been installed with the guidance of Anert (Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology)
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chandy releases book by Chennithala||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Tuesday released a compendium of “walkout” speeches delivered by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in the Assembly since 2016. Mr. Chandy inaugurated the publication by gifting the first copy to CPI leader and former Minister C. Divakaran.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Legal notice to Chennithala||P.K. Indira, wife of Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, has sent a lawyer’s notice to Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala to withdraw his baseless insinuations against her. Mr. Chennithala had suggested at a press conference that Ms. Indira had removed “something valuable” from her safe deposit locker at the District Cooperative Bank in Kannur.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for service||
16 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar plant synchronised with grid||The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur on Tuesday synchronised a 475 KW solar power generation unit with the State electricity grid on the occasion of Engineers’ Day. The solar generation unit was established with the subsidy provided by the Central Government and this would save Rs. 2 lakh per month in power bills for the varsity. While APSCHE chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy formally unveiled the busts of Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on the JNTU Anantapur Campus, remotely from Vijayawada, Vice-Chancellor S. Sreenivasa Kumar inaugurated a synthetic tennis court and synchronised the solar generation unit with the grid.
16 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prasanthi Nilayam to open on September 27||The Prasanthi Nilayam at Puttaparti in Anantapur district, housing the Samadhi of Sri Satya Sai Baba, will reopen on September 27 for devotees after being off-limits for several months due to the COVID--19 pandemic. A release issued by the Prasanthi Nilayam management said that all devotees were welcome to take part in the morning and evening Arati from that day, on the condition that they all conform to COVID-19 protocols strictly. However, for some more time, the Accommodation Office inside the Ashram will remain closed, the management said.
16 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Start work on Ambedkar statue in November: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asserted that the 125-feet tall Dr. B.R Ambedkar statue coming up at Swaraj Maidan (PWD) grounds, should be visible from all directions. During a review meeting with officials, the Chief Minister said that the visibility of the statue is of utmost importance and said that it should be seen from a distance in all directions. The ambience of the landscape to be developed at Swaraj Maidan should be pleasant, the Chief Minister said, and directed the officials to finalise the location for the statue and start the work from November 1 and complete it within 13 months. Convention Hall The Chief Minister said that a Convention Hall in the park would be useful to everyone. The Convention Centre and Food Court would help generate revenue and the income from these two would be used for the maintenance of the park, the Chief Minister said, adding that concrete structures should be reduced as much as possible at the park and a good walking track should be set up. The Chief Minister directed officials to relocate the Irrigation Department office and other government offices from the park before commencement of the works and added that the park’s connectivity to MG Road should be good. Representatives of various organisations presented various models of the statue, and presentations regarding the construction of the park at the review meeting. Ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, P. Vishwaroop, Adimulapu Suresh, Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Krishna Collector A.Md.Imtiaz and senior officials from Municipal, Irrigation, Finance and Social Welfare Departments attended the meeting.
16 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Special drive launched to increase green cover’||A special drive has been launched to enhance the green cover from the existing 23 to 33% and to achieve this end, 16.71 crore saplings have been planted so far, said Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Head of Forest Force N. Prateep Kumar. “In tune with the directions from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who himself holds environmental protection and wildlife conservation at the heart of his thought process, we have taken up an aggressive plantation programme across the State. The Forest Department has also enlisted the support of village/ward secretariat staff in increasing the green cover,” said Mr. Prateep Kumar. “We are also working towards bringing down the scale of sandalwood smuggling. We have so far booked 544 cases against the smugglers and arrested 1,199 of them and seized 252 metric tonnes of sandal wood from them,” said the PCCF. He further said that a sum of Rs. 29.58 crore has been spent on wildlife conservation activities. The Nagarjuna Sagar Srisailam Tiger Reserveand the Forest Department has been following the scientific methods to conserve tigers. Camera traps have been set up to monitor the movements of tigers, whose numbers have now risen to 68 during the last four years, the official said.
16 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committed to farmers’ welfare, says Minister||Minister for Irrigation P. Anil Kumar has asserted that the government is committed to farmers’ welfare and that Rs. 125 crore has been released towards procurement of 90,000 tonnes of paddy. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, the Minister said the government would support the farmers in all aspects and also take care of crop procurement. Stating that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had taken special interest in crop procurement, brought a market-intervention fund of Rs. 3,000 crore and established Rythu Bharosa Centres, he said the government also arranged 180 crop procurement centres in Nellore district to avoid losses for the farmers due to rains. He said the government would purchase every single grain, irrespective of the moisture percentage. Dig at Naidu The Minister criticised TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for making false accusations that the government had abandoned the farmers. “The opposition leaders have no moral right to speak on farmers’ issues. Mr. Naidu never thought about farmers during his five-year term and had left them in the lurch,” the Minister said. Mr. Naidu had diverted Rs. 4,000 crore funds meant for paddy procurement to the Pasupu-Kumkuma scheme ahead of the elections, the Minister alleged. Insider trading On the alleged insider trading in Amaravati lands, the Minister said the sub-committee, after looking into each and every aspect in detail, found that insider trading had taken place. The Minister dared Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh to prove their innocence by deposing before the CBI voluntarily.
16 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breaches cause damage to cotton and paddy crops||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said that 26 breaches to canals had been reported across the Yeleru Irrigation System (YIS) by Tuesday evening. The breaches were due to the discharge of more than 13,000 cusecs of flood water from the Yeleswaram reservoir, whose capacity was more than 24 tmcft. Mr. Kannababu inspected the paddy and cotton fields in the mandals of Gollaprolu, Pithapuram and Peddapuram, where thousands of acres of agricultural fields remained under a sheet of water. Enumeration under way “Cotton and paddy fields have been under a sheet of water due to the breaches to the canals under the YIS. The irrigation officials are plugging the minor breaches. Officials of the Agriculture and Revenue departments are enumerating the damage to release the compensation to the farmers,” the Minister said. Reviewing the situation with East Godavari district Collector D. Muralidhar Reedy and Irrigation officials, Mr. Kannababu said that the long-pending proposal for modernisation of the YIS would be discussed with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Minister said he had apprised Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar on the existing situation in the YIS. Mr. Kannababu said a few colonies in Pithapuram mandal were affected due to the breaches. The families affected were supplied essential commodities. The paddy fields at Bhogapuram, Vadlamuru and Raparthy were mostly damaged. The Yeleru Irrigation Division officials stated that a 50-metre breach to the Vaalu Kaluva in Kirlampudi mandal could be plugged after the waters receded. Mr. Kannababu directed them to initiate precautionary measures to avoid further breaches to the Yeleru canal, which originates at the Yeleswaram reservoir. Road link snapped A culvert collapsed partially on Tuesday at Appanapalem. Besides affecting vehicular movement on the culvert, road link got snapped as a result to three villages — Appanapalem, Maamidada and Narendrapatnam.
16 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to elect one as a national icon||The Papikonda National Park (PNP) in East Godavari district is home to the three butterfly species that have made it to the final list of seven species vying for selection as India’s National Butterfly. The three species, which were recorded during the survey conducted in December 2019, are Common Jezebel, Orange Oakleaf and Common Nawab. The remaining four in the final list are Krishna Peacock, Fivebar Sword Tail, Northern Jungle Queen and Yellow Gorgon. One among the seven will be declared as India’s National Butterfly by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change in 2021, according to an official page of the National Butterfly of India – Citizen poll, which is being conducted under the aegis of the National Butterfly Campaign Consortium, which comprises nature lovers, butterfly experts, scientists and researchers from across the country. Online poll The online poll to nominate the national butterfly began on September 11, and it will be closed on October 8. Citizens can cast their vote by visiting the form at: https://docs.google.com/ forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeVC9 Mue8sFCEzOs8ku3XM41I FV9XaCB8-zAZV1de8m B0-3_g/viewform “The presence of Orange Oakleaf (Kallima inachus) was recorded for the first time in the PNP during the maiden survey in December 2019. I photographed it in the Kintakuru - Kondamodalu area,” claims P. Balaji, one of the leading surveyors who took part in the 2019 survey led by C. Susantha Kumar and Abhiram Chandran (Warblers and Waders NGO, Kerala). The survey done in the PNP recorded 129 species, which included 11 that were sighted for the first time in the State. “We will join the campaign and ask our staff and nature lovers to participate in the poll for the nomination of the national butterfly,” a senior Forest Officer told The Hindu .
16 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple panel sets deadline for completion of new chariot||Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami Temple Chariot Committee chairman and Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik on Tuesday set the deadline of January 15 next for completion of the 41-feet new wooden chariot to facilitate the temple authorities to celebrate the annual kalyanotsav to be celebrated in February next. In their maiden meeting on the temple premises at Antarvedi, the committee members accepted the proposed quantity and quality of teak wood grown in the Bastar forest area in Chhattisgarh for making the chariot. The committee also accepted the price quoted by the Ravulapalem-based depot and fixed September 19 as an auspicious day to begin the work. Comprising, among others, Endowments Additional Commissioner K. Ramachandra Mohan and Regional Joint Commissioner (Endowments) D. Bramaramba , the committee considered the review of the Forest Department on the selected wood before handing it over to the Hyderabad-based sculptor.
16 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incessant rain: several tanks develop breaches||Several minor tanks in Kurnool district have developed breaches due to incessant rains which led to inundation of thousands of acres of standing crop and at least 25 villages in the Nandyal Revenue Division on Tuesday. While Bairrappa tank in Guvvalakunta village breached, backwaters of Srisailam Reservoir were creating flood situation as water coming from the Nallamalla hills catchment areas was not getting drained. Against a normal of 455 mm for southwest monsoon till date, the actual rainfall in Kurnool district was 664.6 mm (209.6 mm excess). District Collector G. Veerapandian along with Superintendent of police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, Nandyal Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari, Srisailam MLA Silpa Chakrapani Reddy, and Nandikotkur MLA Arthur Toguru visited the places of breaches in Sivapuram, Guvvalakunta and Banavari Vagu, and submerged colonies in Atmakur town and agriculture fields in Bandi Atmakur. People poured out their problems and the officials listened to them patiently and asked the villagers to be cautious during the rain as there was a forecast of further rains for the next couple of days. The District Collector asked the Joint Director Agriculture and Horticulture Department officials to enumerate the quantum of loss of crops and submit a report to him within the next two days. Road and Buildings, APSSPDCL, Rural Water Supply officials have been asked to check for the damages and repairs needed in the villages affected by the flooding. The Agriculture Department officials said that crops were raised in 5,85,167 hectares this kharif in the district against a normal of 6,22,921 hectares. Cause of flood Banavasi Vagu reservoir that is supposed to be in one-acre extent has been encroached leading to this kind of flood in the rainy season. Among the seven minor irrigation tanks that got breached are in Velugodu, Bandi Atmakuru, Atmakur mandal -- all tanks located on the toe of Nallamala hill range, according to Executive Engineer M.J. Rajasekhar. The minor irrigation tanks that breached and repairs in progress are Bairappa tank, Kanikala tank, Peerla tank in Sivapuram village, Vadlaramapuram tank, Chinna Pedda Mallamma tank, in Velugodu Ramasamudram MI tank, Kadamala Kalava in Bandi Atmakur (Prema Cheruvu). Another three tanks that got partially damaged (piping) are in Sirivella mandal - Gangavaram tank, Bandi Atmakur - Pothacheruvu, and A Koduru Anicut.
16 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam temple officials find antique silver coins||The Bhramarambha Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam officials on Tuesday stumbled upon 245 silver coins, one copper coin and three tamra patras (copper plates with inscriptions) while renovating the one of the five mutts — Ghanta Matham — in the vicinity of the Srisailam Temple. These coins are of the British Era minted between 1800 AD and 1910 AD, said temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao. Srisailam Temple Publications Editor Anil Kumar in a release said that as soon the valuable antique items were found, the local police and revenue officials were informed about the finding. Three tamra patras of 5”X9” size were found. While 97 coins were found separately in the wall, 148 coins were found in a brass tiffin box with lid at one place. A panchanama was conducted by the tahsildar Rajendra Singh and police Sub-Inspector K. Hariprasad.
16 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public should feel free to approach us: SP||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has underscored the need for attitudinal change in police personnel at the grassroots level while dealing with public. Organising an online workshop on the need for sensitisation of police personnel here on the orders of State Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang on Tuesday, he said good professional skills was needed to maintain law and order and win the public confidence. “We should make public feel free in approaching us,” he said. He praised the personnel at the grassroots level in tackling COVID-19 crisis even risking their lives. About 20% of personnel had contracted the disease while enforcing the lockdown, a percentage higher than even the medical professionals, he revealed. Making a mention of various technological tools in improving the functioning of police, he explained in detail how the personnel should behave to instil confidence in the public, who should only be afraid of breaking the law and not of the personnel. “Change is needed in the way we deal with public at large,” he said. “Prakasam police top the State in many aspects of policing. We will also top the scale in the humanitarian service to the public, particularly to the weaker sections,” the SP promised. Noted lawyer I.V Venkateshwar Reddy enlightened the police personnel on the ways to respond during different occasions. Pradesh Congress vice-president Sripathi Prakasam highlighted various issues concerning Dalits in the State.
16 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID toll nears 790 in Nellore, Prakasam||The COVID-19 death toll rose to 787 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, with 14 more patients succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. Ten more patients died of the pandemic in Prakasam district, taking the toll to 389. In Nellore district, the toll rose to 398 with four more deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Tuesday night. In a positive development, the recoveries outnumbered fresh admissions by over 500 in the last 24 hours. While 2,056 patients — 1,061 in Prakasam district and 995 in Nellore district — recovered from the virus, 1,499 persons contracted the disease in the two districts. The number of active cases came down to 5,973 in Nellore district with 520 more persons getting infected. Over 4,000 of them, mostly asymptomatic cases, are being treated from their homes. As many as 979 persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, while over 5,000 persons tested negative in Prakasam district where 3.51 lakh persons had been subjected to testing so far. Incidence was high among police personnel with over 700 of them testing positive. As many as 570 of the 1,362 patients undergoing treatment at COVID-19 hospitals were provided oxygen/ventilator support. Government General Hospital, Ongole, where over 1,000 patients are being treated now, has accounted for 261 deaths. Over 11,500 asymtomatic cases were treated at home.
16 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism sector’s losses pegged at Rs. 2,000 crore||The tourism sector in Andhra Pradesh has suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore this year due to the COVID-19 lockdown, Tours and Travels Association of Andhra (TTAA) State president K. Vijaya Mohan said on Tuesday. A TTAA delegation led by Konaseema chapter president Ravi Kumar Jayavarpu on Tuesday staged a protest in Rajamahendravaram city in East Godavari district, appealing to the State Government to come to the rescue of stakeholders in the tourism industry. The Konaseema chapter comprises around 70 travel agents operating from East and West Godavari districts. “The State Government needs to initiate measures to promote tourism in the State. At least one more year is required for the stakeholders to recover from the losses witnessed since early this year due to the lockdown. The prime stakeholders including travel agencies, hotels, resorts and tour operators have been badly affected due to the pandemic,” Mr. Ravi Kumar said. The TTAA members have appealed to the Central Government to offer a bailout package based on the GST paid by the respective travel agencies from Andhra Pradesh to revive their operations. At least 1,000 travel agencies are members of the TTAA and 30% of them come under the GST purview, given their scale of annual turnover (Rs. 40 lakh business per annum). The TTAA members offer various services including visa guidance for tourists arriving in Andhra Pradesh from different foreign countries and those visiting tourism destinations abroad. “Many agencies are on the verge of closing down their operations, leading to the loss of many employment opportunities in the tourism sector in the coming months,” Mr. Vijaya Kumar said.
16 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD extends VIP darshan to USSES, VVD ticket holders||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to extend the VIP darshan facility to the Udayasthamana Sarva Seva Endowment Scheme (USSES) and Vimsati Varshini Darshini (VVD) ticket holders who could not attend to their sevas at the Lord Venkateswara temple this year, owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Following appeals from devotees, the TTD decided to extend the facility with the protocol darshan on par with the donors of the SRIVANI Trust. According to the TTD officials, six persons will be allowed on each Udayasthamana seva ticket and the age of devotees should be between 10 and 65 years, in adherence with the COVID-19 protocols. Devotees can avail of the facility on any day of their choice by submitting details of their tickets at the Arjitham office at Tirumala a day in advance before 5 pm. Helpline For more details, devotees can dial the phone number 0877-2263589 or send mail to arjithamoffice@ gmail.com.
16 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reshuffle in TTD Vigilance and Security||TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CVSO) Gopinath Jetti on Tuesday effected a reshuffle of his department and issued orders transferring several personnel. Jamedars, OSWs, security guards, ex-servicemen and home guards working in various sectors were transferred between Tirumala and Tirupati. The reshuffle of the security personnel led to speculation that a similar move would be undertaken for official cadres too. Those who were posted in Tirumala for long years were reportedly taken by surprise at the sudden transfer. No recommendations were entertained, officials said.
16 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to present vastrams on September 23||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on behalf of the State government, will present silk ‘vastrams’ to the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara on September 23, on the auspicious occasion of Garuda Seva. “It has been decided to confine the Brahmotsavam celebrations to the inner precincts of the temple, with strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols. Hence, the presentation ceremony has been modified accordingly to suit the grand occasion,” TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal told the media on Tuesday. The TTD is gearing up for the conduct of Salakatla Brahmotsavams from September 19 to 27 and the Navaratri Brahmotsavams from October 16 to 24. All the rituals including the Vahana Sevas will be telecast live on the TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel (SVBC).
16 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three constables among five held for ‘robbery’||Three armed reserve (AR) constables and their two aides were arrested on Monday on charge of robbery on the highway. An SUV and cellphones valued at Rs. 2.15 lakh were recovered from them. The accused are B. Ravikumar, an AR constable in Tirupati; Shaik Siraj and O. Ramanjulu, both working with the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force in Kadapa. They, along with their aides T. Venkatapathy Raju and E. Naresh, were arrested by the Renigunta Rural Police near Kayampeta tank on the Tirupati-Pudi road on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of Renigunta Rural Police and Vadamalapeta rushed to the spot and nabbed the five when they were allegedly stopping the passing vehicles and collecting bribe. K. Chenchaiah Naidu from Siddavatam mandal in Kadapa district lodged a police complaint on August 7, alleging that the AR constables had robbed him off his cash and cellphone on national highway. In the complaint Chenchaiah Naidu said that he was retuning to Pichatur in a hired car after distributing invitation cards of his sister’s wedding when these policemen intercepted the vehicle. Charging him of smuggling ganja, the policemen allegedly beat him up and took away the car records, cash and cellphones. They also allegedly took away the hired car, after dumping him and the driver on the road near Vadamalapet. Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy formed a team which arrested the policemen and their aides on Monday.
16 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman kills twins, makes bid to end her life||A pair of twins aged ten months died after their mother allegedly drowned them with the intention of later ending her own life. The woman is now battling for life at hospital after her suicide bid failed. The woman, hailing from Ramireddygaripalle village of Pulicherla mandal, had given birth to the twins last year. She was reportedly estranged from her husband and was in a relationship with a man named Udaya Kumar. Depressed over their inability to make their relationship public, the duo decided to end their lives. They fed the twins pesticide and drowned them in a village tank, after which they too did the same. However, some villagers noticed them getting into the tank and pulled them out. The infants, however, had breathed their last by then. The woman and her boyfriend were rushed to hospital in Piler, where their condition is critical.
16 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YV takes up demonetised notes issue with Centre||Burdened with the demonetised notes deposited in the ‘Srivari hundi’, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has renewed its appeal to the Central government to permit it to deposit the notes with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), or any other bank stipulated by it. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who called on Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi on Tuesday, said that the TTD had received 1.8 lakh notes in the denomination of Rs. 1,000 and 6.34 lakh notes in the denomination of Rs. 500 in the form of offerings into the ‘hundi’. He said the TTD could not prevent the people from offering the demonetised notes as it involved their “religious sentiments.” Digital transactions Mr. Subba Reddy also said that the TTD had been writing to the Centre on the issue since 2017. Converting these notes would help the temple management take up socially relevant programmes in a big way, he explained the Union Minister. Similarly, he sought waiver of Goods and Services Tax (GST) to the tune of Rs. 23.78 crore levied on the TTD for employing personnel from the Special Protection Force (SPF) from April 1, 2014, to June 30, 2020, for enhancing the security at the temple.
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reimbursement of Polavaram bills pending since March’||The Union Jal Shakti Ministry seems to be sitting on the fence, as it hasn’t taken any decision on reimbursement of bills pertaining to the Polavaram irrigation project since March this year. According to information, the Union government has to release about Rs. 2,300 crore to the State government. Interestingly, the bills submitted by the State government have been approved by the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA), cleared by the Central Water Commission (CWC), and necessary recommendations made subsequently. The file has been pending with the Ministry since March despite the State Water Resources Department actively pursuing the matter. The State government had submitted 17,200 bills worth Rs. 7,537 crore during 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 to the PPA. Later, 163 bills (up to August 29, 2020, during 2020-21) worth Rs. 321 crore were submitted to the PPA. Total bills The total dues, which include Rs. 2,300 crore approved by the PPA, will be more than Rs. 4,000 crore, according to sources in the Water Resources Department. The remaining bills are in the pipeline, the sources say. The officials are clueless about when the Centre will release the funds. “We don’t know. It’s more than eight months since the recommendations have been sent. The Union Jal Shakti Ministry is yet to forward the bills to the Department of Expenditure, Union Ministry of Finance,” says a senior official on condition of anonymity. “Even if the Central government acts with lightening speed and the Jal Shakti Ministry approves the same, it will take not less than one month for receiving the reimbursement,” he says. As per the procedure, the file is sent to the Union Finance Ministry once it is cleared by the Jal Shakti Ministry. The Finance Ministry will then direct the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to pay the amount. The NABARD has to raise loans from the market to reimburse the amount to the State government. Need of the hour Release of funds is the need of the hour if the State government wants to succeed in completing the project by 2021/ 2022. The government has to meet expenditure towards land acquisition and Rehabilitation and Resettlement. It is estimated that the government requires Rs. 28,172 crore as per the revised Cost Committee report with 2017-18 price level, officials say. The Centre, which should construct the project as per the Reorganisation Act, had, on the request of the the TDP government, entrusted the task to the State. It had since then been releasing funds for the work executed, after obtaining clearance from the PPA.
16 September 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism, travel operators seek bailout package||Members of the Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh (TTAAP) on Tuesday staged a silent demonstration across the State to draw the attention of the government to their issues. The novel protests were staged in Vijayawada on the banks of the river Krishna, hotel Taj Residency, Guntur, foot of the Tirumala hills, Tirupati, at Visakhapatnam and at the Godavari Ghat in Rajamahendravaam. “Tourism and travel is the most neglected and one of the worst hit sectors by the pandemic which has forced people to shut down businesses creating mass unemployment,” said Tarun Kakani, president of the AP Adventure chapter of the association . There are close to 1,000 travel agents in the State. Revenue loss Citing a massive revenue loss of Rs. 2000 crore due to the pandemic, he said by this year-end the losses were expected to mount to Rs. 3,400 crore. The association urged the Centre and the State governments for a bailout package including new regulations granting IT exemption for spending on domestic tours upto Rs. 50,000 and waiver of airport terminal fee, discounted landing and parking fee for airlines to push inbound tourism.
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. needs to do more to contain coronavirus’||Coronavirus cases are touching new highs every day, and yet the governments at the Centre and in the State are not coming out with correct data pertaining to the pandemic, Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath said on Tuesday. Speaking at a roundtable organised by the Coronavirus Control Committee of the party on ‘Coronavirus Pandemic-People-Governments’, the Congress leader said that people should study the facts and question the governments on their failures.State secretary of the CPI(M) P. Madhu demanded that a ‘health emergency’ be declared in the State and urged the government to consider suggestions and views of all political parties in the fight against the pandemic. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna demanded that the government release a white paper on the list of hospitals where COVID-19 infected persons were treated under the State-sponsored Aarogyasri health scheme. He said that medical and health staff were unhappy over the way the government had been handling the pandemic. State general secretary of the Indian Medical Association Phanidhar said that the approach of the Centre and the State governments in handling the COVID-19 pandemic was flawed from the beginning. The unplanned lockdown did not serve any purpose and the State was not ready to accept that there was a ‘community spread’ of the virus, he alleged. Congress COVID-19 Committee chairman Gangadhar said that there was a wide gap between the government’s claims and the ground-level realities.
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smokers at higher risk of heart diseases, warn experts||With increasing incidence of heart ailments, doctors and experts say that it is high time smokers quit the habit as they face two-to-four fold higher risk of heart disease compared to non-smokers. In connection with the World Heart Day on September 29, city-based cardiologist Ashok Kumar Bitra said that the harm of smoking goes beyond the lungs, and heart suffers the most. “Whether one smokes occasionally or consumes one pack a day, quitting gives immediate health benefits. Even extremely light smoking like one cigarette a day can increase a person’s risk of heart attack. Quitting smoking can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) by 39% within five years even in the case of heavy smokers,” he said.  ‘Vulnerable to COVID’ The mortality rates of COVID-19 are higher among patients with heart disease and other comorbidities which are directly related to smoking. This indicates that smoking cessation should be taken as an immediate action by current smokers to keep themselves heart strong,Giribabu Patchava, diabetologist at Sri Hanvitha Hospital in Guntur, said.
16 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Profile communal offenders, DGP tells policemen||In order to check violence at religious places, Director General of Police(DGP) D. Goutam Sawang on Tuesday directed the Station House Officers (SHOs), Deputy-Superintendents of Police (DSPs) to keep a tab on communal rowdy sheeters and prepare a profile of such offenders in each district. He said geo-tagging of the temples should be given the top priority, and that the Superintendents of Police (SPs) should engage with temple management and community elders and maintain watch-in-ward system at places of worship.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Travel industry hit hard by pandemic, says association||Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh president K. Vijay Mohan on Tuesday appealed to the government and people to support the travel industry as it contributes 10% of the GDP and also urged them to stay away from online travel portals that are supported by the Chinese companies. The members of the association organised a protest at key travel locations across the State on Tuesday. According to him, travel industry is the most neglected and it has been largely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that there is no support from the government or the public and the industry is staring at bankruptcy, closure of businesses and mass unemployment. Capital of travel agents has been wiped out, income and wealth have been eroded, agents are closing down their business, have sacked their employees and the morale of the travel agents has hit the lowest ebb, he said. The pandemic has sounded the death knell for the industry and we have never seen a meltdown of this magnitude in the past, said Mr. Vijay Mohan. Whereas rest of India actually shut down by end of March, business for travel agents shut in January, as the news of the virus started picking up from December, said association secretary Kumar. Association vice-president Dheeraj said that government should intervene to save the industry by promoting domestic tourism in a big way.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local libraries innovate to serve public safely||Struggling with dwindling revenues and lesser subscriptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, libraries in the city are forced to innovate to serve the public safely. Earlier in March, the pandemic forced libraries to close during the lockdown. With curtailed opening hours - some still not opened to public yet - the most significant impact of this has been the loss of a community centre for people who rely on libraries for training for competitive examinations and interactive social programmes. Despite everything gloomy about it, the pandemic has presented a crisis-driven opportunity for libraries to push their online capabilities farther than ever before. BookMagic Library is now curating customised reading lists (according to age groups) and offering home delivery within a 15 kilometre radius in the city. It is open from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. currently. However, the walk-ins are nothing compared to pre-pandemic times, says Hari Madala of the library. “It is the voracious readers who are coming in periodically now,” he adds. More than the walk-ins at the library, Hari says, the home delivery orders that he sends out every Sunday have picked up really well. “We are doing 40 deliveries every Sunday now as against four or five in April when we started off. We have also seen an additional 50 members signing up during the pandemic months,” he adds. The library has a digital catalogue of 8,000 books. In order to encourage more readers, Hari has created a reading challenge for his members. Every book is kept under a week’s quarantine once it is returned and is up in the digital catalogue after that. Online database The Visakhapatnam Public Library may not have opened its doors to the public yet, but it has been utilising the time for “book processing”. “We are in the process of creating an online database of our 55,000 books - some rare collections - and numbering them. The objective is to minimise manual work,” says D.S. Varma, secretary of the library. Reviewing of books, removing and revisiting of unused books are some of the measures being undertaken. The second floor of the library that is currently under renovation is almost completed. Once ready, this will have a capacity to hold 30,000 additional inventory of books. “Installation of door access systems is also under way,” adds Varma. The pandemic has also forced some of the smaller libraries like BookMark to shelve some of their plans lined up for the year. “We had planned to launch a mobile library in March this year that would have catered for the readers in the localities like Yendada, which currently lack a reading space. However, now we had to hold back that plan,” says Rashmie Soni of the library which is open from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. on week days now. It is currently offering home delivery service for the differently-abled members.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval espionage case: another key accused held in Godhra||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested another key accused in the Visakhapatnam naval espionage case, in Godhra, Gujarat. The arrested was identified as Giteli Imran (37), a resident of Panchmahal in Godhra. He was booked under Sections such as 120B & 121A of the IPC, 17 & 18 of the UA (P) Act, and 3 of the Official Secrets Act for his involvement in espionage activities and working for the Pakistan-based ISI. The case pertained to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies had recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding the locations and movements of Indian Navy Ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. Investigation revealed that a few Navy personnel had come in contact with the Pakistani agents through the social media platforms, and shared classified information in lieu of money deposited into their bank accounts through the Indian associates of the ISI who had business interests in Pakistan. Investigation further revealed that the accused Giteli Imran was associated with the Pakistani spies / agents in the guise of cross-border cloth trade. As per the directions of the Pakistan-based spies, he had allegedly deposited money into the bank accounts of Indian Navy personnel at regular intervals in lieu of sensitive and classified data provided by them. Documents seized Some digital devices and incriminating documents had been seized in the search conducted at the house of Giteli at Godhra. The NIA has so far arrested and filed charge-sheet against 14 persons, who included 11 sailors of Indian Navy, a few of whom were based in the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam. The sailors were reportedly lured into the spy ring through honey trap via social media.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists’ dependence on mines increases in AOB region||Maoists appear to have changed their strategy in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region. Of late, it is noticed that the banned outfit has been focussing more on landmines, both for attacking the security forces and adopting them as a deterrent against the aggressive combing operations. This is evident from the recent blast and unearthing of two claymore mines in the Visakha Agency. Landmines have always been the Maoists’ mainstay against the security forces, but now it appears that they have increased their dependence on them, said the Visakhapatnam Rural SP B. Krishna Rao. Maoists have been using both indigenously made pressure mines and claymore mines, which can be remotely operated. The landmine culture in the Visakha Agency began with the blasting of a police jeep in Lothugedda in Chintapalli mandal, in which seven policemen were killed on August 8, 1997. Since then, there were many blasts. Instead of engaging their cadres, they are using militia members, who can pass off as villagers the villagers easily , for planting and detonating the mines, said Mr. Rao. LTTE connection Back in mid-1990s, the Maoists, then known as Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) People’s War or People’s War Group (PWG), learnt the use of landmines from then Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Now, they can make an IED or landmine using a simple iron bucket or metal tiffin box. The main factories of the Maoists are based in Chhattisgarh, and the mines and IEDs are smuggled into the AOB region. They maintain dumps in the AOB , the official said. On August 2, two tribals from Chintalaveedhi in Pedabayalu mandal were killed when they accidentally stepped on a landmine planted by Maoists, targeting the security forces, during the Martyrs’ Week. Recently, the police unearthed two claymore mines at Pedapadu in GK Veedhi, which were later defused.  Claymore mines Claymore mines are said to be more effective, as they are planted and detonated over the ground horizontally. The range of claymore is more, as the ball bearings and nails fly horizontally, cutting through metal and flesh. Claymore mines were used in the blast targeting former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu in Alipiri in October 2003, the police officials said.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Empathise with victims, police officials told||A webinar was organised by the district police, on Tuesday to create awareness among police officers on the need to deal with complainants and accused in a responsible manner and to ensure justice to the common people. Deputy Inspector General (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao participated in the webinar from the District Police Office in the city while the police officers of all police stations in the district watched the programme online at their respective places. Mr. Ranga Rao and Mr. Krishna Rao told their men how petty mistakes during the conduct of inquiry in SC/ST cases was hampering the investigation process. The police offices should have empathy towards the victims in dowry harassment cases, rape victims and weaker sections in the same way as they would treat their own family members. The DIG advised the police officers not to indulge in corrupt practices and to behave in a friendly manner with the public.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more persons succumb to coronavirus||The district recorded 474 COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday taking the total to 45,424. Also five more deaths occurred during the last 24 hours, taking the total count, since the break of the pandemic to 337. 520 discharged The discharges during the last 24 hours from various COVID hospitals, COVID Care Centres and those who were on home isolation were 520, taking the total discharges to 39,829. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district stands at 5,258. As per district COVID Special Officer and principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the very active clusters in the district, as on Tuesday, are 80, active clusters 88, dormant 559 and denotified are 192.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on health of rivers||A webinar was organised on Monday by Jal Biradari for Jana Sena Party on the issues pertaining to the health of rivers under the title ‘Mana Nudi Mana Nadi’ with ecologists. The webinar was organised by Jana Sena Party General Secretary and environmentalist Bolisetty Satyanarayana on behalf of Jal Biradari Several prominent persons took part in the webinar.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient ‘ends life’ in hospital||A 61-year-old person from Srikakulam, undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam, reportedly ended his life on Tuesday in the hospital room. He was found hanging from ceiling fan by the hospital staff and the police were informed. The reason for him taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) stages protest against power sector reforms||A dharna was staged by the CPI(M) at the APEPDCL Office at Seethammadhara here on Tuesday in protest against the power sector reforms initiated by the Centre and the failure of the State government to oppose them, though the reforms are reportedly detrimental to the interests of people.
16 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visvesvaraya’s services recalled||A national webinar on ‘Civil Engineering and Construction Challenges in Present Scenario’ was organised on the occasion of 53rd Engineer’s Day by the Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, Visakhapatnam, in association with National Institute of Disaster Management, New Delhi. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy spoke about the dedication of Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya. .N.V. Satyanarayana Reddy, of A.U. College of Engineering, and Amir Ali Khan of NIDM, and M. R. Madhav, visiting professor, IIT & JNTU, spoke.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||First flood warning issued at Prakasam Barrage||The first flood warning has been issued at the Prakasam Barrage across Krishna river as the flood discharge has increased by over a lakh cusecs in a few hours since Tuesday morning. As of 8 p.m., the river was still in spate with an inflow of 4.16 lakh cusecs and outflow of 4.16 lakh cusecs. As of Tuesday afternoon, the flood discharge crossed the 3.96 lakh cusecs mark at which the first flood warning was issued. As of 3 p.m., a total of 4.1 lakh cusecs of floodwater was being discharged and the inflow from catchment area and Pulichintala Project was at 4.16 lakh cusecs. The water level is at full reservoir level (FRL) of 57.05 feet and currently holds 3.07 tmcft. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz alerted officials concerned in the low lying villages and mandals alongside the Krishna River course. Several houses had already been under water since days and hundreds of families in Krishnalanka have been moved to flood relief centres. The second flood warning would be issued when the outflow crosses 5.66 lakh cusecs.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam performed at Tirumala||The Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam was performed at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on Tuesday as a prelude to the Salakatla annual Brahmotsavams, scheduled to begin from September 19. As part of the rituals, all the idols were temporarily removed from the sanctum sanctorum while the presiding deity was provided with a water-proof covering. The priests cleaned the sanctum sanctorum including the floors, ceilings and walls. A paste of vermilion, sandal wood powder, turmeric, refined camphor and herbal ingredients that acts as disinfectant were applied to all the walls, pillars and ceiling of the main sanctum as well as at other sub-shrines inside the temple complex and cleaned with water. Among others who took part in the rituals include TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, Deputy EO (temple) Harindranath and SVBC CEO Suresh. The darshan that was suspended in the morning resumed after the rituals.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training ground||
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nature’s magic||
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In his own world||
16 September 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rains help spillway discharge of flood from mid and lower Manair dams||Heavy rains in the local and upstream catchment areas of the Godavari in Telangana and Maharashtra, respectively, are helping heavy inflows into Sriramsagar, Mid Manair and Lower Manair dams with spillway discharge commencing in the latter two projects for the first time this season on Tuesday. According to the flood monitoring officials, the discharge of flood from the spillway of Sriramsagar project (SRSP) was about 50,000 cusecs from 16 crest gates lifted for two feet height each against the inflows of nearly 74,500 cusecs. The met department has forecast more rains in the catchment areas of Godavari over the next three days and based on it the Central Water Commission (CWC) has indicated more flood to these dams. Along with discharge of flood from the spillway of SRSP over 20,000 cusecs of water was also being released to different canal systems – Kakatiya, Lakshmi, Saraswati – including nearly 10,400 cusecs to flood flow canal to supplement water to Mid Manair Reservoir (MMR) and other minor irrigation tanks linked to it. The discharge of flood at Lower Manair Dam (LMD) was started on Tuesday evening with the release of about 40,000 cusecs from the spillway. The LMD was getting over 42,300 cusecs including 27,000 cusecs from the river and 14,000 cusecs from MMR. The authorities of water resources department are maintaining water storage in SRSP, MMR and LMD near full reservoir level. According to rainfall data of the Lower Godavari Division of CWC, heavy rain was recorded in Jagtial (13 cm), Pegadapalle and Dummugudem (12 cm each), Kohir, Yellareddy, Bhiknur and Aswaraopet (9 cm each), Reddipet, Tedapalle and Nandipet (8 cm each) – all in Telangana – Santhpur (12 cm) and Humnabad (10 cm) in Karnataka and Saigaon (8 cm) in Maharashtra during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. As a result, Singur (1,000 cusecs) and Nizamsagar (1,240 cusecs) were also getting some inflows, although water level in the two projects is hardly 10% and 15% of their capacity of 29.91 tmcft and 17.8 tmcft, respectively. In Krishna Basin An advisory of the CWC stated that heavy rainfall warning issued for Madhya Maharashtra was expected to bring heavy flood to Veer and Ujjani Dams in Maharashtra and as all reservoirs in the Upper Krishna Basin are full the excess flood in Bhima, one of the main tributaries of Krishna, is likely to reach Krishna above Jurala project in Telangana. The CWC has also advised the dam authorities in Maharashtra to go for pre-depletion in order to avoid flooding both in the upstream and downstream areas. Spillway discharge of flood at Almatti, Narayanpur, Jurala, Tungabhadra, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala projects is also continuing with the help of good inflows.
16 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Non-tribals’ appointment to govt. hospital questioned||The Bhadrachalam Adivasi Samithi (BAS) pressed for a detailed inquiry into the alleged irregularities in the appointment of contract and outsourcing staff at the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam and submitted a memorandum to ITDA, Bhadrachalam. In a statement, BAS general secretary Payam Ravi Varma alleged that several non-tribals were appointed as contract and outsourcing employees in the laboratory and operation theatres among other wings of the State-run hospital a couple of weeks ago. “This has deprived several qualified local Adivasi unemployed youths of job opportunities in this hour of coronavirus crisis. We are contemplating filing a RTI application to obtain further information about the entire process of recruitment,” he said.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID bulletin finally brought up to date||Certain figures in the Telangana media bulletin, which had strangely remained constant for more than two weeks, finally appear to have been updated. However, the data of people who died of COVID-19 and due to co-morbidities remains unchanged since one-and-a-half months. The percentage of primary and secondary contacts tested daily, and percentage of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients of the total cases in the State were mentioned in the media bulletins issued from August 30. However, the percentages did not change for 16 days (August 29 to September 13). The observation about the unaltered data was reported in these columns on September 6. In the bulletin, details on the number of samples being put to test, and the number of primary and secondary contacts undergoing testing per day are mentioned. The number of tests in a day changed every day, but on all the 16 days, the number of primary contacts and secondary contacts tested in a day remained at 45% and 14%, respectively. On September 14, the bulletin showed that of the total 51,247 samples put to test, 44% were collected from primary contacts, and 12% from secondary contacts, thereby marking a marginal change. Another table listing out the total number of asymptomatic and symptomatic persons stayed at 69% and 31% on all days between August 29 and September 13. On Tuesday, a slight change in this was observed — asymptomatic persons accounted for 70% of cases while the remaining 30% were listed as symptomatic. Fatality figures While those two details changed, percentages of people who died of COVID-19 and due to co-morbidities have not changed since July 27. This, despite constant change in the number of COVID-19 deaths. The percentages of deaths due to COVID stands at 46.13% and due to co-morbidities at 53.87%. This piece of information is included in the bulletin from July 28 (based on data from July 27), when the total deaths in the State was 480 which increased to 984 on September 14. However, these two figures have remained unchanged since July 27.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2BHK beneficiaries yet to be identified||Delivery of dwelling units under the double bedroom housing programme for the poor, also termed dignity housing, might be delayed further owing to the Revenue reforms undertaken by the government. Few other programmes have experienced as many deadline extensions for delivery. The latest deadline of December too, by when Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K. T. Rama Rao promised release of 85,000 homes, may have to be skipped, say officials. The list of beneficiaries, sought by the Central government for release of its share of funds, is yet to be submitted, sources said. Of the 85,000 promised dwellings, 75,000 are from the freshly constructed double bedroom units, while 10,000 are from the units constructed under the JNNURM scheme eight to 10 years ago. As per the details submitted by GHMC to the Centre, the works for a lakh homes under dignity housing have been taken up at 111 locations in the city. Of these, 8,898 homes in 40 locations are being constructed in situ, in place of slums where the residents had surrendered their previously existing homes for the sake of double bedroom dwellings. Of the one lakh, 22,572 units have so far been completed at 22 locations — 1,592 constructed in situ at seven locations and 20,980 on vacant government lands at 15 locations. So far, only 632 dwellings units have been delivered to beneficiaries at five locations, all constructed in situ. The locations include Singam Cheruvu Thanda in Nacharam, Chittaramma Nagar in Balanagar, Bood Alisha Khidki in Azampura, Yerukala Nancharamma Nagar in Mansurabad and Syed Saab ka Bada. While 21,940 units in 17 locations are completed in all respects, and ready for distribution, over 52,000 units are set to be finished phase-wise in three months. The government is sourcing part of the funds for the dignity housing programme from the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY), which works out to Rs. 1.5 lakh per unit. As per the PMAY guidelines, beneficiaries should be identified beforehand and allowed to monitor the construction right since the foundation. However, for the 2BHK housing project, beneficiaries have not yet been identified except in case of in situ housing. It is learnt that the government has recently issued instructions to the District Collectors to start the process of identifying beneficiaries constituency-wise. The number of beneficiaries per constituency has been fixed at 4,000. “Beneficiaries will be selected from online applications already received. We are not sure how long it will take for the identification process to be completed, especially with the present shake up in the Revenue department,” said an official under the condition of anonymity. As per the Intensive Household Survey data, on which the State government is basing all its schemes, 6.1 lakh families in the city are eligible for benefits under the affordable housing programme.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||APPLE on a bullock cart and other stories||One of the popular archival images from ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) is that of APPLE (Ariane Passenger PayLoad Experiment) communication satellite being carried on a bullock cart for telemetry test in 1981. The humble bullock cart was chosen since the scientists wanted a non-magnetic environment. More such nuggets from history form a part of the ongoing virtual exhibition ‘India and France in Space; ISRO & CNES: A Common History’, curated by Hyderabad-based astronomer Pranav Sharma for the Centre National d’Études Spatiales (CNES). It was meant to be a travelling exhibition, touring different cities in India and France. Given the COVID-19 pandemic, it will now be online (ciihive.in). The exhibition is organised by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in partnership with France. Following an inaugural address by Jean-Yves Le Gall, president of CNES, on September 15, the exhibition went online and will be on view till October 10. One has to register on ciihive.in, and sign in to take a virtual tour of the pavilions to get a glimpse of the history of collaboration between India and France in space research from 1962 to the late 1970s. The CNES and ISRO partnership began with the meeting of Jacques Blamont, founder of the French Space Agency and Vikram Sarabhai, the father of Indian Space Program, during the Fifth General Assembly of Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) in Washington, DC in 1962. “The idea of the exhibition was to highlight the humane side of science projects,” says curator Sharma. He calls the mounting of APPLE on a bullock cart an example of Indian ‘ jugaad ’: “It’s the height of innovation and yet so simple.” Sharma is a national award-winning science communicator who has curated India’s first interdisciplinary Space Museum in Hyderabad, and believes that the history of science is as important as the science itself. Sharma says the virtual exhibition will have 25 panels that present anthropological, cultural, scientific and human stories from the beginning of Indian and French space programs, thus encapsulating the history of friendship, personal memoirs, and tales of triumphs. To highlight why understanding the history of science is important, Sharma cites another example of how professor M S Swaminathan and the early scientists of independent India came together to use satellite imagery to study crops and spot pests. “This exhibition will offer people a sample of how space scientists from India and France worked together with sociologists and agriculture scientists,” he says. Among the other highlights are how the CNES supported the sounding rocket programme of ISRO during its nascent stage. Indian Space Program was launched with the taking off of the ‘Nike Apache’ rocket in 1963. The VIKRAM engine was developed by India by learning from liquid propulsion technology developed by CNES and shared with India after the Societe Europeenne de Propulsion (SEP) – ISRO Agreement signed in 1974.  (‘India and France in Space; ISRO & CNES: A Common History’ is on view at ciihive.in)
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Boost to student innovators, early growth-stage startups||Technology startup incubator T-Hub and Hiroshima Prefectural government have entered a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to collaborate in the areas of innovation and entrepreneurship. The MoU will bring together culture and ideas from both the innovation ecosystems to transform customer experience and foster digital transformation. As the first step, T-Hub will lead a virtual innovation programme called Road To Shine (R2S) in partnership with Indo-Japanese business development and consultancy firm Infobridge India. According to a release, T-Hub has begun calling for applications from student innovators and early growth-stage startups, with a background in computer science and related engineering fields. The main applicant can participate individually or as a team, where he/she can recruit up to two other members, not necessarily from a technical background. All members must be based in Telangana and under the age of 30 years to participate in the programme. The main applicant should be available for all online workshops and events. Call for applicants will close on October 17. CEO of T-Hub Ravi Narayan said “with R2S, we are looking at prospective technological innovations with the potential to address future challenges of society and deliver social impact.” High-potential innovators and startups will be selected based on the quality of technology solutions, ability to expand on self-reflection to bring social and societal perspectives, demonstration of in-depth analysis, product/solution readiness and growth potential. The shortlisted participants will present their innovative ideas/solutions to the Hiroshima Prefectural government.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CREDAI welcomes TS-bPASS Bill||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI)-Hyderabad has hailed the TS Legislative Assembly passing the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS) Bill, ending decades of woes of denizens seeking building permissions in urban areas. CREDAI-Hyd had played a pivotal role in the formulation of the policy with thorough evaluations and inputs from all stakeholders for a smooth implementation of TS-bPASS. This bill ushers in revolutionary reforms enabling citizens to commence their building construction through self-certification, said president P. Rama Krishna Rao, vice-president V. Rajashekar Reddy and the entire leadership team along with the managing committee members on Tuesday. ‘Salient features’ Highlighting the salient features of the bill, they said that it brought in a single integrated online platform for all approvals, time-bound approvals within 21 days, single application form for NOC across all departments, efficient processing of land use/conversion certificates etc. Citizens can obtain instant permission for constructions to an extent of 75 sq. yards to 600 sq. yards through self-certification under TS-bPASS and commence their construction work but must register with the municipal body concerned. Mr. Rao said in case of shortfall of any documents, the same would be intimated to the applicant within 10 days and if permissions are denied within the stipulated 21 days, it is deemed to have been approved. An automated certificate will be issued with signatures of relevant authorities to enable them obtain bank loans or other financial assistance. Occupancy certificates too will be issued within 15 days. "It is a landmark reform and the first of it’s kind in the country. We had convinced the Government to allow us to appoint consulting agency E&Y to study the best practices across the country to frame the policy. After a thorough study over a period of six months, we have submitted the recommendations to the Government which helped to pave the way for the approval of this policy," explained the president. “We are delighted with TS government measures to help the real estate sector in the last few months including making registration and mutation of agricultural and non-agricultural properties easier. These reforms will see a massive surge in activity and will drive the growth and employment generation,” said Mr. Reddy. The association also requested the Government to curb sale of illegal plots and layouts and promote RERA approved projects.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LHB parcel vans introduced||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced introduction of new high-capacity Linke Hoffman Busch (LHB) parcel vans with advanced features in the weekly parcel train running between Kacheguda and Guwahati. LHB coaches with Head on Generation (HOG) technology, already inducted in passenger trains, were yielding successful results and hence, it was decided to manufacture LHB vans with similar technology to transport parcels. The parcel vans have been designed and manufactured by Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, and are certified to run at the speed of 130 kmph by RDSO, Lucknow. These parcel vans will have a carrying capacity of 24 tonnes and are provided with 32 foldable two-tier racks for wide goods and small parcels, said an official spokesman on Tuesday. The coaches have three collapsible partitions and four sliding doors with the coach having stainless-steel interior panelling and fitted with 140 KN air suspension. There are interior sunken LED lights, axle mounted disc brakes with wheel slide protection system, anti-climbing feature for better safety. Two RFID tags are on the parcel car body for easy location tracking. General Manager Gajanan Mallya said this type of parcel vans were essential for transportation of parcels, especially over long distances, which also gives additional revenue, the press release added.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police seize Rs. 3.75 cr.||The West Zone Task Force on Tuesday apprehended four persons and seized over Rs. 3.75 crore from them. The gang was travelling with the cash without documents. The accused are Eshwar Dileepji Solanki (29), Harish Ram Bhai Patel (35), both car drivers, Ajith Singh R Dodiya (34) and Rathod Kanak Singh Natubha (42), both office boys. All are from Banjara Hills. Acting on information, police intercepted two cars in which they were allegedly travelling with the cash. When questioned, they allegedly stated that they were employed by P Vijay and Company, headquartered in Mumbai. The owner of this company, police said, is Kamlesh Shah, a native of Ahmedabad. Police said the company has an office in in the city which was managed by Dinesh and Giri. Ajit, Rathod and a woman identified as Thakor Soalben (23) are working with Dinesh and Giri. Eshwar and Harish had come to Hyderabad on Monday to collect the cash from Dinesh and Giri. The amount was handed over to the IT department.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Srisailam fire mishap probe report awaited’||Energy Minister G. Jagdishwar Reddy has said that the government was awaiting reports of the CID probe and the departmental inquiry launched to ascertain the reasons behind the fire mishap in the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station. The CID had been asked to study and examine the issue in-depth while a departmental inquiry had been ordered with a five-member team of officials. Though a 15-day deadline was set for the departmental inquiry, the report was delayed because three of the five members were affected by COVID-19. “The reasons for the accident will be known only after the submission of the reports,” the Minister told the Legislative Assembly. He was participating in the short discussion on achievements of power sector after the formation of Telangana in the Assembly on Tuesday. He recalled how the State from a deficit of 2,700 MW had more than doubled its installed capacity and was on its way to become power surplus State in the coming years.  Projects in pipeline Several projects, including 4,000 MW Yadadri Ultra Thermal Power Plant, 810 MW from three units of Bhadradri, 4,000 MW NTPC Ramagundam, were in the pipeline and they would take the contracted capacity of the State to 27,603 MW making the State power surplus. The State was ahead of others in terms of per capita consumption growth, power transformation capacity and availability of transmission system. Congress member Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka however criticized the ruling party claiming that it was trying to appropriate the credit of works launched during the previous governments. Works on all major power projects were taken up by the previous governments and the Yadadri project started under the TRS regime was yet to be commissioned while the Bhadradri plant was taken up with outdated technology. Mr. Vikramarka extended the Congress’ support to the resolution moved by the government against the Central government’s new Electricity Act and said the party was firm on protecting the federal fabric of the country. On the Srisailam incident, he suggested that a high level panel of experts should be constituted to identify the lapses and make recommendations to ensure that such incidents did not recur. He wanted the government to consider constituting a House Committee of the legislature to study the issue and make recommendations after eliciting the views of experts.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Bangaru Coolie’ of TRS issue pending with EC, Revanth told||Union Minister of State for Finance, Anurag Thakur, said the ‘Bangaru Coolie’ issue related to TRS leaders collecting funds from public was pending with the Election Commission, which has now asked the complainant A. Revanth Reddy to approach the police and the Income Tax department. In a written answer to a question raised by the Congress MP, he said the issue was initially referred to the Election Commission by the Delhi High Court. The HC directed the issue to the Election Commission based on the petition from Mr. Revanth Reddy, then an MLA from the TDP. Mr. Reddy had sought action against the TRS for raising funds from people terming it as ‘Bangaru Coolie’ where State Ministers and MLAs were donated, sometimes in lakhs, for ordinary work like selling juice, ice creams or saris to raise funds for the party plenary. In his question, Mr. Reddy wanted to know whether Finance Ministry has received complaints against political parties related to the collection of party funds in the last five years, details of action taken against those complaints.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Legislature resolution against power bill hailed||The Telangana State Power Engineers’ Association, a body of engineers from the cadre of Assistant Engineer to Chief Engineer working in all four power utilities of Telangana, have welcomed the resolution passed by the State Legislature on Tuesday against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. In a statement, president of the association P. Rathnakar Rao and secretary general P. Sadanandam thanked the initiative taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and appreciated them for rightly pointing out the ill effects of the Bill. They reiterated that the bill was a danger to the spirit of federal structure and rights of State governments, burdening consumers, particularly farmers and domestic consumers, with higher tariff, loss of employment due to privatisation of the distribution companies (Discoms) as pointed out by the Chief Minister and Energy Minister in Telangana Assembly and Council, respectively.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lifer for rape accused||A 21-year-old man was awarded imprisonment till death for the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl. Judge Nandikota Narsinga Rao of the I ADJ Court at L B Nagar heard the case and awarded the accused, identified as Rajesh Kumar, a labourer and resident of Alwal, the punishment. Rajesh was also fined Rs. 5,000. On March 21, 2019, the victim, then studying in LKG, had left the house around 3 p.m. to play and had not returned. Police then got into action following a complaint and began a search. In the meanwhile, another person found the victim’s body and informed the police. The investigation led the police to Rajesh who had raped and murdered her.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,058 more test positive||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed 1.60 lakh on Monday. With 2,058 people testing positive for coronavirus on Monday, the total has gone up to 1,60,571. A total of 51,247 tests were conducted and results of 908 are awaited. The death toll went up to 984 with 10 more fatalities on Monday. The new 2,058 cases include 277 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 143 from Rangareddy, 135 from Karimnagar, 108 from Warangal Urban, 106 from Siddipet, 103 from Khammam, 97 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 96 from Nalgonda. Of the total cases registered so far, 30,400 are active cases while 1,29,187 have recovered. The recovery rate in the State is 80.45%, and case fatality rate is 0.61%, as per the media bulletin issued by the State Health department. In the 42 government hospitals, 3,578 oxygen beds and 557 ICU beds were vacant on Monday. In case of the 204 private hospitals, 2,722 oxygen beds and1280 ICU beds were available.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC nod to offline exams of UG, PG courses||Telangana High Court on Tuesday declined to pass any orders over State government’s decision to conduct offline final semester/year exams of under-graduate and post-graduate courses in colleges affiliated to universities in the State. This would enable universities and colleges to conduct final semester/year exams of UG and PG courses physically. The HC, however, said the guidelines pertaining to COVID-19 have to be complied with completely while conducting exams. The HC said the government had to follow the assurance given to the court that it would conduct advanced supplementary exams if anyone fails to appear for the offline exams. Such candidates should be treated as regular candidates as stated by the government, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The advanced supplementary exams should be held within two months of conducting the final semester/annual exams. The bench was hearing two PIL petitions seeking direction to State government to hold final semester/annual exams of UG and PG courses online.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rural innovator’s UV box neutralises 99% viral particles||An ultraviolet box with filament-less UV-C light with Lux Optimisation technology developed by a rural innovator, Mandaji Narsimha Chary, was tested by CSIR-Centre Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) on SARS-CoV2, and was found to be successfully neutralising 99% viral particles. “The circuit technology that I developed could optimise the Lux to the maximum and using residual mercury, it was able to kill 99% viral particles when exposed to minimum at 15 seconds and a maximum of 1,200 seconds. This is when the virus sample is placed at 30 centimetres away from the light. I hold a provisional patent of the technology,” said Mr. Chary, who holds a patent for reglowing of ‘dead tubelights’. MoU signed CCMB has signed a memorandum of understanding with Mr. Chary to further explore the technology in case of new interventions in the experiment either by the innovator or the institute. Director Rakesh Mishra said, “It is nice to see small entrepreneurs and startups coming up with innovative ideas and products. CCMB is happy to test, validate, and provide technical assistance wherever possible.” Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) hand-held the innovator in facilitating him through the various institutional validations required for the technology from the time they learned about the technology. While the biological validation was done by CCMB, the technical validation was done by International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials. “While Mr. Chary’s technology to generate UV light without filament is an outcome of innate passion to answer problems with sustainable solutions, validation and accessibility to the innovator would be the foremost support by the State’s innovation ecosystem,” said IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan. TSIC chief innovation officer Ravi Narayan claimed that the organisation can become an efficient nodal point between innovator and the innovation ecosystem at large. “TSIC’s ‘Sustainability and Scalability Office’ believes that institutional validation plays a major role in establishing the credibility of the innovation, and works relentlessly towards enabling innovations through mentoring, market-connect, and access to funding,” he said. Director General of Research and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad, Ajit Rangnekar promised to support more innovators like Mr. Chary and hoped his journey will inspire many other innovators from rural backgrounds.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fresh schedule for entrance exams sought||State Planning Board Vice Chairman, B. Vinod Kumar has urged the University of Hyderabad (UoH) to ensure that its entrance test dates do not clash with the final year examinations of Telangana universities and any such overlapping would be viewed seriously. In a letter to UoH Vice-Chancellor P. Appa Rao, he said UoH entrance exams to be held from September 24 to 26 were clashing with the end-semester exams of various universities in Telangana, thus denying the students an opportunity to appear for the UoH entrance exams. He said the end-semester exams of universities were being held from September 22 to October 13 and many students aspiring for admissions in the UoH were from the the Telangana region. “Any move to conduct entrance examinations of the University of Hyderabad on these days will adversely impact the careers of students in general and Telangana in particular.” Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) would conduct UGC NET examinations from September 24. Therefore conducting entrance exams on same dates would impact MPhil and Ph.D applicants also. Mr. Vinod Kumar requested Prof. Appa Rao to reschedule entrance examinations. He said the university was established after a long struggle for a separate Telangana and as part of the Six-Point formula and Article 371 (D). The university should keep the interests and avenues of the Telangana students whenever the entrance examinations were planned in future, he said.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HR management system for State police||The Telangana police on Tuesday said that it would implement a fully automated Human Resource Management System (HRMS) to manage its sanctioned strength of over 80,000 personnel. The move is likely to enhance internal efficiency and help personnel to align themselves with the department’s objectives. The Human Resource Management System would include modules on recruitment, employee data management, time and attendance, leave and absences, performance management, learning and development, administration, workforce management, employee grievance and user analytics. “Given the size of the personnel in the Telangana State Police Department and the complexities of the problems related to personnel, the modernisation of the Human Resources Management System will be a major enabler for an efficient, effective and citizen-centric administration. Therefore, it is imperative to leverage the use of information technology as an enabling tool to provide efficient and effective personnel management that is responsive to the needs of its employees,” an excerpt from a statement that was released to the media said.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man accused of burglaries arrested||The Rachakonda police on Tuesday apprehended a 20-year-old alleged burglar and seized five tolas of gold ornaments, 10 tolas of silver ornaments and four mobile phones from his possession. Police identified the accused as Dontula Mahesh alias Chintu, a resident of Saidabad and a musician by profession. He was apprehended when he was moving at Balapur Shivaji Chowk in “suspicious circumstances”. After being detained and questioned, he allegedly told police of his association with four other persons K Srinivas, R Karthik, B Vijay Kumar and K Kasthuri, who were also allegedly involved in burglaries. Police said the accused used to consume alcohol before committing offences. Kasthuri, who is wife of Srinivas, and is now absconding, used to allegedly recce homes in isolated places. Srinivas, Karthik and Vijay were previously arrested and sent in judicial remand.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State’s regulated crop pattern figures in Lok Sabha||Chevella MP Ranjit Reddy has asked the Central government if it was aware of the input support given to farmers by the Telangana government and the recent regulated cropping pattern adopted from this season and whether similar schemes can be adopted across the country to improve farmers’ income. Mr. Reddy said in the House that the innovative schemes introduced by the Telangana government had led to increase of 98% in area under paddy cultivation, maize by 95% and cotton cultivation by 78% and wanted Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar whether the Central government was planning to adopt similar programme to improve cultivation. Mr. Tomar said the Telangana government has adopted regulated crops from this season and so far only pulse crop has been harvested. He said the Centre would support all the States to increase crop cultivation and production, according to a press release.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sports school to be centre of excellence||Hakimpet's Regional Sports School has been named one of the first eight Khelo India State Centres of Excellence (KISCE) under Sports Authority of India's flagship talent identification and nurturing programme, ‘Khelo India’. The Regional Sports School will be upgraded with a budget of Rs. 13.03 crore in four years. The support will be in the form of infrastructure upgradation, setting up of sports science centre and soft component in the form of quality coaches and sports science human resource like physiotherapists and conditioning expert. The academy will also have high-performance manager to ensure quality sports science input and performance management, said Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju in New Delhi on Tuesday. The Sports Ministry is upgrading existing sporting infrastructure in each State and Union Territory (UT) and creating KISCEs. Each KISCE will be extended sports-specific support in 14 Olympic sports, of which one State or UT will be given support for a maximum of three sports. In the first leg, eight KISCEs have been identified, including the one in Hakimpet, and others are to be set up in Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha, Karnataka and Kerala, he said. KISCEs state-of-the-art centres would ensure athletes were given highest training and these centres become best facilities to train athletes in the priority sport for which they were earmarked, he said.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Swiggy delivery wing on warpath||Food deliveries were affected in Hyderabad on Tuesday as delivery workers of Swiggy kept their apps switched off. Some of them picketed popular restaurants and chanted slogans against the company. The regular sight of knots of men in orange and black near restaurants was missing at lunch time. ‘Raw deal’ “We used to get Rs. 35 for deliveries within three-km range, now we are getting Rs. 15 for deliveries within six-km range over the last 45 days. They have increased the payout to workers in other cities but not in Hyderabad, that’s why we are striking,” said Muhammad Akbar (name changed on request) who was standing near Shah Ghouse Hotel in the Toli Chowki area of the city. “We will not resume work till we get a fair deal,” he said, showing his phone with the unopened app. “High demand. Additional Rs. 15 delivery fee will be applicable,” was the message that greeted customers trying to order food on the app. “Surge fee is charged for orders placed on days with high demand when we have fewer delivery executives available,” clarified Swiggy through a tweet showing the impact of the strike. “One of the largest protests was near the Madhapur police station where hundreds of delivery executives gathered,” said Shaik Salauddin of Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two arrested for property offences||In a joint operation, Central Crime Station of the L B Nagar Zone and Ibrahimpatnam police on Tuesday apprehended a married couple for their alleged involvement in property offences in AP and Telangana. The accused are K Ravi Kumar (25), and resident of Konda Mallepally in Nalgonda district, and M Geetanjali, a resident of Nalgonda district. The duo hail from Thadipatri town in AP. According to the police, the accused used to recce neighbourhoods on stolen motorcycles at night. They then allegedly identified locked houses and break locks. Police said Ravi confessed to being involved in offences committed in 17 police station limits in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana such as Bachupally, Saroornagar, Nacharam, Dhone, Singanamala and Thadipatri.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU leader seeks MLC candidature||TPCC general secretary and student leader Manavata Roy appealed to the party to nominate him as the candidate for the Khammam, Warangal, Nalgonda Graduate MLC Constituency. The MLC elections are to be held soon. He recalled former AICC president Rahul Gandhi had promised political opportunities to Osmania University student leaders.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineers’ Day awards||The Institution of Engineers, on the occasion of Engineers’ Day on Tuesday, accorded the Bharat Ratna Mokshagundam Vesvesvaraya Award jointly to Director, National Institute of Technology, Warangal, N.V.Ramana Rao, and Project Director, Long Range Surface to Air Missile (LAC), DRDL, Jaiteerth R. Joshi. Also given away were the Engineer of the Year and Young Engineer of the Year awards. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, addressing a webinar on the occasion as chief guest, appreciated the services of the institution, and congratulated award winners.
16 September 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man attacked with acid||A 50-year-old man was allegedly attacked with acid by unidentified persons at Errakunta on Tuesday morning. The Balapur police said the victim is Amjed Khan, an autorickshaw driver. Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said what led to the incident and who were responsible was yet to be ascertained. “The victim suffered injuries on his face and leg. He was sent to the Osmania General Hospital for treatment.,” Mr Bhaskar said. A case was booked.
16 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Palair project closer to its full reservoir level||The water level in the Palair balancing reservoir in Kusumanchi mandal inched closer to its full reservoir level of 23 feet on Tuesday following heavy rain in the upstream areas in the last 24 hours. Around 10,000 cusecs of water was released through the irrigation channels to maintain the stipulated water level in the reservoir, the major irrigation and drinking water source in the district. Fishermen were advised against venturing into the reservoir in view of the continuous inflows from the catchment areas of the reservoir, spanning along the Nagarjunasagar (NSP) irrigation canal system. Meanwhile, half a dozen cattle including two cows were swept away by swirling waters in a swollen stream at Pauluripeta village in Dummugudem mandal late on Monday. The incident occurred after heavy rains caused flash floods in the stream.
16 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||A long wait for farmers to get pattadar passbooks||Ramavath Chandu is in his 60s and walks barefoot. On Monday he along with another 50 fellow farmers travelled three hours covering 100 km, from his native Bachepally in Kalher mandal, to reach the Collectorate in Sangareddy. They wanted to meet the Collector and pour out their woes about how the land they had been tilling for generations has now been shifted to Part B (land under dispute) denying them the benefits from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government’s flagship welfare schemes — Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. To their dismay the Collector was away and they were forced to hand over their petition to some officials who were present. During the process of purification of land records the farmers of Bachepally suddenly found that the land they were enjoying for generations had been shifted to Part B because of differences between Forest and Revenue departments. Consequently the farmers were not issued fresh passbooks for 493.29 acres land in Survey 91 and they have also been denied benefits like Rythu Bandhu. Following repeated appeals of the farmers, the district administration conducted a survey few months ago and the report was submitted a few weeks ago. However, the revenue officials says that the survey report was quite contrary to the ground situation and names of those who are not in possession of land was listed in the new survey. As a result the mandal revenue officials informed their superiors that there was a need to conduct a resurvey. Unable to get their problems addressed locally, Mr. Ramavath Chandu along with several other farmers came to the district headquarters, but the Collector was away. “We are unable to get any benefits since long and our repeated appeals are not yielding any results. Now the officials are saying that a resurvey was needed as the recent survey was not proper. We do not know when it will be completed,” said Lakshmi, a farmer. “There is a need to resurvey the lands and issue pass books to the right owners. All work has been put on hold for the new Revenue Act We are not sure when it will be completed,” said an official.
16 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Pure EV enters international market||The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH)-incubated start-up Pure EV will be launching its premium model ‘EPluto7G’ in Nepal by October 2020 as part of its international expansion plans. A unique point of this vehicle is that the battery and the vehicle have been designed and developed factoring in the gradient requirements of Nepal. The start-up is partnering with White Lotus Motors (WLM) for distribution of its EV two-wheelers in Nepal. WLM will establish two outlets in the capital city of Kathmandu. Pure EV plans to launch more models in the near future.
16 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘BJP should withdraw power Bill’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao asked BJP to withdraw the power Bill introduced in Parliament before seeking votes at Dubbak byelections. He said that the Bill seeks to collect power charges from farmers using bore wells. As part of intensifying the election campaign at Dubbak Assembly constituency where byelection was necessitated due to sudden demise of MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao visited the constituency and participated in several programmes on Tuesday. “The Union government led by Narendra Modi seeks to install meters to borewell connections whereas Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to continue free power. BJP must withdraw the Bill before seeking votes at Dubbak,” he said addressing a gathering after inaugurating the 33/11 KV power station at Machinpally in Daultabad mandal. He said that this would adversely impact the farmers using more than 43,000 borewells in the constituency limits. Asserting that farmers’ welfare was top priority for the government, he said that Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima were part of that. Further, some 20,000 beedi workers are getting government assistance, he added.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Residents ‘along with sheep’ protest against industrial park||Residents of Veliminedu village of Chityal mandal in the district entered its gram panchayat office with their flocks of sheep on Tuesday protesting the decision to acquire their lands for the proposed industrial park. “Where do we graze our animals, how do we live, if you take away our lands?” they asked officials, rushing their sheep through the office door. Along with nearly 200 sheep and goats, farmers later gheraoed the premises. According to locals, the district administration had served notices to the 62 residents for acquisition of their assigned land in survey number 418 in the village, where they had been living or conducting occupations for the past few decades. The acquired land would be utilised by the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Limited (TSIIC) to set up an industrial park. The aggrieved said they have submitted several petitions, to officials from gram panchayat to the District Collector, but there has been no response.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||House committee furious after Facebook India V-P’s no-show||Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan did not appear before a Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony on Tuesday despite being summoned via notice. The panel is looking into Facebook’s alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots. Role in riots Committee chairman Raghav Chadha said Facebook India officials had “objected” to the summons notice. “Refusing to appear before the committee is contempt of the Delhi Assembly. Your refusal to appear before the committee is an attempt to conceal crucial facts in relation to Facebook’s role in the February 2020 Delhi communal violence. This shows that Facebook has something to hide. This shows that Facebook is running away from this committee and allegations on Facebook’s role in Delhi riots may not be completely baseless,” Mr. Chadha said. The committee is looking into alleged “deliberate and intentional” inaction by Facebook to contain “hateful content”. On August 31, the committee said that prima facie it seemed that Facebook had a role in the riots and it should be treated as a co-accused. Last week, the committee sent a notice summoning Mr. Mohan to appear before the committee on Tuesday. “We respectfully object to the notice and request you to recall it,” Mr. Chadha quoted a letter sent by Facebook to the committee. “They [Facebook] have told the committee to withdraw the notice since a Parliament committee on information and technology is looking into the matter and we [Delhi Assembly Committee] should not interfere in the issue. They have also said that since the issue is related to law and order and IT Act passed by Parliament, we should not interfere in the issue,” he said. The committee has decided to give a “final warning” to Facebook and one more chance will be given to Mr. Mohan to appear before the panel. “In the event of subsequent default, the committee shall be constrained to invoke its power to initiate breach of privilege proceedings against Facebook India and thus inviting penal jurisdiction of the House among others,” said Mr. Chadha.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists say voices of dissent being suppressed by regime||As part of the If We Do Not Rise campaign, several women’s groups, human rights organisations and LGBTQIA communities on Tuesday released a charter of demands, seeking accountability and transparency from the government. The campaign was launched on September 5 to mark the third death anniversary of journalist Gauri Lankesh. Activists said that in the current environment, voices of dissent were being suppressed by the government and being labelled “anti-national”. Speaking of widespread destitution, starvation and suffering of the working class due to the current economy of the country amid the ongoing pandemic, activist Anjali Bharadwaj said: “The government has left no stone unturned to use this situation of lockdown or near-lockdown to curb all forms of dissent.” “The government has no intention to be answerable or accountable to the people of this country. We have a situation where there is absolutely no scope for people to question,” Ms. Bharadwaj said. The charter includes demands for institutional autonomy and integrity, right to life and safety, right to education, food security and right to political participation, among others. Hunger deaths Annie Raja, of the National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW), raised demand for food security. “Reports have started coming in on hunger deaths. Be it women domestic workers or daily wage labourers or agricultural workers, they have all lost their jobs during this period,” said Ms. Raja. Activist Kavita Krishnan said, “A democracy is marked by presence of constraints on power and protection of the weak. We are seeing that this has been overturned these days. The police in India, instead of relying on investigation, rely on torture. We are seeking accountability from the ones in power.”  We have a situation where there is absolutely no scope for people to question Anjali Bharadwaj Activist
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs JNU to sanction leave to professor to pursue fellowship||The Delhi High Court has directed Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) to sanction extraordinary leave (EOL) to one of its professors to pursue a nine-month fellowship offered by a French research institute. Justice Jyoti Singh remarked that the rejection of the application for grant of EOL to Professor Udaya Kumar was “completely arbitrary and against the provisions of the Ordinance of the university and contravenes the Wednesbury’s principles of reasonableness and fairness”. Justice Singh said, “I must express here that the court is a little amazed at the resistance of the university to grant EOL to the petitioner [Mr. Kumar] for his fellowship”. “There is no gainsaying that the petitioner herein is not going on leave for any self-service or self-employment. He is only going to acquire higher qualifications and in my view, it is a matter of great prestige also for the university that one of its professors has been offered a fellowship at a prestigious institute for advanced study in France,” the judge said. The court’s decision came on plea by Professor Udaya Kumar from the Centre for English Studies, School of Language Literature and Culture Studies, JNU challenging the rejection of his application for grant of EOL. Mr. Kumar said he had applied for EOL without pay for a period of nine months to pursue a fellowship at Nantes Institute of Advanced Study, France. However, the varsity rejected his application without giving any reason.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi riots probe being conducted in unbiased manner’||Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava has given a written response to retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro’s letter reiterating that the investigation into the February communal riots is not biased towards any religion. On September 12, Mr. Ribeiro wrote to Mr. Shrivastava demanding impartial probe and raising questions over the action taken by Delhi Police against anti-CAA protesters, following which a group of retired civil servants also joined him in writing to the police chief. “They were simply exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of speech and peaceful protests as guaranteed by the Constitution,” they wrote, adding that such type of investigations would make people “lose faith in democracy, justice, fairness and the Constitution” and could lead to the “breakdown of law of and order”. ‘Correct perspective’ In a letter shared on Tuesday, Mr. Shrivastava said that it’s his duty to put things in “correct perspective” and that any conclusion be drawn on the basis of facts obtained through investigation. He also said that police is “reticent” about details of investigation other than what’s part of court documents. Pointing out that Mr. Rubeiro hadn’t spoken to any police officer regarding investigation, Mr. Shrivastava wrote, “Further, while you expressed your apprehension about the fairness in investigation when I spoke to you over telephone, you acknowledged not having any first-hand information about the cases. Regrettably, no officer of Delhi Police was contacted to apprise yourself of the actual situation. As a highly experienced police officer, you would agree that one may not come to a correct conclusion in view of the limited information available in public domain”. FIRs registered Mr. Shrivastava also mentioned that of the 751 FIRs that have been registered, 410 are based on complaints by the minority community and 190 from the “other community”; the rest were registered based on daily dairy entries. “Delhi Police has examined a large majority of persons who either have a role in north-east Delhi riots or have information that will help arrive at the truth. It has questioned persons without regard to their religion and party affiliation,” he stated, adding that of the 1,571 persons arrested, they’re almost equal in number from both communities. Mr. Shrivastava stated that “false perceptions” are created by “interested groups” and that “anybody aggrieved with the investigation can always seek judicial remedies.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||High Court tells DU to expedite evaluation of open book exam papers||The High Court on Tuesday directed Delhi University to expedite evaluation of papers of open book examination held recently so that results of final-year under graduate students can be declared by the first week of October. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad directed Delhi University to forthwith issue letters to the principals of all the colleges affiliated with it, emphasising the urgency of the matter. The court was also informed that pursuant to its previous orders, a notification was issued by Delhi University, calling upon final-year UG and PG students, who propose to seek admission in foreign universities for further studies, to apply to the university for seeking their results. Out of 900 students, who had sent the request, some of them are seeking admission in Indian universities whereas others are seeking admission in foreign universities. Till September 14, 292 e-mails have been sorted out, while 277 e-mails relate to final-year UG students, who propose to travel abroad for studies, 15 e-mails relate to the final-year PG students, who propose to travel abroad for further studies, the court was informed. D.S. Rawat, Acting Dean (Examination), Delhi University has assured the court that the letter finalised in respect of the final-year UG students, containing their provisional results shall be dispatched directly to the foreign universities concerned. The court was hearing a petition on issues being faced by students, who are moving abroad for higher education. The issue cropped up during the hearing of a petition concerning OBE for final-year undergraduate DU students. It will hear the petition again on September 23.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC builds indigenous signalling technology||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday launched ‘i-ATS’, an indigenously-built communication-based train control signalling technology for the metro. The i-ATS (Automatic Train Supervision) is a computer-based system that manages train operation, said an official. ‘Atmanirbhar’ initiative “This system is indispensable for high-density operations such as the metro, where services are scheduled every few minutes. i-ATS is indigenously-developed technology, which will significantly reduce the dependence of Indian metros on foreign vendors dealing with such technologies. This was an initiative taken under Atmanirbhar Bharat,” the DMRC said. Apart from being put to use in all Phase IV corridors, the ATS of the Red Line (Rithala to Ghaziabad) will be upgraded to the new system, officials said. “It can work with train control and signalling systems of various suppliers. It can also work with different technologies of train control and signalling systems. Additionally, it is suitable for introduction in Indian Railways, which is now introducing centralised train control on a large scale that uses ATS functions,” the DMRC stated. The prototype system was launched by Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra and DMRC managing director Mangu Singh.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks report on plastic pens||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Union Environment Ministry to furnish a report on whether plastic pens fall under the purview of plastic waste management rules. Noting that the matter had not been finalised yet, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed authorities to file an action taken report by October 14. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea against the unchecked use of plastic pens having an adverse impact on the environment, moved by petitioner Avani Mishra.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||DDA to hold ‘Youth Sabhas’ to discuss MPD-2041 process||The Delhi Development Authority on September 18 will interact with the city’s youth as a part of its planning process for the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi 2041. Three “Youth Sabhas” will also be conducted by the urban body for this purpose.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Two jobless drivers held for robbery||Two drivers, who lost their jobs during the lockdown, were arrested for allegedly robbing a person after offering him a lift in a cab in west Delhi’s Dwarka area, the police said on Tuesday. The duo had no work since the COVID-19 lockdown, the police said.
16 September 2020||Bhopal,||Cases force M.P. House to opt for 1-day session||An all-party meeting in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday decided to shorten the scheduled Vidhan Sabha session to a single-day in view of the death on the day of a Congress MLA who had earlier contracted COVID-19 and 39 MLAs having been infected so far. “In view of the pandemic, the death of an MLA who had earlier contracted the illness and infection spread among legislators, the session will now be held in a limited way,” pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma told reporters here. He said members could attend the session virtually too. The necessary financial and legislative business would be conducted in the House on September 21 in the presence of limited members. Further, written answers to questions received from MLAs for three days, on which the session was earlier planned, would be provided to them, the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat said. The State Congress said its MLA from Biaora Goverdhan Singh Dangi died from multiple-organ failure while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, days after he recovered from COVID-19. He was 62. Spokesman Durgesh Sharma said Mr. Dangi’s son had brought back his body to Biaora in Rajgarh district from a hospital in Gurugram. “He worked extensively in the field of education and undertook Narmada parikrama along with senior leader Digvijaya Singh,” he said. His death comes on the day an all-party meeting is scheduled to discuss the three-day Assembly session which will begin from September 21. The death has rendered another Assembly seat vacant even as by-elections to 27 of them are due.
16 September 2020||Bhopal,||Milk, not eggs, will check malnutrition: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said that milk instead of eggs would be served to malnourished children, contradicting an announcement recently by Women and Child Welfare Minister Imarti Devi. “The government will distribute milk to malnourished children. To keep malnourishment away, milk, not eggs,” Mr. Chouhan said. The State government has planned to distribute milk to children at anganwadi centres on September 17 during the ‘Gareeb Kalyan Saptah’ (poor’s welfare week), to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A few days ago, Women and Child Welfare Minister Imarti Devi had reiterated her proposal to provide eggs to children and pregnant women to combat malnutrition. A former Congress leader who switched over during the political turmoil in March, Ms. Devi had first made the announcement during her previous stint while holding the same portfolio. At least 42% children under the age of five years are stunted, while 43% are underweight in M.P., according to the National Family Health Survey - 4 (2015-2016).
16 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Deliberate assault on farmers: Punjab CM||Terming the legislation a direct and deliberate assault by the Centre on the interests of farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the State Congress will challenge the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which was passed in the Lok Sabha, in the court of law. “Riding roughshod over the concerns of the farmers, the Central government, of which the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is a constituent, has imposed a Central law on a State subject, thus eroding the federal structure of the country,” said the Chief Minister in a statement. “We will challenge it in court,” he added. Captain Amarinder said the enactment of the legislation is clearly a step towards abolition of the MSP regime. “It is a conspiracy on the part of the BJP-led NDA government to destroy Punjab and its farmers,” he said, “The legislation talks of encouraging competition among farmers. Do they really expect the poor farmers, who are only competing with themselves for survival every day, to rival big corporates for protecting their interests?” quipped the Chief Minister. Pointing out that the enactment, along with the other two agriculture ordinances that the Centre has already tabled in the Lok Sabha, was in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, Capt. Amarinder said the same committee had also suggested dismantling of the MSP regime. “It is evident that the NDA government is now moving towards the elimination of the MSP system, which is the lifeline of the farmers,” he said, adding that the Punjab Congress will not allow the interests of the farming community to be trampled in this manner.
16 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP leaders allege scam in various purchases||The Saharanpur BJP secretary on Tuesday accused the district administration of irregularities in the purchase of benches for the Nyay Panchayat Sansadhan Kendra. In a letter addressed to the Division Commissioner, Pankaj Tyagi alleged that the Basic Education department had not taken any quotation nor was any tender floated for the purchase of wooden benches for the resource centres. He said the department paid Rs. 80,000 for 10 benches in each centre when the market price is not more than Rs. 20,000 per centre. “Prima facie there is a scam of at least Rs. 60,000 per centre. There are 100 such centres in the district. So, one can calculate the size of the scam,” Mr. Tyagi told The Hindu . Earlier this week, senior BJP leader Ram Pal Singh Pundhir, party’s co-coordinator of Cooperatives unit, had written to the Chief Minister that there were serious irregularities in the purchase of COVID and sanitation workers’ kits. Mr. Tyagi and Mr. Pundhir said such incidents would tarnish the corruption-free image of the government. The Divisional Commissioner said a committee has been formed to look into the matter.
16 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut woman gang-raped in moving car||A woman working in a private hospital in Meerut was allegedly gang-raped in a moving car on Monday night when she was returning home after her shift, police said. According to SSP Ajay Sahni, two accused have been arrested and one other is on the run. According to Devendra Singh, SHO, Medical Thana, a boy named Ranjeet who was known to the girl lured her into the car on the pretext of dropping her home and later his two friends joined him in raping her.
16 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘SITs in U.P. working to save govt.’||The Special Investigation Teams formed in Uttar Pradesh were functioning like the ‘Sarkar Bachao Dal’ or Government Saviour Teams, State Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu alleged on Tuesday. Mr. Lallu’s attack on the U.P. government came hours after it formed an SIT to probe the death of Mahoba businessman Indrakant Tripathi who had accused IPS officer Mani Lal Patidar of threatening to get him killed for not paying extortion money. The three-member SIT, ordered by Uttar Pradesh DGP, will be headed by Varanasi Inspector General Vijay Singh Meena. The SIT will submit its report in seven days, the government said. Mr. Patidar was last week booked on charges of allegedly conspiring to murder Indrakant. Mr. Lallu lashed out at the government for not arresting the accused and called the incident a ‘blot’ on the State’s law and order condition. “The SIT has become a ‘Sarkar Bachao Dal’ in U.P.,” the MLA said, accusing CM Adityanath of providing patronage to “such criminals”. That the accused are yet to be sent to jail shows that the BJP government is bent on “murder of justice”, he added. “Why is evidence required for something that is so evident? An SP was running a gang but the Home department had no inkling about it,” Mr. Lallu said on Twitter. Indrakant was found shot in the neck in his car last week. His brother Ravikant Tripathi reiterated his demand that the accused cops be arrested and his family members be provided security. On if he was satisfied with the SIT probe, Mr. Ravikant said he had so far no complaints about the steps taken by the government.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Will let lawyers travel on locals on experimental basis, State tells HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that lawyers who have to attend physical hearings will be allowed to travel by local trains in Mumbai on an “experimental basis” from September 18 to October 7. The State government said advocates who need to be present before one of the four Benches of the court can write to their respective registrars, obtain a certificate and then approach the railway authorities to issue them a travel pass for that particular day. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni produced a note explaining the arrangement before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni. On behalf of the Railways, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh agreed to set in motion the proposed arrangement. The court was hearing a couple of public interest litigations stating that services rendered by advocates are essential and they should be included in the list of essential staff permitted to travel by special suburban train services being run amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The high court passed an order saying the advocates who intend to physically appear before the court should write to their designated registrar, seeking a pass for the particular date on which their matter is listed for hearing in court. The court recorded that the registrar should issue the certification only after confirming the correctness of the claim made in the application. Upon receipt of such a certification, the advocates may approach the railway authorities to obtain the appropriate pass/document for travel or ticket allowing them to use the special suburban train services.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana seeks Rs. 2 cr in damages from BMC||Actor Kangana Ranaut amended her petition before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday and sought Rs. 2 crore as compensation from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the demolition of her bungalow in Bandra. The amended petition says the BMC demolished 40% of the actor’s office and the property destroyed as collateral damage include a three-seater vintage sofa, two-seater vintage sofa, coffee table, two antique mirrors, editing equipment and desktop, crystal chandelier, Italian lights, exclusive designer chair, speakers, antique pieces, cashmere shawl, Victorian cutlery and 10-15 first edition books, among other things. On September 9, the BMC undertook a drive to demolish alleged illegal portions of Ms. Ranaut’s office and bungalow at Pali Hill. Soon thereafter, the court directed the BMC to stay the demolition. The BMC will file its reply and the matter will be heard on September 22. The stop work notice was issued to Ms. Ranaut by the BMC on September 8 under Section 354A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act. It pertains to details regarding substantial alterations and additions unlawfully carried out, including the construction of new toilets (including in open chowk area and in parking area), conversion of existing toilets into cabins/rooms, construction of pantry, kitchen, cabins, etc.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Third plea filed against coverage of actor’s death||The Bombay High Court has issued notices to the Central government, the Law Commission and the Press Council in a third plea filed on Tuesday regarding the media coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The petition seeks “expanding the Contempt of Courts Act to include starting point of the pending proceedings in a case to be from the registration of FIR”. The third public interest litigation (PIL) petition was filed by a registered trust, Pursuit of Justice. The petitioners call the “extent of media frenzy concerning all issues and non-issues involving the said incident is quite ‘disturbing’”. It says that this has given rise to an urgent need to find an acceptable constitutional balance between a free press and administration of justice. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni issued notices and will hear all three matters on the media coverage of Rajput’s death together on October 8. The latest petition seeks to expand the scope of the Contempt of Courts Act to include any publication which obstructs the administration of justice during the pendency of proceedings. It also calls for the registration of an FIR to be considered at the beginning of the case instead of the filing of the final report under Code of Criminal Procedure as of now. The PIL quoted that the Law Commission in its 200th Report had also recommended that the starting point of the proceedings should be from the time a person is arrested instead of the filing of a charge sheet, as the provision postulates. The plea goes to say, “The media, how so much ever, revered it is as the fourth pillar of democracy, does not enjoy unfettered, unrestricted and unbridled freedom of reporting which can impinge upon similar and other rights of the citizens. The recent, persistent and continuous reporting of the Sushant Singh Rajput case has blurred the line of fine and ethical reporting and irresponsible journalism, which has the propensity of setting up dangerous precedents in terms of demolishing and seriously impairing the faith and confidence of the people in the law and order machinery of the state.” ‘Irresponsible coverage’ The third petition adds that the irresponsible media coverage is a “serious violation of the constitutional protection guaranteed under Article 21 (Right to Life) concerning the rights of a person to a fair trial, the right to privacy of individuals being subjected to such roving public gaze facilitated by relentless media coverage, a serious violation of the privacy of a deceased person and depriving citizens of their right to receive unadulterated and accurate news as information instead of news as a form of entertainment”.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Rhea will tamper with evidence if out on bail’||On rejecting actor Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea on September 11, the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court said, “The investigation is at preliminary stage and if the accused is released on bail then she will tamper the prosecution evidence.” The order was passed on September 11. However, the reasoning behind the rejection of bail was made available on Tuesday. In the 16-page order, the court recorded, “Rhea and late Sushant Singh Rajput were in a live-in relationship. It is alleged that she procured drug for Sushant Singh Rajput by financing them, for that she had asked her brother Showik to arrange for the drug and for them drug were arranged from the accused Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit. NCB had recovered WhatsApp chats and other electronic evidence. Some amount is also transferred via credit card of accused. Further, in the present crime there is recovery of commercial quantity of LSD from accused Anuj Keshwani. The investigation is at preliminary stage, therefore, from the available record, it can not be said that there are no reasonable grounds to connect the Rhea.” The court also said, “According to the prosecution Rhea has taken the names of other persons. The investigation in respect of those persons is in process.” Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Ms. Chakraborty on September 10, argued, “Only 59 grams of ganja was recovered. The prosecution agency has incorrectly applied Section 27A of the NDPS Act. Merely sale and purchase of drug does not amount as illicit traffic. There are no allegations of harbouring offender against the accused.”
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||Minister orders probe into assault case against BJP MP||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said he has ordered an immediate probe into the case of alleged assault on a retired Army man by Jalgaon BJP MP Unmesh Patil and his supporters in 2016. In a tweet, Mr. Deshmukh said Sonu Mahajan was attacked by Mr. Patil, who was an MLA at that time, and his supporters, but the case was sidelined due to political interference by the previous BJP-led government. Mr. Deshmukh said, “The FIR was filed in 2019. In the last four-five days, I received several memorandums on this issue. So I have ordered the Jalgaon superintendent of police to probe the matter immediately.” State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has delivered justice to Mr. Mahajan by ordering an inquiry into the case. “Instead of punishing the BJP MP and others who attacked the Army veteran, the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government persecuted him by putting him in jail and externing him. No action was taken even after directions from the high court,” Mr. Sawant said. Mr. Deshmukh has ordered the probe at a time when the ruling Shiv Sena is facing criticism for the assault on retired Navy man Madan Sharma. Six Shiv Sena workers were rearrested on Tuesday for allegedly assaulting Mr. Sharma (62) in Mumbai last week for sharing an objectionable cartoon of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on social media. The workers were arrested last Friday and released on bail on Saturday. On Tuesday, Mr. Sharma met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and demanded the imposition of President’s Rule in the State. Mr. Sharma later told reporters, “When I was beaten up, they levelled allegations that I am with the BJP and the RSS. So I announce that I am with the BJP and the RSS from now onwards.”
16 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for posing as Navy officer, duping people||The Vashi police have arrested a man who posed as a Navy officer and cheated several people by promising to get them goods at half price from the Navy canteen. The accused has been identified as Manish Arisela (25), who aspired to join the National Defence Academy but failed to make it. “He learnt that electronic items and other goods were sold at half price at defence canteens. He then came up with the plan to dupe people,” senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said. The Vashi police received complaints from two people who paid the accused Rs. 7.32 lakh to get them phones, laptops and gold jewellery at half price. After the duo made the payment, the accused switched off his phone. “In the course of our investigations, we found technical evidence that the accused was near Metro Cinemas in Marine Lines. We then nabbed him from there,” Mr. Dhumal said. The Vashi police said the accused used to roam around wearing a Navy uniform and hoodwink people into believing that he was a Naval officer. He also got in touch with people on Facebook and WhatsApp and offered to get them goods at cheap rates from the Navy canteen. “We seized a fake identity card from him which stated that he held the rank of Captain in the Navy,” Mr. Dhumal said. On further investigation, the police found that he was arrested in a similar cheating case by the NRI Coastal police in 2016. The police said the accused learnt to speak English fluently while working at two call centres. The police said the accused hailed from Hyderabad, but was brought up in Maharashtra. Mr. Dhumal said the accused was initially charged with cheating and cheating by impersonation under the Indian Penal Code, but after finding the forged identity card, sections related to forgery were added in the charge sheet. Pankaj Dahane, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, has appealed to people who have been conned by the accused to approach the nearest police station. The police are verifying if the accused has targeted anyone outside the State.  We seized a fake identity card from him which stated that he held the rank of Captain in the Navy Sanjeev Dhumal Senior police inspector
16 September 2020||Surat,||COVID-19: two diamond units sealed in Surat||The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has sealed two leading diamond polishing units and a part of another unit after 19 workers tested positive for COVID-19, a civic official said on Tuesday. The SMC had carried out rapid antigen tests of workers of polishing units in Katargam locality, a diamond industry hub. Tests on Monday revealed that 16 employees at HVK Diamond, two workers of SRK House and one at Diamond House had contracted the virus. HVK Diamond and Diamond House were sealed completely, while only the sales unit of SRK House was sealed, said Deputy Commissioner (Health) Ashish Naik. The action was taken as the owners of these units had “flouted the guidelines”, Mr. Naik said. Diamond units in Surat, which were closed during lockdown, were allowed to operate with less restrictions from August. A worker who has recovered from COVID-19 can work with another who has tested negative on a single emery polishing wheel which accommodates two polishers, as per the guidelines. Surat has reported 18,751 confirmed cases so far. Katargam zone accounts for 3,372 of these cases.
16 September 2020||WASHINGTON,||UAE, Bahrain set to ink deals with Israel||The United Arab Emirates and Bahrain on Tuesday will become the latest Arab states to break a longstanding taboo when they sign agreements toward normalising relations with Israel in a strategic realignment of West Asian countries against Iran. U.S. President Donald Trump was due to host the White House ceremony around noon, capping a dramatic month when first the UAE and then Bahrain agreed to reverse decades of ill will without a resolution of Israel’s decades-old dispute with the Palestinians. At the U.S.-brokered event, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will sign agreements with Emirati Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan and Bahraini Foreign Minister Abdullatif Al Zayani. The deals make them the third and fourth Arab states to take such steps to normalise ties since Israel signed peace treaties with Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994. The UAE’s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Anwar Gargash, said on Tuesday his country’s decision to normalise relations with Israel had “broken the psychological barrier” and was “the way forward” for the region, creating more leverage. The back-to-back agreements, which have drawn bitter condemnation from the Palestinians, mark an improbable diplomatic victory for Mr. Trump. He has spent his presidency forecasting deals on such intractable problems as North Korea’s nuclear programme only to find actual achievements elusive. Bringing Israel, the UAE and Bahrain together reflects their shared concern about Iran’s rising influence in the region and development of ballistic missiles. Iran has been critical of both deals. With Mr. Trump up for re-election on November 3, the accords could help shore up support among pro-Israel Christian evangelical voters, an important part of his political base. More deals Speaking to Fox News hours before the ceremony, Mr. Trump said he expected more Arab countries to normalise ties with Israel and predicted the Palestinians would eventually join as well or else be “left out in the cold”. One target of White House appeals is Saudi Arabia, the biggest Gulf Arab power. So far the Saudis, whose King is custodian of Islam's holiest sites and rules the world's largest oil exporter, have signalled they are not ready.
16 September 2020||Wilmington,||Biden slams Trump as ‘climate arsonist’||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Monday slammed rival Donald Trump as a “climate arsonist” whose refusal to take global warming seriously would exacerbate the crisis if the Republican incumbent is re-elected in November. “If you give a climate arsonist four more years in the White House, why would anyone be surprised if we have more of America ablaze?” Mr. Biden said, savaging Mr. Trump for failing to “take responsibility” for the ongoing wildfire crisis in western U.S. States. “We need a President who respects science, who understands that the damage from climate change is already here,” Mr. Biden added, presenting the opportunity to battle global warming as a necessary choice for Americans. “We can commit to doing this together, because we know that climate change is the existential challenge that is going to determine our future as a country,” Mr. Biden said, on the grounds of the Delaware Museum of Natural History. “Or we can do it Donald Trump’s way: ignore the facts, deny reality, which amounts to a full surrender and a failure to lead.” The former Vice-President delivered his scathing remarks as wildfires ravage parts of California, Oregon and Washington, so far leaving at least 35 people dead and burning nearly five million acres (two million hectares). Mr. Trump meanwhile arrived in California for a briefing and a short tour of some of the scarred landscape.
16 September 2020||London,||British MPs back Johnson’s Brexit Bill despite EU anger||British lawmakers on Monday backed a new Bill that would override parts of the Brexit treaty struck with the European Union last year, despite outrage in Brussels and alarm at home over such an overt breach of international law. MPs in the House of Commons gave their initial approval to the U.K. Internal Market Bill by 340 votes to 263, clearing the way for four days of detailed scrutiny of the text this week and next. Prime Minister Boris Johnson earlier argued the legislation was a “safety net” against what he claimed were EU threats to impose tariffs on U.K. internal trade and even stop food going from mainland Britain to Northern Ireland. EU sets deadline But EU leaders have dismissed this as “spin” and warned Mr. Johnson to uphold commitments he himself made in the Brexit treaty last year — demanding he withdraw the offending parts of the new Bill by the end of September. The row threatens to disrupt already tough post-Brexit trade negotiations, fuelling growing fears of failure that would see more than four decades of EU-U.K. integration come to a crashing halt at the end of this year. The legislation also sparked angry debate in London, reminiscent of the years of bitter political battles that followed the 2016 shock referendum vote to leave the EU. Several of Mr. Johnson’s own Conservative MPs have expressed alarm about breaking international law.
16 September 2020||Washington,||‘Any Iran attack will see 1,000 times greater U.S. response’||U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday vowed that any attack by Iran would be met with a response “1,000 times greater in magnitude,” after reports that Iran planned to avenge the killing of top general Qasem Soleimani surfaced. A U.S. media report, quoting unnamed officials, said an alleged Iranian plot to assassinate the U.S. Ambassador to South Africa was planned before the presidential election in November. “According to press reports, Iran may be planning an assassination, or other attack, against the U.S. in retaliation for the killing of terrorist leader Soleimani,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Any attack by Iran, in any form, against the United States will be met with an attack on Iran that will be 1,000 times greater in magnitude!” Relations between Washington and Tehran have been tense since the Iranian revolution, and have spiralled since Mr. Trump pulled out of the nuclear deal with Iran in 2018. In January, a U.S. drone strike killed Soleimani in Baghdad.  Iran on Monday dismissed the report of an assassination plot as “baseless” and part of “repetitive and rotten methods to create an anti-Iranian atmosphere on the international stage”.
16 September 2020||Moscow,||Navalny can breathe on his own, plans to return to Russia||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny said on Tuesday he was able to breathe unaided in his first public comments after his suspected poisoning in Siberia, while his aide said he planned to return to Russia once recovered. “Hello, this is Navalny,” he wrote in a post on Instagram. “Yesterday I was able to breathe on my own all day.” “I miss you”,” he told his supporters.
16 September 2020||Washington,||Wanted to kill Assad, but Mattis opposed it: Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to assassinate Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad in 2017, but that his then-Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis opposed the operation. “I would have rather taken him out. I had him all set,” Mr. Trump told the morning showFox & Friends. “Mattis didn’t want to do it. Mattis was a highly overrated general, and I let him go.” The revelations support reports that came out in 2018 when Washington Post journalist Bob Woodward published his book Fear: Trump in the White House and which the President denied at the time.
16 September 2020||Geneva,||WTO faults U.S. over Trump’s China tariffs||The World Trade Organization on Tuesday upheld a complaint by China over additional duties slapped by the U.S. on some $250 billion worth of Chinese goods. A panel of experts set up by WTO’s Dispute Settlement Body ruled the tariffs were “inconsistent” with global trade rules, and recommended that the U.S. “bring its measures into conformity with its obligations”. The panel was created in January last year to review U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to hit China with tariffs on a quarter of a trillion dollars’ worth of goods. The tariffs imposed in 2018 marked the beginning of the trade war between the world’s two largest economies. China’s representative told the organisation at the time that the tariffs imposed were “a blatant breach of the U.S.’ obligations under the WTO agreements and is posing a systemic challenge to the multilateral trading system”. U.S. slams WTO The U.S. responded defiantly, blasting the organization as “completely inadequate” in holding Beijing accountable. “The U.S. must be allowed to defend itself against unfair trade practices, and the Trump administration will not let China use the WTO to take advantage of American workers, businesses, farmers, and ranchers,” U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. issues travel warning for China, HK||The U.S. on Tuesday issued a sweeping new advisory warning against travel to mainland China and Hong Kong, citing the risk of “arbitrary detention” and “arbitrary enforcement of local laws.” The advisory is likely to heighten tensions between the sides that have spiked since Beijing’s imposition on Hong Kong of a strict new national security law that has already been met with U.S. punitive actions. It warned U.S. citizens that China imposes “arbitrary detention and exit bans” to compel cooperation with investigations, pressure family members to return to China from abroad, influence civil disputes and “gain bargaining leverage over foreign governments.”
16 September 2020||Brussels,||Brussels, Sept 15, 2020 (AFP) -||The European Union does not recognise embattled leader Alexander Lukashenko as the legitimate President of Belarus, the bloc’s diplomatic chief said. Josep Borrell, the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs, told the EU Parliament the August 9 election that returned the strongman to power was fraudulent.AFP
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from an immortal conversation||In 1991, close to his death, Bimal Krishna Matilal, the Spalding Professor of Eastern Religions and Ethics at All Souls College, Oxford, wrote one of his final pieces: a brilliant polemical essay, ‘Krsna: In Defense of a Devious Divinity’. Brought to my attention by his favourite student, the JNU’s Heeraman Tiwari, the article challenged the western view of the apparently less-than-godly conduct of Krishna before and during the war on the battlefield of Kurukshetra. In 2012, inspired, in part, by Matilal, and the compendium of Essays on the Mahabharata edited by McGill’s Arvind Sharma, I wrote in this daily (December 11, 2012) : “If all the books on war and peace were to suddenly disappear from the world, and only the Mahabharata remained, it would be good enough to capture almost all the possible debates on order, justice, force and the moral dilemmas associated with choices that are made on these issues within the realm of international politics.” On strategic thinking My article, along with other writings, was an attempt at confronting a major western critique of India; a Eurocentric belief that India and Indians had only episodically written about strategic issues and that there was no real culture of strategic thinking in India. The American think-tank Rand’s Vice President, George K. Tanham, had put this starkly in his 1992 paper, ‘Indian Strategic Thought: An Interpretative Essay’ (commissioned by the U.S. Under Secretary for Defence) in which he argued that the Indian elite had not systematically or coherently thought about national security. Since then, many scholars, including at JNU, have reviewed different traditions of strategic thinking in India: from Asoka’s post-Kalinga idealism to the more predictive hard-headed realism of Kautilya, to the more critical traditions of thinking about war and peace. Fortunately, we also now have the benefit of the External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar’s book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World , which recognises the importance of the Mahabharata in a deeply perceptive chapter, ‘Krishna’s Choice: The Strategic Culture of a Rising Power’. A must read for all students of foreign policy. Earlier, we had the inspiring account of Amrita Narlikar and Aruna Narlikar, Bargaining with a Rising India: Lessons from the Mahabharata . Limited scrutiny However, even today, in contrast to the industry of researchers who devote themselves to studying Chinese strategic culture, the interest in India’s thinking is still limited. This must change; not in a nativist or a revivalist fashion or by necessarily emphasising India’s exceptionalism, but to understand that India’s strategic culture acts as an important intervening variable between power, interest and material capabilities, on the one hand, and the higher purpose of statecraft on the other. Today, as India confronts some of its biggest strategic challenges there are deep insights that the Mahabharata offers us, including from the immortal dialogue between Krishna and Arjuna. For Prof. Matilal’s western critics: “[Krishna] is a riddle, a paradox. If anything, he appears to be a devious diplomat”, an enigma. In reality, Krishna (even in his mortal form) is the ultimate strategic visionary, a political genius, who believes in upholding Dharma, almost at any cost. What does Dharma mean particularly in terms of strategic vision? First, Dharma means upholding the larger righteous interest, the welfare of humanity both in its mundane and transcendental sense. For the leadership of a nation state, it means protecting the national interest defined as the interests of the people from internal and external adversarial circumstances. Second, Dharma means action not passivity; acting without material incentives, and without regard for narrowly defined gains from that action. And acting decisively while recognising, however, that the war for upholding Dharma will almost necessarily always cause collateral damage (both in terms of a strict adherence to principles as well as possibly unrestrained violence).  Finally, the war for Dharma requires acting independently, without attachment, without fear and without external pressure. In sum, Dharma in foreign policy can only be sustained through the doctrine of strategic autonomy. It is the only principle that can bring into harmony flexibility in diplomacy (even duplicity when needed) and purposeful violence when required; so much so that true statecraft and strategic autonomy become inseparable, bringing about a fusion of thought and action for the higher purposes of statecraft. Dharma is beyond self-interest, it is beyond partisan causes, it is concerned almost always with the larger good; it reifies humanity, the people and not necessarily the state. As Krishna emphasises to Arjuna: “k armaṇy evādhikāras te mā phaleṣu kadācana mā karma-phala-hetur bhūr mā te sańgo mā te sańgo ‘stv akarmaṇi (You have a right to act but never to any fruits thereof. You should never be motivated by the results of your actions, nor should there be any attachment”). Righteous national interest In contemporary terms, what are the secular aspects of the wisdom that Krishna imparts to Arjuna, particularly in the Bhagavad Gita? Ultimately, for Krishna, our strategic policies must be rooted within the overarching framework of Dharma and for promoting the larger righteous national interest ( Yato dharmas Tato Jaya : Victory and Dharma go together) rather than any selfish or partisan cause. In many ways, this wisdom reinforces India’s long-standing quest for strategic autonomy, defined as the pursuit of stability, space and strength, as an instrument for promoting national Dharma. As an illustrative example, even at the end of his teachings and his call for action, Krishna encourages Arjuna to reflect and to introspect on what he has learnt, and discard whatever he finds unsuitable: “Thus, I have explained to you the most confidential of all knowledge. Deliberate on this fully, and then do what you wish to do.” ( iti te jñānam ākhyātaṃ guhyād guhyataraṃ mayā, vimṛśyaitad aśeseṇa yathecchasi tathā kuru ). In terms of moral philosophy with deep implications for statecraft, the concerns that define Prof. Matilal’s essay or the Ryerson University scholar Vishal Sharma’s are similar to the one raised by the sage, Uttanka, in Āśvamedhikaparvan , when he encounters Krishna after the war. Why does Krishna not successfully broker peace between the warring cousins rather than preside over genocide? Why does Krishna undermine his stature by apparently resorting to “duplicitous or even deceitful means in the course of war”? Prof. Matilal and others offer compelling explanations to coherently justify Krishna’s actions, including those rooted in moral consequentialism and the lack of omnipotence of the lord when he acquires an earthly form. Krishna is the final guardian of Dharma, a leader; and, on occasion, as Prof. Matilal points out, a leader needs to create “new paradigms for showing limitations of such a generally accepted moral code of truth-telling and promise-keeping”. A distinction Of the few, in the West, who understood the importance of Dharma (otherwise, for most, an elusive term) was the scientist, J. Robert Oppenheimer (who led the Manhattan project that led to the development of the first atomic weapons). As he witnessed the first nuclear test in July 1945, ‘he thought of a verse from the Bhagavad Gita: divi sūrya-sahasrasya bhaved yugapad utthitā yadi bhāḥ sadṛṥī sā syād bhāsas tasya mahāḥmanaḥ (If the radiance of a thousand suns were to burst at once into the sky, that would be like the splendour of the mighty one)’. And then the shloka : “ kālo’smi lokakṣayakṛtpravṛddho lokānsamā hartumiha pravṛttaḥ (I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds” ). Not surprisingly he supported the development of nuclear weapons against fascism, but opposed the production of a thermonuclear hydrogen bomb during the Cold War. This, he believed, was the difference between Dharma and Adharma and it is a distinction that the Indian leadership must reflect upon and comprehend in its fullest and most inclusive sense. Amitabh Mattoo is Professor of International Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Honorary Professor at the University of Melbourne
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||An economic disaster foretold||According to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation of the Government of India on August 31, 2020, real quarterly GDP contracted by a whopping 23.9% between April-June 2019 and April-June 2020. This magnitude of real GDP decline is unprecedented since the country started publishing quarterly GDP estimates in 1996. This is an economic disaster, no doubt. But is a bigger one in the offing? According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, India’s real GDP contraction between April-June 2019 and April-June 2020 has been the largest among 13 large economies of the world. China is the only country which saw a positive growth of 3.2% in that period. However, even that reported contraction of the Indian economy in all likelihood is an underestimate for reasons of omission of statistical information and commission of policies of insidious intent. An underestimated disaster The unorganised sector forms a significant part of the Indian economy. According to some estimates, it accounts for 45% of output and 93% of employment of the working population. While data collection methods have undoubtedly improved over time, coming up with reliable estimates of value added in the unorganised sector is challenging. Typically, government statisticians combine information about value added per worker from enterprise surveys with information about employment from employment-unemployment surveys to generate estimates of output in the unorganised sector. This methodology is applied in benchmark years in which the enterprise and employment surveys are conducted, typically once every five years. The benchmark estimates are only available for those years. For other years, the estimate of output in the unorganised sector is extrapolated from benchmark year estimates using information about other indicators like the index of industrial production, the wholesale price index, and tax collection. By its very nature, such a methodology generates doubtful estimates for non-benchmark years even in the best of times. They have become misleadingly unreliable due to the sudden shock of the lockdown imposed by the Central government to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The lockdown has hit the unorganised sector disproportionately hard, as did the previous shock of demonetisation. As a result, standard methods of estimating the output of the unorganised sector by extrapolation and quantifying its contribution to the whole economy overestimates the income generated by it during the pandemic. The actual situation is much worse. The benchmark estimates of output refer to some pre-COVID-19 year and information on other variables like tax collection has been rendered far less reliable for this period. We are told that employment in the last quarter has increased somewhat, but these are mostly self-employed persons who have now returned to the market place but earn far less because customers’ purchasing power has significantly declined. While they can technically be counted as being employed in terms of working time, they can only be considered grossly underemployed in terms of income earned. And this gap between employment and earnings is likely to grow without injection of massive purchasing power by the government directly into the unorganised sector. Can agriculture help? The sectoral pattern of real GDP decline provides important information. The three sectors which contracted the most were construction (at -50.3%), trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting (at -47%) and manufacturing (at -39.3%). Large parts of the first two fall in the unorganised sector underlining how the lockdown has disproportionately hit the non-agricultural unorganised sector. The only sector which did not contract was agriculture, and that was because of a good monsoon year. It grew between April-June 2019 and April-June 2020 at 3.4%. However, in the present circumstances, agricultural growth will not help much in economic recovery. Agricultural output has risen, but agricultural income will not rise correspondingly due to the same lack of purchasing power in the unorganised sector for buying agricultural products. We are likely to face again, perhaps on a bigger scale, the same obscene situation of foodgrains piling up while millions go hungry. A still bleaker future India’s economic woes did not start with the pandemic. Its economy has been slowing down for the last couple of years. The year-on-year change in real GDP for the economy shows that the growth rate of quarterly real GDP has been slowing down at least since the fourth quarter of 2017, declining from 7.6% in Q4 2017 to 3.3% in Q1 2020. Ill-conceived measures of the Central government have harmed the economy. In November 2016, demonetisation provided the first negative shock. The second one, in the form of the Goods and Services Tax in July 2017, came even before the economy had time to recover from the first shock. All this played out on the canvas of an economy where financial fragility was increasing due to unaddressed problems in the banking sector. Increasing financial fragility coupled with negative policy shocks halted the trajectory of rising growth, and the lockdown has sent the patient who was already ailing into a coma. Can the economy recover in the foreseeable future? In theory, yes, but in practical terms, no. The reason? The government is not interested in averting an economic crisis for the poor. It is interested in ensuring that the handful of its industrialist friends do well irrespective of the state of the economy. And by all accounts they are doing well. Mukesh Ambani, who has now become the fourth richest person in the world, is only growing richer by the day; Adani too is progressing at a highly satisfactory rate, monopolising airport development. This rosy picture should not be spoiled by irrelevant facts like a 23.9% contraction of the real economy. And of course, more of the same is likely to come — not to transform but to strengthen this reality. The government has just declared in Parliament that it cannot pay compensation to the families of those migrant workers who died because it does not have the relevant data. Isn’t a bigger crisis in the offing? Amit Bhaduri is former Professor Emeritus, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, and Deepankar Basu is Associate Professor, University of Massachusetts Amherst
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Impediments to equal productivity, dignity||As a disabled person inhabiting a world designed for the able-bodied, one learns to put up with a lot of indignities that others would consider unacceptable. These include: the everyday pain of being excluded from a whole host of normal life activities, and the challenge of having to constantly find ways of living with equal productivity and dignity as others which the able-bodied often simply do not have to think about. Even so, sometimes, one is overcome by the hot, white anger of something so irredeemably unfair that it cannot be just treated as one of the thousand cuts the disabled face everyday. Access to a database In her speech recently to the National Federation of the Blind, Laura Wolk, the first female disabled law clerk on the U.S. Supreme Court, noted how there exists a massive gap between what blind legal professionals, when provided appropriate tools and resources, are capable of achieving and what they are allowed to achieve, on account of the multiple impediments placed in their path. And an incident last week served for me as a painful reminder of two such impediments and of how it feels to be on the receiving end of the kind of irredeemably unfair treatment I referred to earlier. A battle I have been waging for some time now has been to make SCC Online, India’s premier legal database used by practising lawyers, accessible to persons with disabilities. This database is the only online supplier of true copies of judgments (which are the only authenticated copies of any judgments accepted in Indian courts, apart from the copies of judgments uploaded on the website of the relevant court). SCC Online has myriad accessibility barriers — unlabelled links, search filters which cannot be applied with screen readers, and the text of judgments being inaccessible due to security settings. Thus far, the company running this website has baulked at any attempts to make it more accessible — a response characterised by defensiveness, indifference and sheer insensitivity. Therefore, I took to Twitter in the hope of creating a groundswell of demands for SCC to mend its ways. The response I got is emblematic of the belief system that prevents the disabled from realising their full potential. In response to my plea, a person said: “His [sic; how] exactly can that make it more accessible? Set out your suggestions if you want traction. @... are busy helping us win cases.” When I asked him to explain why lawyers like me should not be similarly helped by the platform, he stated: “Tough. Learn to be brief.” Given that SCC Online is a private database, much like private property, the person said, no one has the right to ask that it be made accessible. His first tweet received the endorsement of SCC Online. This incident vividly brings to light two fundamental issues that prevent the disabled from leading lives of equal dignity and productivity: an exclusionary mindset and the inability to recognise the disabled as rights-bearing citizens, entitled to demand fair and equal treatment from every service provider, public or private. An exclusionary mindset It has always been my aspiration to be a litigator: nothing about the law excites me more than the prospect of winning a battle of wits in a courtroom. During one of my internships at a leading litigation firm in India, I was unable to get meaningful work. On being informed of this by one of my mentors, the partner at that firm said to the former: “But one thing I should indicate is that usually people with special skills have a harder time coping with litigation and it might not be a bad idea in future to advise them towards the corporate side as that is on the whole, slower paced.” In the same vein, the Supreme Court of India held last year, in V. Surendra Mohan vs. State Of Tamil Nadu that ‘Tamil Nadu’s policy, of reserving the post of civil judge only for people whose percentage of blindness does not exceed 40-50%, was rational and reasonable. It ruled that a judicial officer has to possess a reasonable amount of sight and hearing to discharge her functions. It accepted the claim that impaired vision makes it impossible to perform the functions required of judicial officers’. The fallacy in this line of thinking is that it starts with the wrong premise. Instead of starting with the premise that a blind person is as much entitled as anyone else to freely choose what profession they wish to pursue, meaning thereby that any barriers on their path must be attenuated, it instead starts on the premise that the existing ways of doing things will always remain the way they are, so tough luck to those whom they exclude. As the Supreme Court held last year in the case of B.K. Pavitra vs. Union of India , albeit in a slightly different context: “Our benchmarks will define our outcomes. If this benchmark of efficiency is grounded in exclusion, it will produce a pattern of governance which is skewed against the marginalised. If this benchmark of efficiency is grounded in equal access, our outcomes will reflect the commitment of the Constitution to produce a just social order.” Compliance on accessibility Equally important, in the public imagination, doing right by the disabled is still widely considered a function of the goodness of one’s heart, a favour that constitutes one’s good deed for the day. The project of affording them full inclusion and access is not thought of as their right which everyone must help vindicate. This view is innocent of the 2016 Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act (https://bit.ly/2ZDREDL). Section 46 of the Act requires all service providers, public or private, to comply with the rules on accessibility framed by the Central Government within a period of two years from the date of their promulgation. This two-year period expired in June 2019. Until each of us is firmly committed to the idea of implementing the two fundamental changes sketched above, we will continue to live in an environment in which, even as we sing praises of the disabled who achieve success despite the obstacles placed on their path, we do not pause to reflect on what it is that makes it so hard for them to succeed in the first place and what we can do to reverse this state of affairs. Rahul Bajaj is a Judicial Law Clerk at the Supreme Court of India
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Parliament and its panels||The Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committees have a so-called tenure of one year. There was speculation in the media that the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, M. Venkaiah Naidu, is keen on amending the rules to give them a fixed tenure of two years. However, since these are joint committees of the two Houses of Parliament, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha also has to concur. What the rules say According to sub-rule (4) of Rule 331D of the Lok Sabha Rules and sub-rule (3) of Rule 269 of the Rajya Sabha Rules, the term of office of the “members” of the committees shall not exceed one year. Thus, it is the term of office of the members and not that of the committees per se that is one year. This tenurial issue has to be looked at against the backdrop of the fact that the Rajya Sabha itself undergoes partial biennial renewal, since one-third of its members retire every two years by virtue of clause (1) of Article 83 of the Constitution. As far as the Lok Sabha is concerned, it has a fixed tenure of five years, unless sooner dissolved. Given these facts, Mr. Naidu’s suggestion is in consonance with the biennial partial reconstitution of the Rajya Sabha. In the Rajya Sabha, the annual renewal is only notional; major changes are brought about only after each biennial election. Since the Rajya Sabha biennial elections have taken place only in June 2020, there is little point in going through the re-nomination exercise again now. As far as the Lok Sabha is concerned, the major reconstitution takes place when a new Lok Sabha is elected, that is normally after five years. Since there is a mismatch between the election schedule of the Rajya Sabha (every two years) and the Lok Sabha (every five years), it is only once in 10 years that the requirement of major reshuffle of the Standing Committees in both the Houses is expected to coincide, that is after the second round for the Lok Sabha and the fifth biennial round of the Rajya Sabha. Against this backdrop, there is definitely a need to rethink the tenurial prescription for reconstitution of Department-related Standing Committees. Given the different election schedules of the two Houses and since the term is prescribed for the members, there is perhaps no need to mandate the same term for the members of both the Houses. The Rajya Sabha Rules prescribe no fixed tenure for all the other Standing Committees of the Rajya Sabha listed therein. The standard prescription relating to the constitution of those committees states that the committee shall hold office until a new committee is nominated and that the casual vacancies in the committee shall be filled in by the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. As far as the Lok Sabha is concerned, most of its committees listed in the Lok Sabha Rules have a tenure of one year, except a few for which no tenure has been prescribed. It would appear that committees concerned with deliberations of a serious nature were given a term coterminous with that of the House, while others were prescribed annual renewal. The Department-related Standing Committees, which were constituted later in 1993, came to be clubbed with the latter category by the Lok Sabha. The Rajya Sabha followed suit. Another fact to be taken note of is that there are 24 Department-related Standing Committees, each with a membership of 31 (10 of the Rajya Sabha and 21 of the Lok Sabha). They can accommodate 240 members of the Rajya Sabha and 504 members of the Lok Sabha. Ministers cannot be members of these committees and some senior members opt out. Thus no eligible and available MP is left out of the membership of these committees. As a matter of fact, members of some parties have to perforce do double duty. It, therefore, stands to reason that once a member is nominated to a committee, based on his expertise and/or preference, he should be allowed to continue till he retires or otherwise discontinues the membership in order that the committee is able to benefit from his experience and expertise. Different tenures The language of the Rules of the two Houses makes it clear that the one-year term is of the members of the committees and not of the committees per se. The Standing Committees are permanent. Hence, there should be no difficulty if the terms of the members of the two Houses on these committees are different, in consonance with the tenure of the Houses themselves. Given these facts, it would stand to reason if the tenure of Department-related Standing Committees is prescribed differently for the two Houses. It may be two years for the Rajya Sabha members and for the Lok Sabha members, it may be coterminous with its life. The Rules could also provide that casual vacancies may be filled in by the Presiding Officers, who may also be empowered to reconstitute the membership of their respective Houses in the committees, if they so desire. Vivek K. Agnihotri is Former Secretary-General, Rajya Sabha, Parliament of India
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Won technically, lost morally||The controversy over territorial jurisdiction of the Sushant Singh Rajput case is over, but it may arise again when the final report is placed in court as the Supreme Court did not resolve the dispute arising out of the claims of the two States. However, it took cognisance of the fact that in future, if commission of a cognisable offence is determined, “the possibility of parallel investigation by the Mumbai police cannot be ruled out”. The Supreme Court did not give due weightage to the death having taken place in the jurisdiction of the Bandra Police, and that inquiry had made substantial progress. More importance was given to the FIR recorded on a statement which was not “first in time” and was also delayed. But these can be questioned only at the trial stage. In fact, the Court adjudicated only on technical grounds. First, an inquiry In case of a suicide, unless the victim leaves behind a suicide note alleging that someone was responsible, registration of a case of abetment to suicide is mostly preceded by an inquiry. Taking advantage of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which allow more than one court, and thereby more than one police station, to have jurisdiction, the Patna Police directly registered a case of abetment to suicide along with sections pertaining to criminal breach of trust, cheating and defalcation of money. In this case, the main objective is to unravel the cause of death; all other transactions relating to it are secondary. The purpose of law to allow more than one court or police station to exercise jurisdiction is not to permit two agencies to inquire into the same incident simultaneously. It only intends that either of the two or both or more could take cognisance in case part of an offence is committed under their jurisdiction. The difference between inquiry into the ‘cause of death’ under Section 174 of the CrPC and investigation into an offence cannot be exploited in favour of the latter just because ‘the cause of death’ is not ascertained. Courts must rise to make this distinction irrelevant when investigation is generally preceded by such an inquiry. The Indian Police are often questioned for not registering FIRs despite being well equipped with information disclosing an offence and having territorial jurisdiction over the case. Under such circumstances, the police of the two States fighting over jurisdiction of a case raises moral questions. A cognisable offence is registered so that it can be taken to its logical conclusion. If an agency is ready to transfer a case almost immediately after registration to another, its intention could be questioned. The matter of jurisdiction It is a settled law that if an offence is disclosed, the court will not normally interfere with an investigation and the matter of rightful jurisdiction will be decided only when the final report is submitted in the court. However, when an inquiry into the cause of death is pending, registration of a direct cognisable case with regard to the same incident at any other place may defeat the whole objective of having the rightful jurisdiction under the CrPC. Though the Supreme Court, in Lalita Kumari (2013), directed that the registration of an FIR is mandatory, each police station has its own notified territorial area to ascertain the actual cause of action of any offence or incident. When it is clearly known that some other police authority who has rightful jurisdiction is already inquiring into the cause of death to ascertain abetment to suicide, the law need not be exploited to debar that agency only on technical grounds. The statement of Rajput’s father was first recorded by the Mumbai Police, which did not disclose commission of any cognisable offence. If he had received any additional piece of information disclosing any cognisable offence, either he or the Patna Police (with FIR at zero) should have handed over the same to the Mumbai Police. But this was not done. The issue of territorial jurisdiction must be resolved at an appropriate time. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are his own
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ill-advised move||Given the embarrassment and adverse publicity suffered by the Supreme Court because of its verdict holding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for a couple of tweets, one would have thought the superior judiciary would avoid wading into needless controversies by invoking its contempt jurisdiction. However, Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court seems to believe that anyone criticising judges should be dealt with by the threat of contempt. In an ill-advised move, he has written to the Chief Justice, seeking permission to initiate contempt proceedings against prominent Tamil actor Suriya for an innocuous comment on recent judicial orders declining to interfere with the conduct of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical courses. The actor, responding with anguish to recent suicides by MBBS aspirants out of fear of failure, had remarked that “a court that dispenses justice through video-conferencing out of fear of the coronavirus is ordering students to write an exam without fear”. The judge claims that the actor had questioned the integrity and devotion of judges and that such a remark, if unpunished, would undermine public trust in the judiciary. It is only petulant resort to contempt law without necessary cause that would make the layman lose trust in courts. No reasonable person who reads Mr. Suriya’s statement would construe it as contempt of court, as it does nothing more than state an obvious fact: while the pandemic has resulted in virtual hearings, the court has allowed an examination involving a million-and-a-half students. As pointed out by six former judges of the High Court in a letter to the Chief Justice asking him not to act on Justice Subramaniam’s letter, the judge’s construction of the actor’s comments is off the mark. Besides, no one would believe that the actor had interfered with any judicial proceeding through his comment, or that it hindered the administration of justice in any way. That a judge should show unbelievable alacrity in shooting off a letter to the Chief Justice, within hours of the actor’s statement being aired on television, evidences an alarming level of intolerance towards criticism and a monarchical understanding of how courts ought to deal with public opinion. The actor, who also runs a voluntary organisation dedicated to increasing access to education for under-privileged children, has commented in the past, too, on matters related to education. There is no reason to abridge his constitutional right to do so, especially on an issue of public importance. Further, Justice Subramaniam’s request is also impermissible in law. The High Court does not have jurisdiction to initiate contempt in respect of an order passed by the Supreme Court, going by the apex court’s verdict in Vitusah Oberoi (2017). There is no reason for Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi to permit initiation of contempt action against Mr. Suriya.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Venus in focus||Venus, the hottest planet in the solar system, has not enjoyed as much recent attention as Mars, as far as space missions are concerned. With surface temperatures of above 460° Celsius that can melt even a metal like lead, and a heavy atmosphere of carbon dioxide, the planet was considered hostile to life. This despite its being similar in size to the Earth and rocky, so much so that it is often called the Earth’s “sister planet”. There was some excitement when the European Space Agency’s mission, Venus Express, found signs of ozone, made of three oxygen atoms and considered a biomarker, in the upper atmosphere of Venus, in 2011. But the recent discovery of traces of phosphine, another biomarker, in its atmosphere has just given the search for extraterrestrial life a shot in the arm. Phosphine, a compound of one phosphorous atom and three hydrogen atoms, is given out by some microbes during biochemical processes. In an atmosphere rich in carbon dioxide, it is likely to get destroyed soon. However, the researchers estimate that phosphine forms about 20 parts per billion of Venus’s atmosphere. This fact, when added to the hostile conditions on its surface, yields tantalising possibilities — of phosphine’s survival through extraordinary chemistry and thermodynamics or the stubborn triumph of biology and life. This finding was the result of years of careful study by a team of international astronomers led by Jane S. Greaves of Cardiff University and was announced in a paper published in Nature Astronomy . Prof. Greaves first identified phosphine in Venus’s atmosphere in 2017, using the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope in Hawaii. Further study and precise observations using the Atacama Large Millimeter/sub-millimeter Array facility in Chile confirmed the suspicions of the researchers in 2019. The very caution exercised by the researchers in announcing the fact underlines the lack of knowledge about these systems and the need to make sure before celebrating the discovery of extraterrestrial life. This can now only be taken further by making in situ measurements in the atmosphere of Venus. This poses its own challenges. Apart from the high surface temperature and dense atmosphere, the presence of sulphuric acid in the atmosphere of Venus makes it a highly corrosive environment. Perhaps flying at a height and sending down drones or balloons would be more feasible than a landing. Missions to Venus have been planned by NASA and ISRO. While NASA’s mission is slated for launch next year, ISRO is looking at 2023 right now. As is not uncommon in space missions, a spate of collaborations may well improve chances of efficiently probing the dense atmosphere of the planetary neighbour.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Cochin Finances (From an editorial)||The memorandum explaining the financial statement of the Cochin State for the year 1096 M.E. (August 1920-August 1921) shows that the budget estimate of receipts under service heads for 1096 amounts to Rs. 59,44,200 as against the budget estimate of Rs. 53,69,800 for 1095. The total expenditure estimated for the year comes to Rs. 57,71,100. Both the revenues and the expenditure for the year 1095 are said to be the highest on record. In round figures the revenue rose in 1095 by 8 lakhs. The increase in the revenue is attributed to a series of ‘windfalls’. Expenditure also increased in a corresponding degree and the net surplus for the year 1095 is now estimated at Rs. 3,19,400. The anticipated revenue of Rs. 59,44,200 for the year 1096 shows an increase over the corresponding figure in the budget estimate of 1095 by Rs. 5,75,000. Advantage has been taken, we are told, of the additional income to provide for important public works whose claims for liberal sanction of grants had not been satisfied.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Population explosion||K.K. Shah, Minister for Health, Family Planning Works, Housing and Urban Development: It would be a misnomer to describe the family welfare planning movement as birth control. The latter is suggestive of man’s intervention with natural processes, while through family planning movement we are attempting to assist man to enjoy bounties of nature in a more organised and more rewarding manner. Family planning is comparatively a new concept and is an integral part of planning for development. As all planning must take into account the total resources available and their equitable distribution among the people it is necessary to think how our family is going to run its affairs in a manner that gives it greater happiness and prosperity. When planning in that wide context, our efforts to plan the family assumes a national importance too. If individual families do not keep in view the total picture of the national development and the availability of resources for each member of the family, the multiplying of numbers could undo much of what developmental planning aims to achieve. It is this national and global concepts of modern family planning which has compelled many Governments to launch a mass movement for planned families.
16 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aurobindo collaborates with CSIR for COVID-19 vaccine||Aurobindo Pharma said it will undertake clinical development and commercialisation of COVID-19 vaccines being developed by three CSIR laboratories. Separately, it is also developing a vaccine for the virus through its wholly owned U.S. subsidiary Auro Vaccines, a project supported by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC). On the CSIR collaboration, the firm said the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB) Hyderabad, CSIR-IMTech, Chandigarh and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata are developing vaccine candidates using different technology platforms. Aurobindo will undertake clinical development and commercialisation. “The collaboration strengthens our COVID-19 vaccine development efforts,” said N. Govindarajan, MD. “We are already setting up a large-scale facility in Hyderabad for manufacturing COVID-19 vaccine and other viral vaccines.” According to CSIR-CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra, the CSIR labs are working on novel proteins for vaccine development that have potential to address the need for a second-generation vaccine Aurobindo said BIRAC, set up by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), is supporting the firm’s COVID-19 vaccine development by facilitating establishment of the r-VSV vaccine manufacturing platform. “The government is focused on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation to address the most relevant issues to our society,” said Renu Swarup DBT Secretary and Chairperson of BIRAC.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Utilising capacity fully is the priority: Toyota Kirloskar||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday said its first priority was to ensure full utilisation of production capacity it had already created in the country. The company has an installed capacity of 3.1 lakh units spread across two plants in Bidadi, near Bengaluru. “Our first step is to ensure full capacity utilisation of what we have created and this will take time,” TKM said in a statement. In an interview with Bloomberg earlier, TKM vice chairman Shekar Viswanathan said that the government kept taxes on cars and motorbikes so high that firms found it hard to build scale. Committed to India The company later said it continued to be committed to the Indian market, and its operations in the country were an integral part of Toyota’s global strategy. “We remain confident that the government will do everything possible to support the industry and employment. We recognise the strong proactive efforts being made by the government to support various sectors of the economy and appreciate the fact that it is open to examine this issue despite the current challenging revenue situation,” the firm added. TKM’s recent partnership with Suzuki in India on sharing technology and best practices are also in support of the ‘Make in India’ initiative and the government’s policy, and aim to enhance the competitiveness of both firms, the automaker said.
16 September 2020||new delhi,||Exports fall 12.7%, trade deficit eases to $6.77 bn||Contracting for the sixth straight month, India’s exports slipped 12.7% to $22.7 billion in August, on account of decline in the shipments of petroleum, leather, engineering goods and gems and jewellery items, according to government data released on Tuesday. The country’s merchandise imports too declined 26% to $29.47 billion in August, leading to a trade deficit of $6.77 billion, compared with a $13.86 billion deficit a year earlier. Oil imports declined 41.6% to $6.42 billion in the month under review. Gold imports jumped to $3.7 billion in August as against $1.36 billion in August 2019. Federation of Indian Export Organisations President Sharad Kumar Saraf expressed concern on the dip in figures from labour-intensive sectors of exports, which impacts employment generation. “There is a need to analyse imports as well, as such a steep decline in imports may hamper the industrial recovery in the coming months,” he said.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian economy to shrink 9% in FY21, says ADB||India’s COVID-19-battered economy will shrink by 9% this fiscal, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) predicted, saying growth outlook remains highly vulnerable to either a prolonged outbreak of the pandemic or a resurgence of cases In its Asian Development Outlook 2020 Update, ADB forecasts a strong recovery for the economy in FY21, with gross domestic product growing by 8% as mobility and business activities resume more widely. “India imposed strict lockdown measures to contain the spread of the pandemic and this has had a severe impact on economic activity,” said ADB chief economist Yasuyuki Sawada. Last week, two global rating agencies Moody’s and Fitch projected the Indian economy to contract 11.5% and 10.5% respectively in the current fiscal.
16 September 2020||new delhi,||‘FDI of $1 bn flowed from China to over 1,600 firms’||More than 1,600 Indian companies have received foreign direct investments (FDI) worth $1 billion from China during the April 2016 to March 2020 period, according to government data. The data was provided in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday to a question on whether it was a fact that large-scale investments had been made by Chinese agencies in Indian companies, especially start-ups. Over 1,600 companies received $1.02 billion in FDI equity inflows from China for the April 2016 to March 2020 period, the data show. These companies were in 46 sectors. Out of them, the automobile industry, printing of books, electronics, services and electrical equipment received more than $100 million in FDI each during the period. Automobile, services The automobile industry received the maximum FDI from China at $172 million. The services sector attracted $139.65 million. In the reply, Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur said the Ministry of Commerce and Industry had informed that the FDI Data Cell compiles and maintains the data of FDI reported through equity inflow into the country.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet logs Rs. 593 cr. loss, revenue plunges to a sixth||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet on Tuesday reported a net loss of Rs. 593.4 crore in the first quarter ended June, compared with a profit of Rs. 261.7 crore in the year-earlier quarter. This figure includes the Rs. 195 crore as income in the form of compensation from Boeing for the 13 grounded 737 MAXs, which the airline is yet to receive. The airline’s operating revenue shrunk to a sixth of its pre-COVID-19 levels and stood at Rs. 514.7 crore for the reported period as against Rs. 3,002 crore in the same quarter last year. Operating expenses were reduced by half to Rs. 1,303 crore, as more than half the fleet remained grounded because of government regulations for COVID-19. Contraction of 90% In a statement, the airline said it was operating 47% of its aircraft and that its capacity utilisation, or passenger seat kilometres, in the quarter contracted by 90%. “On account of its operational and financial position, and the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the company has deferred payments to various parties, including vendors and its dues to statutory authorities,” the carrier added in the statement.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Flipkart’s sales event to create ‘70,000 jobs’||Flipkart, the homegrown e-commerce marketplace, hopes to generate more than 70,000 direct and lakhs of indirect seasonal jobs as the e-tailer gears up for its annual festive sale event, Big Billion Days. While creating direct job opportunities across Flipkart’s supply chain, that include delivery executives, pickers, packers and sorters, there will also be additional indirect jobs created at Flipkart’s seller-partner locations and kiranas.   “By generating employment and enabling our sellers to scale businesses during this time, we’re doing our part to drive growth in the industry and the economy,” said Amitesh Jha, senior VP, Ekart and Marketplace, Flipkart.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘U.S. curbs on China textiles to help India’||The U.S. restrictions on some textile imports from Xinjiang in China is likely to augur well for the Indian textile exporters, according to a report. On September 14, the U.S. imposed restrictions on the import of certain products originating from the Xinjiang Autonomous Region in China, citing concerns on illegal and inhumane forced labour in the region, ratings agency ICRA said in a report. The agency said it expects this development to benefit domestic textile exporters. While there were speculations of a more broad-based ban on the products originating from the region, the restrictions have been limited to a few entities, for now, it said.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||RBI issues draft on rupee IR derivatives||The Reserve Bank on Tuesday proposed allowing foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) to undertake exchange-traded rupee interest rate derivatives transactions subject to an overall ceiling of Rs. 5,000 crore. Interest Rate Derivatives (IRDs) are contracts whose value is derived from one or more interest rates, prices of interest rate instruments, or interest rate indices. The proposed directions are aimed at encouraging higher non-resident participation, enhance the role of domestic market makers in the offshore market, improve transparency, and achieve better regulatory oversight, according to the central bank.
16 September 2020||Mumbai,||DGCA begins special safety audit of IndiGo, Vistara||The DGCA has commenced a special safety audit of IndiGo and Vistara in the wake of the recent Air India Express plane crash, a top official said.pti
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding the right combination key to unlocking Kings’ potential||Some T20 specialists in the Kings XI Punjab line-up hold the key to its fortunes. Imagine an on-fire Chris Gayle and comeback-man Glenn Maxwell exploding at the top and at the finish! In between, skipper and opener K.L. Rahul, Mayank Agarwal and James Neesham contribute as briskly as they usually do. Well, in such a scenario, it will be tough to stop Kings from gatecrashing the playoffs. Main challenge However, the main challenge for the Karnataka combo of Rahul and new coach Anil Kumble will be to find the right balance in the starting line-up. In the past, Kings started well but finished poorly. The only exception was in 2014, when Maxwell played his part and the team reached the final. Back with Kings after 2017 for a whopping Rs. 10.75 crore, Maxwell is a certainty to play most games. Since Gayle has hardly played in the past year, his inclusion will depend on how well he strikes the ball in the ‘nets’. Crucial decision Another crucial decision will be whether Rahul keeps wicket. If he opts for this additional responsibility, the hard-hitting wicketkeeper Nicholas Pooran sits out. This move allows the team management to play an additional all-rounder or an overseas bowler. Jonty Rhodes’ presence as the fielding coach promises better catching and run-saving methods from Kings. With the batting sorted out, much depends on how the team bowls. Sheldon Cottrell, Mohammed Shami and Mujeeb Ur Rahman appear a certainty in the starting line-up. Should the pitches assist spin, Indian options like K. Gowtham, M. Ashwin, Ravi Bishnoi and J. Suchith come into play. Collective wisdom In four out of the last five editions, Kings failed to finish in the top-five. Again, not many expect the side to make the playoffs. With low pressure of expectations, the collective wisdom of Kumble, Rhodes, Gayle, Rahul and Maxwell could find a winning combination to upset the calculations of some other playoff aspirants. No doubt, Kings look good to score big. Should spinners assume a bigger role as the league heads to the business end, Kings could well rule.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||IPL, and the journey from instinct to data mining||Since the first IPL match in 2008, many things have changed tactically. Bowlers, especially spinners, have come into their own; the importance of fielding (and particularly, throwing) has been further endorsed. But one thing hasn’t changed: the game is still about hitting sixes. A batsman who can hit three sixes (and ensure that 117 deliveries remain in the innings) is more valuable than one who bats through three overs for the same number of runs. Teams have understood that volume of runs by an individual is less important than the rate at which they are scored. As Tim Wigmore and Freddie Wilde say in their excellent book Cricket 2.0 , “in T20 it is possible for a batsman to make a large number of runs while harming his team’s chances of winning.” Such thinking is commonplace now, ever since coaches began to pay more attention to data. Cricket appreciation too has kept pace. It was one of the game’s conceits that a well-made 40 was worth a century that was full of mistakes the batsman was lucky to get away with. If Gundappa Viswanath played a delicate late cut, that was worth the price of the ticket in the reckoning of many spectators, no matter what his ultimate score, or the result of the match. Cardus’ influence That might have been a legacy of Neville Cardus’ lyrical writings. He saw in Victor Trumper’s batting, for example, the music of Wagner and the painting of Turner. The scoreboard, he often claimed, was an ass. He once went so far as to describe how a forward defence by Archie Maclaren had a “majestic rhythm” before informing us that the batsman had misread the spin and was bowled. But “nobody other than a giant of the game could have made a duck so immaculately.” That might read like a self-parody, but the point is made. The scoreboard is an ass. For decades, Cardus decided how we ought to watch cricket, and his mantra was spread by both players and writers who followed him. The coach who told Learie Constantine that his feet were positioned wrongly and his shoulder pointed in the wrong direction had, in the reckoning of the classicists, done the right thing despite Constantine’s response, “but see where the ball went.” For long, youngsters wondered if it was better to attempt the perfect off drive that would be stopped at mid-off or heave the ball over mid-wicket even if they ended up looking uncomfortable. Coaches preached correctness, style over efficiency, and developed (especially in India) generations of batsmen keener on pleasing their coaches than on scoring unstylish runs. Marching in tow Then came T20, which erased the confusion by catching the mood of the times. The format captured the zeitgeist of the new millennium. Winning was everything. How you got the runs didn’t matter. If you ended up looking ugly while attempting a tonk into the stands, then so be it. Especially if it meant a victory and an increase in the bank balance. Sport was merely doing what it was expected to do – reflect society. Epitome of T20 game IPL is the epitome of the T20 game because it sees the finest players from around the world, unlike similar tournaments which don’t have current India players. But it is still evolving. Data will decide not just tactics, but the post-Cardus world of reporting too. Metaphors peculiar to individuals are replaced by statistics available to all; words like “attractive”, “elegant”, “stylish” have already been replaced by numbers and the relationship between them. T20, a specialised form of the game, has its specialist writers, who, like the players, began by cutting off ties to the old formats, the old ways of deciding the best from the rest. The writer, like the coach, does not rely on instinct, experience or judgement alone, but has at his disposal enormous amounts of data. Fielding, yet to arrive at its specific, quantifiable metrics will discover them and lead to better analysis. Bowlers will find a greater range, perhaps bowling off either hand, and thus giving teams more options in selection. You can do a lot in four overs. A format that was initially dismissed as a clown’s version of the real game has discovered hidden depths, thanks to its reliance on data in the manner of American sports. Whoever wins IPL’s opening match on Saturday would have contributed even more data to the kitty, and it will be the job of the backroom boys to sift the vital from the merely incidental. Only connect, wrote E. M. Forster. That is the motto of the shortest game. It was once thought that the established Test player would adapt to the “lower” format. In fact, Royal Challengers Bangalore picked its first squad based on this theory. No one believes that any more. Or indeed that there is a hierarchy of formats.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Robin ready to take wing with Rajasthan Royals||Robin Uthappa’s IPL career began when the IPL began. He has been part of every season and is one of the most successful batsmen in cricket’s most glamorous league. He has amassed 4411 runs (strike rate 130.5, average 28.83). Only seven men have scored more in the IPL history. After stints with Mumbai Indians, Royals Challengers Bangalore, Pune Warriors and most recently Kolkata Knight Riders, the 34-year-old has joined Rajasthan Royals. He spoke to The Hindu from Dubai. Excerpts:  Playing for Rajasthan Royals: Absolutely thrilled. It has always been a franchise that embodies fighting spirit and one that doesn't give up regardless of the game situation.  The team’s strengths: A good, balanced side with a mix of experienced players, both Indian and foreign. Varun Aaron, Jaydev Unadkat and I have all been around for a while now, we have top foreigners such as Steve Smith, Jos Buttler and Ben Stokes, who have all been successful on the biggest stage. Add to that some wonderfully talented youngsters and I think we have pretty much covered all our bases.  IPL’s challenges in the UAE: The heat will certainly be a big challenge. Certain pitches would be similar to the ones back home but it is a long tournament and there will be changes as we go along.  His IPL journey: It has been a fantastic experience. The dynamics of the tournament have changed over the years and so have I. My game has evolved through different phases in these 12 years. As a batsman, I have always wanted to be positive in my approach and contribute in a manner that sets the tone for my team. My roles in teams have varied — I have been at the top, in the middle-order and have also finished games, so I have had to adapt.
16 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Narayanan eyeing a spot in Carlsen tour||S.L. Narayanan was disappointed when he missed out an Arjuna Award even though his name was recommended by the All India Chess Federation. However, the 21-year-old Grandmaster took it in his stride and concentrated on qualifying for the main draw of the Chess24 Banter series. Last Saturday, Narayanan won the Group D qualifier to be among the eight who will join the eight super GMs who have been given invitation to the main draw. Narayanan defeated German teenage prodigy GM Vincent Keymer (4.5-2.5) in the third and final round.  Good wins “I played American GM Aleksandr Lenderman in the first round. He stretched me but I managed to win after the eighth game. In the second, I played pretty well against the higher-ranked Bulgarian GM Ivan Cheparinov and it was a good win. I had heard Keymer was a strong player but I managed to beat him easily in the final round,” said Narayanan. Narayanan hopes for a good show in the main draw, which begins on September 20, and his aim is to figure in the Magnus Carlsen tour. “There are two places up for grabs in the Magnus Carlsen tour and obviously that is a big incentive for me to play in the main draw. “It will be a very tough tournament figuring all top-ranked players. I feel the blitz format is more suited to my style and I if I do well, I have a good chance of getting a place in the tour,” said Narayanan.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Training camp for Olympic squad mooted||Shooters of the Indian Olympic squad have been training at home during the pandemic, but the coaches have felt the urgency to have a national camp and get on with proper preparation. World and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra also felt that Indian shooting needed to wake up from its slumber and get on with organised activities, so as to have the best shot at the Tokyo Olympics. “Training at home for long may have a negative effect. They are so young. Bad habits in technique can very easily creep in when not monitored. “The team needs to train in a camp, maybe in a bio bubble environment,” said Bindra. Request for long camp National rifle coach Deepali Deshpande said that a request had been made by the coaches for a long camp of about six to eight weeks, starting in October. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) have to work out all details for a ‘safe camp’. “Training camps must resume at the earliest,” said Deepali. “Supervision is a must and company also very important. Delhi looks the best place with all facilities for shooters, including medical,” she said. Deepali pointed out that a long camp would address a lot of things effectively. Comfort zones “A longer camp is required to recover the time lost. We will get enough time to settle down in the new training environment with all safety measures. “On the technical front, it is a tougher task to get shooters back from their comfort zones to the same level as they were in February before the lockdown. We need time for all these. “If we have a long camp, we don’t have to rush into the next camp,” said Deepali.
16 September 2020||Chennai,||Ruturaj still not fit||The timeline for recovery from COVID-19 is different for different people. While seamer Deepak Chahar is already back bowling in the Chennai Super Kings nets, Ruturaj Gaikwad, who tested positive just a day after Chahar, is still not out of quarantine. Speaking to The Hindu from Dubai, CSK CEO, K.S. Viswanathan said, “The recovery period cannot be the same for everybody. Ruturaj has to test negative on successive days. And he has to pass the cardiovascular tests conducted by the BCCI.” Viswanathan added, “I have been speaking to Ruturaj over the phone everyday. He is alright and is asymptomatic.” The hard-hitting 23-year-old Ruturaj’s slow progress from COVID makes him a doubtful starter for CSK’s first two matches. This also bolsters the experienced M. Vijay’s chances.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Thomas and Uber Cups postponed||The Badminton World Federation (BWF) has decided to postpone the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup, scheduled at Aarhus (Denmark) from October 3 to 11, until next year. Badminton Association of India (BAI) secretary Ajay Singhania said: “BAI stands by this decision taken by the BWF considering the health and safety of all concerned.” “It is good that the organisers have taken this decision. Player safety is important and it is not the right time to play and take a huge risk on the health front,” P.V. Sindhu told The Hindu in Hyderabad. Asian nations to blame Talking to PTI, former India coach Vimal Kumar blamed the withdrawals by Asian nations like Indonesia and Korea for the postponement calling it a “big setback” for the sport.
16 September 2020||Hyderabad,||The biggest task is motivating players, says Muralitharan||Sunrisers Hyderabad bowling coach Muttiah Muralitharan felt the biggest challenge for the players would be in motivating themselves in different playing conditions in Dubai when the IPL begins on September 19. “They (players) are used to playing in front of huge crowds and SRH has been such a strong side at home. “But, here you will have to play in front of empty stands because of the pandemic,” Murali said during an online media interaction from Dubai on Tuesday. “Yes, the biggest task for us is to motivate them and how to adapt to the conditions. At the same time, it can be easy too as they have nothing else other than cricket,” the 48-year-old spin legend said. “The pitches are bound to be different at all three venues this time,” he said. Middle-order bolstered “Last season SRH felt the middle-order was weak. So, we bolstered that department with some exciting young talent who will get their chances to prove themselves,” Murali said. “Every team has match-winning spinners. It is a misconception that only leggies can be successful in T20 format. “I believe the offies have better control. “Ultimately it all boils down to how capable one is in a given situation,” Murali said. “They (Tom Moody and Trevor Bayliss) are different individuals with different styles and thinking. “We will see how the boys respond to the new ways of Bayliss (replacing Moody), who has an excellent record,” he said. “Essentially, we will be working to ensure the players’ confidence is on a high,” he said. Impose penalty runs On ‘Mankading’, Murali felt that warning from the umpires and imposing five penalty runs for the erring team would be enough to prevent such incidents.
16 September 2020||ROME,||Kerber bows out; Rublev advances||Angelique Kerber fell to a straight-set defeat against Czech Katerina Siniakova in the Rome Masters on Tuesday even as Russian seventh seed Andrey Rublev eased through to the second round defeating Facundo Bagnis 6-4, 6-4. Three-time Grand Slam winner Kerber crashed out 6-3, 6-1 in 68 minutes.  Important results (first round): Men: John Millman bt Joao Sousa 7-5, 7-6(2); Andrey Rublev bt Facundo Bagnis 6-4, 6-4; Denis Shapovalov bt Guido Pella 6-2, 6-3.   On Monday: Men: Jannik Sinner bt Benoit Paire 6-2, 6-1. Women: Katerina Siniakova bt Angelique Kerber 6-3, 6-1; Marketa Vondrousova bt Misaki Doi 6-1, 4-6, 6-4 .  Murray gets wildcard for French Open Andy Murray has received a wild card for the French Open. The former No. 1 was the only non-Frenchman of eight players to be given a free pass into the main draw of the Grand Slam which starts in 13 days. Murray was also awarded a wild card in the US Open recently.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Added SOPs for SAI camps||With more national sports federations restarting training accompanied by more cases of COVID-19 cases among elite athletes, SAI has now issued additions to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for new trainees. All athletes, coaches and support staff will have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR test at least 96 hours before travelling and will be allowed only on the production of a COVID negative certificate. In case it isn’t possible, the person will be tested on arrival, SAI said in a press release.
16 September 2020||LONDON,||Chelsea starts with a win||Chelsea got its Premier League campaign on track after lethal finishing coupled with some good luck gave it a 3-1 win at Brighton on Monday. Brighton had taken the game to Chelsea in the first half but fell behind later.   The results: Brighton 1 (Trossard 54) lost to Chelsea 3 (Jorginho 23-pen, James 56, Zouma 66); Sheffield United 0 lost to Wolves 2 (Jimenez 3, Saiss 6); Tottenham 0 lost to Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 55) .
16 September 2020||PARIS,||Murray gets French Open wild card||Andy Murray received a wild card for the French Open tennis tournament. The former World No. 1 was the only non-Frenchman of eight players to be given a free pass into the main draw. The tournament starts in 13 days. Murray was also awarded a wild card into the U.S. Open, after his struggles with injuries dropped his ranking to 129th.
16 September 2020||MUMBAI,||S.R. Patil passes away||Former Test cricketer Sadashiv Raoji Patil (S.R. Patil), passed away at his residence in Kolhapur, Maharashtra, on Tuesday. He was 86. Patil, a useful allrounder, led Maharashtra in Ranji Trophy besides representing India against New Zealand in what turned out to be his lone appearance in international cricket. His forte was the ability to swing the ball both ways. Besides his exploits in domestic circuit, Patil was a regular on the Mumbai maidans, representing the Tata group with success in Times Shield. Patil is survived by wife Sulabha and two daughters — Neeta Shinde and Deepa Khambe.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking stock||
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||His endless Vibhuti||When reading the tenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, every reader, along with Arjuna, is initiated into savouring the breath-taking experience of the Lord’s endless Vibhuti. It is no wonder that the spiritually conscious aspirant makes every effort to learn more about His glories and dwell on them, pointed out Swamini Satyavratananda in a discourse. The Lord states that He is the sole source of all His Vibhuti and also that there is no limit for His Vibhutis. Whatever He has explained is only a fraction of His greatness that always remains indescribable. The entire universe with all the galaxies, the sun, moon etc., and the wonderful world of nature, beings, and so on that are subject to constant change stand testimony to His glories; but they also indicate that what is revealed is a speck of His infinitude. This is similar to the fact that the wave in the vast ocean at best is only a very inadequate representation of what the ocean really is. While to know Him fully is impossible, it is possible to appreciate His intricacies of His creation. Whatever is manifest, animate or inanimate, movable or static, owes its existence to Him. He animates the entire universe and pervades every aspect of it. The sun, moon and the stars shine owing to His prabhava. While all things and beings are supported by Him, the special display of beauty and splendour in many aspects of creation reveals Him more than others. Is it not a great wonder that the thumb print in each one is distinct and unique and cannot be replicated? Who can fathom His greatness? None can claim that he knows God fully. Even the Vedas accept their inability when they try to describe His greatness. In fact, it is not necessary to know His greatness fully. Merely to realise Him as the only eternal truth is sufficient.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 07:46 IST,||Sudoku - September 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A rainbow of stories||“One of the highs of my career as an artist was when a person I met at an exhibition wrote to me about how he had used one of my paintings to come out to his parents, something he had struggled with for years,” says Veer Misra, a 24-year old graphic designer, illustrator and artist. Veer uses his art to tell tales from the queer community and normalise their experiences of coming out, finding a partner and falling in love. “Coming out is just a part of the process, there is so much more to our lives. We have relationships like any other heterosexual person and that involves dating, longing for a partner and heartbreak. When we tell stories from the queer community, these should also have a share, so that any person struggling to accept his or her sexuality understands that it is a normal life even if society makes you think otherwise. I want to show the mundane life of queer people,” says Veer, a Delhi-based artist who shares his work on Instagram at @v.eird. Even as the Central government on September 14 opposed a plea filed before the Delhi High Court seeking recognition and registration of same-sex marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act (1956), stating that ‘our values don’t recognise it’, there is a new generation of queer artists trying to normalise non-binary gender. Projecting stories of struggle and survival through their art on social media, they give themselves, and their community, the long-due appropriate representation in society. “A lot of factors have contributed to this. For instance, the wide access to Internet and penetration of social media, especially Instagram. In the last two years, there has been a boom in India’s queer art scene and one of the reasons is the Supreme Court’s decision to decriminalise homosexuality. These artists that we see today, existed even before the judgment came out, but they shared their artworks in closed groups. Reading down Section 377 helped them to be fearless and flaunt their sexuality. Media, like Bollywood, with mass appeal, have largely shown queer characters in a humiliating manner,” says Anwesh Sahoo, a visual artist and model who won Mr. Gay World India in the year 2016.  Anwesh, who runs the Instagram handle @the.effeminare, challenges the stereotype of how a man should look by flaunting flared pants, high heels, faux feather gloves and sheer dresses. “We all grew up in a hetero-normative society, so the definition of a man is ingrained in our minds. But in the last two years, there has been a shift in perception,” says Anwesh, who recently graduated from the National Institute of Fashion Technology in New Delhi. Like Anwesh, Bengaluru-based artist T. Praveen Kumar believes that making LGBTQIA+ stories a part of the everyday narrative will help normalise non-binary identities. “As a child, I found art as my mode of expressing the struggle of accepting my sexuality. These sketches helped people around me understand what I was going through. Giving queer artists equal representation not only helps in normalising same-sex relationships in society, but also instils a sense of acceptance and confidence in the artist.” Through his Instagram page, @koncham_artsy, Praveen aims to make the lives of transgender individuals in rural parts of the country visible. “Bigger cities have pride parades and support groups but in rural areas, people are still struggling,” he says. “Through my work, I try to bring these stories of trans individuals to a bigger platform, for their share of representation.”
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Scaling a new pitch||“It is heartwarming to perform and speak to listeners during an online concert. It gives us hope during these difficult times,” says singer Shilpa Rao of her live session from her home in Mumbai on Homejam, a digital platform, that lets in only 24 members at a time. A few days ago, Benny Dayal went live from his home in New Jersey for fans in the U.S., Canada and Australia on the same platform. Other artistes hosted by Homejam include Haricharan, Andreah Jeremiah and Srinivas. The music industry has switched to digital platforms due to the pandemic-induced restrictions on live events. While the initial days of the lockdown saw many of them going live on their social media handles, enabling fans to listen and interact with them for free, over the past few months, they have been switching to ticketed concerts as a source of income. Going by the response to these concerts, it looks like the artistes are in it for the long haul. Platforms such as Paytm Insider and BookMyShow have seen a steady rise in ticketed virtual performances. Paytm Insider, for example, has over 70 programmes scheduled this month, with tickets priced from Rs. 40 onwards. “There has been a three- to four-time increase in the number of online music events. Regional musicians and bands are performing as well, thus crossing geographical and language barriers,” says Varun Khare, business head — live entertainment (IPs and Partnerships), Paytm Insider. “Besides Zoom-based events, we have a new streaming facility that supports high resolution videos and enhances the audience experience as they can interact with the artiste,” he Varun says. Initially, pharmaceutical companies came forward to fund online concerts to boost the morale of their employees, doctors and health workers, says Tarsame Mittal, founder of Mumbai-based TM Talent Management, an artist management firm. “Even though not all artistes are keen about digital platforms, this is the only option now. Amit Trivedi, Vishal-Sekhar, Sukhwinder Singh, Anusha Mani, Divya Kumar and Mohammed Irfan are some of the musicians who have performed for us,” he says. Exploring a new space Up-and-coming artistes as well as seasoned performers are moving into the digital space. Bhoomi, a Kolkata-based urban folk band formed 21 years ago, will have its first digital concert on September 20 on Paytm Insider. Soumitra Ray, 60-year-old founder of Bhoomi, says, “The pandemic has forced us to find a new performance space. Even if we don’t make a profit, we are happy that people will be entertained.” Musicians have adapted to the situation by setting up high quality broadcasting studios and equipment at home. (This costs between Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 2 lakh.) Several studios in the metros and major cities are now providing facilities for singers and bands to shoot gigs and stream them live or ‘deferred’ live. M.T. Aditya Srinivasan, co-founder of Chennai-based Offbeat Music Ventures, says there has been an increase in the number of artistes coming in to do gigs. “We have a studio-cum-performance space and have partnered with some streaming platforms as well,” says Aditya, adding that their job also involves “taking care of COVID-19 protocol”. Govind Vasantha, frontman of Kerala-based Thaikkudam Bridge, is excited that the band finally got together after six months for a show, albeit a digital one. They recorded a one-hour session at MIJ studio in Kochi for a U.S.-based retail giant to be streamed in connection with their annual conference next month. “We made a lot of mistakes! We were worried — but we got it right after a few songs. Good that there was no audience to listen to us,” he says. Wonderwall Media, which manages the band, has been organising recorded and live shows for corporate clients and cultural organisations in the U.S. and West Asia. They held events featuring singers, including one for the Detroit Malayalee Association, streamed during Onam. It featured Sithara Krishnakumar, Sayanora Philip, K.S. Harishankar, Sachin Warrier and Anoop Sankar. “We recorded sessions for cultural associations in Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Qatar, Paris and Singapore. Since live streaming comes with technical glitches, many clients prefer recorded gigs. We also customise the performances, say with the client’s logo, if needed,” says Lakshmi Venugopal, head (corporate communications), Wonderwall Media. While MNCs are the major clients and organisers of digital shows, the NRI community is also funding concerts. Sitar maestro Purbayan Chatterjee and his wife, ghazal exponent Gayatri Asokan, have been performing from their home in Mumbai for a few such organisations in the U.S. “Last year, we had toured the U.S. for a month and some of those organisers arranged for digital concerts. There are about 100 people for each concert. Since people are paying to listen to us, it became important to invest in a high quality studio,” Gayatri says. Nevertheless, the musicians admit that digital concerts are not money-spinners. “If leading artistes earn 70-80% of their usual remuneration, lesser-known musicians are getting even less. An artiste who used to charge two lakh is now happy to take home Rs. 40,000-50,000,” points out Sujith Unnithan, COO, Wonderwall Media. That happens mainly because organisers and listeners presume that they need to pay less for digital concerts, says Harish Sivaramakrishnan, frontman of the Carnatic rock band, Agam. “I am doing online shows because it is one way to stay connected with fans and I am one of the fortunate few who is getting paid for this. A lot of musicians are forced to do it for free,” adds Harish.   Nevertheless some artistes say they enjoy performing for small crowds. “I have been doing live shows from my home for large as well as small groups. There is a personal touch when there are few people. In fact, I got emotional when a listener from the U.S. wanted me to dedicate a song to her mother fighting COVID-19. I sang ‘Kanne kalaimane’ for her,” says Haricharan. “But...”, he adds, “I miss performing with my band, travelling with them and the energy on stage. And, of course, the applause.”
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Record testing done in Capital; active cases near 30,000 mark||As many as 4,263 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,25,796, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The city also witnessed the highest number of tests conducted in a single day — 62,669. The Capital, however, did not report a record number of cases as the positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) is currently at 6.8% — the lowest since August 19, when the rate was 6.7%.   Sisodia stable, has fever Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who tested positive for the virus on Monday, is now stable, though he has fever, said sources. “His fever comes and goes, but he is fine and his oxygen levels are in the required range. He is under home quarantine,” a source in the Aam Aadmi Party said. The city has also reported 36 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 4,806. Of the total cases, 1,91,203 people have recovered and there are now 29,787 active cases. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to a record 1,560. “The Chief Secretary holds a daily review meeting with all District Magistrates (DMs) where cases, positivity rate and containment zones are discussed. The DMs have been instructed to create more containment zones, especially micro-containment zones, to check the spread of the virus,” a Delhi government official said. Out of the total 14,482 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 54.02% are vacant; 60.8% of ICU beds with ventilators are occupied, and 64.6% of ICU beds without ventilators are occupied, as per government data on Tuesday.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cases of COVID-19, dengue co-infection rising: doctors||Delhi is registering a rise in co-infection of dengue and COVID-19 with doctors now warning that this combination could enhance the severity of both diseases. “Most cases of COVID-19 and dengue are asymptomatic (about 80%), and in a setting of co-infection one disease might enhance the severity of the other,” Ashutosh Biswas, professor of Medicine at AIIMS-Delhi, told The Hindu . False positives He further noted that false positivity is high among co-infection cases, which can create diagnostic challenges. Delhi is currently registering a spike in both dengue and COVID-19 cases as per official health department data. “Both the viral diseases do not have any specific antiviral drug or vaccine and therefore treatment depends on clinical conditions and symptoms,” he added. AIIMS authorities said 53 dengue cases have been admitted to the hospital so far this year, out of which 42 were reported during the ongoing pandemic. “Emergence of co-infection of COVID-19 and dengue is expected to be a serious public health challenge. Rising dengue cases will create more pressure on an already overburdened health system,” said doctors. It is also difficult to distinguish symptoms of the two diseases due to overlapping initial clinical presentations and laboratory parameters. “Both COVID-19 and dengue have unpredictable clinical courses and both generally require hospital monitoring for management. Most hospitals are busy managing COVID-19 and very little window is open for tackling another disease outbreak. IV Fluid therapy is challenging in co-infected patients due to early development of ARDS/pulmonary oedema, and treatment with low molecular weight heparin for management of COVID-19 may enhance bleeding in the presence of dengue, especially with low platelet count,” said Dr. Biswas. Doctors added that besides diagnostic and treatment challenges there is “limited experience” in tackling such situation and the “paucity of medical literature on management of such co-infection cases has kept everyone in dark”.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP criticises BJP for ‘anti-farmer’ laws||Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday slammed the BJP for bringing in alleged “anti-farmer” laws such as Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The party said it will oppose these Bills in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Addressing a press conference, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann said: “Yesterday [Monday], the BJP tabled the Agricultural Ordinance Bill. It was noted that it was a revolutionary Bill, but the Bill will actually destroy the lives of the farmers. The Bill is a step towards privatising the farming industry. The MSP will be finished and the Bill will give a clear freehand to the private players. Earlier, the BJP has privatised the banks, LIC, railways etc and now they have targeted the agricultural lands. The farmers across India are protesting against this Bill.” Mr. Mann claimed that to save a Cabinet post, the Shiromani Akali Dal has “sold out” the rights of the farmers of Punjab and if the SAD really wants to support their rights, then they must vote against the Bill in Parliament. “Yesterday [Monday], the Union Minister also said that when the discussion and planning of these Bills were taking place, the CM of Punjab also supported this. I want to ask the Congress to clarify its position. On one side, they are opposing the Bill and on the other, they are supporting the Bill. Tomorrow while we raise our voice inside Parliament, the Punjab unit of the party will hold a tractor march in front of the house of SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal,” said Mr. Mann.
16 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM seeks apology from Union Minister Danve||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has sought an apology from Union Minister Raosaheb Danve, accusing him of giving a misleading statement regarding the State’s stand on the farm ordinances in Parliament. Referring to Mr. Danve’s statement in the Lok Sabha on September 14 about Punjab being on board regarding the farm ordinances, Captain Amarinder said the remarks of the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution were aimed at defaming the Congress and its government in the State. The Chief Minister said in a statement that at no point did the high-power committee make any suggestion about bringing these “anti-farmers ordinances”, which the Centre introduced amid the pandemic and has now placed in Parliament for enactment. “The Minister should apologise immediately,” said Capt. Amarinder. He said his government has consistently and persistently opposed any move to dilute the rights and interests of farmers not only in the high-power committee on agricultural reforms but in the State Assembly and on all public forums. Capt. Amarinder also said the presentation of the ordinances in Parliament had totally exposed the farce of Shiromani Akali Dal’s pretence of protecting the interests of the farmers of Punjab.  ‘Akali Dal exposed’ “With the BJP-led NDA government going ahead with laying the ordinances on the table of the House on the very first day of the Parliament session, instead of accepting SAD’s so-called plea to defer the same, the Akali charade on the issue had been laid bare,” said the Chief Minister. “The fact that Sukhbir Singh Badal had stayed away from the House on Monday, when the ordinances were presented for legislation, showed that the entire drama of seeking postponement of their enactment was played out by the SAD chief to appease the farmer organisations, which have been up in arms against the ordinances,” he added.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Slum dwellers should be shifted to 52,000 vacant houses: BJP||Residents of slums near railway tracks should be shifted to 52,000 vacant houses available with the Delhi government within two months as these houses have been built for them in the first place, the BJP Opposition said here on Tuesday. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri demanded the Delhi government that they should be immediately shifted to houses lying vacant with all civic amenities such as electricity, water, schools, dispensaries, parks and roads within two months. Past promise “In 2019, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government has built 65,000 houses for slum dwellers but the fact is that the Delhi government has not built any,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “When Kejriwal says that he is the son of slum dwellers why has he not built permanent houses for them till now? Why has there been no survey or a tender for this purpose?” he asked. While the Delhi government had, allegedly, deprived the people of Delhi from the benefits of the PMAY and Ayushman Bharat schemes, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which comes under the Central government, has started the survey work for 192 slum colonies on its land. Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta alleged that the Delhi government had called a one-day Special Session of the Assembly “just for formality” and “justice was not done” regarding subjects related to public good. “In 2013, the Delhi government had received Rs. 68,000 per person from the 5,173 slum dwellers living in JJ clusters for houses, which was a total of Rs. 39.40 crore. Slum dwellers are paying the interest of that loan till date but the Delhi government did not give them a single house,” he alleged.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Over 80,000 litres of oil stolen from transformer, alleges power discom||The electricity discom — BSES — on Tuesday said nearly 88,000 liters of oil had been stolen from 120 of its transformers in the last 18 months, leading to instances of disruption. Since April 2020, nearly 40 cases have been reported, the discom said. In the last few months, oil has been stolen from distribution transformers areas of south, west, east and central Delhi. Even though the discom has been working closely with the police to crackdown on the menace, thefts have been taking place from live transformers even when they have been locked and surrounded by steel fencing, they added. The discom has taken several measures to contain the menace, including increased vigilance, especially during night hours, coordinating with RWAs, deployment of Quick Response Teams, installation sensors in vulnerable pockets that sends out alarms.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi BJP office to be sanitised after 17 employees test positive for virus||The Delhi BJP’s headquarters on Pant Marg will remain shut for sanitisation on Wednesday after 17 staff members residing on its premises tested positive for COVID-19. Delhi BJP media cell head Ashok Goel said no party leader or office bearer tested positive after a batch of 42 individuals were tested for the novel coronavirus. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta is down with viral fever and has been advised rest over the coming week. Tested twice, both his reports for COVID-19 were negative. Sent to care centre “All the staff members and their families who live on Delhi BJP HQ premises were tested through rapid antigen test on Tuesday. Seventeen of them, including a guard, driver, and two peons tested positive for the virus,” Mr. Goel said. He added that all the people who were infected were sent to a COVID care centre and the office premises will be thoroughly sanitised on Wednesday. All those who came in contact with those who tested positive have been advised to get tested and follow preventive measures. Party leaders said the driver of Delhi BJP organisation secretary Siddharthan also tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Siddharthan has tested negative though. Four days ago, a peon of the Delhi BJP office was tested for COVID-19. He was found positive in the test result that came on Monday.
16 September 2020||Srinagar,||Abdullah, Lone take jibe at Kejriwal||As the centre moves to grant more discretionary powers to Lieutenant-Governor of Delhi, Peoples Conference (PC) chief Sajad Lone and National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah took pot shots at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Mr Kejriwal to be disempowered. What you supported Kejriwal was people-less J&K (on August 5, 2019). Now you will hopefully be an ornamental piece of decorative item in the Delhi government. The same way you supported people of J&K to be ornamental pieces,” Mr. Lone tweeted. Mr. Abdullah also took a jibe at Mr. Kejriwal for his party’s decision to vote for revocation of J&K’s special status last year. “When they came for us on 5th Aug 2019, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) happily supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Let’s see AAP support this piece of legislation now,” Mr. Abdullah tweeted. These remarks come in the backdrop of the Union Cabinet pushing for amendments to the GNCTD Act, 1991, and granting of addtional discretionary powers to the Delhi L-G during this session of Parliament.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||EDMC Mayor asks CM to release pending funds||East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Mayor Nirmal Jain wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, demanding the release of outstanding funds worth Rs. 1,100. Highlighting financial stress, Mr. Jain said salaries of employees apart from sanitation workers had been pending for the last three months. The Mayor claimed that the EDMC had not been given any money under the ‘Basic Tax Assignment’ head, while other corporations of Delhi had got it. Requesting there be “no discrimination” against the EDMC in budget allocation, he asked the CM to ensure the prescribed amount under the BTA was released at the earliest.
16 September 2020||September 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Selling point||
16 September 2020||Noida,||152 fresh COVID-19 cases in Noida||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday recorded 152 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s infection tally to 10,482, official data showed. The number of active cases came down to 1,928 from 1,979 on Monday and 2,008 on Sunday, according to the data released by the U.P. Health Department for a 24-hour period. On the brighter side, 201 more patients got discharged during the period and the total number of recoveries in the district reached 8,506.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP blames BJP for tax hike by SDMC||The AAP on Tuesday lambasted the BJP for an alleged increase in taxes introduced by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and termed it as inhumane and against promises made by the latter before the elections. “The BJP-ruled civic bodies are trying to destroy the morale of the businessmen by hiking various taxes. The SDMC has arbitrarily increased various taxes, which will affect nearly 20,000-25,000 businessmen and traders of Delhi,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak at a press conference. He said the taxes on all the commercial and industrial rental buildings have been increased by 100% and the tax on commercial vacant buildings by 50%. Also, the taxes on vacant land, commercial, residential or farmhouse etc., have increased by 67%. “Everyone knows that the poor people use banquet halls and baraat ghar the most because of their affordability, and the taxes on banquet halls, baraat ghars, hotels, guest houses have been increased by 25%. The taxes on education sites which are schools and fall under category A-F have been increased by around 200%,” Mr. Pathak said. The AAP leader said when the BJP came in power in the 2017 municipal corporation elections, then Delhi BJP chief, Manoj Tiwari, had said they would not impose or increase any arbitrary taxes. “But today, they have started looting the public of Delhi...,” he added.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Will not allow relocation without an alternative’||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday said it will mount a strong fight and even hit the streets, if necessary, to ensure that the jhuggi dwellers along the railway tracks are not removed till alternate accommodation is given to them. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar was thanked by the slum dwellers for the party’s intervention by approaching the Supreme Court. “Neither the AAP government nor the BJP has bothered to approach the SC to reconsider its order to demolish the jhuggis along the railway tracks. It is a question of life and death for these poor people, which the power-drunk BJP and Kejriwal governments do not understand,” Mr. Kumar said. He alleged that both parties have taken no interest in relocating the people living in JJ clusters despite having made similar promises.
16 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central nod for Haryana rail project||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Tuesday approved the 121.7 km Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor Project, which is expected to be completed in five year at an estimated cost of Rs. 5,617 crore. Under the project, the rail line will start from Palwal, Haryana, and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station (on Delhi-Ambala section) in Sonipat, Haryana, while providing connectivity enroute to existing Patli station (on Delhi-Rewari line), Sultanpur station (on Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar Line) and Asaudha station (on Delhi Rohtak Line). The project will be implemented by the Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, a joint venture company set up by the Ministry of Railways and the Government of Haryana, an official statement said.
16 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal CM tests positive||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu has tested positive for COVID-19 a day after meeting Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi. “I had undergone Covid test RT-PCR and have tested positive for Covid19. I am asymptomatic and feeling healthy,” the Chief Minister tweeted on Tuesday.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Police destroy over 16,000 quarter bottles of illegal liquor||The Delhi Police on Monday destroyed over 16,000 quarter bottles of illicit liquor, which were seized from south Delhi, officials said on Tuesday.
16 September 2020||New Delhi,||Second day of Seva Saptah||On the second day of the Seva Saptah programme organised by the BJP on the occasion of the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many events were held at various locations. Union Ministers, National office-bearers, MPs, State office-bearers, MLAs participated in activities, including blood donation camps and food distribution programs. The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha's Delhi unit honored 70 chaiwalaas in 70 legislative assemblies of Delhi led by BJYM Delhi president Sunil Yadav.
