16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Industries operating in rural areas to reopen on April 20||Wearing face covers and masks is now compulsory in public places and workplaces, spitting in public is a punishable offence and selling liquor, gutka and tobacco is strictly prohibited. All industries operating in rural areas and the government’s flagship rural jobs scheme will also be allowed to reopen from April 20 if they follow social distancing norms and other safeguards against the COVID-19 infection. These are some of the directives in a fresh order issued on Wednesday by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to manage the pandemic. The lockdown is scheduled to end on May 3. People violating quarantine will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes six months imprisonment, if convicted. In the case of containment zones or hotspots, there will be a strict perimeter control. The State governments may impose stricter measures as per requirement in local areas, the order issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said. Apart from rural industries, the guidelines permit the construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas. Construction of renewable energy projects will be allowed. In urban areas, only in situ construction projects will be allowed if workers are available on site. Brick kilns in rural areas can resume work.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight hotspot dists. in Telangana||As many as eight districts in the State have been declared hotspot districts with large incidence of COVID-19 cases. These districts formed part of the list released by the Centre classifying different districts across the country on the basis of large incidence--hotspot districts with clusters and non-hotspot districts which reported COVID-19 positive cases. The announcement comes in the light of marked rise in the number of COVID positive cases in the State since the past few days. Hyderabad district which reported more than 300 COVID positive cases, Nizamabad which reported significant increase in the cases over the past few days, Warangal Urban, Rangareddy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Karimnagar and Nirmal have been declared hotspot districts. Nalgonda has been categorised as district with hotspot clusters while Suryapet, Adilabad, Mahbubnagar, Kamareddy, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak, Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Jagtial, Jangaon, Bhupalpally, Asifabad, Mulug, Peddapalli, Nagarkurnool, Mahbubabad, Rajanna-Sircilla and Siddipet districts have been placed under the non-hotspot districts which reported COVID-19 positive cases.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||Two more COVID-19 deaths in State||Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, taking the toll to 12. Wednesday also saw 19 new cases, the highest so far on a single day, taking the total number of cases in the State to 279. These include 12 deaths and 80 people discharged. While three are in the ICU, the condition of others, including a pregnant woman, is stable. While a 65-year-old male patient, a resident of Chickballapur who was referred from a private hospital in Bengaluru to the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre in Victoria Hospital, died early on Wednesday, an 80-year-old female patient, a resident of Hirebagewadi in Belagavi, died in a designated hospital there. The former had tested positive for H1N1 and had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and obstructive sleep apnea apart from other comorbidities. Of the 19 new cases, 10 are from Mysuru, including nine Nanjangud pharma company workers. Of the remaining cases, three are from Vijayapura, two each from Bengaluru Urban and Bagalkot, and one case each from Belagavi and Kalaburagi, where a one-year-old child has been infected. One of the Bagalkot patients is a policeman. Nanjangud source Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told presspersons on Wednesday that the Health and Family Welfare Department had now learnt that several visitors from the U.S., Germany, China, and Japan had come to the pharma company in Nanjangud between February 4 and 18 and could have possibly spread the infection. “The first patient from the company developed symptoms on March 13 and he tested positive on March 24. The company owner is not available for tests as he is in Delhi. We are trying to trace him there. As many as 780 samples of the pharma company have been tested and 46 have tested positive,” he said. Samples test negative Meanwhile, samples drawn from the raw material imported by the company have been tested negative for novel coronavirus. Additional Director-General of Police Parashiva Murthy told reporters in Mysuru on Wednesday that the National Institute of Virology, Pune, which tested the samples, had issued a report in this regard. As many people working in the company had tested positive for COVID-19, the Mysuru district police, which is investigating the source of the infection, had decided to test the raw material the firm had imported from China. Mr. Suresh Kumar said all primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons and those with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness in the State will be tested from now on.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||170 districts identified as hotspots: Health Ministry||Nearly one in five districts in India is a hotspot, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday, a day that saw at least 1,036 COVID-19 infections. The government said it had classified every district into a hotspot, potential hotspot or a green zone. Of India’s 736 districts, 170 were ‘hotspots’, defined as places with at least 15 confirmed infections or where there was an exponential rise in cases. There were 207 ‘potential hotspots,’ Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, said at the daily media briefing. There were 11,439 confirmed cases and 377 deaths. A total of 1,306 people have been been discharged after recovery. Details of these districts were not shared but in all of these places —potential or not — testing would be ramped up to include checking even those who displayed ‘influenza-like illnesses’ and breathlessness. According to reports from the State Health Departments, the total number of cases rose to 12,380, of which 10,566 were active ones. While 422 people have died of the disease, 1,392 have recovered.  Special teams had been set up to trace all contacts and to conduct house-to-house surveys. These teams will include health staff, local revenue staff, corporation staff, Red Cross and volunteer groups who have undergone an online training course, Mr. Agrawal added. He said District Magistrates had the authority to declare regions as hotspots, and a protocol would be in place to check how a district was performing in containing the spread of the virus.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC strikes down GO on English medium in schools||The government suffered a major setback on Wednesday with the High Court striking down G.O. Ms No.85 (dated Nov 20, 2019) which made English medium compulsory from classes I to VI in primary, upper primary and high schools under all managements from 2020-21. It was to be gradually extended to each further class from the next consequent academic years. The petitioners — Sudheesh Rambhotla and Guntupalli Srinivas — had sought the declaration of the GO as ultra vires of the provisions of Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 and violative of Articles 14, 21 and 21-A of the Constitution. ‘Negative consequences’ They argued that if the impugned GO was implemented, there would be a high possibility of students who were not well versed with English, being forced to take instructions in that language, which amounts to deprivation of effective education. It would be a violation of Article 21-A. Also, since most of the children coming to government schools belong to the economically weaker sections, their parents would not be able to guide their children and that would be a wastage of their first and best chance of learning. It may be noted that the A.P Education Act 1/1982 (Amendment) Bill, 2019 which gave legal sanctity to the GO, was passed by the Assembly in January without accommodating the changes suggested by the Legislative Council. ‘Will move SC if needed’ Meanwhile, Education Minister A. Suresh said the government would examine the option of approaching the Supreme Court after going through a copy of the judgment. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Suresh said the government was yet to receive a copy of the judgment. He accused the TDP of politicising the verdict.
16 April 2020||Ghaziabad/LUCKNOW,||Doctor injured after crowd attacks officials in Moradabad||Three persons including a doctor were injured as a crowd attacked a Health Department team which went to take samples for COVID-19 in the Nawabpura area of Moradabad on Wednesday, police said. The area was declared a hotspot after one person from the area passed away on April 13 allegedly because of the virus. According to a Health Department official, a person passed away on April 13 after being tested positive for COVID-19. “He was admitted to a private hospital on April 8 for high fever and his sample was taken on April 9. On Wednesday, a team led by a doctor went to take samples of family members and to take his brother, who had become symptomatic, to institutional quarantine,” he said. However, suddenly a crowd stopped the ambulance and pelted stones on the vehicle and team members “A doctor and a pharmacist were injured. The team members were heckled and their PPE suits were torn off. The four policemen who went with the team had to retreat. One of them was also injured.” A police team led by Superintendent of Police Amit Anand had to rush with Shehar Imam Masoom Azad to restore normalcy. Amit Pathak, Senior Superintendent of Police, Moradabad, told reporters a crowd of around 150 people attacked the ambulance when the medical team was taking the family of the deceased for quarantine. “We will identify the miscreants and take strict action against them,” he said. Police sources said at least a dozen, including 5 women, were taken into custody.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jobless workers stranded on Yamuna floodplains||Out of work since the nationwide lockdown was announced and with no means of travelling back to their villages, hundreds of migrant workers living on the Yamuna floodplain near Kashmere Gate said that for over a week now, they had been surviving on one meal a day. With the mercury touching 40 degrees on Wednesday, the workers sat in groups, some huddling beneath trees while others crowding under a flyover over the river. “Social distancing”, as advised by authorities, was a concept “beyond imagination” for them, the workers said. ‘No soap’ Mohammad Shadab, a native of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, said, “We have been here since the lockdown was announced. We get food once a day and that too from the nearby gurdwara. Authorities are saying maintain distance and wash hands regularly. How do they expect us to do that? We do not have soaps here and cannot even take a proper bath. What hygiene will we be able to maintain?” Following media reports on the issue, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Wednesday evening, in a tweet claimed that arrangements had been made for the workers and that orders to shift them out immediately had been passed. “There is no shortage of food or shelter facilities. If anyone is hungry or homeless, then do let us know,” the tweet added. ‘Thrashed by police’ Approximately 4 km away from the Chief Minister’s residence, hidden behind rows of greenery, the labourers waiting on the floodplains, however, complained that they were often “thrashed” by police personnel and made to shift from one location to another. Mangal, 45, a resident of Jharkhand, said, “The cops keeps thrashing us and ask us to move from one place to another. Earlier, we had been pushed to the corner of the banks. In two weeks, we moved bit by bit and have reached this particular spot. Sometimes, they take us in buses and then drop us back here as the shelters have also run out of space. Things have worsened since the scuffle at Kashmere Gate shelter home last Saturday.” Narendra Pandya, who used to work in a hardware shop in Lal Kuan, added, “For the last several days, we have been simply sitting here and idling away our time. All that we get is food once a day. We are constantly asked to move from one place to another but not given a proper roof over our heads.” With the second phase of lockdown beginning, Mr. Pandya said, “I have lived in this city for almost a decade and have earned my bread by working hard. Look at what life has come to now.” Utkarsh Goswami, 32, an Uttarakhand resident who used to work in restaurants here, said, “People are talking about the threat of the virus. But hunger will kill us even before the virus is able to reach us.”
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State may ease lockdown in low-risk areas||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Cabinet will consider on Thursday various options to ease the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in low-risk localities in a staggered manner. Mr. Vijayan expressed concern that the Centre had not announced its relief package for States. “Let us hope it is in the offing,” he said. The threat of the epidemic persisted. The State could not afford the virulence to outpace its health infrastructure, he said. Enhanced vigilance The crucial period till April 20 required enhanced vigilance and rigorous imposition of social distancing norms. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged it in his address to the nation. The government received the guidelines issued by the Centre for imposing the second phase of the lockdown. He reiterated that easing the restrictions of lockdown and relaxing vigil could lead to a spurt in cases. After April 20, the State would have more latitude in modifying its lockdown measures in a region-specific manner. No inter-district travel However, the government would not allow public transport; gatherings of more than two people; and religious, social and sporting events. The clampdown on inter-State and inter-district travel would continue. The government has already exempted farm and plantation workers from the shutdown. The public could expect more such exemptions as the lockdown progressed. However, the State would require more time to return to the pre-COVID-19 levels of normalcy. NoRKs issue The UAE government has commandeered buildings to house Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) requiring treatment or observation for COVID-19. He said the State would ensure the unimpeded movement of raw materials to Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu for making match sticks. The government has informed the Karnataka government of the difficulties faced by Keralites who have leased arable land in the neighbouring State to farm ginger. The Chief Minister asked the police to keep high vigil on railway tracks and trains used for maintaining the rolling stock, overhead electric and signal lines. He pointed out that people were illegally crossing into the State on trains coming to the State for signal maintenance. Three such persons, who are railway employees, had been found and put in quarantine. He asked the Railway Police to be more vigilant about such incidents. The government had prioritised waste disposal and conservation of drinking water sources, he said. Private stage carriage services have time till April 30 to remit their tax.  The Centre has not announced its relief package for States. Let us hope it is in the offing. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,||38 new cases, two deaths in T.N.||On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu recorded 38 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 1,242. Two patients — aged 47 and 59 — died, while 37 were discharged after treatment. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said a postgraduate doctor was among the 38 persons who tested positive for COVID-19. Of the remaining, 34 patients were connected to the “single source event”, while three had contact history. The 47-year-old man was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). His sample was among 60 lifted from patients hospitalised with SARI, and returned positive for COVID-19. He died on Wednesday. Another patient, a 59-year-old man, admitted to a private hospital, was in a critical condition in the intensive care unit and died at 2.45 p.m., the Minister said. With this, the State has reported a total of 14 deaths. So far, 118 patients have been discharged from hospitals, he said. Nine patients were sick, he added. A total of 1,876 persons were admitted to isolation facilities in hospitals. Nagapattinam and Tiruvallur districts recorded seven cases each, while there were six in Erode. Five persons from Chennai, three each in Salem and Chengalpattu, two in Tiruvarur, and one each from Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Tirunelveli, Vellore reported positive. The Minister said: “So far, we have tested a total of 21,994 samples. We have tested a total of 17,835 individuals. Today, we have lifted 2,739 samples for testing.” he said. The State has got approval for one more testing facility at PSG, Coimbatore. With this, it now has 26 testing facilities — 16 of them in the government sector. The Minister said that additional manpower had been deployed on three shifts at all government testing facilities. “Each laboratory has a capacity of 270 per day. The capacity of private laboratories is 100. Taking all 26 labs into account, we can test up to 5,320 persons a day using the RT PCR kits,” he explained. An order for 1.35 lakh RT-PCR kits had been placed, and the current stock position was one lakh kits. In addition, the State had received 20,000 kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research, he said.  No community spread  He said that healthcare workers were carrying out door-to-door checks in containment zones and persons with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) were also being tested. “Persons with ILI and SARI are testing negative for COVID-19. There is no community spread in the State,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said. He added that as per data for the last three days, the number of samples lifted for testing was increasing, while the number of positive cases was decreasing. “This statistics shows that the situation is under control but all measures will continue,” he said.  Containment measures  There were 558 containment sectors in 34 districts where surveillance measures were continuing. “Wherever we get positive cases, a seven-km radius is demarcated. Here, we screen all family members, primary and secondary contacts,” he said. He added that the Centre was declaring districts with more than 15 COVID-19 positive cases as hotspots. In reply to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s views that the State should have taken more precautionary measures, the Minister said that the State prepared early and had sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 146 crore to procure the required drugs. The State also made a bulk purchase of N95 masks, personal protective equipment and triple layer masks after sanctioning Rs. 204 crore. “There is an uninterrupted supply of triple layer masks, PPE and N95 masks for doctors. Our daily requirement of triple layer masks is 80,000 to one lakh but we have ensured a supply of two to three lakh triple layer masks per day. We are supplying 15,000 PPEs and 20,000 N95 masks every day,” he said.
16 April 2020||CHITTOOR,||No barricades for canine patients||They were pitted against a deadline, but 63-year-old Yesupadam and his daughter Priya had not anticipated that when they urgently brought Raja and Rosy to the Veterinary Hospital at Vepery in Chennai from across the border in Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Yesupadam and his 25-year-old daughter run Bhairava Ashram, a retreat for dogs at Rajulakandriga in Chittoor district. They were back in the evening after the canine duo underwent surgery. Returning the same day was crucial, as they could have been stranded in Chennai during the COVID-19 Janata Curfew. But when the 21-day lockdown started, the two were worried. The vets in Chennai had scheduled the next post-surgical visit on March 27. Mr. Yesupadam, referred to as Bhairava Swami, cares for 49 canines, mostly strays rescued with injuries, besides abandoned and old animals. Six-month-old Rosy had eye swelling, while Raja, six years old, was in agony due to a spine tumour. Mr. Yesupadam calls the inmates ‘bhairavas’ and feels hurt if anyone calls them dogs. With COVID-19 cases spiking, the inter-State border was sealed. On March 27, Mr. Yesupadam and Ms. Priya decided to cross the border at Uthukottai in Tamil Nadu. Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar ordered the Chittoor check-post to allow the duo with their dogs. The Tamil Nadu police, too, were kind to the canines. After treatment, the group returned to the ashram. But on March 31, Raja developed puss in the wound, while Rosy had eye complications. The vets advised a consultation and Mr. Yesupadam and Ms. Priya were back in Chennai. Raja’s sutures were to be removed early in April. “The surgeons asked us not to risk the lockdown again. We applied ointments and administered drugs. Rosy, too, is fine,” Ms. Priya said.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to receive normal monsoon, forecasts IMD||India will likely have a normal monsoon, with a chance of ‘above normal’ rain in August and September, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The IMD issues a two-stage forecast: the first in April, followed by a more detailed one in the last week of May, which will also illustrate how the monsoon will spread over the country. The IMD’s confidence stems largely from global weather models pointing to negligible chances of El Nino, a warming of the central equatorial Pacific that’s associated with the drying up of monsoon rain. It has also officially redefined the definition of what constitutes ‘normal’ rainfall and reduced it by 1 cm to 88 cm. The June-September rainfall accounts for 75% of the country’s annual rainfall. “Quantitatively, the monsoon seasonal rainfall is likely to be 100% of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of ± 5%. The LPA of the season rainfall over the country as a whole for the period 1961-2010 is 88 cm,” it said. The expectation of excess rain comes from a forecast by the dynamical model or the Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecast System — that relies on supercomputers, mathematically simulating the physics of the ocean and the atmosphere. According to this forecast, there is a “high probability (70%)” for the rainfall to be “above normal to excess”.
16 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. freezes WHO funding over coronavirus crisis||U.S. President Donald Trump has ordered a freeze on funding for the World Health Organization (WHO) for “mismanaging” the coronavirus crisis. With the world battling to get on top of the pandemic that has killed 1,25,000 people, Mr. Trump fired a broadside at the WHO and halted payments amounting to $400 million last year. Funding would be frozen pending a review into the WHO’s role in “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus,” said Mr. Trump, who accused the Geneva-based body of putting “political correctness above life-saving measures”. The outbreak could have been contained “with very little death” if the WHO had accurately assessed the situation in China, where the disease broke out late last year, charged Mr. Trump. Beijing hit back, saying the move was bad for the global fight. “This U.S. decision will weaken WHO’s capacities and undermine the international cooperation against the epidemic,” said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. to kick off MGNREGS work today||Tamil Nadu is all set to commence work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS) on Thursday. The start of work comes four days ahead of the date stipulated by the Central government. All work under the scheme was suspended on March 25 in the light of the lockdown on account of COVID-19. Anticipating the Centre’s nod for the launch of the work, the State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Directorate sent a communication on Monday to District Collectors for starting work immediately. In the last two days, muster rolls were prepared, said an official. Initially, only a few lakh workers are expected to turn up. Against the normal average number of 12 lakh workers a day, two-five lakh persons are expected to report for work every day in the coming days. The overall figure of active workers in the State is around 84 lakh. A total number of 27 crore persondays is proposed to be generated this year. Last year, the figure was around 24.85 crore. The State government has fixed the wage for the current year, which began on April 1, at Rs. 256 per day, a hike of Rs. 27 from the previous year. Apart from the directorate’s circular, the Union government has come out with standard operating procedures for the implementation of MGNREGS, to meet the challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The thrust would be on creating individual assets that lead to “sustainable increase” in income, while maintaining norms on physical distancing. Another important feature of the Centre’s SOP is that work should be provided to households that are listed as landless and manual casual labour or deprived as per the Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011; those belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes; beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) and families headed by women and differently abled. Several dos and don’ts have been stipulated in the directorate’s circular. Additional Collectors (Development) or Project Directors, District Rural Development Agency, have been told to ensure that lockdown conditions are not violated and the norms of physical distancing are “scrupulously followed”. Persons with cold, cough, breathing problems and mild fever are not to be engaged. Senior citizens are to be avoided. While adhering to the norms, works such as removal of silt from supply channels, digging of sunken pits and sunken ponds, trench cutting and pitting for massive tree plantation and roadside plantation can be taken up. Others include land development activities, pitting and planting of fruit-bearing trees and farmponds. In the last two days, muster rolls were prepared, said an official. Initially, only a few lakh workers are expected to turn up. Against the normal average number of 12 lakh workers a day, two-five lakh persons are expected to report for work every day in the coming days. The overall figure of active workers in the State is around 84 lakh. A total number of 27 crore persondays is proposed to be generated this year. Last year, the figure was around 24.85 crore. The State government has fixed the wage for the current year, which began on April 1, at Rs. 256 per day, a hike of Rs. 27 from the previous year. Apart from the directorate’s circular, the Union government has come out with standard operating procedures for the implementation of MGNREGS, to meet the challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The thrust would be on creating individual assets that lead to “sustainable increase” in income, while maintaining norms on physical distancing. Another important feature of the Centre’s SOP is that work should be provided to households that are listed as landless and manual casual labour or deprived as per the Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011; those belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes; beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) and families headed by women and differently abled. Several dos and don’ts have been stipulated in the directorate’s circular. Additional Collectors (Development) or Project Directors, District Rural Development Agency, have been told to ensure that lockdown conditions are not violated and the norms of physical distancing are “scrupulously followed”. Persons with cold, cough, breathing problems and mild fever are not to be engaged. Senior citizens are to be avoided. While adhering to the norms, works such as removal of silt from supply channels, digging of sunken pits and sunken ponds, trench cutting and pitting for massive tree plantation and roadside plantation can be taken up. Others include land development activities, pitting and planting of fruit-bearing trees and farmponds.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Health team attacked in U.P.||At Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, one of the largest markets for vegetables and fruits, the odd-even policy ordered by the AAP government remained a non-starter on Wednesday. The system seemed to be crumbling as only a small number of people were actually seen following the rules. Security personnel deployed there tried hard to bring order.page 2
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Chain reaction||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Protect rights of vulnerable’||The National Human Rights Commission has asked the Centre to issue an advisory to all States and Union Territories to implement the lockdown without violating rights. It urged the Centre to ensure that public officials “behave in a sensible manner with the people, particularly those belong-ing to vulnerable sections, respecting human rights relating to their life, liberty and dignity”.Page 11
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Only one fresh case in Kerala||Kerala has the highest COVID-19 recovery rate in the country, with 218 out of 387 patients so far recovering from the disease. Since the past week, the State has been registering more cases of recovery than positive cases. On Wednesday too, there was just one positive case, while the number of patients who recovered was seven.Page 5
16 April 2020||Vijayawada,||Tally rises to 534 in State||Thirty-two new cases were confirmed as COVID-19 positive in the State on Wednesday. This took the total to 534, which included 491 active cases. The death toll was 14 so far, a bulletin issued by the Health Department at 8 p.m. said. With 122 cases, Guntur district stood on top followed by Kurnool with 119. Nine districts had less than 60 cases. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts had not reported even a single case. Of the 32 new cases, 22 were from Kurnool, four from Guntur, three from Kadapa, two from Nellore and one from Anantapur. Nellore district had 58 cases, Krishna 45, Prakasam 42, Kadapa 36, WG 31, Chittoor 23, Anantapur 21, Visakhapatnam 20 and EG 17.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Drop in cases||Contrary to the significant rise in number of coronavirus cases in the past few days, the State reported six COVID positive cases on Wednesday, giving slight respite to the Health department. The total number of active cases stood at 514, two less than 516 of Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 650 so far. Eight persons admitted to government and private hospitals were discharged during the day taking the total number of discharged cases to 118. No deaths were reported from across the State during the day and the number of persons who succumbed to the virus remained at 18.
16 April 2020||belagavi,||Belagavi records first casualty||Tests have proved that a 80-year-old woman who died of a heart attack two days ago, had contracted the coronavirus. She has been named patient number 279. She was a resident of Hirebagewadi village. She had got it from her 20-year-old grandson who had tested positive for COVID-19 two weeks ago. Officers had sent her samples for tests after she died on Monday.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Banks to function up to 2 p.m. till May 3||Banks across the Tamil Nadu will function from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. till May 3, the State Level Bankers’ Committee said. In areas, only select branches may be kept open to provide basic services, after due consultation with the district administration.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,||MSME workers face salary squeeze||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu, which employs several lakhs of people, has indicated that it may not be able to pay salaries to its workers for April due to the lockdown. Some MSMEs are evaluating their options for enforcing salary cuts in the coming months. According to employees, many firms have paid only 50-70% of their salaries for the month of March.
16 April 2020||Chennai,||State’s mortality rate is 1.1%: Health Minister||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 mortality rate is 1.1%, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “Till Tuesday, the mortality rate was 0.9% in the State. With two more deaths on Wednesday, the mortality rate is 1.1%,” he told reporters on Wednesday. As of today, 14 patients, who tested positive for COVID-19, have died in the State.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 17 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Two deaths and 17 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the toll to 32 and the total number of patients to 1,578, stated a daily bulletin released by the Delhi government.
16 April 2020||Srinagar,||COVID-19 test kits for Valley moved to Jammu||The Directorate of Health Services, Kashmir, has stopped taking samples from potentially infected persons in the Valley after a senior official bypassed directions and diverted a Srinagar-bound consignment of boxes allotted by Indian Council of Medical Research, carrying 5,000 test kits, to Jammu.
16 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan shifts focus to sample testing||With the Ramganj locality in Jaipur’s Walled City emerging as the biggest COVID-19 hotspot in Rajasthan, health authorities here have shifted their focus to sample testing after dividing the affected area into 30 clusters. Strict enforcement of curfew order has slowed down the spread of the virus.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India steers clear of WHO funding row||India on Wednesday refused to criticise the United States defunding of the World Health Organisation (WHO), saying that it was currently occupied with the domestic campaign to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic. A source indicated that India was not inclined to immediately join the controversy that erupted after the President Donald Trump declared a “halt” to American funding of the WHO. “At present, our efforts and attention are fully focused on dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. Once the world has addressed this crisis, we can revisit this question,” said a source familiar with India’s official decision- making on international organisations. Mr. Trump on Tuesday suspended his government's funding of the multilateral body accusing it of “severe” mismanagement of the COVID-19 epidemic. President’s charge He accused the WHO of opposing travel restrictions to China which he termed “disastrous”. “Today, I am instructing my administration to hold the funding of the World Heath Organisation while a review is conducted to assess the WHO’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus... As the organisation’s leading sponsor, the United States has a duty to insist on full accountability,” the U.S. President said at the White House. The WHO’s latest documents show that the United States is its top contributor with around $58 million and halting that payment is expected to hit many health initiatives across the world, including in India. Contrary to India’s stand, the European Union’s top foreign policy representative Josep Borrell Fontelles has “deeply” regretted the U.S. decision, saying, “There is no reason justifying this move at a moment when their efforts are needed more than ever to help contain and mitigate the Coronavirus pandemic.” Bill Gates’s stand Microsoft founder Bill Gates too sounded a note of caution, saying “no other organisation can replace” the WHO. Since March, India has taken the initiative to several countries in the region and beyond by supplying protective equipment and medicines. According to the WHO's March 31, 2020 assessment, India committed around $2 million, whereas China committed approximately $28.7 million. Budget contributions The WHO's budget is funded by a mix of assessed and voluntary contributions. Assessed contributions mainly refer to financial support from the member-countries of the world body, which is relative to the member- state’s wealth and population. The WHO claims that contributions from the member-states had declined over the years and now accounts for less than one quarter of its programme financing. The rest of the resources, it says, is raised through voluntary donation. The major European economies are among the bigger contributors to the organisation.  There is no reason justifying this move at a moment when their efforts are needed more than ever Josep Borrell FontellesEU representative
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai records two deaths, 140 more test positive||On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. Only two deaths were recorded in the city, taking the death toll to 114. The city also recorded 140 new cases taking the tally to 1,896. On April 12, the number of deaths in Mumbai was 16, on April 13 the number was 9 and on April 14 it was 11. The number of cases on these days was 152, 242 and 216 respectively. ‘Too early’ Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials said it was too early to read into the statistics. “We are all working to reduce the mortality but as of now it is too early to look at any trend,” said Daksha Shah, Deputy Executive Health Officer, BMC. A 65-year-old woman with diabetes and hypertension and a 50-year-old woman with no underlying conditions were the two fatalities reported by the BMC. Both the women had succumbed at the Kasturba Hospital on Tuesday. A 55-year-old man from Dharavi who had tested positive succumbed on Wednesday, but his death was yet to be updated by the civic body. With a new strategy that calls for testing of only symptomatic people, the number of cases may show a decline in the city. The only exceptions will be pregnant women, patients of dialysis, chemotherapy and healthcare workers exposed to COVID-19 patients, who will be tested even if they are asymptomatic. A task force appointed by the State has been asked to put all their focus on reducing the mortality. “Based on the inputs we get from senior doctors on the task force, we will formulate protocols to reduce the deaths,” said Subhash Salunkhe, Technical Adviser to Maharashtra on pandemic control. At present, the city has nominated six hospitals as critical care hospitals for COVID-19. These are Nanavati, St. George, Saifee, Wockhardt, HBT Trauma Care and Seven Hills Hospitals. Nurse assaulted A nurse at the civic-run Cooper Hospital was allegedly assaulted by a pregnant woman on Wednesday. In protest, the nurses stopped work and gathered outside the hospital. No FIR was registered. According to the hospital’s dean, Pinakin Gujjar, the pregnant woman had come to the hospital assuming that she was in labour. But the doctors examined and told her that she was not in labour. They, however, advised her to get admitted. The patient did not want to get admitted for fear of COVID-19. “Since the procedure for discharge against medical advice was taking a long time, she got irritated and slapped a nurse,” said Dr. Gujjar. The nurses said the hospital management had failed to provide them with enough security.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre asks States to ramp up testing||The Centre on Wednesday asked the States to ramp up testing among vulnerable groups in the 353 districts that have not reported any COVID-19 cases so far. The ‘unaffected’ districts need to be under enhanced surveillance for influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), the Centre said. It recommended that the ILI and SARI cases be tested, and asked the States to make preparations to set up dedicated COVID care centres, health centres and hospitals in these districts as well. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video-conference with the Chief Secretaries and Directors-General of Police of all the States on Wednesday where a presentation on ‘COVID-19 Containment Measures’ was shared. The States were also informed about the revised guidelines issued by the Home Ministry that need to be implemented from April 20 to give relief to specified sections of people from the lockdown that has been extended to May 3. The Centre used the presentation to reiterate its recommendation that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) be administered to “health workers in the field and those working in hospitals” as the number of COVID-19- affected patients has crossed the 11,000 mark. Emphasis was also laid on ensuring that “personal protection of health workforce is of prime importance and sufficient stock of PPE/N95 masks etc. to be made available in the districts” in accordance with the guidance on the rational use of personal protective equipment (PPE). The Centre said that in severe cases where healthcare professionals were infected, the patients “should be treated with HCQ in the prescribed dose”. The Union Health Ministry has repeatedly cautioned that HCQ is only for the specific use of healthcare workers and that it has “side effects”.  Potential hotspot The Centre noted that while there were 170 districts defined as “hotspots” or red zones, there were another “207 districts that have reported cases and could be a potential hotspot”. It asked the States to undertake “pre-emptive action for cluster containment in all these districts”. A senior State government official, who attended the meeting, said they had been given a “tutorial” on the road map as the States would have to chalk out a strategy to implement the guidelines. “States cannot be more liberal than the Centre, instead we will be stricter but some relief ought to be given to people to earn a livelihood,” said the official. “Inter-State movement, however, is strictly opposed at this stage,” the official added. The “hotspots” have been divided into two categories —123 districts with “large outbreaks” and 47 districts classified as “clusters”. A district could be excluded from the hotspot category if no cases were reported there in the last 28 days. The “large outbreak” category was defined as those districts reporting more than 15 cases that may not be epidemiologically linked and where “localised increase” in COVID-19 cases occurred within a defined geographic area — a village, town, or city.
16 April 2020||Jaipur,||Meal plan: Rajasthan govt. works to fight hunger||The Congress government in Rajasthan has launched massive efforts for supplying cooked food and dry rations to the poor and destitute, besides ensuring food security for migrant labourers stranded in several towns after being deprived of their livelihood during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. The allocations were made from a package announced at the start of lockdown. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s much-publicised assurance that “no one will go to bed hungry” has prompted the administration in several districts to devise their own strategies for extending relief to poor and marginalised people. From ‘Jan Sambal kits’ in Udaipur and ‘Janata Rasoi Kendra’ in Bikaner to the ‘wheat bank’ in Kota, the efforts have brought two square meals a day to the hungry. Mr. Gehlot, who had announced a Rs. 2,000-crore package for supporting disadvantaged people on March 23, said over a video conference with journalists here that one lakh food packets were being distributed every day in Jaipur alone. The package is expected to benefit 1.41 crore families in the State. Residents of slum colonies in Jaipur’s Jhalana institutional area as well as labourers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal residing in the Sitapura and Ramchandrapura industrial areas are among the beneficiaries of the State government’s relief measures. After a survey by the Labour Department found 10,000 industrial labourers in the city, the administration started supplying 5,000 kits of dry rations to them. Auto rickshaw driver Dhanraj Mali, 48, sitting at home without work during the lockdown, told The Hindu that the food assistance received from the government was the only source of sustenance for his family of six. Labourer Afroz Alam, 35, from Bihar’s Kaimur district, who has been rendered jobless, said he could not leave the city when the lockdown was enforced, and that he was getting food from Women & Child Department’s van twice a day. Help from donors Government officials taking the pick-up trucks to different localities in the State capital said the food packets were arranged mostly with the help of donors and institutions. “We try to find the people not covered in the social security schemes and give them food. This is not just a government action... We as individuals are also involved. We derive [an] immense satisfaction,” an official said. In Udaipur district, the mammoth task of providing food to everyone is performed by preparing long lists and matching them with distress calls received at the helpline. District Supply Officer Jyoti Kakwani said free kits are being supplied to needy families at their doorstep — they comprised 10 kg of wheat flour, 3 kg of pulses, 200 ml oil and 1 kg of salt, which was sufficient for a fortnight. The “wheat bank” established in Kota district’s Kanwas block is supported by the farmers harvesting their Rabi crops, who have contributed a portion of their produce. Sub-Divisional Officer Rajesh Daga said 114 quintals of wheat was so far stored for five villages and the committees headed by Sarpanches had been authorised to identify the beneficiaries of the bank. While the P.B.M. Government Hospital’s Help Committee in Bikaner is assisting the district administration in the preparation of nutritious food at a community kitchen, Congress leaders Subhash Maharia in Sikar and Maqbool Mandelia in Churu have mobilised resources in their constituencies to supplement the government’s relief efforts. Both of them had lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe Bandra episode, says Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday blamed an “official letter” from the Railways for Tuesday’s large gathering of migrant workers at the Bandra station in Mumbai and asserted that there may have been an attempt to disrupt the communal harmony in Maharashtra. “Whatever happened on Tuesday, there needs to be a thorough investigation into it. Some want to disturb the communal harmony in Maharashtra and negate the State’s efforts to fight coronavirus,” former Chief Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan told the media through videoconferencing. Mr. Chavan, who is the Minister in charge of Public Works Department in Maharashtra, read out an April 13 letter of the South Central Railway which said special trains would be run for migrant workers once the lockdown is lifted. The migrant issue has snowballed into a major political controversy, with the BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi — formed by the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress — engaging in a blame game. Mr. Chavan said social media posts talking about imposing President’s Rule in Maharashtra hinted at a conspiracy. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi urged the Centre to bring back Indian workers from the Middle East. “The Covid19 crisis and shutting of businesses in the Middle East have left thousands of Indian workers in deep distress. The government must organise flights to bring home our brothers and sisters,” he tweeted.
16 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan shifts focus to testing||With the Ramganj locality in Jaipur’s Walled City emerging as the biggest COVID-19 hotspot in Rajasthan, health authorities here have shifted their emphasis to sample testing after dividing the affected area into 30 clusters. Strict enforcement of the curfew in the Walled City has also slowed down the spread of the virus. Asymptomatic cases Nearly 70% of the COVID-19 positive cases detected in the Walled City are in the asymptomatic category, which eases the burden on critical care facilities in hospitals. In order to check community transmission in densely populated areas, local MLAs and religious leaders have been roped in to convince the public to cooperate with health workers. Principal Secretary, Energy Department, Ajitabh Sharma, who acts as the nodal office for Jaipur city, said here on Wednesday that since 321 of the positive cases had been found in 13 clusters with a population of 70,000, they had been completely sealed and intensive screening and sample testing started there. “No movement of residents will be allowed in these clusters and essential items will be delivered at their doorsteps,” he said. The first case in Ramganj was reported on March 26, when a 45-year-old man who had returned from Oman on March 12 tested positive. After intense contact tracing, a large number of his family members and relatives were detected as having been infected with the virus and shifted to isolation facilities. Over 40 of them have since recovered after treatment. Two battalions of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) were deployed in Ramganj on Wednesday to assist the police force in ensuring strict compliance with the lockdown. The lanes in the area were sealed with barricades and barbed wire fencing. With a total of 476 patients found in Jaipur so far, the city accounts for 45.5% of the 1,046 COVID-19 positive cases detected in the State. In view of the increasing cases, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has given instructions for identifying more space at places like educational institutions, hostels and empty flats of residential schemes for creating quarantine facilities. Mr. Gehlot appealed to the people of Jaipur to come forward to be tested for the infection. “Do not fear anything. Among all the positive patients, many have recovered and [have been] discharged from hospitals. Thegovernment has provided all facilities in the hospitals for treatment,” he tweeted.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Social distancing has to be 100% during lockdown’||Before Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, West Bengal had already announced the extension of a “lockdown with a humane face”. However, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has raised objections to the “Bengal model of lockdown”. Edited excerpts : The Bengal government talked of a lockdown with a ‘humane face’. On the other hand, you have asked the Chief Minister to hold officials accountable for any violation of social distancing and gatherings. Do you favour a more severe lockdown? In the State, lockdown enforcement is critically compromised and as per ground reality, it is about 70%. The Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) communication reflected on the dilution of lockdown, religious gatherings under the very nose of the administration, and compromising social distancing in markets. It reflects the ground reality. I have urged the Chief Minister to hold officials accountable. For reasons I cannot figure out and in defiance of constitutional prescriptions, she [Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee] continues to be in ‘lockdown mode’ with the Governor. This incommunicado stance cannot be countenanced constitutionally. Looking at the sensitivity of the situation and the need for togetherness in fighting against COVID-19, I am yielding to expediency and overlooking this grave lapse. Lockdown has no severe execution. To be effective, social distancing has to be 100% and anything less than that can have disastrous impact. The cascading impact of the Nizamuddin episode is an eye-opener. The CM is projecting only her political face all through. I have urged her to disable her political antenna, avoid focus on vote bank politicking and act in concert with the Central government’s take on the corona pandemic. Lockdown enforcement unfortunately has a political angle and religious congregations are tacitly allowed. You have questioned West Bengal’s record of testing very few people for COVID-19. Let me quote some figures Trinamool leader Derek O’Brien shared on Twitter — ‘More than 65 hospitals have been set up in the districts, over 5,000 safe homes or quarantine centres where 50,000 people are quarantined. But until two or three weeks back, Bengal had received 40 testing kits.’ The testing and sharing of information are a cause for serious concern. Very low level of testing is being done. Information as regards COVID-19 deaths is controlled. In the first week of April, there were no bulletins for three days in a row. The enormity of the situation can be gauged from the fact that at one time, an expert committee held the number of deaths as seven but within minutes, the Chief Secretary brought it down to three by addressing another press conference. There is no confidence in the information being fed by the State. The situation is alarming. Six hospitals in Kolkata and Howrah are shut as doctors and patients tested positive for the coronavirus. Over 300 health warriors in these hospitals are quarantined. According to the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), there are adequate number of testing kits. Unfortunately, available kits are not being used and testing in adequate numbers is not taking place. ICMR NICED is best equipped but adequate samples for testing were not being given to it only because it is a Central body. This is a grave lapse and we cannot play like this with the lives and welfare of the people. You have made some serious charges against the Mamata Banerjee government here. Were they the basis of the MHA’s communication to the State? I am never on charges. I only indicate the ground reality which is available to me on account of my very extensive interactions. The people have a deep sense of worry and concern. They have taken the Home Ministry’s communication as a timely warning. They are relieved by the concern shown by the Centre. As regard my input to the Union Home Ministry, I don’t discuss that in the media.        I have urged her [Ms. Banerjee] to disable her political antenna, avoid focus on vote bank politicking
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Civil Defence volunteers join containment efforts||More than 50,000 Civil Defence volunteers are working at the grassroots level in various roles and capacities to assist the local administration in implementing the measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. “The Central government has made budgetary provisions under the State Disaster Relief Fund and asked the State governments to procure as many personal protective equipment as they want for use by the deployed workers,” said a senior Civil Defence official. Civil Defence personnel have been deployed in all the States and most Union Territories, barring Ladakh, Daman & Diu, and Puducherry. Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Assam have taken the lead in using their services, the official said. The volunteers have been deployed under the command of District Magistrates to assist the local administration in implementing the COVID-19 guidelines and policies effectively. “As they are from within the community, they are extending the policies, facilities and services of the government up to the block level,” said the official. The Civil Defence personnel are supplementing the local administration in conducting surveillance of suspected and confirmed COVID-19 cases. They have been working as rapid response teams. “The volunteers are also manning hunger helplines and assisting elderly citizens. They are helping in the maintenance of essential supplies, like packing and home distribution of ration and medicines,” the official said. The volunteers are supplementing health workers and also carrying out community awareness drives on social distancing and hygiene practices. Besides, are they being roped in for distribution of PPEs, masks and sanitisers and setting up community kitchens and shelters for migrant workers and other stranded persons. Civil Defence operates under the Civil Defence Act and associated rules and regulations. The Act was amended in 2009 and a notification was issued in 2010 to include disaster management as an additional role.
16 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||In Maoist hotbed, security forces lead COVID-19 fight||A medical camp for tribal people with special emphasis on COVID-19 awareness was conducted by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at Kurkunda village deep inside Tulasi reserve forest, a Maoist hotbed in Swabhiman Anchal of Odisha’s Malkangiri district. These security personnel involved in anti-Maoist operations are now the shield against COVID-19 for tribal people of Swabhiman Anchal. Masks given At Kurkunda on Tuesday, the tribal people were given masks prepared by tailors of Company Operation Base (COB) of the BSF’s160 battalion. They were also provided food material and taught basics of social distancing, and basic sanitation to fight the COVID-19 threat. Security personnel screened all villagers at Kurkunda with thermal sensors and the ones suffering from different common ailments were provided necessary medicines. Odisha State police and Central Armed Paramilitary Forces (CAPF) personnel are now actively involved in the fight against the deadly virus in remote Swabhiman Anchal. With the Maoist threat temporarily ebbing after they announced a unilateral ceasefire in early April in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the special helpline number introduced by the Odisha police for inhabitants of Swabhiman Anchal is now helping facilitate not only developmental activities but also enabling information gathering about the health condition of the people. In the absence of mainstream healthcare system, the police outposts and COBs continue to provide primary health care and medicines to the locals. Swabhiman Anchal was earlier the cut-off area of Balimela reservoir with no direct road link with the rest of the State. The Gurupriya bridge inaugurated on July 26, 2018, provided direct road connectivity to over 30,000 tribal people living in 151 villages of Swabhiman Anchal. “The change brought through initiatives of the police personnel stationed there for long is helping in the COVID-19 fight,” said Shefeen Ahmed K., Deputy Inspector General, south-western range. Police outposts and COBs of the paramilitary forces at places like Jodambo, Badapada, Janabai, Jantapai, Hantalguda in Swabhiman Anchal and the civil police officers attached to them have now become warriors against COVID-19.  Direct interface The direct interface of police and CAPF personnel with students, youths and village leaders through various activities is now helping in the awareness drive against COVID-19 infection. In addition to this, security personnel continue to play a key role in the distribution of PDS, a major issue during the continuing lockdown. The goodwill earned through facilitation of development projects and identification of beneficiaries for various schemes is being used to encourage people to accept the tough measures against COVID-19 pandemic. Road connectivity to Jodambo, the heart of Swabhiman Anchal, is now helping in the transportation of goods in the fight against COVID-19.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon may be late in many States||The monsoon is arriving late in many States and exiting even later, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said at its annual monsoon forecast conference. Along with defining a new normal for rainfall — 88 cm as opposed to the 89 cm — it also gave new dates for the monsoon’s onset in several cities as part of an update, which it said was essential for a variety of economic activities ranging from agricultural planning to power distribution. However, the IMD would continue to account for monsoon rain as the rainfall that the country received from June 1 to September 30, even though, as an official said, the monsoon appeared to be lingering in many places until October. “We have been discussing this matter, of the monsoon’s delayed withdrawal and whether we should have a different accounting system for monsoon rainfall keeping in mind the new withdrawal dates. No decision has been taken,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, which oversees the IMD. On time in Kerala The onset over Kerala, which marks the arrival of the monsoon into mainland India, will continue to be June 1. However, the onset date in Mumbai — historically June 10 — will now be June 11. The official withdrawal date is now delayed by over a week to October 8, instead of September 29. The onset over Chennai has been delayed by three days — from June 1 to June 4. Ahmedabad will see the monsoon arrive nearly a week late — June 21 instead of June 14. Bhopal, too, is seeing a similar delay — to June 22 instead of June 15. Delhi, too, will see a four-day delay in the monsoon’s arrival to June 27. “New monsoon advance dates over States like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Telegana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh are delayed by three-seven days compared to existing normal dates,” the IMD said in a statement. A significant delay in the withdrawal of the monsoon over northwest and central India has been observed. “Monsoon withdraws from NW India almost 7-14 days later from the existing dates. There is no change in the final withdrawal date over south India, i.e., 15th October,” the statement said. The new dates accounted for the vagaries of climate change as well as the increased number of data gathering stations that better accounted for the arrival and exit of the monsoon, Mr. Rajeevan said.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Outdated census data keep 10 cr. out of PDS: economists||Over 10 crore people have been excluded from the Public Distribution System because outdated 2011 census data is being used to calculate State-wise National Food Security Act (NFSA) coverage, according to economists Jean Dreze and Reetika Khera. The disastrous impact of this gap is being seen in the middle of a crippling lockdown, as people who have lost their livelihoods depend on PDS for daily survival. Under the NFSA, the PDS is supposed to cover 75% of the population in rural areas and 50% of the population in urban areas, which works out to 67% of the total population, using the rural-urban population ratio in 2011. India’s population was about 121 crore in 2011 and so PDS covered approximately 80 crore people. However, applying the 67% ratio to a projected population of 137 crore for 2020, PDS coverage today should be around 92 crore. Even taking into account growing urbanisation, the shortfall would be around 10 crore people who have slipped through the cracks, said the two economists and Right to Food campaigners in a statement on Wednesday. Big gaps The biggest gaps are in Uttar Pradesh, where 2.8 crore people may have been left out, and Bihar, which would have had almost 1.8 crore people excluded from the NFSA. State-specific birth and death rates from 2016 were used to calculate the population growth rate and projected population estimates, said the statement. When the NFSA came into effect in 2013, State-wise ratios were worked out for rural and urban areas, using National Sample Survey data, in such a manner that everyone below a given national “per-capita expenditure benchmark” is covered, meaning that PDS coverage should be higher in poorer States. While the population data from the 2011 census was used to translate these ratios into absolute numbers, Right to Food activists have long argued that the numbers should have been updated using projected population figures, allowing State governments to issue new ration cards over time. Instead, the Centre’s calculation of the actual number of people to be covered in each State has remained “frozen.” Many State governments are reluctant to issue new ration cards beyond the numbers that will be provided for by the Central quota, making it difficult to reduce exclusion errors in the PDS. For example, there are about seven lakh pending applications for ration cards in Jharkhand, because the State government stopped issuing new ration cards several years ago to avoid exceeding the numbers provided for by the Central government, said Dr. Khera and Dr. Dreze. With the 2021 census process being delayed due to the COVID-19 crisis, any proposed revision of PDS coverage using that data could now take several years.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Concern over automatic processing of EPF claims||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) processed around 2.88 lakh applications for withdrawal of advance by subscribers under the special scheme during the pandemic, while just under 2 lakh were being scrutinised for deficiencies, according to EPFO officials on Wednesday. However, the EPFO Officers’ Association has raised concerns about the automatic online processing system and the lack of staff for the manual scrutiny. After the announcement by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, the EPFO rolled out the online application for non-refundable advance on March 29. A subscriber can apply for withdrawal of 75% of their account balance or three months’ of their salary. “As of today [Wednesday], 2.88 lakh claims have been settled and Rs. 774 crore disbursed under COVID-19 claims. Now less than 2 lakh claims are under various stages of processing depending upon the level of deficiencies noticed during scrutiny,” said EPFO CEO and Central PF Commissioner Sunil Barthwal. According to EPFO officials as well as a statement last week, the applications that are fully KYC (know your customer) compliant are being settled automatically within three working days. The applications that have deficiencies are being checked manually at field offices to prevent over-payment or fraudulent payments, an official said. The EPFO Officers’ Association has raised concerns about the auto and manual modes of processing. In a letter to Mr. Barthwal on April 11, it said there were “arbitrary preconditions” for auto-settlement of claims, including flagging PF accounts as ‘suspect’ based on certain transactions and putting a limit of Rs. 45,000 on the claim amount.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russian firm to donate $2 mn to PM CARES||In the first such donation of its kind, Russia’s State-owned defence exports company Rosoboronexport has committed $2million (Rs. 15.3 crore) to the newly set up ‘PM CARES Fund’, diplomatic and government sources confirmed. The proposed donation to the fund that has been set up specially to assist the government’s efforts in combating the COVID-19 pandemic, marks a significant shift in India’s policy on accepting contributions from foreign government owned companies. Thus far, the government had been only open to contributions from “NRIs, PIOs and international entities such as foundations”. “The transfer is yet to be made” the sources told The Hindu on Tuesday, while confirming that Rosoboronexport — Russia’s umbrella group for all defence exports and a subsidiary of the state-owned defence manufacturing company Rostec — had indicated its intentions to make then donation. The firm is the largest source of India’s arms imports and is set to supply defence equipment including the S-400 air defence systems, stealth frigates and AK-203 assault rifles. When asked if the donation would constitute a shift from past practice, the Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment. In August 2018, the Indian government had refused to accept offers of aid from several countries including the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar and the Maldives during the Kerala floods. At the time, the government had said that it was committed to meeting relief and rehabilitation requirements “through domestic efforts”. “Contributions to the Prime Minister's Relief Fund and the Chief Minister's Relief Fund from NRIs, PIOs and international entities such as foundations would, however, be welcome," the MEA spokesperson had added. On March 28, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund, putting aside the ‘Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF)’. Mr. Modi had made a personal appeal on social media and directed Indian missions to invite contributions for the fund. “What has been announced is that the PM CARES fund will simply accept donations and contributions from individuals and organisations that are based in foreign countries,” government sources said in a statement, and referred again to the 2018 decision to only accept foreign donations from Indians living abroad, NRIs, international foundations and UN agencies. As a result, the donation offer from Rosoboronexport is a departure from precedent for New Delhi.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC asks Centre to protect rights||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday asked the Centre to issue an advisory to all States and Union Territories to implement the lockdown without violating rights. The NHRC said it had written to the Union Home Ministry to issue an advisory or standard operating procedure for all public officials, including police personnel, to “behave in a sensible manner with the people, particularly those belonging to vulnerable sections, respecting human rights relating to their life, liberty and dignity”. The commission did not specify a time frame for reply, but said it expected a response “at the earliest”. The direction came after one of its special monitors and human rights activist, Maja Daruwala, raised the issue of public servants, including the police, undermining the rights of people, particularly labourers, while implementing the lockdown. “Issuing the directions, the commission has observed that it appreciated that government agencies were sincerely working to deal with the unprecedented situation to fight the spread of COVID-19. However, it found it appropriate to bring the issues raised by the complainant to the notice of the Central government,” the NHRC said in a statement. Ms. Daruwala noted that the police were doing many “good things” and the recent incident of a policeman’s hand being chopped off while enforcing the lockdown in Punjab was “unforgiveable”, the panel said. At the same time, those police officials who were “using this time to be cruel and harsh must be stopped,” it added. “Allegedly, those who are illiterate and less informed, mainly the poor labourers and daily wages workers, etc., are facing extreme difficulties due to shortage of food and other facilities for themselves and their families. They can be asked to stay off the streets ... without being cruel and abusive.”
16 April 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Disinfectant tunnels can cause harm’||The use of a “disinfectant tunnel”, in which sodium hypochlorite is sprayed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, may give a false sense of security and cause harmful side effects, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has said. J.S Thakur, Chairman, COVID-19 Prevention and IEC Committee at PGIMER, said that the tunnels are being set up at crowded places like malls, markets and offices and it was initially believed that the tunnel would work as a mass disinfectant. “The use of these tunnels may give a false sense of security and may have adverse health effects as sodium hypochlorite has a lot of harmful effects on the human body. Although a 0.5% solution of hypochlorite, which is known as ‘Dakin solution’, is used for disinfecting areas contaminated with bodily fluids, including large blood spills, however, higher concentrations of sodium hypochlorite (5%) exposure may cause nasal and ocular irritation, sore throat and coughing,” said Dr. Thakur in a statement here. “Exposure to stronger concentration (10-15%) of hypochlorite can cause serious damage to multiple organs, including burning pain, redness, swelling and blisters, damage to the respiratory tract as well as the oesophagus, serious eye damage, stomach ache, a burning sensation, diarrhoea and vomiting,” he added. Dr. Thakur said that, according to World Health Organisation (WHO), too, disinfectants will work on surfaces, but not on the human body, and can also harm people. He said the use of disinfection tunnels is not recommended as a prevention measure.
16 April 2020||Ghaziabad/LUCKNOW,||Doctor injured after crowd attacks officials||Three persons including a doctor were injured as a crowd attacked a Health Department team which went to take samples for COVID-19 in the Nawabpura area of Moradabad on Wednesday, police said. The area was declared a hotspot after one person from the area passed away on April 13 allegedly because of the virus. According to a Health Department official, a person passed away on April 13 after being tested positive for COVID-19. “He was admitted to a private hospital on April 8 for high fever and his sample was taken on April 9. On Wednesday, a team led by a doctor went to take the samples of family members and to take his brother, who had become symptomatic, to institutional quarantine,” he said. However, suddenly a crowd stopped the ambulance and pelted stones on the vehicle and team members “A doctor and a pharmacist were injured. The team members were heckled and their PPE suits were torn off. The four policemen who went with the team had to retreat. One of them was also injured.” A police team led by Superintendent of Police Amit Anand had to rush with Shehar Imam Masoom Azad to restore normalcy. Amit Pathak, Senior Superintendent of Police, Moradabad, told reporters a crowd of around 150 people attacked the ambulance when the medical team was taking the family of the deceased for quarantine. “We will identify the miscreants and take strict action against them,” he said. Police sources said at least a dozen, including 5 women, were taken into custody.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Workers stranded on Yamuna bank||Out of work since the nationwide lockdown was announced and with no means of travelling back to their villages, hundreds of migrant workers living on the Yamuna floodplain near Kashmere Gate said that for over a week now, they had been surviving on one meal a day. With the mercury touching 40 degrees on Wednesday, the workers sat in groups, some huddling beneath trees while others were beneath a flyover over the river. “Social distancing”, as advised by authorities, was a concept “beyond imagination” for them, the workers said. ‘No soap’ Mohammad Shadab, a native of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh said, “We have been here since the lockdown was announced. We get food once a day and that too from the nearby gurdwara. Authorities are saying maintain distance and wash hands regularly. How do they expect us to do that? We do not even have soap here and cannot even take a proper bath. What hygiene will we be able to maintain?” Following media reports on the issue, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Wednesday evening, in a tweet claimed that arrangements had been made for the workers and that orders to shift them out immediately, had been passed. “There is no shortage of food or shelter facilities. If anyone is hungry or homeless, then do let us know,” the tweet added. ‘Thrashed by police’ Approximately four km from the CM’s residence, hidden behind rows of greenery, the labourers waiting on the floodplains, however, complained that they were often “thrashed” by police personnel and made to shift from one location to another. Mangal, 45, a native of Jharkhand said, “The cops keeps thrashing us and ask us to move from one place to another. Earlier, we had been pushed to the corner of the banks. In two weeks, we moved bit by bit and have reached this particular spot. Things worsened since the scuffle that took place at Kashmere Gate last Saturday.” Utkarsh Goswami, 32, a native of Uttarakhand, who used to work in restaurants here, said, “People are talking about the threat of the virus. But hunger will kill us even before the virus is able to reach us. ”
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||Airlines start selling domestic flight tickets||In anticipation of no blanket extension of the lockdown across the country after May 4, airlines have started domestic flight ticket sales again. A look at airline websites and ticketing portals on Wednesday revealed that — despite the new social distancing norms, including an empty middle seat, an earlier than usual closure of check-in counters and extended ground halt periods for sanitisation — fares were low to attract passengers. Bookings from May 4 were on Wednesday available at return fare ranging from Rs. 4,829 to Rs. 7,438 on the Delhi-Mumbai sector, the busiest in the country. Fares on this sector, usually at a premium because of summer vacation, were available starting at Rs. 2,500 (one way) by IndiGo. The lowest return fare on this sector was being offered by Air India at Rs. 4,829 while the highest return fare was on SpiceJet for Rs. 7,438. Air Asia has tickets in the range of Rs. 4,998 and Rs. 5119 depending on flight timing. GoAir and Vistara had tickets going for Rs. 6,150 and Rs. 7,438 respectively. IndiGo is selling tickets for 18 flights between Delhi and Mumbai, 16 to Bengaluru from Delhi and 11 to Chennai from the national capital. Travel agents were quick to add a word of caution. Reji Philip, a south Mumbai-based corporate travel booking agent, said those booking tickets now should also be prepared for flights to be cancelled due to amended government rules or merging of flights due to poor loads.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police won’t harm farmers, govt. tells SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday recorded in its order the government’s undertaking that farmers and agricultural workers would not be harassed by the police and the authorities during the lockdown. A Bench, led by Justice N.V. Ramana, was hearing a petition filed by activist Swami Agnivesh, represented by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, that the authorities were tormenting farm workers and blocking transport of agricultural produce, despite the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Agriculture on March 24 and 25 and then on March 28, exempting agriculture from the lockdown. Agnivesh said this would lead to food shortage, sky-rocketing of prices and hoarding, especially in the wake of the harvesting of Rabi crops. The Bench took note of the submission of Mr. Gonsalves that the government’s order of exemption was “not being fully implemented by the police”. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta assured the Bench that there was “full monitoring and implementation of the guidelines” issued by the Ministry. Mr. Mehta said steps would be taken to ensure that the police followed the guidelines. The court recorded his assurances, on behalf of the government, before disposing of Agnivesh’s plea.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Industries in rural areas to reopen on April 20||The States will decide the additional public activities to be allowed from April 20. They will have to be based on strict compliance with the existing guidelines on lockdown measures. The relaxations will be implemented at the discretion of the State and district authorities in areas that have not been identified as infection hotspots or containment zones. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for factories and office establishments from April 20 says medical insurance is mandatory for workers. Workplace curbs Workplaces should have a gap of one hour between shifts, and lunch breaks should be staggered to ensure social distancing. All organisations should sanitise workplaces. Thermal screening of all those entering and leaving the work premises is mandatory, states the SOP. Work units should encourage the use of staircases, stagger work hours to ensure social distancing and ban the entry of non-essential visitors. Travel by air, rail, metro, public buses, taxis, cab aggregators will remain suspended. Cinema halls, malls will remain shut. All social /religious gathering are prohibited till May 3 and all industrial and commercial units, unless exempted, will remain shut. The revised guidelines permit small service providers, such as electricians, plumbers, IT repair, motor mechanics and carpenters, to operate. This move is recommended by the Commerce and Industries Ministry. Supply chain of essential goods, grocery stores, vegetable, fruit carts and e-commerce companies will be allowed to operate without time restrictions. In addition to pharmaceuticals and other essential sectors such as agriculture, mining and fertilizers, which are already exempted from the lockdown, several new industries will be permitted to function from April 20. IT and IT enabled services will be allowed to operate at 50% strength, while IT hardware manufacturing has been added to the list of exemptions. E-commerce companies, oil and gas exploration and refineries, food processing in rural areas and jute industries will be allowed to work. Manufacturing and other industrial activities in Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units and other industrial estates and townships can also reopen, so long as arrangements are made for workers to stay within the premises or in adjacent buildings. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which provides 100 days of minimum wage work to rural households, is also being allowed, so long as social distancing and the use of masks are strictly enforced. Goods traffic allowed Transport of goods has been a major hurdle over the last two weeks. The new guidelines make it clear that all goods traffic will be allowed to ply, with two drivers and one helper allowed a truck. Truck repair shops and dhabas on highways will be allowed to function. E-commerce and courier services can be restarted. Operation of utilities providing telecommunication and Internet services, will be allowed. There will also be a phased return to office of the government’s own workforce, with the new guidelines calling for 100% attendance from officers above the Deputy Secretary level, with junior staff attendance of 33%.   In another letter to the States, Mr. Bhalla said the guidelines would be withdrawn immediately if any of the lockdown measures were violated.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India to receive normal monsoon, forecasts IMD||Last year, the IMD said in April that the monsoon would be ‘near normal’ or a tad below normal. India instead ended up with excess rainfall — or the maximum rainfall in a quarter century — largely owing to torrential rain in August and September from the unusual warming in the Indian Ocean. The dynamical model, while better at forecasting the state of the weather a week or two in advance, isn’t yet considered reliable by meteorologists in forecasting the monsoon. The statistical models, which the IMD relied on to make its forecasts, had a 41% forecast probability of normal monsoon. In any given year, there is a 33% chance which is why, said Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, there was “high confidence” that the monsoon this year would be normal. The Indian Ocean Dipole, a temperature anomaly in the ocean that can increase monsoon rain, was also expected to be in a “neutral” state during the monsoon, the forecast added. The odds of excess rain or a drought are 9% each.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||170 districts identified as hotspots: Health Ministry||“In order to break the chain of transmission, focus needs to be on contact tracing, monitoring and clinical management. States have been asked to uniformly implement the containment plan in every district across the country,” an accompanying press statement added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while announcing extension of lockdown on Tuesday, said all districts would have to strictly enforce quarantining until April 20, after which based on the ‘performance’ of districts in keeping the case count low or halting a rapid rise in infections, restrictions would begin to be eased. Were these regions to regress, restrictions would be reimposed. Meanwhile, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan participated in a meeting with officials of the World Health Organisation to take stock of preparedness. Pat from WHO Praising India’s response, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, said, “Despite huge and multiple challenges, India has been demonstrating unwavering commitment in its fight against the pandemic.” The WHO Representative to India, Henk Bekedam, said, “Our field personnel have been redirected to support the fight against COVID-19. The same team worked tirelessly along with the government and other partner organisations to help India become polio-free. I am confident that the WHO team can once again join hands with the government to help win this fight against COVID-19.”
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi death toll rises to 8 amid five fresh cases||Dharavi reported its eighth death and five new cases on Wednesday, bringing the total to 60. The deceased is an earlier reported case who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz and later tested positive. The new cases are from Mukund Nagar, an area that makes up for one-fourth of Dharavi’s cases. Two people from among the several Dharavi residents who had attended the Markaz and were placed under quarantine started displaying symptoms earlier this month. On April 10, they were moved to Sion hospital where they were tested positive. One of them, a 55-year-old man, lived opposite Dr. Baliga Nagar, a COVID-19 hotspot. He passed away at Sion Hospital on Wednesday.
16 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Majority of positive cases in U.P. in 21-40 age group||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh touched 727 on Wednesday with the largest chunk of the cases so far in the State coming from the 21-40 age bracket, according to the government. The death toll climbed to 11, with fresh ones in Moradabad, Kanpur and Agra, said the State Directorate of Health Services. So far, deaths have been recorded in Agra (4), Kanpur, Moradabad (2), Meerut, Varanasi, Basti and Bulandshahr. A majority of the positive cases, 46.5%, fall under the 21-40 age-group, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary, Health Department. Another 26% fall under the 41-60 age-group, while 17% were found among those aged 0-20 and 10.5% among the 60 and above. However, Mr. Prasad said all those who died in the State had “links with co-morbidity or old-age.” To study the deaths due to COVID-19, the government had formed a committee, said Mr. Prasad. The findings would help the hospitals in pinpointing the shortcomings during treatment. Meanwhile, the number of samples tested in Uttar Pradesh went up to 19,506.
16 April 2020||Bhopal,||Hospital handed back to Bhopal gas affected||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday rescinded an order converting the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) into a COVID-19 dedicated facility, which denied healthcare to the 1984 gas tragedy survivors there. The decision comes after five survivors, four suffering from respiratory ailments and one of cancer, died of the illness in Bhopal in the past 10 days. The ailments made them more susceptible to COVID-19 and they were left with no other super speciality government-run hospital after BMHRC was taken over to combat the pandemic. Four of them could not even be tested for the illness before they died. The Indian Council of Medical Research-run hospital was taken over by the State government on March 23, and later handed over to the district administration on March 28. “Both the orders stand rescinded with immediate effect,” wrote Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, Commissioner, Public Health and Family Welfare Department, in an order. The facility’s laboratory, however, will be used for testing samples, he clarified.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dial govt. helplines, SC tells health workers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday urged healthcare workers fighting the coronavirus to dial government helpline numbers with their complaints and grievances. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta told a Bench, led by Justice N.V. Ramana, that control rooms were daily monitoring the work conditions of the healthcare workers. “The Solicitor-General submits that the government has already set up helpline numbers/control rooms, and it is monitoring the position on a day-to-day basis. In view of the above, we grant liberty to the petitioners to make complaint regarding their grievance on the helpline numbers/control rooms created/set up by the Government of India,” the court said. The short order was based on a petition filed by the 3.8 lakh-strong United Nurses Association, a Kerala-based organisation. The association said the government had not formulated any national management protocol for COVID-19 to address the concerns over the imminent and extreme risks posed to the health and safety of medical personnel.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army asks personnel to use Aarogya Setu app||The Army has asked all serving personnel to download and use the Aarogya Setu application with precautions until the novel coronavirus outbreak lasts. It has also advised veterans and their families to use the application, released by the government for contact-tracing and dissemination of advisories. The personnel have been asked to adhere to the existing cybersecurity policies for the use of mobile phones while using the application, Army sources said on Wednesday. As part of the precautions, the personnel have been advised not to use the application on office premises, and in operational areas and sensitive locations. An Army source said the personnel should not disclose their service identity, including rank and appointment, and the contact list of the user should not contain any reference to rank, appointment or service. The location services and Bluetooth should be switched on only when they are visiting public places, managing “isolation centres”, are called to assist the civil authorities or moving out of cantonments and military stations for essential administrative duties, the source said. The mobile operating system must be updated and an anti-virus application installed.
16 April 2020||Bhopal,||Muslim men carry Hindu woman’s bier in Bhopal||Since the lockdown kicked in, Sama Namdev’s family has relied on their neighbours for food and house rent. And when she died on Wednesday of tuberculosis, the neighbours, Muslims, came forward yet again. This time, they bought items for her last rites, put together a bier and carried her body on their shoulders to a ground, where they cremated her with Hindu rituals. “We believe in supporting each other during tough times, and help each other tide over any crisis,” said Mohammed Shahid Khan, 43, a resident of Teela Jamalpura in Bhopal. Without work Sama Namdev's husband, a kulfi vendor, is left without work now. The sons, daily wage labourers, face the same fate. And their relatives, staying in other parts of the city, could not reach owing to barricading. “Due to the lockdown, they are unable to step out for work. So, their condition is pretty bad,” said Mr. Khan, who works at the Barkatullah University. The body was brought to the locality at 3 a.m., and Mr. Khan and 15 other Muslim men swung into action in the morning. They just needed someone from the family to guide them with the rites. Navigating through a shuttered market, Mr. Khan reached Mangalwara, 2.5 km away, where he knew a shopkeeper, who gave them a white shroud, rice, an earthen pot, sacred thread and incense sticks. And at 11 a.m., they took out the procession. ‘Following lockdown’ The possible threat of contracting the novel coronavirus from the body, if she had died of it, or coming too close to each other came last. First, the men wanted to accord her the last honours. “We are strictly following the lockdown, so we hope the disease is at bay,” he said. The family had stayed at the rented house for 25 years, but faced difficulty in paying the rent of late. “We will not allow them to leave at any cost. They are an integral part of the neighbourhood,” said Mr. Khan. Praising their act, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath wrote on Twitter: “...We saw a picture of communal harmony. Muslim youth gave shoulder to the bier of a Hindu woman. Such love and brotherhood shows our Ganga-Jamuna sanskriti.”
16 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||BSF conducts camp for tribes||A medical camp for tribal communities with special emphasis on COVID-19 awareness was conducted by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at Kurkunda village deep inside the Tulasi reserve forest, a Maoist hotbed in Swabhiman Anchal of Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Tuesday. The villagers were given masks made by tailors of the Company Operation Base (COB) of 160 battalion of BSF.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighi chief faces culpable homicide case||The Delhi police on Wednesday said they have charged the chief of the Delhi-based Tablighi Jamaat centre Maulana Muhammad Saad Khandalvi, under the section for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) has been added to the FIR that was registered against Mr. Saad and six other office-bearers of the centre, after people who attended the religious gathering in Nizamuddin, died due to COVID-19. The quarantine period of Mr. Saad has ended and he should join the investigation. Police would again sent notice to all persons named in the FIR, an officer said.
16 April 2020||Bhopal,||117 new virus cases reported in Indore||As many as 117 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Indore, taking the city’s count to 544, said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. “Most of these are primary contacts of previous patients and are already staying in quarantine,” said Dr. Jadia. Their samples were sent to New Delhi for testing. The bed capacity in Indore has been ramped up to 800 now. “We have acquired two hospitals of 300 beds each. The district administration is ready to treat a large number of patients,” he said. Moreover, Dr. Jadia said on Tuesday that health workers surveyed 45,000 residents of containment areas for illnesses, of which 300 were found suffering from cold and cough. “Our mobile medical units did not notice any coronavirus symptoms in them,” he said. So far, Madhya Pradesh has recorded 873 cases and 53 deaths. As many as 64 persons, including 39 from Indore, have recovered from the illness. In a bid to contain the coronavirus’ spread within its ranks, the Indore police have instructed personnel to refrain from exchanging equipment and arms — batons, rifles and wireless sets — with other personnel after their duty hours. Already, three of the personnel, including a police station in-charge, have contracted the illness, possibly during duty hours.
16 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||‘No separation of cases on religious lines’||The Ahmedabad Civil Hospital has reportedly segregated wards of COVID-19 patients along religious lines. The Health Department, however, has strongly rebutted the reports. Officials of the hospital are tight-lipped after local media reported the issue, but insiders said the decision was taken after a large number of cases were reported from a cluster of a religious gathering in Delhi. In a tweet, the Health Department strongly rebutted the report. Patients were kept in different wards based on their medical condition, it said. A doctor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that certain patients were not comfortable being in the same ward with patients of the minority community.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||11,077 freed from prisons, says NALSA||The National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) has said that as many as 11,077 undertrials have been released from prisons nationwide as part of the mission to decongest jails following the COVID-19 pandemic. NALSA said it had been providing assistance to prisoners who were eligible to be released on parole or interim bail under the relaxed norms, through its panel lawyers. “In most of the cases, their bail applications are being filed through legal aid counsel. Similarly, necessary assistance is being provided to the convicts. Till now, responses received from 232 districts reflect that around 11,077 undertrials and 5,981 convicts have been released,” NALSA said.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists decry discrimination against vendors||The National Hawkers Federation, the National Coalition for Inclusive and Sustainable Urbanisation and a group of activists, academics and lawyers on Wednesday, in a statement, condemned the reported “discrimination against Muslim vendors” during the lockdown. It demanded that the government carry out awareness campaigns against discrimination, explaining the contribution of the vendors during the pandemic.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||180 stranded Pakistanis to be sent back||India will facilitate the repatriation of 180 Pakistani nationals stranded here because of the lockdown, sources said on Wednesday. This is the first time in recent weeks that India has made the special gesture for Pakistan’s citizens. “The Ministry of External Affairs is facilitating the return of foreign nationals now in India to their countries. These include those of Pakistan. We understand from the High Commission of Pakistan that 18 of their nationals presently in India want to go back,” said a source who is coordinating the issue. The official said 40 citizens would cross the Wagah border on Thursday, and the rest would follow soon.
16 April 2020||Srinagar,||Test kits for Valley moved to Jammu||The Directorate of Health Services (DHS), Kashmir, has stopped taking samples from potentially infected persons in the Valley after a senior health official bypassed directions and diverted a Srinagar-bound consignment of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allotted five boxes, carrying 5,000 test kits, to Jammu. Official sources said the alarm was raised by top health officials in Srinagar besides officials in-charge of the COVID-19 crisis in the Divisional Commissioner’s office when a cargo plane arrived in Srinagar on Tuesday morning and failed to deliver the 5,000 testing kits. It was only following the intervention of Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam that 4,000 test kits were airlifted from Jammu to Srinagar around 4 p.m. on Tuesday. Sources said Jitendra Mehta of the National Health Mission, who advises Divisional Commissioner Pandurang K. Pole on procurements, diverted the testing kits to Jammu. “It’s being looked into if it was a goof-up or a deliberate attempt,” an official said. Sources said the bungling in the supply of kits forced the DHS, Kashmir, to stop taking swabs from suspected COVID-19 cases in the Valley. There is a backlog of some 1,300 samples which are waiting to be tested.
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||Migrants’ protest in Mumbai:TV journalist held for news report||A television journalist was arrested here on Wednesday over his report on resumption of special trains, which might have prompted the gathering of migrant workers in Bandra on Tuesday, a police official said. The arrest of Rahul Kulkarni, who works with a Marathi news channel, was tweeted by State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.PTI
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||No plan to run specials for migrants: Railways||The Railways has denied that it had any plans to run special trains for migrant labourers. An internal communique of the South Central Railway (SCR) had stated that there was a proposal to run ‘Jansadharan Special Trains’ for migrant workers. The Chief Public Relations Officer of SCR, C.H. Rakesh, said it was “ an internal document that was taken out of context”.
16 April 2020||NOIDA,||Man shot at as he coughs at Ludo game||A 25-year-old man was shot at and injured at a village in Greater Noida on Tuesday when he coughed during a Ludo game. The assailant accused him of trying to spread COVID-19, the police said on Wednesday. Prashant Singh alias Pravesh and three others were playing Ludo at a temple at Dayanagar when Jai Veer Singh alias Gullu, 30, arrived there. As Prashant coughed, Gullu thought he was doing it deliberately. “As the argument intensified, Gullu pulled out a pistol and shot at Prashant,” a police officer said.PTI
16 April 2020||Patna,||46 foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi jailed in Bihar for violation of visa norms||As many as 46 foreign nationals from Malaysia, Kyrgyzstan, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Kazakhstan have been arrested from Bihar and sent to jail for violation of visa norms. According to the police, 18 foreign nationals were arrested from Araria, 17 from Patna, and 11 from Buxar. Among them, 20 are from Malaysia, nine each from Bangladesh and Kyrgyzstan, seven from Indonesia and one from Kazakhstan. “All had come to Bihar after the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin,” police said.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||They battle a virus with little protection||“I am exhausted. Many of us here have been working daily for the past one month, without a break,” a doctor attached to a primary health centre said. “We are involved in containment activities. But the masks that we have been given are of poor quality. While some districts have received N95 masks, our block has not got the supply yet. We have had less than 10 personal protective equipment kits for the past two weeks,” said another doctor attached to a mobile medical unit. “Our village health nurses (VHN) have no proper protective gear and are worried as they carry out checks in areas where positive cases have been reported. We have no gloves and wear only disposable masks for door-to-door checks,” a nurse noted. At the centre of COVID-19 prevention and control in the State are these doctors and staff, attached to the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine. But a cross-section of them said that they were working with inadequate safety gear on the field. Unlike the directorates of medical education, and medical and rural health services, DPH has not reserved a part of its workforce for rotational duty. The former two directorates had put one-third and one-fourth of their workforces, respectively, directly involved in treatment and care of patients with symptoms, on one-week self-imposed quarantines to ensure that not all healthcare providers are exposed to risk, at the same time. “DPH staff are involved in contact tracing, screening of those under home quarantine, along with regular outpatient duty at primary health centres. RBSK (Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram) teams and mobile medical units are part of COVID-19 prevention measures. Some of them continue to be on screening duty at the checkposts. There is no leave or weekly off for many of the cadre,” one of the doctors on COVID-19 duty said. In the field “On Wednesday, a 30-year-old medical officer who was on routine COVID-19 duty, including field visits, died of dengue and scrub typhus. He was on duty till Friday and was hospitalised after he developed fever and loose stools. This is the sad reality. All we are asking is for posting on rotation basis and a quarantine period for us,” another PHC doctor said. Another doctor said that village health nurses and anganwadi workers were visiting individual houses to check on symptoms, while doctors organised medical camps in the locality. “This is a containment zone covering a seven-kilometre radius from the house of a COVID-19 patient. A majority of us do not have appropriate safety gear. We do not know if a person being screened is already infected. Some of us have purchased N95 masks on our own. The government is saying adequate masks and PPEs are available, but why has it not reached those in the field,” he asked. Another doctor, part of the containment plan, said PPEs were provided only when they visited contacts of the single-source event. A village health nurse said: “After field-level activities, we return home, and our families are extremely worried.” Officials of the Health Department said that they were not posting staff on continuous duty and were ensuring that PPEs were provided.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Overcoming fear and stress while in isolation||It was not fear of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) but life in isolation that worried Pradeep (name changed). But as days passed, the stress soon faded, thanks to hospital staff and before he realised it, he was back home after treatment. “I was not afraid of COVID-19. But I kept thinking about staying in isolation. The hospital staff made the isolation period easy for me. They checked me regularly and ensured that I felt allright. They ensured that I got proper food and water on time, not to forget my cup of tea,” he said. A resident of a northern State, Pradeep was working in Chennai. On testing positive for COVID-19, he underwent treatment at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. “There is no need for anyone to be scared of COVID-19. Seek medical help and get yourself treated on time. I started to feel better five days after treatment,” he added. “Of course, my mobile phone helped a lot too,” he said in a lighter vein. “I watched videos and movies to escape from boredom.” He was discharged from the hospital on April 10, and continues to be in isolation at home. “I am feeling good now. Doctors have advised me to stay in isolation at home for 14 days, and follow physical distancing,” he said. Like him, Surendran (name changed), who tested positive for COVID-19 last month, has been discharged after treatment. “It started with throat pain. I experienced indigestion and had mild fever for three days. I grew doubtful of the symptoms and decided to seek medical help. Doctors lifted nasal and throat swabs and the samples returned positive for COVID-19, and I was immediately admitted to the isolation ward of KMC,” he recalled. Testing positive for COVID-19 was stressful, he said. “But I took to yoga and meditation to overcome that stress. The hospital provided me with hot water for drinking. The daily diet included fruit juices,” he said. A naturopathy practitioner, he appreciated the hospital staff for their care. “COVID-19 is like any other infectious disease. We need to maintain personal hygiene to break the chain of transmission. Not just personal hygiene measures but we also need to promote our immune system through a healthy diet and lifestyle modifications,” he said.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not a political move: Minister||The State government on Wednesday asserted that there were no political considerations behind its decision to extend the lockdown. Asked whether the decision was taken to ensure that the DMK could be prevented from going ahead with its original decision of holding a meeting of various parties on Wednesday to discuss the fallout, D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister, and regarded as the Cabinet’s spokesperson, termed it as “false” and said the move was “purely based on administrative grounds.” Even though the Cabinet, at its meeting on Saturday, decided to wait till Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement [which he did on Tuesday], it was felt that “reasonable time” should be given to people before the extension. This was why Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday extended the lockdown, the Minister claimed, adding that the Chief Minister, in his meeting with the Prime Minister and other Chief Ministers through video-conferencing last week, had called for the extension by two weeks. After the Chennai police denied the permission to have the event, the DMK has planned to have its meeting on Thursday through video-conferencing.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants time to file counter||The Madras High Court on Wednesday granted time till Thursday for the State government to file its counter affidavit to a public interest litigation petition filed by the DMK challenging the restrictions imposed on distribution of relief material to those affected by the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Pongiappan heard preliminary arguments advanced by senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, and permitted Advocate-General (A-G) Vijay Narayan to file a counter affidavit before taking a call on the issue. The judges asked the DMK to spell out how it had planned to avoid gathering of crowd during relief distribution. Mr. Wilson alleged that starvation deaths had begun in the State with reports of one person dying for want of food. Accusing the government of not taking any steps to address the issue, he wondered why there should not be restriction when markets and ration shops were open. Making it clear that the DMK had no objection to informing local police stations before carrying out the distribution work, he said its objection was only to insistence on obtaining permission from government officials. “We will certainly intimate but there is no need to get their permission. It is nothing but bureaucratic red-tapism,” he said. The A-G told the court that the government had not banned volunteers from distributing relief material. All that had been insisted upon was for them to work in tandem with the designated government officials to ensure that physical distancing and other protocols were followed. He feared spread of the disease if the norms were not adhered to. Vaiko’s petition Although MDMK leader Vaiko too had filed a similar petition, he was not present in the court when the case was called out. Additional Advocate-General S.R. Rajagopal informed the judges that it was connected to the case filed by the DMK. Hence, the judges adjourned it to Thursday to be heard along with many other related cases.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veggie, fruit scarcity sees Madhavaram horticulture farm gaining traction||The Madhavaram horticulture farm has been witnessing a steady increase in orders for vegetables and fruit packs, through the Department’s online platform, over the past few days. Nearly one-third of the city’s orders are supplied from Madhavaram. The Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA), a special-purpose vehicle of the Horticulture Department, launched the service earlier this month throughethottam.comto deliver essentials at residents’ doorsteps during the national lockdown. Combo packs On an average, about 1,000 assorted combo packs are distributed from Madhavaram horticulture farm, Semmozhi Poonga and Guindy. Of this, nearly 400-500 bags are packed and distributed from Madhavaram. Officials of the Horticulture Department said that while up to 15 kinds of assorted items in the vegetable combo cost Rs. 300, five to six varieties of fruits in the combo cost Rs. 500. Most produce is sourced directly from farmers across Tamil Nadu. Nearly 15 tonnes of vegetables and fruits have been procured from farmers so far. A few items such as potatoes and oranges, which are not locally grown, are procured from the open market to cater to demand. “We have distributed nearly 7,000 bags so far in the city, despite challenges due to the lockdown. Once the order is placed online, we deliver it within 48 hours. About 60 vehicles are engaged in the door delivery of essentials,” said an official. Retail outlets Moreover, TANHODA’s mobile retail outlets are also stationed in several areas. With growing awareness about the products, the Department plans to offer spices, coffee, tea and chocolates through its online platform, soon, the official added.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 100 penalty for not wearing masks||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Wednesday announced that a fine of Rs. 100 would be levied on those stepping out without wearing masks. This was part of its measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Corporation said that it would strictly enforce the usage of face masks by people to avoid the spread of the disease. The Corporation has invoked the provisions under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to make wearing of masks mandatory. In an official release, the Corporation said that any person disobeying the direction would be deemed to have committed an offence. Police personnel will seize the violator’s vehicle and suspend their driving license for a period of six months as well. The penalty would apply to pedestrians for stepping out without wearing masks as well, the press release added.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM playing politics: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of “taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic and playing politics” when innumerable people were affected by the coronavirus. In a statement in Chennai, he alleged that the lockdown rules had been imposed on others while the ruling partymen had been granted exemption. “It is against democracy that the Chief Minister is misusing power and functioning in a partial manner. He does not have the mind to involve everyone to carry out relief works. It is sad that Tamil Nadu has a Chief Minister who lacks empathy,” he said. Mr. Stalin charged that the Chief Minister who held meetings with his Ministers, officials and religious leaders denied permission to the all-party meeting planned by the DMK even though “we promised” to follow all the precautionary measures. “It is a dirty and uncivilised politics,” he said. The DMK leader alleged that even at a time of pandemic the Chief Minister was promoting himself and the ruling party and in the process converted the government as a political organ. “But democracy is strong and powerful. It will teach an appropriate lesson at the appropriate time,” he said. Reiterating that the DMK had faced repressive measures, Mr. Stalin called upon his partymen to continue relief works.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks to operate between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. till May 3||Banks across the State will function from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. till May 3, the State Level Bankers’ Committee said on Wednesday. “Depending on the availability of staff, the banks shall run their branches with skeleton staff (50% of the workforce, on a rotational basis),” it said in a circular. Further, the committee stated that in areas where a bank had more than one branch, and they were in close proximity to each other, it may keep select branches open to provide basic banking services, after due consultation with the district administration. On March 23, the banks were advised by the authorities to provide services from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Subsequently, the business hours were restored to the usual timings of 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., in anticipation of the possibility of huge crowds thronging branches to withdraw the relief amount provided by the government under various schemes, regular pensions and the like, the circular noted. “The situation was reviewed. The crediting of the relief amount to the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account-holders and pensions has been completed, and withdrawal is happening gradually. The public are completing their transactions by around 1 p.m. as the lockdown is being strictly enforced by the authorities. Besides, the footfall at the branches is lower than expected,” it added. Member-banks in the State are requested to educate and encourage their customers to make use of alternative delivery channels and opt for digital transactions, the committee said.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Intersections turn awareness hubs||Several intersections in the city are now sporting paintings to create awareness on the COVID-19 pandemic, among motorists and pedestrians. A senior police officer said, “The paintings create an impact on passersby and motorists. They cannot ignore them when they pass the area. It is part of our effort to make people adhere to prohibitory orders and physical distancing norms.” Local artists have been engaged for art works on roads in Teynampet, Alwarpet, Egmore, Ashok Nagar, Villivakkam, Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Koyamebdu and Periamet. M. Vadivel, an artist, said, “We decided to make paintings to create awareness and make people understand the consequences of loitering outside. Police stations are helping us and sponsoring supplies like paint.”
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adversity is no bar for this local hero||K.V. Pratheesh’s daily schedule starts at 4.30 a.m. at the Valvachakostam temple run by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department in Kanniyakumari district, where he does odd jobs. After work hours he will either join social workers who distribute food packets to poor people who could not work due to the COVID-19 lockdown or join sanitary workers cleaning the streets. He spends his money to prepare the food. Mr. Pratheesh, 31, had his spleen removed surgically after an accident. He was in coma for two months. But a determined Mr. Pratheesh did not allow his condition to come in the way of his social work. “Now I am spraying bleaching power along with the sanitation workers. Even when Ockhi cyclone hit the district, I involved myself in relief work,” Mr. Pratheesh told The Hindu over phone. A native of Aatruvalakam near Thuckalay, Mr. Pratheesh worked at construction sites after completing his school education. “My family circumstances did not allow me to continue my studies. I also participated in the recruitment for the army but was not selected,” he said. A few years ago, he fell from the second floor of a building when the scaffolding collapsed. “Doctors told me that the spleen had shattered with blood-clotting. I plunged into coma and gained consciousness after two months also underwent tracheotomy,” Mr Pratheesh said. About the health risk, he said the doctors in the government hospital in Thuckalay also warned him. “But I have left it to God. He will take care,” said Mr. Pratheesh.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur SP initiates action against inspector||The Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police has initiated a departmental inquiry against a police inspector who stopped a man, who was on his way to sell agricultural produce. Karthik from Thamaraipakkam is an electrician. Since he was not able to earn a living during the lockdown, he had started selling vegetables and fruits. On Tuesday, he was on his way to sell vegetables when he was stopped by an inspector. “At this juncture, the officer got information about overcrowding in a bank and left. The sub-inspector did not know whether to let Karthik go,” said an officer. Karthik was made to wait for close to two hours. Later, when he spotted the vehicle of a Deputy Superintendent of Police coming his way, he decided to vent his anger and threw all the vegetables on the road. The video went viral on social media. The issue was brought to the notice of P. Aravindan, SP, Tiruvallur. “I went to Karthik’s house and compensated him for his loss. I also gave him some groceries and books for him to read. There is a fault on the side of the police, hence I have initiated departmental action,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers in Tiruvallur district said that they are often stopped by policemen, when they are on their way to sell produce. “We have to then call the Collector’s or the SP’s office for intervention,” said a farmer from Poondi.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court staff tests positive in Tenkasi||A woman office assistant attached to a Judicial Magistrate Court at Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district has tested positive for COVID-19. All those who had come in contact with her, including the magistrate, have been quarantined and tested.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t throng Koyambedu market’||Reiterating that arrangements have been made to deliver vegetables and fruits at residents’ doorsteps, the Koyambedu Market Committee on Wednesday said that individuals need not to visit the market to buy produce. Chennai residents can now order and receive vegetables and fruits, being sold at the Koyambedu market, at their doorsteps, through delivery services apps such as Swiggy, Zomato and Dunzo. Vegetables and fruits are being delivered after receiving orders for combo packs through the CMDA’s website,www.cmdachennai.gov.in.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All-party meeting today||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the all-party meeting slated for April 15 to discuss and evaluate the relief measures taken by the government during the COVID-19 lockdown would be done through video-conferencing on April 16 as the police had denied permission. “Even though we gave an undertaking that adequate distance would be maintained in the meeting, the State government had used the police to issue notice for denial of permission,” Mr. Stalin said in a press statement. He said the DMK decided to hold an all-party meeting since the Chief Minister held meeting with his Cabinet colleagues, Chief Secretary, officials, medical professionals and even with religious heads.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tata Group gives PCR kits to State govt.||The Tata Group has contributed about 40,000 PCR kits worth about Rs. 8 crore to Tamil Nadu government to help in the testing of COVID-19 cases in the State. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami thanked the Tata Group. Donations to CMPRF So far, contributions totalling Rs. 134.63 crore have been received from various donors by the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF).
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mortality rate in T.N. now at 1.1%: Minister||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 mortality rate is 1.1%, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “Till Tuesday, the mortality rate was 0.9% in the State. With two more deaths on Wednesday, the mortality rate is 1.1%,” he told reporters on Wednesday. As of today, 14 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have died in the State. He said the State had issued a G.O. for clinical management of patients, based on WHO guidelines laid down by the World Health Organisation, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and advisory from the AIIMS, New Delhi. “The Union Health Ministry has appreciated our clinical management approach during reviews. It has helped in keeping the mortality rate low,” the Minister added.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Suj/AICTE warns colleges against collecting fees||The All India Council for Technical Education has warned institutions against demanding fees, including admission fee, during the lockdown. Institutions have been told to desist from demanding any payment. The council will issue further guidelines in due course.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SUJ/Law varsity donates over Rs. 2.8 lakh to CM, PM relief fund/||Staff of the Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University have contributed a day’s salary from March and April to relief funds. The registrar said Rs. 1,04,471 and Rs. 1,81,592 were respectively handed over to the PM’s National Relief Fund and the T.N. Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Eight booked for flying kites||The police booked eight persons in Saidapet and Kumaran Nagar for flying kites. They were released on bail. “They were homemade, but flying of kites has been banned, following incidents of manja slitting people’s necks,” said a police officer.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CoP extends prohibitory order till April 30||Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Wednesday extended prohibitory orders, issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, till April 30, following directions from the State government. “The order has been passed for preserving public peace and safety,” he said.
16 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue abandoned child in Besant Nagar||Police personnel in Shastri Nagar rescued an abandoned child from beneath a car in Besant Nagar and handed the baby over to the District Child Welfare Committee. Shastri Nagar police are scrutinising CCTV camera footage from the area to identify the child’s parents.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||May not be able to pay salaries to workers for April, say MSMEs||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu, which employs several lakh people, has indicated that it may not be able to pay salaries to its workers for April due to the lockdown. Some MSMEs are evaluating their options for enforcing salary cuts in the coming months. According to employees, many firms have paid only 50-70% of their salaries for the month of March. “They have told us that they will give us the remaining amount as and when cash comes in from the vendors,” said an employee of a unit at the Ambattur Industrial Estate. K.V. Kanakambaram, president, Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said several industries had borrowed money from private financiers and other sources to pay salaries for March, and as of now, April looked “very tough”. “It will take anywhere between six months and a year for the revival of our sector, as we are all dependent on the big companies for our survival. The three-month moratorium on payment of interest and principal will not be sufficient for this sector, as all units will face a severe liquidity crunch and the majority of them will be forced to shut down,” he said. Recently, all MSME cluster and association heads in Tamil Nadu had a video call with State government officials, during which they informed the authorities about the challenges facing the industry. Letters seeking help were sent to the State government and the Centre. Most MSMEs are hopeful that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will allow companies to resume operations post-April 20. But if that does not happen, they fear the situation will worsen. R. Selvam, secretary, Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said the big question was how to manage the next three months (in terms of fixed costs, salaries, etc.) without having any confirmed business. “We have paid [salaries] for March in advance, but don't know how to manage salaries for April. In April, we won’t be able to pay 100% of the salaries; we will try to pay some percentage [of salaries] so that our employees meet their essential needs.” Salaries may be cut A.N. Rajasekaran, CEO of Precitek Exports, said salaries will be paid for two months, but post that period, a partial pay cut could happen if there is no improvement in the situation. R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, said the government should ask banks to give loans to MSMEs to help them pay their workers. “The Industries Secretary spoke to the associations through a video call. We told him that MSMEs normally have a cash flow enough to meet their needs for only one or two weeks. How can we pay our workers when the units are shut and there have been no payments?” he asked. MSMEs have also put forth a slew of demands to the State government and the Centre, including deferment of electricity bill payment on fixed charges, employees’ salary compensation under ESIC without any threshold limit, boosting the public sector’s purchases from MSMEs and settling the latter’s dues. Manufacturers in Guindy have requested the government to instruct the Reserve Bank of India and other banks to provide financial packages to MSMEs with a long repayment period of 60 months and attractive interest rates.
16 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State Government keen on ensuring lockdown is effective, says Minister||While the State Government is keen on effective implementation of the lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, it also wanted to ensure that the livelihood of the poor and have-nots is taken care of, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani said here on Wednesday at a meeting with officials to review the situation in Coimbatore district. The district administration had declared parts of Anamalai, Pollachi North, Pollachi South, Kinathukadavu, Madukkarai, Vadamadurai, Annur, Sirumugai and Mettupalayam as containment zones in the rural areas. Likewise, the Coimbatore Corporation had declared parts of Sundarapuram, Kuniamuthur, Ukkadam, Flower Market, R.S. Puram, K.K. Pudur, Kavundampalayam, Cheran Managar and Podanur as containment zones. People from within were not allowed to go out and those from outside should not enter these zones. The administration had taken steps to meet the needs of the people in these zones, a press release from the administration, quoting the Minister, said. Budget canteens help The 15 budget canteens (Amma Unavagam) had served food to around 1.12 lakh people, thrice a day, between March 24 and April 15. Another 40,000 persons – migrant labourers, differently abled, people living off the streets had received food from the 15 community kitchens, the release said. The administration had tested 2,150 persons who had travelled abroad, showed COVID-19 symptoms or were secondary contacts of affected persons. Of those, 1,330 had tested negative and 126 were found COVID-19 positive. The analyses of the swab samples of 694 persons were underway and the results would soon be out. Fever check Mr. Velumani also said that the administration had quarantined 1,008 persons and was engaged in door-to-door fever check in their neighbourhood. The Minister explained various relief measures the State Government had taken such as distribution of Rs. 1,000 to each rice card holder and groceries to all card holders under the public distribution system and the transfer of Rs. 1,000 to construction workers registered with the welfare board concerned, auto rickshaw drivers. Special officer deputed to oversee the relief works Kumar Jayant, Collector K. Rajamani and senior officials were present at the review meeting. 230 test negative Meanwhile, sources said 230 persons in the city, whose swab samples were lifted over the last two days by the Coimbatore Corporation, have tested negative for COVID-19. Their test reports were received on Wednesday, sources said.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to come out with operational guidelines for exempted industries||The State government is expected to come out with operational guidelines soon so that the additional activities exempted from the COVID-19 lockdown measures announced by the Union government can be taken up from April 20. “We need the operational guidelines to put into effect what the Centre announced on Wednesday. The permissions are subjected to conditions. For instance, the industries need to take all the prescribed safety measures if they are to be permitted to operate,” a senior official in the State government said. The official added that discussions will be held with related departments and the operational guidelines will be on the same lines of the guidelines issued by the Union Government. It is likely to be announced in two or three days. With the Centre announcing additional activities that can be taken up from April 20 in areas that are not containment zones, industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts waited for clarifications to resume operations. “We will wait for Tamil Nadu guidelines,” said K. Selvaraju, secretary general of Southern India Mills’ Association. “I kept getting calls from the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises from Wednesday morning asking if they can restart operations. But we need clarifications to resume operations,” said R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. In Tirupppur, Raja Shanmugam, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said the announcements seem to give reprieve to the knitwear exporters. It permits units in special economic zones, industrial estates, industrial townships, export oriented units to operate. The knitwear units will be able to start making samples, he said.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||India Post launches helpline||The Department of Posts has launched a helpline in Coimbatore Division to help pharmacists book and deliver medicines to customers at their doorstep. Senior Superintendent of Post Offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhere said the helpline number (0422 2305100) is operational from Monday. The Department has expressed its readiness to help the pharmacists and chemists in three ways: book and deliver medicines in bulk and medical equipment from Coimbatore to other States, from Coimbatore to other parts of Tamil Nadu and to deliver medicines to retail customers at their doorstep. If the pharmacists want to know the nearest post office where they can book medicine package for delivery within the city, they can dial the helpline. The postmen and postwomen will deliver the medicines, he said. Since containment zones are increasing in the city, post offices in those areas are closed down. The helpline is to tell the pharmacists about the changes so that they can book the parcels at the nearest post office that is operational.
16 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Waive MD charges during lockdown period’||Even as the nationwide lockdown is extended till May 3 and industries remain shut, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has said that current consumption charges should be paid by May 6. It has not made any announcement on reduction of Minimum Demand (MD) charges. Industries here have demanded time to pay the current consumption charges and to waive off the MD charges. In a communication dated April 13, the Tangedco has said that LT and LTCT consumers are given time till May 6 to pay the current consumption charges. Consumers should pay the previous month bill for LT and LTCT services for the March/April bill months and the reading date is from March 22 to April 30.  President of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Entrepreneurs Association C. Sivakumar said the units have money only to take care of the workers. They need at least three months time to pay the current consumption charges. “There are payments pending even for 150 days. When we are not operating the units, how can we pay the current bill?,” he asks. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, says the Tangedco has to provide 80 % concession for MD charges during the lockdown period according to TNERC norms. The government can decide to waive it off completely too. Further, the Tangedco staff are all working as it is an essential service. It is the decision of Tangedco and not that of the industries to not take door-to-door reading of current consumption charges. So it cannot ask the consumers to pay the previous month bill for the current month. It should at least waive off the amount for the period when there is lockdown. “Tangedco need not extend concessions. But it should not penalise commercial and industrial consumers during such challenging periods,” he said.
16 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Alternative arrangements made for PG medicos, house surgeons||Authorities of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) have arranged alternative accommodation for male post graduate students and house surgeons after their quarters on the hospital campus was fumigated. They were shifted to a hostel on the medical college campus near Peelamedu. The quarters was fumigated after two PG students who were deputed at the COVID-19 ward of Government Medical College and ESI Hospital tested positive for the disease on Monday. Swab samples of all the male house surgeons and 15 female house surgeons were collected on Wednesday. The samples of the male and female PG students who had duty at the COVID-19 ward of the ESI hospital were already collected and tested, said sources at the hospital. The hospital administration was also planning to vacate the women’s quarters on the campus and fumigate it. On Tuesday, Director of Medical Education R. Narayanababu visited the hospital to review the situation. He directed the CMCH administration to test swab samples of those who worked in the mess at the gents’ quarters. They had refused to work after the two PG students contracted COVID-19. It is a common mess for both men and women PG students. The sources said a catering agency would supply food to the PG students and house surgeons till the mess resumed functioning.  Special Correspondent adds  On Wednesday, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani said the district administration had been asked to look into the demands of the post-graduate medical students, particularly those related to their food and shelter. “I have asked the administration to provide the best possible food and accommodation, matching the standards of star hotels. At the same time, the medicos should stay vigilant and take care of their health,” he told journalists after a meeting with officials to review the administration’s preparedness to combat COVID-19.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘CBSE schools must be allowed to collect fees’||Amid the lockdown, the CBSE Schools Management Association (CSMA) has requested the State government to allow CBSE schools across the State to collect fees for the academic year 2020-21, which commenced on April 1. CSMA president C.S. Manoharan said that online classes for students are ongoing in all the CBSE schools as per the instructions of Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi. However, he said that many parents have not paid their fees owing to the lockdown and as per the warning issued by Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan earlier in April regarding action against private schools demanding fees. “The fee collection status of all the schools are absolutely nil with this lockdown scenario and paying salary to the staff members, payment to the suppliers and to manage other incidental expenses is an absolute concern,” Mr. Manoharan claimed in a statement. He told The Hindu that the State government must consider providing temporary loans or funds to assist the CBSE schools during this lockdown period. P.S. Moorthi, chairman of Manchester International School in Coimbatore and a CSMA member, said that there are 137 schools in Coimbatore district, out of which nearly 60 schools are in the city. “This is an unexpected situation,” he said, adding that all CBSE schools in the State are affected by this issue. A Coimbatore-based senior official from the Department of School Education said that there are no written instructions from the Department of School Education preventing CBSE schools from collecting fees. No major complaints regarding salary of teachers in CBSE schools have come to the notice of the Department, according to the official.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ailing tusker dies||An ailing male elephant, aged around six, died in a forest area within Pooluvapatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Wednesday. The elephant had injuries that it is believed to have suffered in a fight with a male elephant, according to a retired veterinarian deputed by the Forest Department. Forest Department staff, who were monitoring the elephant for the last several days, found it on the banks of Noyyal on Wednesday. They noticed that the elephant was drinking water with difficulty. The field staff appraised senior officials about the situation, who sought the assistance of a retired forest veterinarian, as the present veterinary officer was not in Coimbatore on Wednesday. Forest officials and the veterinarian inspected the carcass and found multiple injuries. The tusker’s tongue was torn and the lower jaw had ulcers. The carcass will be autopsied on Thursday.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Crude explosive goes off during arrack raid||Avittukai , a crude explosive used to hunt wild boar, went off in a cow shed attached to a house near Annur in Coimbatore when sleuths of the Prohibition Enforcement Wing of the police raided the place to check distilling and sale of arrack late on Tuesday. Officials said the incident happened when they raided the house of A. Nachimuthu, 43, at Athikuttai near Kuppanur village, Annur. The team seized two litres of arrack from a cow shed close to the house. While inspecting further, they stumbled upon crude explosives. One explosive accidentally fell on the ground and went off. The police booked Nachimuthu under Sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and the Explosives Act.
16 April 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Drone to keep tabs on illegal liquor sales||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the Cuddalore district police have employed a drone to keep tabs on tipplers who have been sourcing alcohol illegally during the current lockdown. “We have employed a drone to keep an eye on Chavadi, Marundhadu, Alagiyanatham, Commandanmedu and Vaanpakkam located close to the border with Puducherry,” an official said.
16 April 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Two hacked to death in Panruti||Two persons were hacked to death by an 11-member gang when they went to water crops at Kuttiyadu near Thiruvadhigai in Panruti late on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as M. Balaji, 23, and R. Manikandan, 26, of Thiruvadhigai.
16 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Violation||A large number of women daily wage earners on Wednesday neglected repeated calls to maintain social distancing given by officials at a bank here. When a public sector bank opened its branch on Chatram Road, a large number of women arrived at the venue. They refused to maintain social distancing despite assurances by bank staff that every account holder would get money and there was no need for panic and crowding.
16 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||6 new cases in Erode, 3 in Salem||Six persons tested positive for COVID-19 here on Wednesday taking the total positive cases in the Erode district to 70, including four of a doctor’s family in Coimbatore. Family members Officials said that all the six persons were family members of persons who had tested positive and were currently in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. All were from B.P. Agraharam, Mosikeeranar Street and Kallukadaimedu that were declared containment zones. Symptoms Officials said after the six persons developed symptoms last week, they were admitted to the isolation ward and tested. In Salem district, three persons have tested positive. They had been in close contact with persons who had tested positive and are now in the isolation ward at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. With this, the total number of persons who tested positive in Salem is 22.
16 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable price drops in Erode||With arrival of vegetables to the wholesale market on the rise, price of vegetables has dropped significantly here on Wednesday. After Section 144 was clamped in the district on March 24, movement of lorries, vans and other four-wheelers transporting vegetables to the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market stopped completely pushing the price of vegetables. In the last week of March, tomato was sold between Rs. 40 to 50 a kg while price of other essential vegetables also were up by 30% to 50% . Panic buying by people in the initial stage of lockdown also resulted in the increase in the price of vegetables which started to reduce after transportation of agriculture produce was allowed. On Wednesday, the wholesale price of 14 kg box of tomato stood at Rs. 80 while the price of brinjal was between Rs. 18 and Rs. 25 a kg and onion Rs. 20 to Rs. 25 a kg. Traders at the wholesale market, which currently functions at Corporations Central Bus Stand, said that after vehicles were allowed to transport vegetables, prices started to drop. Another trader Murugan said the price of fruits has gone up in past two weeks due to increase in demand.
16 April 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Live teaching sessions||The school education department in Karaikal district has roped in a local private television channel for a live teacher interface for students preparing for X standard public examination. Chief Educational Officer A. Alli said Diamond Television, Karaikal, will telecast live teaching and interaction sessions subject-wise by roping in experienced teachers from April 20 to 30. The teaching session from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. will be followed by an hour-long interaction to clear doubts. Mathematics will be handled on April 20 and 26, Science on April 21 and 27, Social Sciences on April 22 and 28, English on April 23 and 29, and Tamil on April 24 and 30.
16 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Approval for lab in Karur hospital||The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved the laboratory at Karur Government Medical College Hospital to carry out COVID-19 tests. It is one of few medical college hospitals in the State which have got the approval for COVID-19 testing within months after first batch of medical students joined. Full fledged laboratory usually comes into being when the first batch of students moves to third year. However, the Karur hospital, the 23rd government college in the State, has managed to set up the infrastructure within its first academic year. Besides testing facilities, a group of microbiologists have reported for duty. “Trial testing of COVID-19 patients has been completed and we have started examining the swabs and blood samples,” Rosy Vennila, Dean of the hospital said. The laboratory will be a boon to patients to get results within a day. The hospital authorities had so far been sending samples to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital or Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi for testing. It took 3 to 4 days to get results. Dr. Vennila said that the KGMC Hospital had been receiving COVID-19 patients from Karur, Namakkal and Dindigul districts. The testing facility had enabled the doctors to begin treatment within a day of admission.
16 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||College students to arm people with knowledge of COVID-19||Around 3,000 National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers from various colleges affiliated to the Madurai Kamaraj University are taking part in a three-day training programme on ways to effectively spread awareness of novel coronavirus. The modules have been prepared by National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru and the training is given under the supervision of mental health experts from M.S. Chellamuthu Trust. The NSS volunteers will spread awareness of the disease through online and mobile platforms. They will educate people on how it spread and how to identify the symptoms, because once armed with the knowledge, people will remain calm. Inaugurating the training programme on Wednesday, C. Kamaraj, who heads the Zonal Task Force, the university’s initiative was a first-of-its-kind and could serve as a model for other institutions. MKU Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said the NSS volunteers would take part in nine-hour sessions on the three days. When they spread awareness of COVID-19, if they hear about people with influenza-like symptoms or mental duress, they would alert Public Health authorities and M. S. Chellamuthu Trust respectively. “The students will only go online or use phones for spreading awareness as physical distancing is more important,” he said. M. S. Chellamuthu Trust founder C. Ramasubramanian said the students would act as liaisons among the government, NGOs and the public. If found successful, the training programme could be replicated in other universities across the State. After the epidemic, the NSS volunteers in Madurai will also be trained in basic counselling. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said, “Everybody - doctors, nurses, paramedics, patients and people - are stressed. Many deadly viruses existed before, but getting over fear will help more than anything else,” he said. Doctors Sanjeev Kumar and C. Jayakumar from NIMHANS conducted the first training session via video conferencing. 90 beds ready The MKU V-C said that four guest houses with 90 beds are available at the university for isolation and quarantining. “The rooms, with attached bathrooms, have been cleaned, disinfected and are ready for use,” he said.
16 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Many enterprises running short of stationeries||Without stationery items like carbon paper, A4 sheets, billing material, pens and pencils in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown, businesspersons dealing with essential commodities say they are unable to smoothly conduct their business. Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association president S.P. Jeyaprakasam says even hospitals need bill books and doctors need case sheets. Stationery material is fast disappearing everywhere, he says. Having raised the issue during the meeting with Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar at World Tamil Sangam here on Monday, Mr. Jeyaprakasam says that although a few might have the advantage of asking shopkeepers known to them personally to open the shop just for their own use, a large number of others have to do without them. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry senior president S. Rethinavelu says Goods and Service Tax regime calls for printed bills with serial and GST numbers. “Most people stock up only whatever is necessary for the present time. So they are caught unawares,” he said. School reopening Secretary of Madurai Notebook Manufacturers Association K. Murugesan says apart from stationery required for businesses, notebook manufacturers are also under tremendous pressure to start printing. “Schools are expected to reopen in early June. Usually in April and May, notebook manufacturers get their orders and start printing. This year, however, because of the 40-day lockdown, we have to catch up with the lost time,” he says. There are around 150 small and medium scale notebook manufacturers and as many paper manufacturers in Madurai. “Without any production, business will suffer. Despite everything going digital all over the world, the importance of stationery has not diminished in India,” he says. Madurai Paper Traders Association president S. Shankar says in the digital world, copier papers are necessary. “Scarcity of paper will affect both the education and talent industries. Though the State government termed paper as an essential commodity on the morning of April 7, it withdrew the notification the same day. This proves that the need for paper is understood at the government level,” he says. If paper and other stationery items are allowed to be sold between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. like other essential commodities, it will be a win-win for all businesses, the trade bodies say. Collector T. G. Vinay says wholesale stationers will not be allowed to keep their shops open and a decision on door delivery will be announced soon.
16 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conservancy workers need on time and better wages’||Conservancy workers must be paid their wages on time, said Tamil Nadu Sanitary Workers and Overhead Tank Operators Welfare Association’s State organising secretary A. Kondavellai. In these hard times of COVID-19 lockdown, the authorities were unwilling to pay conservancy workers the constituted wages but resorting to the gimmick of washing their feet. “Many workers have not received wages for three to six months. They do not raise their voice, fearing they would be thrown out of job,” he said. They were paid Rs. 5,570 a month. While other sections of the society were on the path of upward mobility, sanitary workers, most of whom belong to Scheduled Castes, required better salaries to spend on education of their children, healthcare and personal expenses. “They clear garbage and handle all your house waste. The least you can do is give them dignity and pay them well. We request the government to pay them Rs. 18,700,” he said. Face masks, shoes and gloves must be made available to the workers throughout the year and not just during times of disease outbreak. Though local bodies must clean water tanks twice a month, they were cleaned only once in three years. This being a major cause for the spread of diseases, if tank operators were paid adequate wages, they would clean the tanks too,” he said.
16 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railways not to pay some allowances for April||With only a skeletal staff working in most of the branches of Madurai division of Southern Railway, the administration has decided not to pay some allowances, which required physical verification, with the April salary. In a circular dated April 15, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer C. Sudhagaran has asked the Branch Officers and supervisory officials to prepare salary details with basic pay, DA, transport allowance and house rent allowance. Those entities that did not require physical checking such as dress allowance, hardship and risk allowance, running allowance and non-practising allowance to railway doctors, newspaper/magazine allowance, breakdown allowance and dress allowance for medical department, health and malaria allowance would be paid. Allowances for night duty, national holiday, travel and overtime would not be included. “Due to COVID-19 lockdown, most of the divisional office staff are unable to come to office,” the circular said. With limited number of staff, only those allowances that were fixed and need not be verified had been included and bills that vary for every individual each month and need to be manually prepared and processed at different levels would not be paid now,” a railway official said. Also the kilometrage allowance (KMA) given to running staff and breakdown allowance (BDA) to railway employees of running sheds and carriage and wagon depots who were earmarked for attending to breakdown duties would not be paid, an official said.
16 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Corporation Commissioner inspects areas hit by virus||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan on Wednesday inspected Mahaboobpalayam and SVP Nagar in Anaiyur here, where COVID-19 positive cases were reported. He inspected the areas which are within a distance of one km from where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported. The Commissioner wanted to ensure that the areas were completely cordoned off. The civic body chiefi nstructed the officials to ensure that these areas were completely disinfected using drones, hand sprayers and boom sprayers. He said that the residents would be advised through public announcements to stay indoors. To ensure that the residents did not face any difficulties in getting essential commodities, the officials should distribute pamphlets containing the addresses and contact numbers of local shops, which could deliver essential commodities at their doorsteps, he said. Mr. Visakan later visited Poonga Murugan Temple near Gandhi Museum and Kakkaipadiniyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, where homeless people rescued by the civic body from city streets had been accommodated, said a statement.
16 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bakers are happy to open shop but have some issues||Bakers in the city have welcomed the government’s decision to permit bakeries to function from 6 a.m to 1 p.m. However they have some issued to be sorted out. The bakeries opened for business after cleaning and sanitising their premises, after having been shut down for a few weeks in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to the prevent the spread of COVID-19. Consumers have started trickling in. “While maida and sugar can be purchased, there is scarcity of other raw materials such as yeast,” says D. Bala Ganesh, secretary of Madurai Bakery Association. “We have asked the Collector for issuance of passes to the bakery staff so that they can come to work and return home without hassle,” he says. Even if these hurdles are sorted out, people must come in good numbers for the bakers to break even. N.M. P. Gunasekaran of NMP Bakery says, “Bread and bun are essential commodities. We received a decent number of customers and we urged them to maintain personal distancing. We functioned with only four staff. I’ve asked staff from Sholavandan and Othakadai not to come for work as they will find it difficult to travel. I gave them half-a-month salary in advance so that they can meet their expenses. We have to manage with minimum manpower,” he says. A.R.M. Ramasamy, treasurer of Madurai Bakery Association, says bakery products are essential commodities. Elders, children and sick people need bread and bun. The bakery staff are relieved that they can get back to work. However, Sudarsan of the Blaack Forest Bakery says it will be a challenge to depute staff to his five branches and the baking unit. The staff residing in the containment zones will find it difficult to come to work.
16 April 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Rising egg price brings relief to poultry farmers||With improvement in supply chain of poultry goods from Namakkal, the egg rates here have also started improving bringing relief for poultry farmers. Namakkal is major hub in production of poultry eggs and chicken in the country and over 3 crore of eggs are exported from here every day to different parts of the country and to foreign. A recent wave of rumours that consumption of eggs and chicken meat could cause COVID-19 severely hit the trade and egg prices dropped up to Rs. 1.50 paise. On Monday, Namakkal zone of National Egg Co-ordination Committee suggested farm price of Rs. 4.20. P. Selvaraj, Chairman of NECC, Namakkal zone, said that improvement in supply of products and reduction in production has led to increase in price. “Poultry farmers here reduced production for past few weeks and only maintenance feed was given in farms due to low prices and affect in supply due to lockdown. Currently, the supply has improved as there is a steady supply to Kerala and other parts of the State as well”, he said. Vangili Subramanian, president of Tamil Nadu Egg Marketing Society, said that the prices would improve if a certainty is brought in regarding functioning of meat shops across the State. “Currently, the Kerala market is very supportive, hence prices have improved. About 60-70 lakh eggs are supplied to Kerala. As production was reduced, there is not enough supply in accordance with consumption demand. The COVID-19 rumours has faded and trade has started improving. However, since the meat shops are not allowed to function at many places fearing spread of COVID-19, trade has been affected. He added that it would take few more weeks for farms here to return to regular production rates. PV. Senthil, general secretary of Livestock and Agri Farmers’ Trade Association, said that door delivery should be brought in for all goods. “Though goods are supplied from here to wholesale markets in Chennai and Coimbatore, there seems to be hurdles in supplies to retail areas in some places. The government can instead ensure door delivery to ensure prevention of COVID-19 spread”, he said.
16 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman drowns||Seeni Mohideen Peeroli, 24, of Mandapam, died in a freak mishap while fishing on Tuesday. Six fishermen had set sail in a boat belonging to C. Dharmaraj of Dargah Valasai. Peeroli had spread the net and attempting to set it right when got trapped in it and drowned. Finding him unconscious in the net, the others rushed him to a government hospital where he was pronounced dead. Coastal Security Group police are investigating.
16 April 2020||Ramanthapuram,TAMIL NADU||PEW police tom-tom message||In a novel initiative, the Ramanathapuram Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) police are using the tom-tom in their appeal to residents not to brew or consume arrack. When the State government shut all TASMAC outlets in the wake of COVID-19, those in the habit of consuming liquor started to look for alternatives. Taking advantage of the growing demand, some started brewing arrack. On information, police arrested three persons and seized cash from them. Meanwhile, PEW police are also using the tom-tom to request residents to stay indoors and refrain from arrack consumption. The tom-tom was used at Appannoor, Ariyanendal and nearby hamlets. Public can pass on information to the control room or the SP’s helpline number, said DSP (PEW) Pon Ragu.
16 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two bakeries sealed in Salem||Two bakeries on Steel Plant Main Road and at Kurunguchavadi that were found selling tea and coffee, which is against the lockdown norms, were sealed by corporation officials here on Wednesday.
16 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||27 make their way home after treatment||Six positive patients have been discharged after successful treatment at the government medical college hospital here. Meanwhile, Collector J. Jayakanthan appealed to residents to stay indoors and cooperate with the administration in fighting the pandemic. The district saw admission of 57 persons in isolation ward after they showed symptoms of COVID-19. Eleven cases from Sivaganga and seven from Ramanathapuram turned out to be positive after swab test. Four from Sivaganga and two from Ramanathapuram have been discharged after sustained treatment by a team of doctors. The Collector, Dean Ratnavel, Medical Superintendent Meenal, Deputy Director (Health) Yasodamani, Mahalir Thittam Project Director Arunmani wished the discharged persons to stay healthy and remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days and take due care for some more time in their homes. Twenty-one persons from Dindigul, who tested positive and were admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Wednesday. Dindigul In a press release, Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said 45 patients, who attended a religious conference in New Delhi, tested positive. They were given treatment at Karur GMCH for the last 21 days. In all, the district admitted 65 persons in the hospital for treatment. Barring the death of a 94-year-old man, the rest were recovering. With the discharge of 21 patients on Wednesday, the remaining 43 were undergoing treatment, Ms. Vijayalakshmi added.
16 April 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Textbook printing resumes in Sivakasi||Offset printing units involved in printing of textbooks for schools in the State have resumed work with special permission from district authorities. Some 30 printing units in Sivakasi have restarted the operation with a limited work force to ensure safety. “The exemption from lockdown is only for those units that are involved in printing of textbooks for Tamil Nadu Textbooks Corporation and that, too, on conditions,” Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar said. Usually, printing begins in January and goes on till May so that the textbooks are available to students when schools reopen after summer vacation. “However, work had to be stopped for 15 days during the lockdown,” says K. Jeyasankar, a leading printer. The printers took up the issue with officials of Tamil Nadu Textbooks Corporation, who directed them to approach the Collector. Listing the conditions, Mr. Dinesh Kumar said, “the units have been directed to operate with only less than 50% capacity. Safety measures such as masks and gloves should be provided to workers. Similarly, there should be adequate sanitising points in the units and facilities for handwashing with soaps should be made available to workers.” The units have been asked to ensure that the workers do not display fever, cough and cold. According to Mr. Jeyasankar, with the available quantity of paper, work can continue in 30 units for a week to 10 days. Continuation of work depends on fresh supply of stock from Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Paper Limited in Karur. Printing of books for classes one to 12 is always done in a tight schedule and the work included printing, gathering, pinning, binding, cutting and packaging. The printers also need to deliver the books to around 60 to 70 points by the time school reopens, he says. Permission has been given for printing labels and packaging for essential commodities. “We have special squads to monitor the activities of the units,” Mr. Dinesh Kumar adds.
16 April 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection on at two hospitals in Tenkasi||As the father of a woman court employee from Puliyangudi, who tested positive for COVID–19, visited a private hospital in Sankarankovil and Puliyangudi Government Hospital for treatment, disinfection of these places commenced on Wednesday. Even as two persons of a family from Nannagaram near here have been undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) after testing positive for COVID–19, five persons from a street in Puliyangudi, including three of a family, have been admitted to the hospital with similar infection. After a 72-year-old man from Puliyangudi tested positive, two of his daughters too were found to have contracted COVID-19. Two more persons from the same street also have contracted the disease. And, all the five are at the TVMCH. As one of these two daughters is working as Office Assistant in the Judicial Magistrate Court in Sankarankovil, the court staff have been asked to be in home quarantine. Since the 72-year-old man visited the private hospital in Sankarnakovil twice, the doctor of the hospital, staff and patients, who were there on that particular day, have been home-quarantined. Similarly, the duty doctor and staff at Puliyangudi GH have been asked to be in home quarantine for two weeks.
16 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Grocery stores running out of stocks||Many grocery stores in Thanjavur district seem to have run out of stocks. Stocks of groceries particularly cereals and cooking oil seem to have dipped during the second week of the first phase of the lockdown. Consumers were able to get their needs fulfilled somehow as wholesale dealers concentrated more on retailing than serving bulk orders from retailers. “This is one of the reasons for local grocery stores running out of stocks,” said a retailer, Rehman of Keezhavasal, Thanjavur. However, retailers managed to run the show till this week by sharing available stocks with one another to fulfil the requirements of their regular customers. “But we cannot carry on any further as several stores have run out of stocks,” he said. Expressing a similar view, Sathya of Kumbakonam who runs a mini-self service grocery shop near the bus stand, said that he had restricted the entry of customers in batches when the lockdown commenced. Day by day, the number of footfalls dwindled drastically as he was not able to replenish the stock. As on date, products such as soaps, toothbrushes, cloth washing materials, and other toiletry items were only available in his store as orders for several grocery items were yet to be delivered by wholesale dealers. On the other hand, wholesale dealers in groceries, who attended tripartite meetings of traders, police and revenue officials held at the Revenue Divisional Headquarters last week, had reportedly informed officials that adequate essentials were available with them but there were some hiccups in transport of the same to retailers. The problem was compounded as arrival of goods from manufacturing points or major markets in the State had almost stopped in view of restriction on movement of vehicles, they had said. Further, a wholesale dealer in groceries in Thanjavur, who also runs a super market, said that wholesale dealers in several parts of the district have found themselves in a piquant situation as some ‘important’ persons had placed orders for bulk supply of rice, cereals and other edible items for ‘free distribution’ to the ‘needy persons’. When contacted, the police said that they never stopped movement of essentials but wanted the traders to adhere to the timings specified for movement of commodities. As soon as the lockdown was announced three weeks ago, traders were urged to move commodities from godowns to wholesale dealers during night and from wholesale dealers to retail traders before 7 a.m. but they did not adhere to the directive, claimed a senior police officer.
16 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TMC hospital gets new system||The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) has provided an Automatic RNA Extraction System with Robotic Work Station to the Thanjavur Government Medical College (TMC) for quicker and safer diagnosis of COVID-19 incidence. Handing over the equipment to Kumudha Lingaraj, Dean, TMC, on Wednesday, C.Anandharamakrishnan, IIFPT director, said the advanced equipment can analyse 100 samples in two hours and was cost-effective. Technical staff from IIFPT had been deputed to undertake the analysis periodically. Dr.Kumudha Lingaraj appreciated the intervention of IIFPT in expediting sample analysis of COVID-19 infection. The IIFPT undertakes research in food processing, nutrition and food safety amid offering academic programmes in food technology. It is equipped with accredited hi-tech laboratories for testing food quality safety. Considering the current pandemic situation, the institute has provided the equipment to the medical college, a release said.
16 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Baby of positive woman healthy||The male baby delivered by a COVID-19 positive women in Thanjavur on April 6 has tested negative for novel coronavirus. The baby was delivered by a 32-year-old woman of Sundaram Nagar at the Rajah Mirasdar Govenment Hospital and the swab test result of the mother which came out on the subsequent day indicated that she had been infected with COVID-19 virus. The infant was separated from his mother on April 7 and was kept under observation at a separate ward under the care of one his family members, who had no symptoms of coronavirus, according to Ushadevi, Resident Medical Officer, RMGH.Right from the day of his separation, the infant was fed with milk procured from the breast milk bank as breast feeding by his mother was not advisable. The child could be breast fed by his mother only after she tests negative in three consecutive tests, Dr.Ushadevi said.
16 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Pathaneer business takes a big hit||The lockdown has cast a long shadow on the sale of pathaneer by a group of Anthoniyarpuram palmyarah climbers in the district. Although climbing the tall palmyrah trees thrice a day to extract pathaneer — a health drink — is a tough job requiring robust stamina, 10 climbers from Anthoniyarpuram on the outskirts of this port town do it with a lot of satisfaction. Reason: For the last 15 years, the profit derived through sale of the drink at their unified outlet pays the salary of three teachers for classes 6, 7 and 8 in a middle school in their village. The school has a decent student strength, but the posts have not received approval for reasons best known to the powers that be. Sold at Rs. 40 per litre, the reasonable price and quality has created a huge demand for the health drink. Hence, the villagers started the business in mid-February and customers can be seen making a beeline for Anthoniyarpuram in cars and bikes in the morning. When the lockdown was clamped, the roaring business came to a grinding halt as sale of pathaneer was banned. “We sold about 150 litres a day,” says A.A. Dasnavis, secretary, Anthoniyarpuram Village Committee. “It helped us pay the salary of Rs. 7,000 a month to two teachers and Rs. 2,000 a month to a physical education trainer in the school.” While the government upgraded the primary school, it failed to approve three new posts, he points out. “The ban on the sale, therefore, jeopardizes the payment of salary to the teachers for the next academic year,” he rues. With pathaneer production  likely to move up to 250 litres a day within the next fortnight, families of the climbers are now turning it into jaggery, which fetches Rs. 400 a kg.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PPE kits are getting ready||A Tiruchi based surgical kits’ manufacturing firm has begun producing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to meet the requirements of frontline health workers engaged in treating COVID-19 patients. Metalcare Engineering, which has its manufacturing facility at Pulivalam on the outskirts of the city, had so far concentrated on producing kits for ophthalmological, orthopaedic, laparoscopic and others surgeries. The company had suspended production in the last week of March in the wake of lockdown. However, considering the acute shortage of PPEs for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, the company has pooled together its men and machinery and began producing customised PPEs with specifications for treating COVID-19 patients. It has so far supplied 500 PPEs to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi, where around 30 patients COVID-19 positive patients were being treated in isolation wards. “Producing high quality PPE kits is the need of the hour so as to protect doctors and nurses. We follow all standard protocol in producing PPE kits,” said M. Selvarajan, Managing Director of the company. He said he had received enquiries from various parts of the country. However, Tiruchi-based hospitals would be given priority in supplying PPEs, followed by hospitals in other parts of the State. As a token of contributing to the cause of fighting against the virus, Mr. Selvarajan said PPEs were supplied at cost price. The company had also begun the production of non clinical PPEs for fire service personnel, enumerators, municipal and sanitary workers.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ten more persons test positive||Ten persons including seven from Nagapattinam district, two from Tiruvarur and one from Thanjavur, tested positive for COVID 19 on Wednesday. Of the seven men in Nagapattinam, all of whom had travelled to New Delhi, five belonged to Sirkazhi while the other two hailed from Mayiladuthurai. “The patients are undergoing treatment at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Nagapattinam, and are responding well to treatment. There is no need to worry, everyone must stay indoors,” an official at the hospital said. Those who had tested positive in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur were said to be contacts of persons who had travelled to Delhi event. Meanwhile, 61 of the 69 persons who were kept under institutional quarantine at the Jamal Mohammed College were discharged and sent home after a 14-day period of observation on Wednesday. All the 61 had tested negative. However, they have been asked to be in home quarantine for an additional 14 days before resuming normal life, sources said. Health officials have shifted the other eight to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital to be monitored by doctors as they showed symptoms such as fever and cold.  Karur Twenty-five more patients, who had tested positive for COVID 19 virus, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after treatment on Wednesday. Of them, 21 were from Dindigul district and 4 were from Namakkal district. One patient was from Karur district.  Ariyalur Five persons have been kept under observation at the Ariyalur Government Hospital. Samples including throat swabs and blood tests were drawn from two patients. With 11 more test samples received from Primary Healthcare Centres, a total of 13 have been sent for tests at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College. Meanwhile 1,732 individuals of the 2022 who had been kept in home quarantine after travelling abroad or to other states in the district have completed 28 days and can step out when necessary, official sources said.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over lack of social distancing at temporary markets||Poor social distancing norms followed at temporary markets, especially the wholesale market functioning along Chennai Bypass Road in the city, has caused concern among many residents. The authorities, after clamping prohibitory order last month to check the spread of the COVID 19 pandemic, had sought to decongest the Gandhi Market and announced the opening of temporary retail markets at various parts of the city. Although wholesale traders were allowed to function initially at the Gandhi Market between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m., the authorities had to change their decision hastily after milling crowds and traffic snarls were witnessed around the market complex amidst the initial days of panic buying. Subsequently, the wholesale trade was moved to Chennai Bypass Road, along the service road between Ariyamangalam and Senthaneerpuram. The traders were asked to wind up their trade by 4 a.m. Since then the wholesale market has been attracting a large number of traders and buyers. Complaints abound on lack of personal distancing by traders and customers at the market. Most of the traders and buyers do not wear face masks. Some who do are often found to be wearing them improperly and leave the masks hanging around their necks only to be lifted up on sighting officials or police. “The situation is very bad. There is hardly any social distancing here. The retail markets seem to be better; but the wholesale market seem to be emerging as a potential hotspot for spreading the corona virus,” said M.Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations, and a resident of the locality. He said that a large number of lorries and vans are being parked along the road making the entire stretch highly congested. “I was shocked to find hectic traffic and a traffic jam on the bypass road. Not many were wearing face masks. It was a very pathetic situation and makes all talk of maintaining social distance a big joke,” observed S.A.Sayeed, a city resident. The handful of police personnel deployed at the spot are hardly able to control the situation. “We have repeatedly raised the issue with the authorities. The government, through the Department of Agri Business, should procure vegetables directly from farmers and supply to retailers. That is the only solution,” observed Mr.Sekaran. Conceding that the situation was bad, M.K.Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam, contended that a large number of those selling vegetables at the temporary markets were not traders of Gandhi Market and attributes the issue of passes indiscriminately by the authorities concerned. “Hardly 30 to 40% of sellers at the temporary markets are genuine traders from Gandhi Market. The district administration should have made a proper enumeration and issued passes to genuine traders only,” he maintained. Attributing the crowd to a large number of small traders coming in vehicles from nearby districts to purchase vegetables at cheap prices here, Mr.Kamakalakannan suggests that the market be spread out further along the by-pass road to decongest it. “Alternatively, the authorities can reopen the Gandhi Market allowing only wholesale trade with necessary restrictions and enforcement of personal distancing norms,” he said. However, U.S. Karuppaiah, president, Gandhi Market United Corporation Approved Platform and Permanent Shopkeepers Association, observed that traders were finding it very difficult to enforce personal distancing norms when customers throng the market in large numbers. He felt that the existing arrangement of temporary markets in the city was working well and has ensured that people were able to get vegetables at affordable prices.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cash reward for constable||Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Ziaul Haque, handed over a cash award of Rs. 10,000 to Grade - II constable Syed Abudhahir, on instruction from Director General of Police, here on Wednesday. The constable was deployed at Manapparai to enforce prohibitory orders clamped in view of pandemic when he noticed a pregnant woman and her husband walking towards their village Reddiyapatti near Valanadu a few days ago. On enquiry, the couple told him that they were returning to their village from a private hospital at Manapparai unable to get ‘O’ positive blood for the woman’s delivery. The constable whose blood group was ‘O’ positive immediately volunteered to donate blood and took them to the hospital. The woman thereafter delivered of a girl baby due to the humane act of the constable, a press release said.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tribals on Pachamalai Hills brace up for tough situation||Scarcity of drinking water has not surfaced as yet for residents on the Pachamalai Hills during the course of the lockdown. But this factor seems to be the sole silver lining in an otherwise tough situation. Tribals who are not certain if the stock of provisions in their possession will last for a week more least expected extension of the lockdown. The situation has been manageable to some extent because those with two-wheelers have been able to make quick trips to Thuraiyur or Uppilliyapuram to replenish their needs but it is not so for others. “Almost a day is lost for making to and fro trip. Climbing down is not a problem. The problem arises on the way back when we have to carry provisions,” Gurusamy, a resident of Top Sengattupatti Panchayat, said. Representatives of Vannadu and Kombai panchayats are said to operate an autorickshaw to replenish vegetables and provisions on the hills. Vegetables and tomatoes cultivated on the hills are being optimally used during this lockdown period. But, they are far from being self-sufficient. Since the tribal community depends on tomatoes, it has to be procured from Thuraiyur market. Those who have the wherewithal mostly use potatoes and radishes for making curry. But, for most of the residents, the staple food is rice and ‘rasam’ made of tomatoes and the tamarind grown on the hills, Kannan of Kombai, who monitors the trips by autorickshaws for transport of vegetables, said. As such, the problem of hunger has not surfaced. ‘A saving grace is availability of sufficient water for drinking purpose in wells. Else, the situation would have turned tough,’ Mr. Kannan said. According to officials, the tribal community is cooperating well in maintaining social distancing. The youths are cooperating well in the hour of crisis by bringing about the desired level of awareness of the dreadful impacts of COVID 19 virus, an official said.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Higher education institutions chip in to combat pandemic||Higher education institutions in the region have been doing their part in lending their support to the government machinery to combat COVID 19 virus in different ways, fulfilling an appeal made to that effect by the University Grants Commission. Recently, UGC Vice-Chairman D.P. Singh said that in the backdrop of increase in the number of persons infected with corona virus day by day, the educational fraternity has a great responsibility to make the people aware of the preventive and precautionary measures to safeguard themselves and check further spread of the virus alongside making financial contributions. While some institutions have offered their premises for establishment of temporary vegetable markets, others have lent their support by providing their buildings to keep persons with COVID 19 symptoms under quarantine procedure, providing personal protection equipment, manufacturing sanitisers and assisting government teams in distributing rice to people at their doorsteps. The management of the Jamal Mohammed College had provided its entire buildings to the district administration for quarantining 70 persons detected with the symptoms of COVID 19 virus. Those under observation in the college as well as the COVID 19 positive patients undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital are being provided with nutrient-rich food under the monitoring of the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal, said. Likewise, the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, has provided its facility to the government machinery for keeping under observation 19 persons detected with symptoms of COVID-19. It has established an institutional quarantine facility for the purpose. It has produced hand sanitiser in-house in its chemistry lab and plans to distribute the sanitiser to the community in the surroundings. Bishop Heber College and St. Joseph’s College are among the handful of institutions where temporary vegetable markets have been established on the playgrounds. The Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College has provided personal protection equipment to 150 frontline workers at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. ‘We are looking forward to conducting outreach activities for the community in the surroundings by roping in Non-Government Organisations, College Principal R. Padmavathy said. In Karaikal district, NSS volunteers of Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Institute of Engineering and Technology joined government teams in distributing rice to residents of Nallathur, Adayalampettai and other villages. Sstaff of Department of Social Work of Arignar Anna Government Arts and Science College have been entrusted with the responsibility of offering psychological counselling for mitigation of mental stress of the public. In Nagapattinam, the district administration has received support from the E.G.S. Pillai College for maintaining adequate stock of sanitisers made as per the specification of World Health Organisation. The college has readied sanitisers in 300 ml packs for use by frontline workers. The sanitiser in 300 ml bottles has been made available to the public through the office of the District Rural Development Agency for Rs. 150 each.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers sweat it out despite fear||Conservancy workers are holding the fort in the fight against COVID-19 along with doctors and policemen. “These workers put their lives on the line and ensure we do not have to step out. We must take care of them,” S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner said. The civic body has 3,800 workers, divided across all 65 wards within the city limits. Even during a pandemic, it is business as usual. “The only difference is that we have masks covering our faces and gloves covering our hands; both would be useful even after the pandemic,” a worker says. K. Rasalakshmi is a conservancy worker at ward number 59, Woraiyur, who has been working in the civic body for two years. “At least in some houses, people would ask us how we were and if we had eaten breakfast. Some would even walk to us and hand over their dustbins. Now, they are afraid of coming out. When they hear noise of our vehicle, they leave the garbage at the doorstep and rush back to their houses,” she says. “Although it is disheartening, what can we do?” On being asked if she is afraid to do her job, she laughs. “Will fear feed my children? My husband is a drunkard and does not go to work regularly, even on normal days. Now he sits at home and sleeps all day. How will we eat if I am afraid?” These workers collect waste from home-quarantined residences also. “We are instructed to collect waste from houses placed under home quarantine separately. They have been provided with yellow bags and we do not mix them with other bags,” she says. Sanitary supervisors at individual micro-composting centres ensure that they are incinerated, senior officials say. There are nine containment zones in the city, where one conservancy worker per zone has been appointed. “Personal Protective Equipment is provided to each worker working in containment zone to ensure their safety. They put it on while they begin duty and remove it after collection from all houses in the zone is completed,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The conservancy worker first sprays the yellow bags with disinfectant before collecting it. The bags are then collected and sent to Sengipatti in Thanjavur district to be incinerated, E. Parasuraman, Sanitary Inspector, said. All workers have been provided with sanitisers and soaps. “We have arranged food for these workers, who live far away, at the nearest Amma Unavagam,” he said.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wives of police personnel make PPEs||After producing face masks in the wake of the shortage in the open market, wives of police personnel attached to the District Armed Reserve have made Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for the police personnel deployed at various places in the district. The task was taken up recently by a group of seven women whose husbands were in the rank of Head Constable and Sub-Inspector following instruction from the higher authorities. First, they underwent training extended by the Mahalir Thittam. Raw material required for manufacture was arranged by the District Armed Reserve unit thereafter. The women have stitched100 PPEs in their respective quarters, a police officer said. The PPE were meant for use by the police personnel when they work containment areas where COVID-19 infected persons live, the officer said. These women had set apart sometime in the morning and evening to make PPE apart from carrying out their daily household chores. About 25 PPE have been handed over to field-level officers in the five sub divisions: Tiruverumbur, Lalgudi, Jeeyapuram, Musiri and Manapparai. The remaining would be sent soon. More such coats would be made based on further instruction from the higher authorities.. The women - all members of a Self Help Group, had made around 4,000 cotton masks to police personnel who were deployed at public places across the district in the wake of the prohibitory orders. The entire Tiruchi Rural Police strength had been mobilised for enforcement of prohibitory orders with teams of police personnel deployed in shifts in 35 check posts established all over the district, said police sources.
16 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police monitoring domestic violence against women||The police have started finding whether domestic violence against women had risen during the lockdown. Police officers from 15 All Women Police Stations (AWPS) in the Tiruchi Range have been entrusted with the task to call up victims of domestic violence cases reported earlier to find out whether the abuse against them continued or aggravated during the lockdown period. They have put in place a pro-active ‘phone up’ initiative to determine if the domestic violence against women was continuing. Under the initiative launched a few days ago, officers of the AWPS and their team would call up each and every victim of domestic violence from the data of complaints and cases registered from 2017 up to March 2020. Statistics reveals that there were as many as 14,930 incidents of harassment / violence against women (physical or psychological in nature) in their homes. The number of First Information Reports registered during this period was 619 and the number of Community Service Registers issued was 14,311 across the Tiruchi Range comprising Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. The ‘phone up’ initiative was launched as it was not possible to verify in person in view of the pandemic. The AWPS teams have commenced the task, said the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range V. Balakrishnan. A standard format has been designed with 10 questions to be asked. If the telephone call was attended by a male member, another call would be made at a different time. Unattended calls would be attempted again. If the call continued to be picked up not by the victim or it remained unattended, physical verification would be done thereafter. Physical verification would be done to find out the condition of the women and initiate appropriate action if the violence was found to be continuing. The objective was to instil confidence among victims of domestic violence and find out if there was a sudden spurt, he said. It was also aimed at rescuing victims caught in a continuing abusive relationship with the abuser. To improve the effectiveness of the initiative, a second line of checking would be done by district-level nodal officers and a super check of one per cent of cases would be done at the range level by the DIG.
16 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Official inspects PDS outlets, temporary shops, TNCSC godown||Special Officer for anti-COVID19 operations in the district M. Karunakaran on Wednesday directed officials to ensure sufficient stock of essential commodities and meticulous and speedy distribution to beneficiaries. Dr. Karunakaran inspected ration shops, Amma Unavagams and a Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation’s godown here. At the Amma Unavagam near Jawahar Ground in Palayamkottai, he checked the kitchen for cleanliness and asked the workers to wear gloves and mask. Visitors too must wear mask. Corporation personnel must keep either soap or sanitiser near the entrance so that customers could wash their hands, he said. On seeing two meat shops operating at Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai even after the Corporation had temporarily shifted all of them to a spacious area near the District Court Complex, he wondered why they had been allowed to continue business without ensuring physical distancing. Earlier, Dr. Karunakaran had visited the temporary meat market. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, who was accompanying the Special Officer, immediately ordered the closure and sealing of the two shops. Noting glaring variations in prices at temporary vegetable shops at Old Police Quarters area, he asked the civic body chief to ensure uniformity. “All shops should display the prices clearly and any variation should lead to punitive action against the sellers,” he warned. He also ordered the Corporation officials to keep chlorinated drinking water in all temporary vegetable markets, as he inspected a market at VOC Stadium. During his visit to ration shops at Thatchanallur and Palayamkottai, Dr. Karunakaran asked the staff about distribution of COVID-19 cash relief and free essential commodities. When they replied that there were a few more cardholders still left, he asked them to complete the distribution within a day or two and send a compliance report to the Taluk Supplies Officer. He also instructed them to ensure physical distancing. While inspecting a TNCSC godown at Thaazhaiyooththu, the Special Officer asked officials to ensure sufficient stock of rice, dhal and sugar after pursuing records that showed the situation was far from satisfactory. “The District Supply Officer should ensure sufficient stocks and send a report in this connection,” he said. The Special Officer was accompanied by senior officials.
16 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Udumalpet youth’s care for monkeys||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, a 26-year-old youth has been feeding fruits to nearly 1,000 monkeys near the Amanalingeswarar Temple in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district. A. Ashok Kumar, a resident of Dhali, told The Hindu over phone that he gets unsold and leftover fruits, mostly bananas, from vendors in his locality. “I have been doing this since July [2019],” he said. Employed in a car accessories store, Mr. Kumar said that he used to feed the monkeys between 6 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. during working days. With his office and the temple now closed owing to the lockdown, he prefers to feed them between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. He said that he travels to the temple every day, which is located in the Thirumoorthy Hills and falls under the Udumalpet forest range, on a two-wheeler with the fruits. Combining the expenditure for the fruits and fuel, he said that he spends Rs. 500 in a day. “Many monkeys started to come to the roads in search of food, which is when I decided to do this,” Mr. Kumar said in response to why he started feeding the monkeys. Mr. Kumar said that he has been engaging in this activity by himself without the aid of any volunteers. However, through media reports and posts on social media platform, he said that many are coming forward to sponsor fruits. “I will feed [the monkeys] only with fruits and not with biscuits or [cooked] rice,” Mr. Kumar clarified. When contacted, Udumalpet Forest Range Officer C. Dhanabalan said that the Forest Department has not permitted Mr. Kumar or any others to feed the monkeys within the forest range limits. “We cannot allow [the monkeys] to be domesticated,” he said. However, Mr. Kumar’s feeding activities have been harmless till date and Forest Department has not stopped it due to the present situation. The Forest Department is monitoring the feeding activities regularly, Mr. Dhanabalan said.
16 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||1,650 beds for COVID-19 patients in Tiruppur kept ready||A total of 1,650 beds at COVID-19 isolation wards are ready across Tiruppur district, said District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that these beds will be used if a critical situation arises in the district in terms of the number of positive cases. “Right now, we are sending [the patients] to ESI Hospital [in Coimbatore],” he noted. Aggressive testing is being carried out across Tiruppur district, with swab samples having been lifted for all those with travel history along with their contacts, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Ten containment zones have been formed across the district, which are being strictly monitored by the police as well as the district administration, with even essential goods being screened before entering such zones, he said. As many as 43 patients, who are tested negative, are still under hospital quarantine across the district, where their health conditions are being monitored, the Collector said. While wearing masks in public places have been made compulsory in the district, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan clarified that the public could use even cloth masks as N95 masks are to be used only by healthcare professionals and those who are in contact with the COVID-19 patients.
16 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur City Police resort to humour on social media||Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday released a video of drone surveillance in a lighter vein, in which children were seen to be running away at the sight of the drone. The social media department of the police edited the video with humourous background effects and uploaded it on social media platforms. Nearly a dozen children are seen in the video playing carrom under a tree, who flee the spot as they see the drone approaching towards them with a child running away with the carrom board. The video runs for less than two minutes and ends with the words ‘Please stay at home’. The video was shot by the drone used by Tiruppur North police station at Mannarai near Uthukuli road on Wednesday afternoon, a police officer said. It was uploaded as per the instructions of Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan, the officer added.
16 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers deliver essentials to residents in quarantine zone in Khandal||With three of the nine people, who are confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in the Nilgiris being residents of Khandal in Udhagamandalam, the district administration has imposed serious restrictions on the thousands of residents living in the area, which has been declared as a containment zone. With heavy police strength being deployed in the area to ensure people do not step out of their houses unnecessarily, a team of volunteers from the area have been picked to assist people in getting essential commodities delivered to the houses of people living in the containment zone. Police said that in order to ensure that the directives are followed, 18 checkposts have been set up in the Khandal area alone to strictly enforce the lockdown. The volunteers’ role will be to deliver essential supplies to people in the houses which are in the quarantine area. According to officials, the group of 32 volunteers, picked by the revenue department and the district administration are primarily youngsters, who actively wanted to get involved to help and assist members of their community. “We noticed that a lot of elderly residents in the area were putting themselves at risk of being infected while going out to buy commodities. So youngsters in the area volunteered to assist residents by procuring essential commodities for people and delivering them to their homes,” said one of the volunteers, who added that the volunteers are following every precaution to ensure that they do not get infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Nilgiris district police officials said that the volunteers were delivering food, provisions and vegetables purchased from shops to the residents living in Khandal. They added that the health of the volunteers is monitored on a daily basis to ensure that they have not been infected by COVID-19.
16 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘4 drivers had contact with Delhi man’||The authorities in Villupuram have initiated the process of contact tracing and identified four truck drivers from North India who had been in close contact with the Delhi-based COVID-19 positive man, who was released by “mistake” from a quarantine facility. The man was traced by a special team on Tuesday. Health Department officials said that immediately after the man was released from the Villupuram Government Hospital due to a clerical error, he boarded a lorry. The man was staying with four truck drivers at the truck terminal in Pattalam for the last few days.
16 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||347 swab tests||The number of swab tests conducted in Virudhunagar touched 347 on Wednesday. “With six new cases reported on Monday, officials have tracked scores of close contacts. Hence, the number of tests have increased,” Collector R. Kannan said. “We have received fresh stocks of testing kits,” the Collector added. The district has so far reported 17 positive cases. One of them was discharged after successful treatment at a private hospital in Madurai. Meanwhile, door-to-door survey of residents in Rajapalayam municipality and in some wards of Aruppukottai, which is a containment zone, is underway. A strict vigil on the movement of people in the containment area is being maintained. Except for medical shops, all other establishments in the town remain closed, the Collector said.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||38 new cases, two deaths in T.N.||The Minister said that additional manpower had been deployed on three shifts at all government testing facilities. “Each laboratory has a capacity of 270 per day. The capacity of private laboratories is 100. Taking all 26 labs into account, we can test up to 5,320 persons a day using the RT-PCR kits,” he explained. An order for 1.35 lakh RT-PCR kits had been placed, and the current stock position was one lakh kits. In addition, the State had received 20,000 kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research, he said.  No community spread He said that healthcare workers were carrying out door-to-door checks in containment zones and persons with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) were also being tested. “Persons with ILI and SARI are testing negative for COVID-19. There is no community spread in the State,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said. He added that as per data for the last three days, the number of samples lifted for testing was increasing, while the number of positive cases was decreasing. “This statistics shows that the situation is under control but all measures will continue,” he said.  Containment measures There were 558 containment sectors in 34 districts where surveillance measures were continuing. “Wherever we get positive cases, a seven-km radius is demarcated. Here, we screen all family members, primary and secondary contacts,” he said. He added that the Centre was declaring districts with more than 15 COVID-19 positive cases as hotspots. In reply to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s views that the State should have taken more precautionary measures, the Minister said that the State prepared early and had sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 146 crore to procure the required drugs. The State also made a bulk purchase of N95 masks, personal protective equipment and triple layer masks after sanctioning Rs. 204 crore. “There is an uninterrupted supply of triple layer masks, PPE and N95 masks for doctors. Our daily requirement of triple layer masks is 80,000 to one lakh but we have ensured a supply of two to three lakh triple layer masks per day. We are supplying 15,000 PPEs and 20,000 N95 masks every day,” he said.  Each laboratory has a capacity of 270 per day. The capacity of private laboratories is 100. We can test up to 5,320 persons a day using RT-PCR kits  C. Vijayabaskar  Minister for Health
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||637 held for violating prohibitory order||The police arrested 637 persons in 584 cases for violating prohibitory order in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The police also seized 563 vehicles from them. Coimbatore rural police slapped fine to the tune of Rs. 66,000 on violators. Those arrested were released on bail. The Kuniyamuthur police on Tuesday arrested a 34-year-old man, who attempted to visit a house where those in home quarantine were staying. The arrested has been identified as Muhammed Safiq, a resident of SNR Garden. He also prevented a police team from discharging security duty in the area.  UDHAGAMANDALAM  The Nilgiris district police registered 91 cases against people for violating prohibitory orders across the district on Tuesday. The police said that with the latest cases, a total of 2,200 cases have been registered against people found wandering on the roads without cause since March 25. The police seized 41 vehicles on Tuesday and have seized a total of 818 vehicles since the start of the lockdown.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Testing strategies for the virus||The year 2020 has started on a very challenging note for all of us. The world woke up to a new infection, COVID-19 caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The virus was so named as it is almost similar to the SARS virus and like it, is an RNA virus belonging to the family of Corona viruses. The virus though milder than the SARS virus is easier to transmit. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the State health authorities have issued notifications and guidelines for testing strategies that every testing laboratory and treating hospital need to abide by. Who can get tested: ICMR modified testing strategy issued on 9th April. Tests can be done for: All symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel from the 6th of March All symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases. All symptomatic healthcare workers. All hospitalised patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (fever and cough and/or shortness of breath) Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 14 of coming in his/her contact. In hotspots/clusters or large gatherings/evacuees centres, anyone with Influenza like illness (ILI) ie fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose a) Within 7 days of starting symptoms need an rRT-PCR (Real time Reverse Transcriptase - Polymerase Chain Reaction) test b) After seven days - need an Antibody test and if this negative, an rRT-PCR test to confirm status. How does the process work? Any person who fits into these categories, needs to have a prescription from a medical doctor, signed by the doctor, with the doctor’s registration number and contact details (telephone and email ID). These are mandatory. In addition, the patient must carry a copy of his/her Aadhar card when they come in for testing. Once the patient arrives for testing, the test requisition form prepared by ICMR, needs to be filled. The ambulant patient is then escorted to a dedicated area meant for collection of the Nasopharyngeal or Oropharyngeal swab samples. The swabs are collected by trained technologists who are protected with full Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). This process takes about 10 minutes and the entire stay in the lab takes about 20 minutes. The collected swabs are immediately placed in bottles containing Viral Transport Medium, securely closed and labelled. They are packed in multiple layers and then transported to the lab at the earliest, at a temperature of 2-8 degrees C for further processing. In very ill, hospitalised patients, other samples such as endo-tracheal aspirate or Broncho-alveolar lavage can be collected. The test that can detect COVID-19 infections at the earliest, is the rRT-PCR. The SARS-CoV-2 virus being an RNA virus, initially it is extracted from the sample. It is then converted into complementary DNA (cDNA) using the enzyme reverse transcriptase (hence the name). This cDNA is then amplified using the PCR. By this amplification, even minuscule quantities of RNA in the original sample can be identified and a sample can be classified as either positive or negative. On an average, a batch of about 50-60 samples takes 8-10 hours from the start of processing to completion. Reports are usually ready the following day as the tests are run in batches and in case a report needs to be confirmed it will need an additional day. Rapid antibody screening tests will also be available soon, but need to be used judiciously and interpreted with caution. They are ideal for assessing the prevalence of infection in a population at a later date.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||13 patients discharged from hospital after recovery||As many as 13 COVID-19 patients who recovered after treatment were discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai amid rousing send-off here on Wednesday. Addressing mediapersons on the hospital premises, Collector C. Kathiravan said that a total of 825 samples were tested so far in the district in which 64 persons, including the railway hospital doctor’s family, tested positive. “Currently, of the 113 patients in the isolation ward, 60 tested positive and after treatment 13 recovered and were sent home”, he added. He said that the discharged patients will be in home quarantine as no one is permitted to visit them. “Medical teams will visit them everyday besides disinfectants measures carried out twice a day in their area and home”, the Collector added. Mr. Kathiravan said that all these measures will give confidence to people that COVID-19 is a curable disease and asked them to ensure personal distancing when they visit markets. He said that 34,544 families comprising 1,27,297 persons are in home quarantine across the district and are being continuously monitored. Also, 66 persons with influenza-like fever and 51 persons suffering from severe acute respiratory infection are being monitored, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that people are coming to purchase groceries everyday as they feel that it is a sort of relaxation for them. “All the provisional stores will be closed on Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays during the lockdown period”, he said. He added that people who do not have ration cards are given essential commodities by the government and also through social organisations. He said that there is no community spread of the disease and added that more intensive measures in containment areas will stabilise the situation in a few days.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Patients discharged, as testing, decontamination continue in southern districts||Eighteen positive patients, who were undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, have been discharged since Tuesday. Thirteen of them, eight from Melapalayam, one each from Seythunganallur in Thoothukudi district, Tirunelveli Town and Palayamkottai and two from Kalakkad, were discharged around 10.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Five patients, one from Melapalayam and the remaining four from Kodeeswaran Nagar in Tirunelveli Town, left for home on Wednesday. The patients had attended a religious conclave in Delhi and tested positive on their return and were admitted to the hospital on March 24. On Tuesday night, health officials told the 13 discharged patients that they should be in home quarantine for the next 14 days and take all mandatory measures to prevent infection to others.They also asked them to stay in a nearby Muslim Orphanage Committee during the period, but the request was rejected. When the officials insisted, an argument broke out. An MDMK functionary, K.M.A. Nizam, pacified the patients, who agreed to be in strict home quarantine. Finally, they were allowed to leave around 10.30 p.m. “Though the nasal droplets of the infected persons do not have virus, their stools will have loads of it, which may continue for the next five weeks even after recovery from respiratory symptoms. Hence, they should be in home quarantine for the next two weeks. The toilets used by them should be cleaned with disinfectants,” said a TVMCH doctor. In Thoothukudi, two positive patients from Kayalpattinam, including a doctor, who underwent treatment in Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Wednesday in the presence of Collector Sandeep Nanduri. “They have been asked to home-quarantine for at least two weeks,” said Mr. Sandeep, who cheered the duo with other doctors when they left the hospital. Dean Thiruvasagamani and Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani were present.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to kick off MGNREGS work from today||In the last two days, muster rolls were prepared, said an official. Initially, only a few lakh workers are expected to turn up. Against the normal average number of 12 lakh workers a day, two-five lakh persons are expected to report for work every day in the coming days. The overall figure of active workers in the State is around 84 lakh. A total number of 27 crore persondays is proposed to be generated this year. Last year, the figure was around 24.85 crore. The State government has fixed the wage for the current year, which began on April 1, at Rs. 256 per day, a hike of Rs. 27 from the previous year. Apart from the directorate’s circular, the Union government has come out with standard operating procedures for the implementation of MGNREGS, to meet the challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The thrust would be on creating individual assets that lead to “sustainable increase” in income, while maintaining norms on physical distancing. Another important feature of the Centre’s SOP is that work should be provided to households that are listed as landless and manual casual labour or deprived as per the Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011; those belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes; beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) and families headed by women and differently abled. Several dos and don’ts have been stipulated in the directorate’s circular. Additional Collectors (Development) or Project Directors, District Rural Development Agency, have been told to ensure that lockdown conditions are not violated and the norms of physical distancing are “scrupulously followed”. Persons with cold, cough, breathing problems and mild fever are not to be engaged. Senior citizens are to be avoided. While adhering to the norms, works such as removal of silt from supply channels, digging of sunken pits and sunken ponds, trench cutting and pitting for massive tree plantation and roadside plantation can be taken up. Others include land development activities, pitting and planting of fruit-bearing trees and farmponds.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mask mandatory when stepping out of house||Stepping out of houses without wearing mask would invite a fine of Rs. 500 as the Salem Corporation has made wearing mask mandatory from Thursday. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh in a press release said that various steps are being taken to prevent spread of COVID-19 in the corporation limit and sought the cooperation of the people. He said people were asked to follow personal distancing while purchasing vegetables and essential commodities and despite all measures, many violate the norms. Hence, to prevent spread of virus and as a protective measure, the corporation had made wearing mask mandatory from Thursday. He said that violators would be levied fine of Rs. 500 and warned off legal action. Mr. Sadheesh also said that persons wearing mask will only be given vegetables, medicines, milk, petrol and food items in the shops functioning in the corporation limits. “Necessary instructions were given to the shop owners to sell products only to people wearing mask”, he said. Meanwhile, the Erode district administration has enforced wearing mask mandatory from Wednesday and asked people stepping out of their houses to adhere to the norms. In a press release, Collector C. Kathiravan said that as a precautionary measure, wearing mask is made mandatory and asked people to cooperate. On Wednesday, police personnel began enforcing the order by sending back people who failed to wear the mask.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘1,650 beds ready in Tiruppur district’||A total of 1,650 beds at COVID-19 isolation wards are ready across Tiruppur district, said Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that these beds will be used “if a critical situation arises” in the district in terms of the number of COVID-19 positive cases. “Right now, we are sending the patients to ESI Hospital in Coimbatore,” he noted. “Aggressive” testing is being carried out across Tiruppur district, with swab samples having been lifted from all those with travel history along with their contacts, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Ten containment zones have been formed across the district, which are being strictly monitored by the police as well as the district administration. Even essential goods are being screened before being transported to such zones, he added. As many as 43 patients, who are tested negative for COVID-19, are still under hospital quarantine across the district, where their health conditions are being monitored, the Collector said. While wearing masks in public places have been made compulsory in Tiruppur district, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan clarified that the public could use even cloth masks as N95 masks are to be used only by healthcare professionals and those who are in contact with the COVID-19 patients.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doctor attached to PHC in the Nilgiris dies||A doctor attached to a primary health centre in the Nilgiris died of the complications of dengue and scrub typhus in a private hospital in Coimbatore in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as V. Jayamohan, 31, who worked at Thengumarahada PHC. Jayamohan, a native of Sirumugai in Coimbatore, was admitted to the private hospital in Coimbatore with high fever and other complications on Sunday. according to a Health Department official from the Nilgiris. A senior official with the private hospital said that he tested negative for COVID-19 but tested positive for dengue and scrub typhus. His condition deteriorated late on Tuesday and died around 12.30 a.m. on Wednesday.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Match units running out of splint stock||The exemption given to match industry from the lockdown appears to be in vain as the 400-odd units in Virudhunagar district have started running out of splint. Since the southern districts are a major hub for the industry and meet country-wide demand, Collector R. Kannan allowed conditional reopening of the units. “Only some 30-50 workers are employed in the units predominantly located in Virudhunagar, Sivakasi and Sattur,” said G. Nagarajan, president, All India Chamber of Match Industry. Though work started on March 8, the units have been operating with minimum capacity to ensure social distancing and other safety measures for workers. The units have also been able to move the finished goods — categorised essential — to different States such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Kerala with the help of the district administration. However, the industry is dependent on Kerala for 80% of splint. And it appears that the supply of the important raw material may soon run out as production units in the neighbouring State remain closed. “We make some 20% of the splints here with logs imported from European countries. But with the pandemic leading to global lockdown, fresh stocks have not arrived,” Mr. Nagarajan said. Virudhunagar MP B. Manicka Tagore has written to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to allow manufacture and dispatch of splints from his State to Tamil Nadu. “The stock of splints with match units in Virudhunagar could last for only a few days,” he said. A huge workforce is dependent on the industry for its livelihood, he added.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court Judges help needy advocates||With the Bar Associations of Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court and the District Court continuing to offer financial assistance and essential commodities to junior and needy advocates, Judges of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court have contributed to the welfare initiative. Administrative Judge of the High Court Bench Justice P.N. Prakash and Justice J. Nisha Banu took the initiative and collected the funds. President of Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association N. Krishnaveni said that initially they offered financial assistance. Later essential commodities were also distributed. Junior and needy advocates were given kits of essential commodities that included rice, oil, dal and other cooking items worth Rs. 1,200. Two general stores in Othakadai near High Court Bench were identified for the supply of essential commodities, she said. About 1,000 beneficiaries were identified through a verification process and given a code, using which they received the kits from the shops, said general secretary N. Ilango.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meeting discusses containment measures||Over 600 safe deliveries have taken place in the district during the COVID-19 lockdown period and the mothers and their babies are under safe care and supervision at various government hospitals in the district, according to Collector S. Malarvizhi. A review of COVID-19 containment measures was held here at the Collectorate on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Malarvizhi said, over 42 vehicles were deployed for sale of vegetables across the 33 wards of the municipality. This was to ensure public do not step up in need of vegetables during the lockdown period. Further, 10 check-posts in the district borders were monitoring the movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities. The vehicles were adequately sanitized before they were allowed inside the border. According to the administration, about Rs. 1.61 lakh unorganised sector workers were provided with the State government-announced relief of Rs. 1,000 in the district. Those stranded in other States may contact the district’s control room number 04342-231500 for any kind of assistance, the administration has said. R. Kirlosh Kumar, Managing Director, TASMAC, and ADGP M.N. Manjunatha, Police Housing Corporation Limited, as part of the monitoring committee reviewed the district’s containment measures against COVID –19. The administration has urged people to abide by the lockdown that would be in place till May 3.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30% of State’s industries will resume activities from April 20, says Shettar||At least 30% of manufacturing and other industries/establishments, located largely in rural areas of Karnataka, would become operational from April 20, Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told The Hindu . As the second phase of the national lockdown began from Wednesday, the Centre issued fresh guidelines to all States to permit some industries, with riders, to operate after April 20. The State has around 6.5 lakh industries, comprising largely of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and 30% of them are located outside the city corporations such as Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Belagavi. About 2.25 lakh industries located in rural areas of the State would be permitted to run from April 20. Though there is no clarity about the reopening of industries in city corporation limits like Bengaluru and Mysuru, sources in the government said the officials have been working out a plan to reopen industries cluster-wise in cities. The officials are expected to make a presentation on this to the government to take a final call. Hubs such as Peenya industrial area, Kamakshipalya industrial area, and Rajajinagar industrial area are all located in the Bengaluru City Corporation limits. While industrial towns, special economic zones, export oriented units located outside the city corporations/municipalities would be allowed to function as per norms, managements of these units must strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs as well the Union Ministry of Health while resuming activities, Mr. Shettar said. Industries, for instance, located in Bidadi, Nelamangala, Doddaballapur, Chickballapur, all on the outskirts of Bengaluru, Belur on the outskirts of Hubballi, Narsapura on the outskirts of Kolar, and Vasanthanarasapura on the outskirts of Tumakuru would be permitted to undertake business. Units in these areas would resume activity with less than 50% of the strength. “Karnataka’s Industries Department has been in touch with the Centre on the necessity of resuming industrial activities to revive the economy, which has been witnessing slow growth. Opening of industries would not only bring in revenue to the government in the form of taxes, but also enable the employees to earn their livelihood,” Mr. Shettar said. Industry bodies of the State have welcomed the Centre’s decision, but decided to write to the State and Union governments seeking relief measures, particularly to MSMEs. “The Centre’s guidelines provided a ray of hope for industries, but they would face many difficulties in resuming production activities since a large number of workforce had gone to their native places. Moreover, employees would face difficulties of attending factory work owing to closure of mass transportation,” said C.R. Janardhana, president of FKCCI.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Immunisation, health outreach programmes see disruptions||Immunisation of children and programmes pertaining to reproductive and child health have taken a back seat as health workers are busy with COVID-19 related duties. ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists are a crucial link between healthcare professionals and people residing in slums as well as rural areas. An ASHA who had been assigned to Bengaluru west before the pandemic said: “Our usual routine involves monitoring the health of pregnant women, postpartum women and newborns. We take special care of underweight babies and weigh them on a regular basis. All this has come to a standstill.” There are 15 children in her area who are less than five months old, and their mothers are constantly calling her for guidance as she has been posted on COVID-19 duty in another area. A mother of a four-and a-half-month old baby said: “My child is underweight and I am completely dependent on ASHAs to clarify my doubts. But now she has been posted to another ward for COVID-19 and she is unable to come to our area. We also want to avoid visits to the hospital and therefore are asking our health workers to come at least once a week.” Other activities such as family planning, nutrition and women’s health awareness programmes, too, are on the back burner. D. Nagalakshmi, secretary of Karnataka State Samyukta ASHA Workers’ Association, said that immunisation programmes have been affected. “The ASHAs are trying to juggle different duties. They are trying to manage by making calls to residents in their area. But due to workload, some of the activities and programmes may be affected,” she said. The Health Department said that while no child who is brought to the hospital will be denied vaccination, their outreach sessions and routine vaccination conducted every Thursday have been affected. In light of the pandemic, parents are hesitant to take their children to hospitals. “Government of India guidelines state that the immunisation can be done if the situation permits. But we need to weigh the risk of a pregnant woman or an infant coming out during this time. So we have left it to the respective districts to take a call based on the situation,” said B.N. Rajani, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare, adding that all newborns are given vaccines at birth without fail. “A slight delay in vaccines to be given a few weeks after birth will not cause a serious problem as maternal immunity will protect the child,” she said.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City-wide home delivery helpline soon: BBMP chief||The civic body and the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority have urged shop owners across the city to register with the BBMP’s COVID-19 home delivery helpline with the aim of expanding it to other zones. The initiative, which promises home delivery of essential goods, is currently operational in four constituencies in south Bengaluru, and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is in the process of extending it across the city. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that to ensure people do not unnecessarily step out of their homes, the civic body is working on providing door delivery of all essential commodities. Groceries, supermarkets, pharmacies and other such services have been asked to register on the helpline, which will allow citizens place their orders either by calling in or sending a message on WhatsApp. “This has been implemented in four constituencies that come under the jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (South),” said Mr. Kumar. He maintained that the success of the helpline hinges on the response from shop owners. “Registrations are open. We are closely monitoring the response. We will get a clear picture in a couple of days,” he added.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Duplication in supplies of cooked food, dry ration becomes hard to tackle||The distribution of prepared food and dry ration in Bengaluru continues to be dogged with problems with the State government yet to segregate those who receive dry rations from those who receive prepared food daily. The gap between demand and supply has increased to about 50%. While nearly 93,000 food packets are being distributed twice daily, the Labour Department is yet to ascertain if there was duplication in distribution in that the same household is getting both prepared food as well as dry ration. The one lakh dry ration hampers prepared by the department was supplied by BBMP, allegedly under political pressure, and it is now turning out to be difficult to trace families that are getting dry ration. “The Labour Department is now in the process of coordination with BBMP,” a department official acknowledged. He also said that the distribution of prepared food had become a Herculean task, and the gap between demand and supply was almost 50% . “The quality of food is good and demand over the last few days has been increasing. We are now supplying 93,000 food packets twice a day,” the official said. Donors withdraw Meanwhile, several donors who had committed to distribution of food at the local level have withdrawn. “These donors had committed to feeding 13,000 people and they are exhausted now, which is increasing the load on the government,” an official said. They pointed out that of the 93,000 prepared food packets that were being sent, 67,000 are paid for by the government, and the remaining came from the donors. A trade union leader involved in relief work also acknowledged that the demand for food packets had been steadily increasing as workers now are aware of the quality of food and timeliness of distribution. “Where initially, we had assessed and distributed 2,000 to 2,500 packets, we have recalibrated the demand to be around 9,000. Similarly, the demand has gone up in city’s outskirts where large clusters of construction workers are present. Overall, the distribution and reach to construction and migrant workers has stabilised,” the union leader said. No wireless sets The Police Department has turned down Labour Secretary P. Manivannan’s request for wireless sets to be used by Labour Department and Department of Information to monitor the COVID-19 situation in and around Bengaluru. The request for 25 sets was made by the Labour Department that is implementing free food supply to migrant and construction workers.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 death in Tipu Nagar: 75 primary contacts identified||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has identified 75 primary contacts of a senior citizen, a resident of Tipu Nagar, who died on Monday at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. Among the primary contacts is the local councillor Najeem Khanum, who lives next to the deceased. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that the identified primary contacts, barring the councillor, have been shifted to quarantine centres. He said it would be in the best interest if the councillor also came forward to be quarantined. Reiterating that the civic body was not looking at sealing other areas, he said in many places, including Tipu Nagar that comes under Chamarajpet limits, off Mysuru Road, the residents had voluntarily barricaded roads. “In many parts of the city, to ensure that lockdown is followed strictly, volunteers and residents’ welfare associations have blocked and barricaded roads,” he said and added that the civic body was supplying essential items to residents of Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar that have been sealed. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru Urban) G.N. Shivamurthy visited Tipu Nagar and saw that many people were still on the streets. He directed shopkeepers in the area to ensure customers maintain social distancing and instructed police officials to take action against people not wearing masks.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister forms 3 ministerial teams||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has constituted three ministerial teams for speedy containment of COVID-19, to help the people affected by the disease, and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential services. A team headed by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan would look into issues related to supply chain management, largely related to the farm sector. The team would focus on the supply of essential goods, including agricultural and horticultural commodities. Another team headed by Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar, who is also the State’s COVID-19 spokesperson, would look into issues related to migration of people from cities/towns to villages and problems faced by them. Third team is led by Revenue Minister R. Ashok to monitor functioning of the public distribution system, sources in the government told The Hindu . With the Centre asking the State to strictly adhere to guidelines issued to fight against COVID-19 till May, Mr. Yediyurappa on Wednesday discussed with his Cabinet colleagues issues related to management of supply chain in the farm sector, problems faced by farmers, rural daily wagers and migrants during the second phase of the lockdown.  Only a few Ministers held consultations with the Chief Minister and issues largely related to agricultural sector have been discussed, sources said. Many Ministers did not attend the meeting since they have been monitoring COVID-19 related activities in their respective districts. Issues related to procurement of farm commodities, horticultural produce, crop loans and subsidies too have been discussed with Mr. Ashwath Narayan, Mr. Suresh Kumar, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Mr. Ashok.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Comorbidities a major factor in all 12 COVID-19 deaths||Comorbidities have been common factors in all the COVID-19 deaths that the State has seen so far. Except for one person aged 55 from Kalaburagi, who died on Monday at ESIC hospital there, all the others are aged above 60. While the Kalaburagi case too had been diagnosed with hypertension six months prior to getting infected, all the others had one or more comorbidity such as uncontrolled diabetes, cardiac issues, asthma, and hypertension. The second death in Chickballapur — a 65-year-old male patient who died on Wednesday — had tested positive for H1N1 and also had Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease with obstructive sleep apnea apart from diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, in at least seven of the deceased cases, the confirmation of their being positive for COVID-19 came after death. Two of the deceased are women — one 80-year-old from Gadag and another 76-year-old from Chickballapur, who had also suffered a hip fracture. Many smokers Sources in the State Health Department said almost all the 10 men who succumbed to the disease were smokers and “this could have been a precipitating factor.” Most of them had reported to hospitals only after the infection worsened. At least five of them had gone from one hospital to another before landing in a designated COVID hospital, sources said. V. Ravi, Senior Professor and Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, told The Hindu that comorbidities predispose the patients to multi-organ failure during an infection. Dr. Ravi, who is also part of the six-member committee to analyse and study the epidemiology of COVID-19 cases in the State, said this panel will also conduct a death audit of the deceased cases. “We will study the clinical manifestation of every case and use that data to predict future trends based on which further interventions on treatment and management strategies can be planned,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is a member of the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the functioning of vital organs is already compromised in those with comorbidities. “They were not able to tolerate superimposed pneumonia and landed in septic shock. If these patients had reported earlier to hospitals, their chances of recovery would have been better,” he said. Jayadeva has taken up a project to study the ECG and ECHO readings of COVID-19 patients admitted in Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. According to a study on “Comorbidity and its impact on 1,590 patients with Covid-19 in China: A Nationwide Analysis” published recently in the European Respiratory Journal, among laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19, patients with any comorbidity yielded poorer clinical outcomes than those without.  District-wise deaths Kalaburagi - 3 Bengaluru Urban, Chickballapur - 2 each Tumakuru, Belagavi, Gadag, Vijayapura, Bagalkot - 1 each
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No plan to seal other wards in city for now, says BBMP||While the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday declared 32 wards under six zones as COVID-19 hotspots where it has intensified primary and secondary contact tracing, there are no plans for now to seal them. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar urged citizens not to panic. Any ward with at least one COVID-19 positive case reported in the past 28 days and any ward that has at least 50 primary contacts, of those tested positive, under active quarantine of 28 days, is defined as a hotspot by a circular issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Significantly, the number of hotspot wards were 38 as on Tuesday and dropped to 32 by Wednesday evening. Ten wards that were declared hotspots on Tuesday dropped from the list on Wednesday - Ganga Nagar, Ramamurthy Nagar, Begur, Girinagar, Adugodi, Madiwala, Suddagunte Palya, Aramane Nagar, Nagarabhavi and Jagjivanram Nagar - which means no new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported from these wards in the last 28 days. Meanwhile, Ejipura, Domlur, K.R. Market and R.R. Nagar were declared hotspot wards on Wednesday. Most of these 32 wards are concentrated in a belt along the North-East and South-East alignment of Outer Ring Road between Ballari Road and Hosur Road. Another cluster is at the intersection of Mysuru Road and West of Chord Road. South and East zones had the highest number of hotspots at nine wards each. West and Mahadevpura zones have five wards each while Yelahanka zone has two. Bommanahalli and R.R. Nagar zones have one each. “The two wards that have been sealed, Padarayanapura and Bapuji Nagar, saw a sudden spike of cases in clusters, unlike in other wards where the positive cases are not related to one another,” said BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. He said population density was also a factor in determining whether maintaining social distancing and isolation was possible to decide which areas should be sealed.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Critical Care Support launched||In the wake of increasing number of COVID-19 fatalities, the State Health Department has established a Critical Care Support Unit to monitor the progress of COVID-19 patients in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) of various designated COVID hospitals across the State. The unit was inaugurated by Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday. The Minister said Karnataka is the first State in the country to establish a dedicated unit for Critical Care Support, by linking ICUs of COVID hospitals across the State onto a single platform. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said critical care support would assist in providing advanced healthcare to patients in ICU who are on ventilator, those who are on oxygen or without oxygen, those with comorbidities, those aged above 60, and pregnant women. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said: “The Critical Care Support Unit is monitored by a centralised team of doctors from the Health Department, medical colleges and interns from KIMS, M.S. Ramaiah Hospital and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Medical College. This team will work around the clock in three shifts to monitor patients admitted to ICUs. At the end of each day, the Critical Care Support Unit will review the progress and implementation of the action plan and share it with higher authorities for further action.” The government will soon set up district-level medical committee of experts comprising anaesthesiologists, cardiologists, pulmonologists, nephrologists, and general physicians. They will be connected with a set of patients in one or more districts so that they can monitor and advise a suitable treatment, he added.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP MLAs’ segments getting priority in relief distribution: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday alleged discrimination in distribution of food, milk sachets and rations by the State government and said the Bengaluru legislators have complained that food items and rations have been distributed in constituencies represented by the ruling party MLAs. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting of the party’s task force on COVID-19 pandemic, Congress president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said a party’s delegation would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa next Sunday and submit to him a list of problems faced by the people on the ground. Legislators, including seven-time MLA and former Minister Ramalinga Reddy had complained that the government has been distributing rations/food items through its party workers in constituencies represented by BJP MLAs. The party would explain to the Chief Minister lapses in the distribution network, Mr. Shivakumar said. The party also suggested to the government to follow a model adopted by the Gujarat government with regard to migrants.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suggestions to help stranded labourers invited||The mass protest of migrant labourers in Mumbai on April 14 has the city police worried. In an attempt to prevent a similar situation here, Police Commissioner Bhasakar Rao took to Twitter seeking suggestions on ensuring the needs of labourers in the city were met. At a meeting on Wednesday, DCPs were directed to depute a police officer to take care of migrant workers at the jurisdiction level. “The nominated officer should ensure people in his or her jurisdiction are provided with essentials and regularly hold talks with them to help redress some of their problems. A coordinator should be identified from the workers group as a liaison,” said an officer. Many responded with suggestions ranging from ensuring that they get ration as well as some money for miscellaneous needs. Others suggested the police work with NGOs to identify pockets where discontent was brewing. Citizen activist Leo Saldanha pointed out that a similar discussion had been taken up with senior officials of the State government two weeks ago and many ideas discussed have not been taken forward.
16 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Floriculture farmers suffer Rs. 250 cr. loss’||The losses suffered by floriculture farmers in Bengaluru Urban district alone because of the lockdown has been estimated at around Rs. 250 crore, said Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil. Disclosing this at a press conference here on Tuesday, the Minister said even vegetable growers had been affected in the district. He would take up the matter with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to examine the possibilities of making up for the losses, he said. He said there was no proper facility for farmers to sell their flowers in the existing agriculture markets. He had directed the officials to create appropriate facilities for sales of flowers, he said. Dealers warned Mr. Patil cautioned dealers against creating artificial scarcity to increase the prices.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Follow lockdown restrictions during Ramzan’||Ameer-e-Shariath Maulana Sagir Ahmad Khan Rashadi has called upon Muslims to compulsorily follow the lockdown restrictions during the month of Ramzan. Reading out instructions issued by the religious head, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told presspersons on Wednesday that the maulana has asked people to offer namaz five times a day at home and avoid going to mosques. According to a press statement issued by the Ameer-e-Shariath, people should perform Taraweeh namaz at home along with family members. They should strictly avoid roaming outside duringRamzan. Muezzin or Imam of the masjid can make an announcement regarding the end of Sehri and the beginning of Iftar, as usual, the statement said.
16 April 2020||Chitradurga/Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Over 40 students from Navodaya Vidyalayas stranded in M.P.||An exchange programme to promote national integration has turned into a nightmare for over 40 class 9 students — boys and girls — from Navodaya Vidyalayas in Chitradurga and Tumakuru. They are stranded in their sister schools in Madhya Pradesh. The north Indian State has seen an alarming rise in COVID-19 cases and students are frightened, unable to return to their families as the lockdown has been extended to May 3. Around 23 students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Uduvalli of Hiriyur taluk, Chitradurga district, are at the Navodaya Vidyalaya in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. Another 20 students from a JNV in Gollahalli, Tumakuru district, are stranded at the school in Ashoknagar in Madhya Pradesh. As part of the exchange programme, the students had left for M.P. in July 2019 at the start of the academic year. While they returned to their native towns in October during the holidays, they went back to the schools in M.P. to complete the academic year. Ananya Ramesh, one of the students stranded in Dewas, sent a video to her father saying that they are worried about contracting COVID-19 as there were many positive cases in the area near their school. Her father K. Ramesh Babu told The Hindu: “Every day, my daughter calls me and cries saying that she may contract the infection.” Another parent R. Ramakrishne Gowda, whose son is in M.P., has been following the spread of the pandemic in M.P. closely. “My son is afraid to stay in Dewas and wants to come back home. He calls me every day, requesting me to bring him back home. What do I do?” he said. Principal of the JNV in Tumakuru district, Beena G., has been flooded with calls from anxious parents but is unable to give them an answer. “We have requested the authorities in Madhya Pradesh to make arrangements to bring the students back home,” she said, adding that one teacher and one staff member is also in Ashoknagar with the students. Incidentally, the school was able to send the M.P. students it was hosting back to their homes before the lockdown began, and is now conducting online classes for them. Unfortunately, they were unable to get their students back to Tumakuru in time. G.A. Jyothi can’t wait to hug her daughter, Harsha, who is in Ashoknagar. “We are very worried about our daughter. Harsha said that she does not know when she will come back to Tumakuru and see us,” she said. Students from Dewas stuck Similarly, 21 students from the Navodaya Vidyalaya in Dewas district who had come to the Uduvalli school find themselves in a similar situation and have no choice but to remain in Chitradurga. Stefan Raj, principal of JNV in Chitradurga, estimates that more than 1,500 students who were part of the exchange program are stranded in 180 Navodaya schools across India. “As per the migration policy of the Navodaya schools, class 9 students from non-Hindi speaking areas are sent to Hindi-speaking areas and vice-versa to promote national integration.” Letter to PM Ananya has appealed to the authorities to help all students stranded in the Navodaya schools to reach their homes. Mr. Gowda has also appealed to the Prime Minister. “The parents of the 23 students stranded in Dewas wrote to the Prime Minister 15 days ago requesting him to make arrangements to send the students back to their homes but failed to get any response.”  My son is afraid to stay in Dewas and wants to come back home. He calls me every day, requesting me to bring him back home. What do I do? R. Ramakrishne Gowda Parent   The north Indian State has seen an alarming rise in COVID-19 cases and students are frightened, unable to return to their families as the lockdown has been extended to May 3.
16 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Nine of family misuse pass, quarantined||Nine members of a family have been instructed to be in home quarantine for misusing a special pass and attending a wedding on Wednesday. According to a release, the family from Uppin Betageri in Dharwad taluk obtained the special pass stating that one of their family members was sick and needed to go out of station for medical treatment. However, the nine, including a child, travelled on an SUV to Hubballi for a marriage ceremony. Deputy Superintendent of Police Ravi Nayak spotted the SUV and, during inspection, found that the family had misused the special medical pass. Immediately, he contacted Superintendent of Police Varthika Katiyar who ordered that all the nine members be taken for medical examination at KIMS.
16 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Additional fever clinics||The district administration has set up additional fever clinics and throat swab sample collection facilities at the SDM Hospital at Sattur and the Railway Hospital in Hubballi. A release from Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa stated that these additional facilities have been set up following a rise in throat swabs and blood samples reaching KIMS for COVID-19 tests. Thus, the total number of fever clinics has risen to nine. Doctors at the SDM Hospital and the Railway Hospital have been told to deploy dedicated medical staff at these centres. The fever clinics should work from 9 a.m. till 4 p.m. and the throat swab collection should run round the clock. Patients at fever clinics should compulsorily write down their data in the register book and fill-up the referral form. The staff has to provide all details to the control room everyday before 5 p.m. Ms. Deepa has also instructed AYUSH doctors not to treat patients with breathlessness and high fever.
16 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 lockdown delivers another blow to Sahakara Sarige employees||The employees of Sahakara Sarige (Transport Cooperative Society) are in dire straits. Many of them have not been able to pay house rent, clear milk and newspaper bills for the last three months, as the company has not paid them salary since February this year. The only transport, which runs on the cooperative model, has been facing financial loss. The company, set up in 1991, had its services in parts of Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Udupi districts. The employees went on a strike, stopping the transport services on February 16. Hoping that the government would come to their rescue, they withdrew the strike after an assurance from the government. The company handed over its transport permits to the KSRTC to run its services on its routes so that the public would not be affected. Even as the employees were contemplating intensifying their protest with the government not taking its assurance forward, the COVID-19 scare followed by the lockdown has hit them hard. They could not attract the attention of the authorities concerned. Loss of Rs. 1.5 crore The company wanted an immediate relief of Rs. 6.5 crores towards the reimbursement of the cost spent on students’ passes so that it could restart its services. E.S. Dharmappa, president of the society, told The Hindu: “We are not in a position to pay salaries, clear loans, pay the transport tax, or the PF of employees. The monthly instalment towards loan itself is around Rs. 20 lakh and transport tax is Rs. 14 lakh. Altogether, the company has suffered a loss to the tune of over Rs. 1.5 crore because of the lockdown.” The executive committee is meeting on April 16 to discuss the future course of action. Katte Gowda, an employee, said talks on the sale of the company had been stalled due to the lockdown. “If the buses remain idle for a longer period, they will also lose value. We, employees, have run the company for the last 29 years and increased the number of buses from six to 75. I think we can only do so much. The government is not showing interest to safeguard the company,” he said.
16 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Steps being taken to set up virology lab in Gadag for quick testing of samples||Health Minister B. Sriramulu has said that steps are being taken to set up a virology laboratory in Gadag district to help quick testing of samples for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Addressing a press conference at the Zilla Panchayat auditorium in Gadag on Wednesday, the Health Minister said that while the State and Union governments were doing their best to contain the epidemic, he would appeal to private clinics and nursing homes to offer health services to the general public during this time of a health crisis. He said that he had toured 21 districts of the State and had reviewed the status of work to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Information and suggestions were being procured from the district administration, Health Department, doctors and elected representatives so as to further strengthen the fight against the pandemic, he said. Commending the selfless service offered by the Corona soldiers namely doctors, nurses and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), Mr. Sriramulu said that apart from taking measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, both the State and Union governments were trying to further boost the morale of the Corona soldiers. In Gadag district, he said, an isolation ward had been set up where 451 persons were under observation. Of these, 132 persons had completed the quarantine period of 28 days. As many as 303 persons were home quarantined and so far, 202 samples have tested negative for the infection. Mr. Sriramulu said that after the death of an 82-year-old woman who had tested positive for the infection, a total of 82 samples of those who had come in contact with her had been sent for testing and all of them had tested negative. Deputy Commissioner of Gadag M.G. Hiremath said that two localities where positive cases were reported had been declared as containment area. In the wake of the restrictions, steps had been taken to distribute foodgrains to 82 % of the families under the Public Distribution System. Subsequently, Mr. Sriramulu, along with MLA Ramanna Lamani, MLC S.V. Sankanur and others, visited the district hospital.
16 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Civic workers taken care of||As pourakarmikas (civic workers) are working without a break to keep the city clean, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation has taken extra steps to protect their health by arranging daily health check-up. In all, 2,500 pourakarmikas are engaged in collecting solid waste from various wards of the city and although the lockdown restrictions are in place, they have continued to keep the city clean risking their lives. Considering the risk factors, including exposure to infection, the municipal administration is conducting regular health check-ups for them before they begin their day’s work. According to the authorities, the body temperature of the pourakarmikas is being checked through thermal screening daily. Along with it, regular check-up of their blood pressure and normal blood tests are being conducted. Health Officer of the municipal corporation Prabhu Biradar said that apart from routine health check-up, the pourakarmikas were being sensitised about personal hygiene, usage of masks and sanitisers and the risks involved in their work. He said that that the health check-up would continue for a few more days. Meanwhile, the civic workers have thanked the health officials for clearing the misconceptions about the infection and thanked them. A civic worker Anand Brahmavar said that although they had continued to work, they had a few doubts about the pandemic, but the health officials had cleared them now apart from subjecting them to health check-up and providing medicine for their general ailments.
16 April 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,KARNATAKA||An April 20 reprieve for Bengaluru remains uncertain||Many business owners are hoping that restrictions in Bengaluru will be lifted on April 20 as suggested by the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines, which were notified on Wednesday. However, in the backdrop of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) identifying 32 of the city’s 198 wards as COVID-19 hotspots - where one or more positive cases have been reported over the last 28 days - a decision will be taken closer to the date. “We are living by the day and the geo-spatial map of COVID-19 is very dynamic. We will be able to take a call on whether we can ease restrictions in some parts or whether we have to treat the entire city as a hotspot, only on the eve of April 20,” said B.H. Anil Kumar, commissioner, BBMP. Meanwhile, the Department of Industries and Commerce, also has to take a call on whether to allow resumption of work at the industrial areas within city limits, a decision that is also likely to be made closer to April 20, sources said. Civic officials and health authorities said that given the changing dynamics of the spread of the pandemic, there is no clarity yet. While the city has reported the maximum number of cases for any district in the State, it is relatively better off compared to other metros in India. “Presently the cases seem to form clusters in certain pockets. But if new cases are reported from areas unrelated to these clusters, then relaxing of restrictions may be tough,” said a senior civic official. IT sector Most of the 32 COVID-19 hotspot wards are found roughly along the alignment of Ballari Road (North-East) to Hosur Road (South-East) stretch of Outer Ring Road apart from another cluster of wards at the intersection of Mysuru Road and West of Chord Road. The ORR stretch of hotspots also houses the highest concentration of Information Technology (IT) firms and other companies fuelling the new economy. For instance, Mahadevapura, home to the city’s IT Corridor has six wards identified as hotspots. Thus, though MHA guidelines have allowed IT and ITes firms to work up to 50% workforce after April 20 in non-hotspot zones, it may not come into effect in Bengaluru. Incidentally clusters observed at the intersection of Mysuru Road and West of Chord Road do not come in the way of any major industrial corridors. Real estate Construction projects where labourers are on site can resume work the MHA guidelines say, which the industry is looking forward to. Terming it ‘a much needed relaxation’, Kishore Jain, president, CREDAI-Bengaluru, urged the State government to follow suit and allow construction activity to resume with the available workforce. He also pointed out that this move will bring respite to the labourers worried about their income and work. Industry Peenya Industrial Area, the largest industrial estate in South Asia with nine lakh workers, is in the clear for now. However, the Peenya Industries Association is not enthusiastic. “The MHA guidelines for industrial estates are divorced from ground realities and are impractical. The guidelines mandate the workers have to be kept on the premises or at an adjoining building, which is impossible in Peenya. Most of the labourers have gone back to the villages and will not be able to come back as well,” said Prakash C., senior vice president, PIA. The city has several other industrial estates in Rajajinagar, Yeshwantpur, Kamakshipalya and Bommanahalli, where industries face similar issues too, he pointed out.
16 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Health check for over 1,000 pourakarmikas||The Kalaburagi City Corporation has organised a 10-day health camp for pourakarmikas and drivers of garbage collection vehicles in the city. A team of doctors , at the Indira Smarak Bhavan, has been screening around 100 pourakarmikas a day. All the 1,024 pourakarmikas and around 200 drivers of waste collection vehicles will undergo health check.
16 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Donimalai Iron Ore distributing food||Donimalai Iron Ore Mines Complex NMDC Ltd., a Navratna Public Sector Enterprises under the Union Ministry of Steel, has been distributing food to police personnel, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and paramedical staff who have been engaged in the fight against COVID-19 in Ballari district. The company has tied up with the Akshaya Patra Foundation for this initiative.
16 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||India Post delivering medicine and emergency articles||The Mangaluru Division of India Post, besides providing essential services during the lockdown period, has been delivering medicine and other emergency consignments from one place to another. While delivery within Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and neighbouring districts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Mysuru and Kodagu was being done immediately, that going to other places would take a little more time as the consignment has to pass through Bengaluru, said an official release. Still, India Post could deliver such consignments to far off places in the State swiftly if it was mentioned that it was an emergency requirement during booking, the release said. Besides delivery of medicine, India Post offers e-money order service. General public may send e-money orders from post offices to any place across the country. Post offices have been disbursing payments under various social security schemes to beneficiaries. Over 5,500 beneficiaries received payments through e-money orders in the division, while another 24,000 would get e-money orders this week. The release said that the general public may make payments towards their power bills at the nearest post offices. Payments may be made even in the absence of physical bills using their RR numbers and MESCOM sub-division information, the release said. Post offices also offer mobile phone and satellite television channel recharge. Details may be had by sending a WhatsApp message to the Divisional Office on Ph: 9448291072, the release added.
16 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Poultry industry begins giving free eggs to migrants in Mysuru||The poultry industry in Mysuru, which was badly hit from the scare of COVID-19 and bird flu, has begun distribution of free eggs to migrant labourers, pourakarmikas and other poor including slum dwellers. An estimated 11,000 eggs will be distributed over the next 15 to 20 days. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar, who is also the Minister in the charge of the district, launched the free egg distribution. Mysuru zone chairman of National Egg Coordination Committee Satish Babu told The Hindu that the eggs will be handed over to the MCC at Town Hall every day from where the civic body has made arrangements for distribution in different vehicles including autorickshaws. “We will be distributing eggs worth Rs. 10 lakh,” he said. The poultry industry comprising egg producers and traders among others had come together to make the contribution, he said. Though sale of chicken and eggs, which had been prohibited after the outbreak of bird flu last month, had resumed in the city, the poultry industry is yet to recover from the hard times it faced. Chicken shops have been allowed to open for only three days a week for a restricted time, but there is not enough supply of chicken. Many poultry farmers had lost their birds due to various reasons including short supply of feed and barely 10 to 20% of the regular supply is available now. As it takes about two months from the time of laying of egg to a bird reaching its full size, the supply of broiler chicken is yet to pick up, Mr. Babu said. However, a large number of poultry farmers are circumspect about resuming production on a regular scale in view of the extension of the lockdown. It may take a long for the poultry industry to recover.
16 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PDS rice sold in markets||Rice supplied through the public distribution system (PDS) was found diverted to the open market with some cardholders selling their quota soon after receiving the same from the fair price shops in Mysuru district. “Within minutes of collecting the rice, some cardholders in the district had sold it to others. We need to act against such practices,” Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar told the Joint Director of Food and Civil Supplies Shivanna on Wednesday. Mr. Somashekar said the opposition to the movement of trucks through the Bavali check-post to Kerala in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district was unwarranted since any hurdle to transportation to the neighbouring State would affect trading of farmers’ produce at APMC here.
16 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFTRI, I-T Department join hands to provide nutritious food||The CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru, has joined hands with the Income Tax Department (Karnataka and Goa) in providing nutrition-boosting food to migrant labourers affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. So far, the institute has supplied five tonnes of fruit bars, 500 kg of spirulina chikki and five tonnes of flavoured water to the I-T Department, which is feeding nearly 10,000 migrant workers daily in Bengaluru and surrounding areas. The food items are long shelf-life foods that are supplemented with some essential nutrition. “Foods also need to provide micro-nutrients that aid in boosting immunity. This may not be possible in case of mass feeding and hence supplementing with essential nutrients becomes necessary when the beneficiaries are locked in one place for extended periods. This has been taken care by us,” said K.S.M.S. Raghavarao, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, Mysuru. For instance, the mango fruit bars supplied contain essential nutrients like carbohydrates, carotenes and added vitamin C and zinc, which are known to improve immunity. By supplying cardamom flavoured water, the institute was using it as a vehicle for providing flavoured oils from traditional herbs which are again known immune boosters. A total of 10,000 bottles of water had been supplied for distribution, the CFTRI announced here on Monday. Logistics for this is provided by the I-T Department. “CFTRI’s offer to provide immunity boosting food gave a boost to our efforts. Such foods are imperative for our target population to sustain themselves in these times,” said Zakir Thomas, Principal I-T Commissioner, Karnataka and Goa.
16 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Recovered patient readmitted in Kodagu||The first COVID-19 positive patient from Kodagu, who had recovered and was discharged sometime ago, was readmitted to the hospital in Madikeri on Wednesday after he developed ‘flu-like’ symptoms. The man from Kondangeri village, who was discharged as per the recommended protocols on April 7, had reportedly developed fever and other symptoms. He went to the COVID-19 hospital on his own along with five of his contacts. The man had been kept in a special isolation ward – not where other suspected cases have been kept – to avoid risks. His throat swabs have been sent to Mysuru’s VRDL lab for testing. “The man came to the hospital at noon on Wednesday saying he had developed fever. He had with him some five persons, who were his contacts. All of the them were immediately isolated,” said Kodagu DHO Mohan. Perhaps, it’s a first case of a patient in the State getting readmitted.
16 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Paddy under MSP scheme to be bought till May 1||The deadline to purchase paddy from registered farmers under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme for 2019-20 has been extended till May 1, 2020, according to a release. Officials will purchase 40 quintals of paddy from registered farmers. Paddy will be purchased at a rate of Rs. 1,815 per quintal. However, A grade paddy will be bought at Rs. 1,835 per quintal, the release said.
16 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||100 duplicate passes detected in Raichur||Additional Superintendent of Police Sri Hari Babu and other police staff detected more than 100 duplicate passes and seized 30 motorcycles near Rajendra Gunj area in Raichur city on Wednesday. The police suspected that passes being used by motorcyclists were duplicates of the original passes being issued by government authorities to those on emergency work during the lockdown period. Acting on a tip-off, Mr. Babu intercepted motorcycles to check vehicle passes. After thorough verification, they found that the passes were duplicates and sent them to the government departments concerned to check their genuineness. “Such users will be booked if their passes proved to be duplicates,” Mr. Babu warned.
16 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Cashew processing units given the nod to start operations||To help cashew growers, the district administration has given the nod to cashew processing units to start operations at a reduced capacity in Udupi district. The decision was made after cashew growers informed the administration that some traders were taking advantage of the uncertainty caused by the lockdown and purchasing cashew from growers at rates varying from Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 per kg, when growers should be getting Rs. 80 per kg or more. According to the Department of Horticulture, there are 96 functioning cashew processing units in the district. Cashew is cultivated in 17,386 hectares in the district and the annual production is put at 34,772 tonnes. Of the 17,386 hectares under cultivation, about 8,000 hecatres are under the Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation. Assistant Director of Horticulture Guruprasad told The Hindu that cashew grown in the district met just a month’s need of the cashew processing units of the district. These processing units imported raw cashew and after processing it, they exported it. “Last year, the growers in the district sold cashew for Rs. 120 per kg,” he said. The harvesting of cashew crop has begun in the district and will continue through the next month. Satyanarayana Udupa, who cultivates cashew in 4.5 acres of land at Japti village, said that the big growers mostly sold their cashew to factories and the small growers to traders. “But the traders are using the uncertainty caused by the lockdown and purchasing the produce at less than half the rate. This will affect the small cashew growers more as they have little bargaining power,” he said. Accordingly, the administration has allowed these units to function with 25 % of their worker capacity, maintain social distancing and following other health-related guidelines.
16 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||50 voluntarily donate blood in Udupi district||To deal with the possible shortage of blood at the District Blood Bank, 50 youth in the 20 to 40 age group donated blood at a voluntary blood donation camp organised by the Karavali Swayam Prerita Raktadanigala Sangha at S.V. Pre-University College Hall at Gangolli in Udupi district on Wednesday. Divakar N. Kharvi, sangha coordinator, said that the camp was held after District Blood Bank Officer Veena informed them of a likely shortage of blood. Hence, the camp was organised after getting permission from the authorities and 50 units of blood was collected. District Surgeon Madhusudhan Nayak told The Hindu that blood stock at the District Blood Bank would last till April 19. Hence, to deal with any shortage thereafter, the camp was held.
16 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Eight with symptoms admitted to hospitals||As many as eight men with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Wednesday. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that of the eight men, six were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), while one man had Influenza Like Illness (ILI), the release said.
16 April 2020||Vijayapura/Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||Constable tests positive||The Bagalkot district has recorded its first case of a police constable contracting COVID-19, in Jamkhandi town. He is also the first police official in the State to have contracted the virus. Besides this, one more case in Bagalkot and two cases in Vijayapura has been recorded. Bagalkot Superintendent of Police Lokesh Jagalasar said they are investigating on how the police officer got infected. “We suspect that he must have got the infection as he was a frontline worker,” he said. With this, the number of cases has touched 14 in Bagalkot and 10 in Vijayapura. One person each has died in both districts.
16 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||PDS shops warned against indulging in irregularities||Minister for Animal Husbandry and also district in-charge Prabhu Chavan has said that the State government has taken all preventive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Addressing reporters in Surpur on Wednesday after chairing a meeting of officials, Mr. Chavan said that instructions have been given to officials to extend health care to those who are under quarantine and also take up awareness programmes. The Minister warned that criminal action will be taken against owners of public distribution system (PDS) shops if they were found indulging in irregularities in the distribution of foodgrains to beneficiaries. Mr. Chavan appealed to private doctors to open their clinics and hospitals and nursing homes to attend to health-related issues as people were facing health problems other than COVID-19. MLA Narasimha Naik (Rajugowda) and others were present.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Jharkhand couple rehabilitated||When a migrant labourer from Jharkhand started receiving calls from unknown numbers, he switched off his phone in fear. Little he realise that a small army of volunteers was trying to reach him and his seven-month pregnant wife after they were alerted of the couple’s plight. Kusuma Devi and her husband work as construction labourers but found themselves without a roof over their heads during the lockdown. After receiving an alert on the Hunger Helpline, volunteers tried to trace the couple.However, Kusuma Devi’s husband, on receiving many calls, got scared and switched off his phone. Unable to locate the couple, volunteers sought help from the police. Their location was found using mobile towers once the husband switched on his mobile.Kusuma Devi was taken to an ESI hospital for a check up. The couple have been rehabilitated in one of the shelters.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police SI sent on leave||The police sub-inspector, who attracted the wrath of BJP leaders including Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi for arresting a Hindutva activist, has been sent on leave. Hassan SP R. Srinivasa Gowda ordered a probe against Arehalli sub-inspector Balu and Belur circle inspector S. Siddarameshwara, following objections by Mr. Ravi for the arrest. Pending the probe, Mr. Balu has been sent on leave. Minister for Law J.C. Madhuswamy, who is also Minister in charge of Hassan, on Wednesday, said the sub-inspector had been asked to stay in ‘isolation’ to calm down the situation. He maintained that he was not aware of the details of the arrest of Hindutva activist Thej Kumar Shetty of Bikkodu in Belur and would talk to Mr. Ravi on this issue. Last week, the Belur police arrested Mr. Shetty on charges of posting content that could disturb harmony on social media. Mr. Ravi had raised objections and appealed to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Twitter to take action against the police officer.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nikhil’s wedding at farmhouse||The wedding of Nikhil K., actor and son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, will be held in a simple ceremony on Friday at the family’s farmhouse in Bidadi. Mr. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday urged his fans and party workers not to come near the wedding venue and cause confusion. Speaking to reporters, he said that the wedding would be attended by very close family members. “With social distancing not possible at our residence, we decided to shift the venue to the farmhouse,” he said, adding that he had spoken to the Chief Secretary for permission to conduct the wedding. He said social distant would be strictly maintained.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police intervention||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Story time!||
16 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Rahul comes to rescue of Vakery family||A three-member Malayalee family who got stranded in Pune in Maharashtra due to the lockdown reached their home in Wayanad safely on Wednesday after the intervention of the office of Rahul Gandhi, MP. Seban Mathew, 56, of Vakery, near Sulthan Bathery, was discharged from a Pune hospital on April 13. The three-member family, including Mr. Mathew’s wife Mary and son Jithin, then contacted the office of Mr. Gandhi to help them reach their home. Apart from arranging an ambulance for travelling around 1,000 km, Mr. Gandhi also arranged an inter-State transportation pass for the family.
16 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||One tests positive in Kannur, no new cases in Kasaragod||Tests for COVID-19 confirmed one more positive case in Kannur on Wednesday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said a 70-year-old woman from Mooriyad, Koothuparamba was found to have contracted the virus. She is the wife of an 87-year-old resident of Mooriyad who was infected with the virus on April 11. On April 12, the swab test was conducted at the Kannur Medical College converted as COVID hospital in Anjarakandy. With this, the number of positive coronavirus cases in the district reached 80, while 38 of them have been discharged following the treatment. Currently, there are 7,013 people in the district who are in observation for COVID-19. Of these 56 people are under observation at Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 15 in Kannur District Hospital, 9 in Kannur District General Hospital, 35 in Thalassery General Hospital, 35 in District Covid-19 Medical Center in Anjarakandy and 6898 are in the home quarantine. So far 1,528 samples were sent from the district and results of 1260 had been obtained. 83 discharged In Kasaragod, four more people who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from the hospital. While three people recovered from Kasaragod General Hospital, one person treated at the Kanhangad District hospital was discharged on Wednesday, the Health Department said adding that so far 83 people from Kasaragod have been discharged. In the district, 9,064 people are in home quarantine and 137 in hospitals. Meanwhile, no positive cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the district on Wednesday.
16 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||COVID-19 disinfection tunnels are of no use, say experts||Public health experts and doctors maintain that disinfection tunnels could be of little use in containing the spread of COVID-19 and funds directed towards them could be put to better use instead. “Disinfection tunnels have no scientific validity,” said Dr. B. Ekbal, public health expert part of the committee constituted to advise the government on COVID-19. “Nothing is likely to happen if sodium hypochlorite solution or hydroen peroxide is sprayed on a person. Maybe droplets on clothes might be destroyed. But it gives a false sense of security and does nothing to break the method of transmission,” he said. “There is an established system. These technologies should not be introduced unnecessarily without permission from the Health Department,” Dr. Ekbal said. Tunnels across the State were recently disconnected, he said. “Even if an infected person walks through the tunnel, the tunnel does nothing to prevent the spread of the virus from the person,” said Dr. G.S. Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers Association. “It does not in any way alter the two scenarios in which the virus can spread — if an infected person coughs or sneezes releasing droplets, and if a person touches surfaces where these droplets have landed,” he said. An alcohol-based sanitiser would have the same impact on an individual’s hands but without the financial burden of setting up a disinfecting tunnel, he said. Kiosks for testing could be set up with the funds instead and could be an advantage in the current situation, he added. ‘Disinfection gateway’ Meanwhile, the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, has developed a ‘disinfection gateway’ that uses 0.5% hydrogen peroxide in mist form. “The gateway reduces the burden of microbes a person carries when they enter a private space from a public area,” said Dr. Asha Kishore, director of the institute. “We don’t claim that it can be kept in public spaces, parks or for patients to walk through. But it can be used at entrances of offices when employees walk in from a pubic area into the office,” she said. Dr. Kishore added that the gateway was not a substitute for hand hygiene, social distancing or mask use, and that the level of exposure to hydrogen peroxide was within safe limits. The institute had submitted safety documents to the Chief Minister’s Office and confirmed that the gateway was not like the tunnels where sodium hypochlorite was sprayed in concentrations unsafe for human use, she said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said Sree Chitra’s disinfection gateway should not be equated with the unscientific tunnels set up in several places in the State. “Sree Chitra’s gateway is scientific and usable,” he said. HMT, Kalamassery unit, is one of the companies tasked with producing the gateways. “Production has been delayed during the lockdown since we are awaiting material from Kolkata and Chennai. But the company has already received several enquiries for the product, including from a few public sector undertakings and offices in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Mumbai,” said HMT General Technical Manager S. Balamurugesan.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Study: bat coronaviruses not related to COVID-19||The coronaviruses detected in the Pteropus and Rousettus species of bats from different States, including Kerala, have nothing to do with COVID-19, researchers have said. No virus that causes the spread of SARS-CoV-2 was detected from bats during a recent study carried out by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Moreover, the newly identified bat coronavirus (BtCoV) had no role in spreading any diseases in human beings, Pragya D. Yadav, the first author of the study, told The Hindu . The studies were carried out in samples collected from different States in 2018 and 2019. The reported news of the detection of coronaviruses had created a commotion in scientific circles, as the bat samples were collected from here. Kerala is home to both the bat species. The panic-stricken public had rung up forest officials asking them to remove the bats from human habitations. During the 2018 Nipah outbreak in Kerala, where bats served as the reservoir of the pathogen, there were attempts to kill bats and destroy its natural habitats. The research paper was also reviewed at the State Institute of Animal Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram. Mass killing Several wildlife researchers, including those specialising in bats, were concerned about the news as it was feared that any wrong information on the role of bats in the spread of the disease would lead to its mass killing. According to Ms. Yadav, strains of coronavirus namely SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-CoV are found in animals, which cause the disease to spread to human beings. However, the reported bat coronavirus from India and Thailand had not been associated with any human disease so far. The pathogenic diseases were confirmed in studies carried out in China. The virology institute focused on Indian bats since no such studies were carried out in the country, Dr. Yadav said. The researchers carried out studies in the representative rectal and throat swab specimens of the bats. The samples were screened for coronavirus using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The next-generation sequencing was performed on a few representative bat specimens that were tested positive.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MSMEs await State’s take on reopening||Though the Union government has allowed micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) to start operations in rural areas from April 20, unit owners in Kerala are keeping their fingers crossed to know the State government take on the issue on Thursday. Kerala State Small Industries Association president M.A. Khalid said on Wednesday that the association had sent a list of units that could be allowed to start operations in the context of the extended lockdown. The association said those units employing up to 20 persons and ready to adhere to the conditions set by the government should be allowed to reopen. It also sent a list of industries that could be allowed to reopen if the government was not considering the request. These include cement-based units making bricks, door frames, hollow bricks and cement-based vessels. The request to allow these units to open is in view of the fact that storing cement over a long period may render the raw material unusable. Also plywood, match splinter and wood-based units could be allowed to reopen so that the raw materials stored ahead of the lockdown could be used. Another area the association wanted operations to be started was printing units, which too had raw materials that would be rendered unusable as the lockdown continued for another three weeks. Urgent need The association also sought the government to permit units that make steel and hospital equipment and furniture, as hospitals require these urgently under the present conditions. It also made a plea for wax- and clay-based units to be permitted to be reopened. Also, products from packaging materials unit and rubber-based units were now in great demand for various reasons across the country. These units too could be allowed to reopen, the association added. Most of the engineering units run with two to four people employed in the units and need to be financially strengthened. Under these circumstances, they could also be allowed to reopen. Mr. Khalid said though the units might be allowed to reopen, transport of both personnel and raw materials would continue to be a problem with restrictions in place now.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A Hindi song tells migrants that Kerala cares||The sub-regional transport office at Perumbavoor, one of the throbbing migrant hubs in the State, has come up with a Hindi anthem for inspiring the nearly two-lakh-strong migrant community during their stay in Kerala during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The album Athithi Devo Bhava , directed by Shimjad Hamza, associate director to filmmaker Siddique, was launched by actor Mohanlal in his Facebook page on Wednesday morning. Since then, it has been shared by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) on its social media platforms and the Association of Malayalam Movie Artists (AMMA), evoking very enthusiastic response. Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district had witnessed high drama last month when hundreds of migrant workers in a colony revolted over food quality and demanded that they be sent back home. This occurred a day after a similar protest by their counterparts at Payippad village in Kottayam. “It is saddening to see migrants revolting despite all that the government has done for them. That triggered the idea and we hope that through the video, the whole country will come to know about the care extended to migrants by the State,” said B. Shefiq, Joint Regional Transport Officer, Perumbavoor, who is also a noted wildlife photographer with four State awards to his credit. The lyrics written by Wayanad-based doctor S. Mahesh was composed by debutant Eldho P. John and sung by Nithin Koottungal. The album was shot in and around Perumbavoor over three days. “The challenge was to make the album in compliance with the lockdown and social distancing guidelines. We have to do it with minimal equipment owing to the prevailing situation,” said Hamza, who captured the real programmes by various agencies focussing on the migrant labourers. The album, which features a portion of the Chief Minister’s press conference assuring migrant workers of food, shelter and health care with Hindi subtitles, ends with the reassurance that the country will prevail over this challenge as well.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Initiative to help performing artistes hit by lockdown||With theatres and concert halls shut and temple festivals cancelled because of the COVID-19, performing artistes are finding themselves in a precarious financial position, with bills to pay, no work and no income. An independent, localised initiative, Musicare, has been set up in the State to offer assistance to people that find themselves in such situations. Coordinated by musicians Sreevalsan J. Menon, Edappally Ajithkumar, Balakrishna Kamath, and Vazhappilly Krishnakumar along with dancers Methil Devika and Rajasree Warrier, the initiative is an attempt to provide relief for those artistes who find their lives on a financial knife-edge. Artistes seeking assistance may contact: Sreevalsan J. Menon: 9447045120, Edappally Ajith Kumar: 9447377796, Balakrishna Kamath: 9847291081, Methil Devika: 9846372762, Rajasree Warrier 9447075800, Vazhappilly Krishnakumar: 9745991378.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Animals in State free of COVID-19 so far||Domestic as well as wild animals of Kerala remain free of COVID-19 even as wildlife habitats and zoos in the State have been put on a high alert and thousands of domestic animals kept under observation following reports of a tiger in a U.S. zoo developing the disease earlier this month. As of now, the wildlife habitats in the State are free of the disease. Tiger habitats Tiger habitats and other forest areas are being regularly monitored using camera traps. So far, there have not been any reports of illness among the wild animal population, says Surendrakumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala. The State Institute of Animal Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram, has alerted its veterinarians and officials to watch out for any diseases and deaths among animals. No reports of any animal developing the disease have come in so far, says R. Jayachandran, Chief Disease Investigation Officer, the State Institute for Animal Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram.  On media reports of isolation of coronavirus in bats caught from Kerala last year, Dr. Jayachandran says there is no confirmation that the isolated ones were the pathogens that caused the outbreak. There are other members in the coronavirus family that cause disease in animals and humans, he says. One dog of a nondescript species, which was kept by a COVID-19 confirmed patient in Pathanamthitta, was the latest one to be added on the list of domestic animals under observation, says O.P Raj, Deputy Director, Department of Animal Husbandry, Pathanamthitta. Thousands of domestic animals are under observation in the district in their natural habitats. Titto Joseph, Assistant Director of the Department of Animal Husbandry, Kasaragod, says no cases of human to animal transmission of the disease have been reported from the district. The animals are being regularly monitored. The animals housed in the Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur zoos, especially the tigers and leopards, remain unaffected by the disease.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Student raises Rs. 3.6 lakh for migrant welfare||Anaanya Mathew, a student in a city school, was watching TV at home to get rid of the boredom of being stuck within the four walls due to the lockdown. A piece of news about the plight of migrant workers that flashed on the TV screen caught her attention and, went straight to her heart. Determined to do something about it, she was soon into the thick of it, raising no less than Rs. 3.6 lakh within a week for the welfare of migrant workers. Hazeef Mohammed, a friend of hers at Global Public School, helped her and they came up with the technological solution of using a crowdfunding platform for raising funds for the cause. “Instead of passing on the funds to an organisation, we have decided to buy products that they require,” saidAnaanya who can be contacted on 9895395700.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Case filed||Left fellow traveller and former parliamentarian Sebastian Paul has lodged a police complaint alleging that a fake article in Malayalam under his byline eulogising Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being widely circulated on the social media.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Firm assures dairy farmers of feed supply||The State-owned Kerala Feeds Ltd is working to ensure prompt supply of feed to dairy farmers suffering from a shortage of the produce due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Farmers can contact KFL on 9447490115 for products to be delivered within two days, said K.S. Indusekharan Nair, chairman of the PSU in a press release here on Wednesday. The company is back to normal functioning after a change in the work schedule following the shutdown since March 24, said KFL managing director B. Sreekumar. “Our production units in Kozhikode, Kallettumkara (Thrissur) and Karunagappally (Kollam) have resumed operation,” he said.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drifting fishing boat towed to shore||Officers and crew of Lakshadweep Sea, a vessel operated by Lakshadweep Development Corporation, rescued three fishermen on board a drifting fishing boat Sayyad  around midnight on Tuesday. Information on the fishing boat was received at the port control tower, Kavaratti, which passed the message to the master of the vessel  Lakshadweep Sea at 11.12 p.m. The fishing boat was located near Pitty Island after 3.30 a.m.
16 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No service charge exemption for Centre’s properties: HC||The Kerala HC has held that properties owned by the Central government or Central government undertakings were not exempted from service charges payable to local bodies. A Division Bench passed the verdict on Wednesday while dismissing an appeal filed by the BSNL against a single judge’s order upholding the notice issued by the Njarackal grama pancahyat demanding charges from the BSNL for providing services to its property. According to the BSNL, the Centre or Central government-owned undertakings were exempted from paying charges or taxes under Article 285 of the Constitution. The court observed the exemption under Article 285 was only for tax on the property alone and not for any other levy imposed by a State on the property of the Centre or Centre-owned undertakings.
16 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cargo operations resume at airport||After a gap, several airline companies have resumed their freight operations from Calicut International Airport. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao said that both domestic and international cargo operations are going to be in full swing in the coming days. Vegetables, fruits and medicines are being transported to Dubai and Muscat and other Gulf destinations. Several airline companies such as flydubai have started operating cargo services to the United Arab Emirates. SpiceJet is also operating domestic flights to Mumbai and Chennai as well, Mr. Rao said. The nationwide lockdown had abruptly grounded the operation of passenger flights at the airport from March 22. Freight from the airport had also remained suspended though the lockdown curbs were not applicable to cargo flights. However, Indigo and Air India conducted cargo services to Delhi and Mumbai till March 24. Five passenger aircraft have been parked at the airport. “We are fully prepared to operate any flight for medical relief or evacuation,” Mr. Rao said. Calicut airport, which is the seventh top international airport in the country, has an average monthly cargo movement of 2,360 tonne. Of this, 2,320 tonne is in the international sector. No passenger flights Meanwhile, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has said that all scheduled international commercial passenger flights will remain closed till May 3. However, this restriction will not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DCGA. During the lockdown period, the DGCA had given special permission to conduct cargo operations using passenger-category aircraft.
16 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A song for State’s COVID-19 warriors||From British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to the Italian resident from Pathanamathitta, who have been cured of COVID-19, are singing praises of the selfless work of the health professionals the world over. Playback singer G. Venugopal has done that literally with a song in praise of Kerala’s COVID-19 warriors, who are risking their lives on the front line of the battle against the disease. His musical tribute, which he tuned and sang (along with Gireesh Narayanan and Blessy Das), was released on Tuesday by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. It is written by G. Nishikanth. And it proved an unforgettable Vishu for the singer. He visited the Directorate of Health Services control room in Thiruvananthaupuram and interacted with the health officials. “What our health workers have been doing is truly remarkable and I felt I should make a song for them; I think Kerala has tackled the situation very well.” Venugopal told The Hindu . “As someone who has travelled widely, I feel more safe in Kerala in these tough times.” He said he was happy that he could spend some time inside the control room. “There were requests for my songs,” he said. “They wanted to hear my hits such as Chandana manivaathil... and N.N. Kakkad's poem Saphalamee Yatra; I was only glad to oblige.” Venugopal said the Minister was also fond of poetry. “So I rendered K. Ayyappa Paniker's Pookkath i rikkan Enikkavathille , which I thought was the most ideal poem for Vishu against the backdrop of the pandemic,” he said.
16 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two more discharged in Kozhikode||Two more natives of Kozhikode district recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday. They are from Nallalam and Kayakkodi, a release from District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said. Now, seven persons from Kozhikode and two from Kannur are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. Sixteen people from here and two each from Kannur and Kasaragod have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 so far here. Of them, nine from Kozhikode and two from Kasaragod have been discharged. Right now, 14,173 people are under surveillance, with 2,113 completing their observation cycle on Wednesday. Twenty-four people are under observation at the medical college hospital. Eleven persons were discharged.
16 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Cong. leader U.K. Bhasi dead||Senior Congress leader and former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary U.K. Bhasi, 75, died at a hospital at Kozhikode on Wednesday. The funeral took place at his residence at Tanur in the afternoon. He was Malappuram District Congress Committee president for over two decades. He played a vital role in the growth of the Congress in the district. He entered the Congress through its student wing Kerala Students Union. He was State vice president and Palakkad district president of the KSU. Mr. Bhasi was the founder of the Tanur Cooperative Urban Bank. He is survived by his wife and three children.
16 April 2020||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||3 more cured in Malappuram, 2 in Palakkad||Five more persons were cured of COVID-19 in Palakkad and Malappuram districts on Wednesday. When two patients left the District Hospital in Palakkad for their homes at Kavilpad and East Ottapalam, three are awaiting their turn to leave the Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri in Malappuram. The 85-year-old man from Kariyamad near Poonthanam in Keezhattur panchayat, 51-year-old man from Alinchuvadu, Tirur, and 48-year-old man from Valakkulam, Thennala, were confirmed cured on Wednesday. Health officials said that they would continue to be in observation for some more time. The number of people being put under observation in Malappuram district has come down considerably. On Wednesday, 17 persons were placed under quarantine. The district has a total 10,331 people in quarantine. Only 22 of them are under observation in different hospitals. The others are in self-quarantine at their homes. In Palakkad district, 13,128 people are under observation. As many as 33 of them are in District Hospital, Palakkad, three in Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, and four in Taluk Hospiital, Mannarkkad. District Collector D. Balamurali said that the condition of all patients and those under observation was stable. He said there was nothing to worry. But he advised enhanced vigil by the people in view of the extended lockdown.
16 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Vishu celebrated at Sabarimala sans gaiety||Vishu was celebrated at Sabarimala adhering to lockdown restrictions on Tuesday. Pilgrims were denied entry to Sabarimala against the backdrop of the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Ayyappa temple was opened on Monday afternoon for the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Medom. Melsanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri, assisted by other priests, arranged the Vishukkani inside the sanctum sanctorum on Monday night. The temple was opened for ‘Vishukkani’ darshan at 5 a.m. on Tuesday. Devaswom staff, priests, policemen, and other staff on duty at Sabarimala had Vishukkani darshan at the temple adhering to the lockdown restrictions. Only five persons were permitted to enter the temple sopanam for holy darshan and offering prayers. Tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu and the Melsanthi offered coins as Vishu-kaineettom to the staff on duty in the morning. The rituals began with the Tantri performing Ashtadrava Ganapati Homom in the morning. Only routine rituals Devaswom Executive Officer Rajendraprasad said only routine rituals would be performed at the Ayyappa temple and Malikappuram Devi Temple on all the five days during the monthly puja period. The temple would be closed after the Athazhapuja on Saturday evening, marking the culmination of the rituals in Medom.
16 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Call to release aid to Hindu religious teachers||The Kerala Hindumatha Padasala Adhyapaka Parishad (KHPAP), an organisation of Hindu religious teachers recognised by the Travancore Devaswom Board, has called upon the government to release immediate financial relief to Hindu religious teachers as in the case of religious teachers of other faiths. In a statement here on Wednesday, parishad president V.K. Rajagopal said the majority of these Hindu religious teachers was struggling to make ends meet ever since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown on March 24. The religious teachers, under the aegis of the Kerala Hindumatha Padasala Adhyapaka Parishad, had been rendering valuable service to society by imparting religious, spiritual, and social values to young minds over the past four decades. Urgent steps They were facing an acute financial crisis due to the curbs on devotees at temples owing to the lockdown, he said. Mr. Rajagopal called upon the Chief Minister and Devaswom Minister to take necessary steps to provide solace to the Hindu religious teachers without any further delay.
16 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new positive case in Pathanamthitta||No case of COVID-19 was reported from the district for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. A bulletin said 185 samples of people in quarantine tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Of the 2,718 samples so far sent from the district for clinical examination, only 17 had tested positive for the viral infection, District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said. The results of 412 samples were awaited, she said. A total of 15 persons, including six COVID-19 patients, were in isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Wednesday evening. Seven persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, six at the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, and two others at the General Hospital, Adoor.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State has highest recovery rate at 56%||Kerala has the highest COVID-19 patient recovery rate in the country at 56.33%, with 218 out of its 387 patients so far recovering from the disease. The State is making great progress in testing and will expand the facilities further, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said while briefing media here on Wednesday. For the past one week, the State has been registering more cases of recovery than new positive cases. On Wednesday, there was just one positive case, while the number of patients who recovered was seven. Lone case The lone positive case was from Kannur, who had contracted the disease through contact with an imported case. So far, the State has reported 387 cases, of which 167 are currently undergoing treatment. Of the 387 cases, 264 are persons who came from abroad or other States, eight are foreigners who contracted the disease and 114 are contacts of imported cases of infection. The number of cases reported by districts are as follows: Alappuzha 5, Ernakulam 21, Idukki 10, Kannur 80, Kasaragod 167, Kollam 9, Kottayam 3, Kozhikode 16, Malappuram 21, Palakkad 8, Pathanamthitta 17, Thiruvananthapuram 14, Thrissur 13 and Wayanad 3. The number of persons under surveillance has dwindled to 97,464, with 96,942 persons in home quarantine and 522 in isolation wards in hospitals. Kerala has so far tested 16,475 persons, of whom, 16,002 turned out to be negative. Kerala reported the country’s first three COVID-19 cases, all returnees from Wuhan in China, the epicentre of the deadly disease, but they are among those recovered. The death toll due to the disease remained at mere two in the State. Mr. Vijayan said disinfectant tunnels, which sanitised people by spraying a fine mist of sodium hypochlorite, were unscientific and that these should not be allowed to continue. He said solid waste management was once again becoming a patchy affair in the midst of the pandemic and that it should not be so. He appreciated the restraint shown by people in complying with the lockdown restrictions. He said the State had made special arrangements at 21 places in districts for cancer follow-up care in association with the Regional Cancer Centre, so that the immuno-compromised cancer patients are spared the hassles of travel. Tourists booked Meanwhile, 17 foreign tourists were booked for allegedly bathing in the sea off the famous Kovalam beach here in violation of the lockdown regulations on Wednesday, agencies report. Cases have also been registered against the owners and managers of five hotels where the tourists have been staying since March 22 due to the lockdown, the police said. The tourists who hailed from various countries, including the U.K., Canada and France, had taken bath in the sea on Tuesday despite the orders banning such activities.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||40 quarantine units identified in capital||The city Corporation has identified more than 40 quarantining facilities with a total capacity to accommodate around 20,000 people, to be used in case of emergency situations amid the COVID-19 outbreak. These include government buildings and hostels of schools and colleges. The civic body’s health inspectors have been going around, identifying buildings suited for the purpose in various wards. “The government had asked us to identify suitable buildings to be used in case of emergencies such as community spread. Two of these facilities should be suitable for turning into front-line COVID-19 care hospitals. The hostel of the Institute of Management in Government near Barton Hill and the training centre of the Agriculture Department at Manvila seem to be suited for this, because these fulfil the space requirements for a hall which can be converted as a general ward, bath-attached rooms, consulting rooms and nursing stations. Both these buildings have a capacity to accommodate 250 to 300 people each,” says a Corporation official. Hotels too A few hotels in the city have also been identified to be used as paid facilities, in case those returning from abroad post the lockdown raise demands to be accommodated in better facilities. A few of the facilities were already used by the Corporation for quarantining purposes during the initial COVID-19 breakout. These include the Samethi at Kadakampally, Youth Hostel and Women’s College Hostel. With those staying here returning to their houses after the stipulated period of stay, these have now been disinfected and handed back. “We have held talks with the owners of these facilities. When the need arises, we can take them over and set up the place within a day,” says the official.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Salary payment likely to be derailed in May||With revenue sources drying up and fiscal position turning precarious, disbursal of salary and treasury outgo for committed expenditure may get derailed in May. On borrowing Rs. 6,000 crore in the first week of April to meet its routine commitments and the additional funds needed for virus containment, the Reserve Bank of India is understood to have cautioned the State government against opting for borrowing substantial sums since the interest rate would surge beyond 9%. This has prompted the government to defer borrowings till there is a turnaround in the economy and the market conditions settle.  Since the Centre has refused to lift the cap on the annual borrowing limit, the government was forced to wait till April first week for floating bonds to source funds to meet its urgent needs. The revenue loss for April alone has been pegged at about Rs. 10,000 crore and it is likely to deepen further in the coming months. The political resistance put up by the Opposition United Democratic Front against the Salary Challenge mooted for employees and teachers, the alleged indifference of the Centre in heeding to the repeated requests for additional assistance to meet the exigency triggered by the virus outbreak and also releasing the Goods and Services Tax compensation and other arrears due to the State have all compounded the fiscal woes of the government. The Salary Challenge was mooted as a panacea to avert a salary cut which Telangana and Maharashtra had announced earlier, but the lukewarm response of the employees, even to donate a month’s salary in instalments, would push the government to go in for harsh decisions, including a pay cut. Austerity measures A slew of austerity measures are also on the anvil for reducing the administrative cost to the bare minimum. This involves containing splurge and reprioritisation of projects of local bodies and various departments, sources said. In spite of the resource crunch, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has directed to lift the treasury payment curbs on bills of local bodies from Friday. Curbs on payment of kerosene subsidy for fish workers, stipend for students, compensation up to Rs. 1 crore for land acquired by the government, medical reimbursement and payments from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund too will go from Friday.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||269 U.K. citizens evacuated||A total of 269 citizens of the United Kingdom who had been stranded in the State following the ban on international flights as part of the COVID-19 containment measures were evacuated on Wednesday night on a chartered flight of British Airways. Among them, 110, including three infants, boarded the flight from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. They were subjected to health check-ups before completing the other formalities. A team from the British Consulate in Chennai had reached the capital to assist the citizens. Deputy Director, Tourism, Marketing, Biju B.S. and Tourist Information Officers Ramesh T.P. and Sajeev K.R. helped them. In Kochi The flight left for the Cochin international airport from where 159 tourists, including two infants, stranded in the northern districts boarded it. The flight left for London at 9.30 p.m.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospital staff cook food for COVID-19 patients||Patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the General Hospital, Pathanamthitta, can taste homely food, thanks to the hospital employees, including the medical staff, who have made it part of their duty to prepare and serve food for the patients under their care and those under observation. Radiographers at the hospital have taken the initiative of wearing scrub suits, stitched at their own expenses, while on duty as part of infection-control measure. Under the food-for-patients programme, started under the aegis of the staff council, the hospital employees come out with well-filled plates three times a day, which is served to those in isolation or observation and medical personnel on duty at the COVID-19 wards. “Under the observation of the hospital dietician, we provide food to around 50 people, three times a day, through the kitchen Santhwanam,” said Sajan Mathew, Superintendent, General Hospital.  Non-veg dishes too M.C. Ajith Kumar, secretary, Staff Council, an optometrist at the hospital, said the items served to patients, as per their demand, included non-vegetarian dishes. “This is in addition to the supply of food from voluntary organisations and youth outfits,” he said. “During the lockdown, staff commuting from long distances also stay here. So, we also give food to them. We initially used to collect money from the employees for this initiative. But now we get aid from the Hospital Management Committee,” Mr. Ajith said. He said such a common kitchen was set up at the hospital to ensure uninterrupted food supply to patients in the event of an unexpected community spread of COVID-19. Around nine radiographers, who also work in isolation rooms to take portable X-rays, use crub suits apart from the regular overcoat to avoid possible chances of infection for themselves and others. The hospital has five COVID-19 positive cases as of April 15 and they are attended to by a team of doctors consisting of Sarath Thomas Roy, Jayasree and Nazlin.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIIST joins efforts for COVID-19 cure||The National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (CSIR-NIIST) at Pappanamcode here has begun work on developing new processes for producing certain drugs which could prove vital in the battle against COVID-19. NIIST scientists are working on developing the process chemistry of three drug molecules as part of a pan-CSIR activity to repurpose/develop drugs for COVID-19. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has selected 14 drugs which are under clinical trials for other diseases to see if they can be of use in the current crisis. “A specific cure for COVID-19 is yet to be found. We are part of a CSIR initiative which is looking at a clutch of drugs, which have been distributed among CSIR labs across the country. Research will take time, but it will be valuable for the long term,” NIIST Director Ajayaghosh A. said. Many drugs which are being repurposed are either approved for use against different ailments or are in clinical trials, an NIIST scientist said. “The idea is that if one of these drugs prove effective in fighting COVID-19 anywhere, India will be ready for its mass production,” the scientist said. The CSIR has pointed out in a communique to research institutes under it that ‘repositioning’ of launched or even failed drugs to viral diseases “provides unique translational opportunities, including a substantially higher probability of success to market as compared with developing new virus-specific drugs and vaccines, and a significantly reduced cost and timeline to clinical availability.” The NIIST is working on a number of other research areas as well as part of the CSIR mission against COVID-19. They include the development of antiviral materials and coatings for use in personal protection equipment and surfaces.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||129 more under surveillance||The district administration put 129 more persons under COVID-19 surveillance on Wednesday. This takes the total number of those under surveillance in the district to 2,539, including 2,407 in home quarantine. As many as 28 persons were admitted to hospitals with symptoms of the disease. Eighteen persons were discharged. As many as 106 people are under treatment in hospitals, including 17 in private hospitals. Fifty-six people were shifted to corona care centres. Of the 16 persons who tested positive for disease in the district since its outbreak, only two are under treatment at present. Sixty-six samples were sent for testing. Results of 119 samples returned negative, while 86 results are awaited. The Collectorate control room received 152 calls, while the Disha call centre got 135 calls regarding COVID-19. Vehicle inspections were held at Amaravila, Kozhivila, and Inchivila among other places, and 8,412 people were screened. Health workers visited 2,223 houses as part of field-level surveillance.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pineapple Challenge to help sell nearly 300 tonnes||The Anad agriculture office in association with the marketing cell of the Agriculture Department has launched the Pineapple Challenge to help sell 300 tonnes of pineapple grown by a farmer, Benny, on 25 acres of leased land in Anad grama panchayat. Though the harvest was set to begin last week, it was deferred due to marketing challenges in the lockdown period. However, with the lockdown extended till May 3, the pineapple crop could not be left unharvested any more. As part of the department’s Jeevani Sanjeevani project, the coordinators of the marketing cell have been trying to get produce in one area transported to the other so that it can be assured of a market, says S. Jayakumar, district coordinator of the cell. Some pineapple has been sold through farmers’ markets under the Anad Amritham Bhakshyakalavara initiative. Only eight tonnes of pineapple could be sold so far. Hence, the Pineapple Challenge and attractive offers are in store. Six kg of pineapple can be bought for Rs. 100. If it is second quality pineapple, 8 kg can be purchased for the same amount. One gets six pineapples free on purchase of 100 kg of pineapple.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Music from the space to overcome lockdown blues||Think Indian space programme, think rockets and satellites and adventures to Moon, Mars and beyond. Right? In these trying times, it can also be about electric guitars, saxophones and songs that motivate. Literally ‘home-bound’ by the pandemic, a clutch of scientists at Indian Space Reseach Organisation’s Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) here at Thumba have brought out a music video meant to inspire and motivate people to overcome lockdown blues.  We Will Come Back , a two-minute, multilingual piece by the Rock@Band group of the VSSC and produced under the banner of the Space Engineers’ Association (SEA), was released on social media platforms on Tuesday night. What is intriguing about the short, lilting piece is that the 15 band members who collaborated for its creation worked independently from their homes. Given the COVID-19 scenario, ISRO units in Thiruvananthapuram had switched to work-from-home option on March 23. Independent recording Vocals and instrumentals were independently recorded and then put together, said Shiju G. Thomas, who co-authored the lyrics and music with his scientist colleague K.R. Madhavi. And staying true to the ISRO spirit of national integration, We Will Come Back features multiple languages – English, Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil, and Telugu. “We have done it as well as we can, given the circumstances. Some of the recordings were done on mobile phones, for instance. The piece is meant to convey the message that we all will indeed overcome the crisis,” said Mr. Thomas, who in his main avatar is a scientist/engineer with the Aerospace Mechanisms Group at the VSSC.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to act tough against violations||The City police have tightened vigil here in view of the decision to extend the COVID-19 lockdown till May 3. On Wednesday, the police registered cases against 143 people and seized 125 vehicles for violation of lockdown rules, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Cases were registered under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 against 120 persons. Twenty-three persons were booked for unnecessary travel, he said. Case against tourists At tourism hub Kovalam, the police registered cases against five hotels and 17 foreign nationals. The latter had violated lockdown norms and bathed in the sea. The police would initiate stern action against people who stepped out without valid reasons. Action would be taken against people who used passes other than the ones issued by the District Collector and the District Police Chief, he said. People who had been issued passes for carrying out essential services, such as home delivery of food and medicines, should get their passes renewed at the Commissioner’s Office, he said.
16 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Services via help desk||City residents, who are unable to access the city Corporation’s services due to the lockdown, can now get things done online and through the help desk. All urgent services provided through the civic body will be available through the help desk. Mayor K. Sreekumar will be available on call at the help desk next Monday and Wednesday from 11 a.m to 12 noon. The help desk will be functional from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Contact numbers: 94964 34409, 94964 34410. The services can also be accessed through www.covid19tvm.com.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala challenges State on deal||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday endeavoured to pick holes in the stance of the government. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and IT secretary M. Shivsankar had clandestinely bypassed other departments and contracted a US-based data analysis firm, Sprinklr, purportedly to help the government interpret epidemiological trends. Sprinklr supplied a mobile phone application to input personal health information of citizens and cloud server support to amass, store and crunch the data. Mr Chennithala said The law and finance departments were not consulted. The Cabinet was kept in the dark. The contract was awarded surreptitiously to evade legislative oversight.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bringing out the truth||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Deserted||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relief, finally||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Food for thought||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Chandy seeks steps to bring back expatriates||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has urged the State government to exert pressure on the Centre to review its stand on bringing back Indian expatriates stranded in Gulf countries. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Chandy said the government could press for a phased programme. He also stressed the need to set up camps near airports to quarantine the expatriates. Mr. Chandy also urged the Chief Minister to implement the Rs. 20,000-crore economic revival package announced by the government.
16 April 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown grounds Maoists in forests||The lockdown seems to have impacted Maoists too. A group of extremists is reported to be stranded in the forests of erstwhile composite Adilabad district, not able to return to their neighbouring Maharashtra thanks to the increased vigil on the inter-state borders owing to containment operations for COVID-19. According to information that The Hindu pieced together, the Communist Party of India (Maoist) at Gadchiroli in Maharashtra and beyond in the Dandakaranya region is in the throes of a churning as local cadres and leaders are opposing the hegemony of the seniors hailing from Telangana. Under pressure to prove the banned organisation’s existence in their own backyard, north Telangana region, the ageing leadership sent an estimated nine to 12 armed cadres into old united Adilabad via the familiar Pranahita crossing points. Police in Kumram Bheem Asifabad and Mancherial districts had sounded an alert through a press release as early as March 13 when the concept of lockdown was unheard of. The naxalites apparently moved into the forests of Tiryani, Kawal, Kadem-Khanapur and Sirikonda, since then without perhaps realising that the situation outside the jungles had changed drastically. Sources say, the Maoist campaigner in his mid fifties, Mylarapu Adellu alias Bhaskar, hailing from old Adilabad district, had led the group of naxalites into this and left soon enough leaving them to revive old contacts. This group, nevertheless, failed to impress the villagers living deep inside the forests, sources added. According to information, the extremists have come with an intention of recruiting youth, especially aboriginal people into their ranks. There are no consequent reports of the Maoists having succeeded in their task. On the contrary, the armed outlaws are finding it difficult to enter the tribal habitations seeking food and shelter as entrances to villages have been sealed. At best, they are accosting goatherds or the farmers who are in the fields protecting their crops during the day. “We are going ahead with our regular area domination operations in forests,” asserted Adilabad SP Vishnu S. Warrier, also the in-charge SP of KB Asifabad. It means that vigil on borders will also not be relaxed in the near future, lockdown or no lockdown, a police officer said.
16 April 2020||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindupur turning into another hotspot||Hindupur in Anantapur district is turning into another hotspot of positive COVID-19 cases and containment activities are in full swing, though no new cases were reported on Wednesday. While Kurnool recorded 22 new cases taking the total to 115, Anantapur did not get any new positive case and the number stood at 21. Sudden scare There was a sudden scare among people when about 120 persons on Wednesday emerged from a masjid in Mukkadipeta in Hindupur town’s red zone. Ward volunteers were in for a shock when they did not allow them to take their details, despite being a red zone. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and COVID-19 Special officer Vijayanand told mediapersons that 70 of them were convinced to come to a quarantine home and give their samples for testing and the remaining 50 were also being persuaded to come to the quarantine facility. They are from Tablighi Jamaat and had come from Gujarat and Delhi in the last week of February and first week of March and were staying there since then. Five new cases Kurnool recorded five new positive cases, all from district headquarters city. While there were two COVID-19 deaths, one patient was discharged from hospital on Tuesday after he turned normal. Video conference Central Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gouba on Wednesday held a video conference with select districts with a large number of positive cases, at which District Collector G. Veerapandian and SP Fakkerappa Kaginelli explained about the containment measures being taken. Samples collected In Anantapur district cumulatively 1,763 samples were collected and of them 1,228 results were received with 1,207 being negative and results of 535 samples were awaited. In all, 21 persons tested positive and two persons died. While 19 others were getting treated at the COVID-19 Hospital at KIMS Saveera, the first two positive patients from Hindupur, a 34-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy could be discharged on Thursday if their second sample test also comes negative. Out of the 21 positive cases in Anantapur district, nine were reported from Hindupur, followed by seven in Anantapur city, two in Hindupur Rural mandal, one each in Lepakshi, Kalyandurg and Kothacheruvu mandals, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said and wanted the volunteers and ANMs to immediately trace all the contacts of people testing positive so that they could also be quarantined and tested for COVID status.
16 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Re-entry blues for Kanigiri MLA||YSRC MLA (Kanigiri) B. Madhusudan Yadav’s faced embarrassing moments on Wednesday when the police stopped a fleet of about half a dozen vehicles in which 40 persons, including he and his family members were travelling, at the Cheekalabailu inter-State border checkpost near Madanapalle. The MLA was returning to Kanigiri in Prakasam district from Bengaluru. According to information, the police objected to the MLA re-entering the State citing the restrictions imposed in view of the lockdown. Mr. Yadav then went to the rural police station at Madanapalle to seek clearance for his entourage. On information, Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari reached the spot, and had prolonged discussions with the MLA, asking him to follow the guidelines. Later, the MLA and four of his family members were allowed to cross the border, while he others, mostly his relatives and followers, were sent back to Karnataka. ‘No info on visit’ “We had no information about the MLA going to Bengaluru. After discussions with higher officials, the MLA and his family members alone were allowed to proceed to Kanigiri,” the Deputy SP said.
16 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of spreading rumours against Kanipakam temple||The district police have arrested a man from Siddipet in Telangana on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity among different communities, and issuing statements amounting to public mischief. He is accused of spreading rumours against the devasthanam of Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swami Temple at Kanipakam near Chittoor. Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy said the accused, M. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, had used his social media platforms such as the Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp to spread rumours that the devasthanam, administered by the Endowments Department, had been converted into a COVID-19 quarantine facility to accommodate a section of the minorities. He further accused the temple authorities of hurting the sentiments of the devotees. The objectionable posts had been made during the first phase of the lockdown after the district administration used a guest house of the devasthanam located at Kanipakam to set up a quarantine facility. Temple clarification Reacting to the posts, the temple authorities had issued a clarification stating that it was not the devasthanam, but only a guest house that was converted into a quarantine facility. In spite of the clarification, the accused allegedly stepped up the vilification campaign, forcing the devasthanam Executive Officer to approach Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and lodge a complaint against the accused. Acting upon Mr. Kumar’s instructions, the Chittoor police registered a criminal case and zeroed in on the accused. Sent to remand A special party arrested him in Telangana on Tuesday and brought him to Chittoor on Wednesday. After producing him in the designated court here, he was shifted to the sub-jail on remand. “Apart from various IPC sections, we have also invoked the AP Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, against the accused,” Mr. Eeshwar Reddy said.
16 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman killed in accident||A 32-year-old woman was killed on the spot, while her two-month-old child and four others were injured when the vehicle in which they were travelling overturned near Ontillu village of Piler mandal on Wednesday. According to the police, Anjali, who was sick, and her child, along with relatives from Kunatala village of Lakkireddipalle mandal of Kadapa district, was her way to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati, when the accident occurred. The area police rushed to the spot on information from the locals, and shifted the injured to the Piler hospital. Case registered As the condition of the infant was worrisome, it was shifted to SVRR Hospital. A case was registered.
16 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai urges DGP to probe veracity of former SEC’s letter||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has urged Director General of Police Gautam Sawang to probe the veracity of the letter purportedly written by former State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar to Union Home Secretary on March 18. In a letter to the DGP on Wednesday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy contended that the letter purportedly written by Mr. Kumar was fabricated. Mr. Vijaya Sai’s letter comes in the backdrop of a raging controversy over the decisions of the government to reduce the tenure of the SEC and bring in an ordinance to change the eligibility criteria for the post from Principal Secretary to retired judges of the High Court. In his latter, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy also contended that the contents of the letter could have been drafted by TDP leaders Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar, T.D. Janardhan and Varla Ramaiah. Kanakamedala threatens legal action Staff Reporter in Vijayawada writes: In a swift reaction to Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s letter to the DGP, Mr. Ravindra Kumar said that he would take legal action against the YSRCP leader if he did not withdraw the complaint. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Ravindra Kumar said he had neither drafted the letter nor was the Telugu Desam Party involved in it as was being alleged by Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The YSRCP leader had no evidence in support of his allegations. There were contrasting allegations in the complaint, the TDP leaader observed. “The complaint is motivated, ill-intentioned and an offence under Indian Penal Code (IPC). I will proceed legally against him if he does not withdraw the complaint. Civil and criminal action will be initiated against him,” Mr. Ravindra Kumar said.
16 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get complete medical history of those tested positive: special officer||B. Rajasekhar, Special Officer and Secretary, Department of School Education, has asked the medical personnel to get the complete medical history of those who had tested positive for COVID-19 saying that this will help prevent the spread of the virus. Addressing a review meeting here on Wednesday, Mr. Rajasekhar said that there was a high chance of virus contact in the age group of 20-50 years and asked the young men and women to stay safe at their homes.  'Testing speeded up' He also said that the scale of testing was speeded up and on Wednesday, 1,239 tests were conducted at Guntur Medical College virology lab. The senior officer directed the district administration to stick to the protocol of quarantine for 28 days divided into two spells of 14 days each. Meanwhile, the district recorded eight new cases on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases to 116 in the district. So far, 3,387 samples were tested out of which 1,632 turned to be negative. While 340 persons are in home quarantine, 1,666 are in quarantine facilities at 23 centres. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that facilities at quarantine centres were good and asked the family members of those who have been shifted to isolation centres to feel safe.
16 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpline launched for those trolled, bullied||The lockdown has not kept sports stars and tinsel world heroes idle. You can find world champion in shuttle badminton P.V. Sindhu, actors Nikhil Siddarth and Adivi Sesh, and woman activist Prabhavathi join hands for a cause, that too in the virtual space? Wednesday saw an interesting spectacle unfold on the premises of the A.P. Police Headquarters, where they came together online to take part in the launch of a helpline in these times of fake news flooding the cyber space. The brain child of DGP D. Gautam Sawang, the WhatsApp helpline was aimed at providing relief to those being bullied and abused on the social media, or being involved in the circulation of fake news. Additional Director of Police, Crime Investigative Department, P.V. Sunil Kumar, said anyone who was being subjected to trolling and derogatory remarks could now key in their complaint on WhatsApp to 9071666667. The details of the complainant would be kept confidential and a dedicated team would track down the IP address of the social media post and take action. “The AP Police will hunt down any one who thinks he can post a derogatory comment and get away with it,” said Mr. Sunil Kumar saying that the facility was an addition to the existing laws such as Section 66 of the IT Act and other IPC sections under which the guilty could be punished. Launching the facility, the DGP said that the AP Police had been in the forefront of using technology and added that personal dignity of all individuals was at stake due to intensive trolling.
16 April 2020||Hyderabad/Bengaluru/Thiruvanathapuram/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: Kerala could be on path to recovery||Two COVID-19 deaths each in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and a modest number of cases reported in the southern States stood in contrast to an improved situation in Kerala on Wednesday. The pandemic gave Andhra Pradesh more worry as 23 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the total to 525 including 491 active cases. The death toll was 14, a bulletin from the Health Department said. With 122 cases, Guntur district was at the top followed by Kurnool with 110. Nine districts had less than 60 cases while Srikakulam and Vizianagaram had no case. In Telangana the total stood at 650, of which 514 were active, 118 had been discharged and the death toll was 18. Kerala improves Kerala highlighted its high recovery rate, with 218 out of 387 patients so far recovering from the disease. The State was progressing with COVID-19 testing and would expand facilities further, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media. In one week, the State had registered more cases of recovery than new positives. On Wednesday too, there was just one case of COVID-19, while the number of recoveries were seven. The lone positive case was from Kannur, a contact of an imported case. So far, the State has reported 387 cases, of which 167 were under treatment. Kerala had tested 16,475 persons of whom, 16,002 were negative.  Fatal Karnataka cases Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karnataka on the third consecutive day on Wednesday, taking the toll to 12. A 65-year-old male patient, from Chikkaballapur, who was referred from a private hospital in Bengaluru to Victoria Hospital died early on Wednesday, while an 80-year-old female patient, of Hirebagewadi in Belagavi, died in hospital there. The former had tested positive for H1N1 and had Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and sleep apnea. Wednesday also saw 19 new cases, the highest so far on a single day, taking the total number of cases to 279.  38 new cases in T.N. Two men died in Tamil Nadu, and the State recorded 38 new cases, 34 from a single source. On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu recorded 38 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total tally to 1,242. Two patients - aged 47 and 59 years - died in the State, while 37 more patients were discharged after treatment. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said a post-graduate doctor was among the 38 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19. Of the remaining, 34 patients were connected to the single source event, while three had contact history. A 47-year-old man was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). His sample was among 60 samples lifted from patients hospitalised with SARI, and returned positive for COVID-19. He died on Wednesday. Another patient, a 59-year-old man, admitted to a private hospital also died. He was in a critical condition in the intensive care unit and died at 2.45 p.m., the Minister said. With this, the State has reported a total of 14 deaths. So far, a total of 118 patients had been discharged, he said. Nine patients were sick. A total of 1,876 persons were admitted to isolation facilities in hospitals.
16 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials rush to Yerraguntla, ask residents to be cautious||Yerraguntla, a tiny town in Jammalamadugu constituency in the district, grabbed attention for wrong reason as a COVID-19 positive case emerged on Tuesday. MLA M. Sudheer Reddy, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan rushed to the town on Wednesday and asked residents of the Yeruvaka Gangamma temple area on Muddanur Road, where the positive case was found, not to get disheartened. Interacting with the residents, the officials suggested them to take symptoms such as fever, running nose and difficulty in breathing seriously. The ward volunteers had already been pressed into service to conduct a door-to-door survey. Details of the affected person’s primary and secondary contacts were being gathered. Mr. Hari Kiran ordered the spraying of sodium hypochloride all over the town and sprinkling of bleaching powder along the roadsides immediately. He further directed that the throat swab samples of the ANMs, sanitary workers and ward volunteers be also taken. Social distancing He attributed the virus spread to people who returned to the district from various places, and stressed the need for maintaining social distancing and home quarantine. He also hinted at providing essential commodities to the residents at their doorstep in the containment zone.
16 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remunerative price for shrimp in East Godavari||East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday said that nodal officers have been appointed in all the shrimp processing firms to monitor implementation of the remunerative price until lockdown is lifted. According to a decision taken by the district authorities recently, the shrimp processing units require to offer remunerative price for the shrimp being bought from farmers. The processing firms must also buy the shrimp produce that is recommended by the nodal officer, the Collector said. “The district administration is preparing to initiate stringent action against those who do not offer remunerative price and those who fail to purchase shrimp to their fullest storage capacity,” Mr. Muralidhar told reporters.
16 April 2020||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Absconding teacher held in POCSO case||The police on Wednesday arrested a schoolteacher from Vilakkottur in the district on the charge of sexually abusing a minor student. K. Padmarajan, alias Pappan, who is also a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader, has been absconding after a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was filed against him on the charge of sexually abusing a Class IV student of a school at Palathayi. ChildLine complaint The police booked the teacher on a report of the ChildLine and a complaint filed by the child’s relatives on March 18. He had been charged under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (F) (1) (repeated rape) and Section 5(F) read with (1)(3) and Section 6 of POCSO Act. He was arrested from the house of a BJP worker at Vilakkottur in Thripangottur panchayat on Wednesday. Soon after a case was registered against him, Chairman of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights P. Suresh took a suo motu case and directed the District Collector, District Superintendent of Police, District Child Protection Officer, District Director of Education, and the State Police Chief to submit a report in the case immediately. The police had initially said there were contradictions in the child’s statement which they needed to verify. The police, who were enforcing the lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, came under criticism for the delay in arresting the accused. CPI(M) demand Meanwhile, Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan in a release here on Wednesday, highlighted a letter written to the Chief Minister and State Police Chief Loknath Behera demanding the arrest of the accused. “The police should have arrested him soon after the child gave her statement before the magistrate and based on medical reports,” Mr. Jayarajan said. However, there was a delay, he said adding that an inquiry should be conducted into lapse, if any, in the police investigation. The police arrested Youth Congress workers who staged a protest before the District Police Chief office on Wednesday demanding the arrest of the teacher.  Padmarajan has been charged under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (F) (1) (repeated rape) and Section 5(F) read with (1)(3) and Section 6 of POCSO Act.
16 April 2020||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good Samaritans deliver medicines in remote villages||A team of youth is rendering invaluable service by supplying medicines during the lockdown to several patients in villages on the foot of the Western Ghats in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada. Villages like Kollamogaru, Kalmakaru, Balugodu, Harihara, Katta, Kallaje and Ainekidu are located in remote areas at the foot of the ghats bordering Kodagu. The lockdown denied access to medicines for many patients in these villages from places like Mangaluru, which is about 125 km away. The youth — Udaya Koppadkka, Udaya Shivala, Jayaprakash Kajjodi and Chalan Koppadkka — from the villages have been shuttling between Mangaluru, Puttur, Sullia and the villages over the past 10 days supplying medicines to the needy. Sharing the costs “We share the transportation cost among ourselves and collect only the money for medicines from the patients,” Mr. Udaya Shivala told The Hindu . “In some cases, we don’t collect even that from poor patients,” Mr. Udaya Koppadkka, who is a member of Sullia Taluk Panchayat from the Madappady constituency, said. “We use our own vehicles to transport the medicines,” Mr. Koppadkka said. Mr. Shivala said he realised the difficulty in procuring medicines when his father needed some during the lockdown.  Mr. Koppadkka was moved when an 80-year-old neighbour requested him to get her medicines. They realised the seriousness of the matter and circulated their phone numbers in the villages, announcing their intention to purchase medicines and distribute them. “We have been getting 20 to 25 requests a day on WhatsApp,” Mr. Koppadkka said. Sullia Tahsildar, MLA, and the police permitted them to go around during the lockdown. In Balanja village in Belthangady taluk, Padmanabha Kulal, who is part of an ambulance service, has also been collecting prescriptions in his village and neighbouring areas and supplying medicines from Mangaluru. He too collects only the actual bill amount. “I got 30 requests on Tuesday,” he told The Hindu. He says he goes once a week to Mangaluru.
16 April 2020||MAREDUMILLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Banana farmers come to rescue of monkeys||In a novel gesture, banana growers of Vadapalem village in Kothapeta mandal of East Godavari district have decided to feed a major portion of their produce to monkeys in the forest-fringe areas in the Rampa Agency. Lockdown blues Hundreds of monkeys in the Rampa Agency are facing scarcity of feed owing to the lockdown. The animals, otherwise, gather their feed from the local shandies, small markets, and the offerings made by the locals at temples. With all the shandies, markets and temples being closed now, the Vadapalem villagers have decided to come the rescue of the monkeys. “Five days ago, the farmers in our village have harvested banana. We have decided to feed the entire harvest from 600 plants to monkeys,” says Moka Chiru, who have started the initiative. The bananas were ripened for four days in the village and transported to the Rampa Agency on Wednesday. Volunteers roped in A team of 12 volunteers have started dropping the bananas along the stretch from Korukonda, Maderumilli, Ramapachodavaram to Chintooru, explains Mr. Moka Chiru who have arranged vehicle to transport the fruits. Some villagers fed the monkeys sighted in the Papikonda National Park area during the journey on Wednesday. Pedapudi Srinivas has donated the harvest of 200 plants for the cause, while Gangadhar and Sateesh have arranged vehicles for the distribution of the fruits. “We often feed the monkeys during our journey to the Rampa Agency. So, we have decided to feed them during the lockdown,” adds Mr. Moka Chiru. Supported by the other residents in the village, the volunteers are dropped bananas in the locations in the Agency, where monkeys are usually sighted.
16 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police personnel on COVID duties to get special diet pay||DGP D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday said that personnel who were on COVID-19 duties would get special diet pay. Thousands of personnel were on emergency duties to implement the lockdown and with the Centre extending it till May 3, they have to be on the vigil for 18 more days, Mr. Sawang said. “Our men are performing their duties braving the hot weather. We are planning to give nutritious diet and energy drinks to protect them from sunstroke,” he said. The DGP thanked all those who did their bit by extending financial aid. “I request the personnel to take care of their family members, who are extending all cooperation to them.I salute them all,” the State police chief said.  Helpline launched Mr. Sawang said a medical helpline (Manavata Helpline) was launched to help the families of the personnel. He thanked the government for extending all cooperation to the police. Police family members can dial mobile numbers .9966673480 (or) 9966673111. Besides, family welfare help desks have been opened in all districts. To contact the help desks, police families may use the ‘Dial 100’ service or contact the Special Branch Inspector of the district concerned, said OSD (Police Welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna. “Family members can use the helpline in case of any health emergency,” DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju said. Mr. Sawang said instructions had been given to all private hospitals, clinics and Rural Medical Practitioners (RMPs) not to treat persons with coronavirus symptoms, and refer such cases to COVID-19 hospitals. “All private doctors should refer such patients to the COVID-19 designated hospitals. Public can also dial 104 in emergency for treatment or to pass information on suspected patients,” the DGP said.
16 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No public movement, says Collector||Amidst speculations that the lockdown restrictions may be eased after April 20 in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram, the district authorities have cleared the air stating that public movement would not be allowed despite relaxations. The districts are two among the 350 districts which were not affected by COVID-19 pandemic. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas told The Hindu that the relaxations would be confined to industries which involved processing of essential commodities. “We will not allow any vehicular movement and gathering of people at any cost. However, the workers will be allowed to take up irrigation and agriculture works,” said Mr. Nivas. Even if a few industries in Pydibhimavaram and Rajam are permitted to resume their production from April 20, getting raw material will be a daunting task for them. “Raw material has to come from Hyderabad and other places. The government has to look into the issue and ensure smooth operation of the packaging industries in Srikakulam district,” said S.S. Gupta, proprietor of Saraswati Packaging Industry at Rajam. Many jute and sugar industries are permitted to operate in Vizianagaram but manpower has become a major concern.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM dismisses charges on Sprinklr deal||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday dismissed the Congress-led Opposition’s charges of corruption against the government’s deal with U.S.-based firm Sprinklr to collate and analyse the health data collected by field workers from nearly 1.75 lakh persons under surveillance for COVID-19 symptoms. Mr. Vijayan said the dire epidemic situation had constrained the government to harness the latest IT solution to swiftly analyse health data. Sprinklr, headed by non-resident Keralite Ragi Thomas, had offered to provide its services free from March to September. The government has a proprietary right to the personal medical information volunteered by the citizens. It had ensured the confidentiality of the data even as it contracted the firm, the Chief Minister said. The government had tasked CDIT with creating a cloud environment to store the data and procure the latest tools to crunch the information. Servers in the country would store the data. The government would keep the public informed about its use, he said. Mr. Vijayan said certain “devious minds” were attempting to delude the public by alleging that the government had opened the door for the U.S.-firm to sell the data at a massive profit to players in the private pharmaceutical and private health care sector. He clarified that Sprinklr was not a blacklisted firm. It was fighting charges of data theft in a U.S. court. Such cases were usual for firms like Sprinklr. Even Google and Microsoft faced such litigations.
16 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A posh pilgrim complex turns into ‘star-rated’ quarantine facility||Though in normal times it is a pilgrim accomodation complex, Padmavathi Nilayam here has metamorphosed into a ‘star-rated’ quarantine facility for people suspected to have contracted COVID-19 today. Within a fortnight of its transfer from the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to the AP Tourism management for operations, the mammoth complex with 200 rooms and 400 beds was converted into a quarantine centre on March 23. While positive cases are shifted to hospital, their primary and secondary contacts are moved here. Location Though quarantine centres are made mandatory for every constituency, this building, in view of its location in Tirupati and technically falling under Chandragiri, continues to house people from both the contiguous constituencies. In fact, people from Srikalahasti and Nagari are also found in large numbers here. Initially, very few foreign returnees, persons with travel history and those identified in door-to-door survey were brought, the numbers surged after March 29, when Delhi returnees, their primary and secondary contacts and even co-passengers tumbled in large numbers. The centre operates under the supervision of Collector Bharat Narayan Gupta. Apart from roping in donors, TUDA Chairman and local MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy made profuse allocations from TUDA and his constituency funds. The presence of a catering agency, which the AP Tourism had already engaged for its operations, apparently came as a blessing in disguise for this complex, as similar centres elsewhere are depending on contract workers, who are unable to meet people’s expectations.  “We have formed a WhatsApp group wherein the boarders can type their requirement, which will be delivered in minutes”, TUDA Secretary and the centre’s in-charge S. Lakshmi told The Hindu . When a person leaves at the end of his/her quarantine period, sanitary workers in protective gear immediately disinfect the room, bed and change the linen, exhibiting preparedness for the next arriving suspect. Notwithstanding the morale-sapping extension of lockdown, the medical, sanitary, engineering and catering staff continue to render service tirelessly.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to double its testing capacity to 4,000 per day||The Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala on Wednesday announced measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 and provide relief to people in view of the Centre’s fresh directives on extension of lockdown. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to conduct tests on 32,000 people who had been identified in the recent door-to-door survey. The State government has decided to double the COVID-19 testing capacity to 4,000 per day. As of now, more than 2,100 tests are being conducted per day. To increase the capacity, TrueNat TB testing equipment will be used. Seeking details of the facilities at the quarantine centres, he directed the officials to provide Rs. 2,000 as financial assistance to the poor being discharged from them. “Also, circulate the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed at the quarantine centres and ensure that medical safety equipment is supplied to the frontline workers and emergency staff,” the Chief Minister said. The officials told Mr. Reddy that Rs. 500 was being spent on every person for their food, bed and blanket, Rs. 50 for sanitation, and Rs. 300 on transportation. “A double room or a single room is being provided to the patients at the quarantine centre. Those discharged are being sent home after following the medical protocol,” they said. ‘Monitor prices’ Referring to horticulture, the Chief Minister said that priority should be given to marketing banana and watermelon and monitoring edible oil prices. All measures should be taken to ensure the safety of the farmers. Officials should also monitor the prices of essential goods, he said. In Hyderabad, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the State government is prepared to conduct COVID-19 tests for any number of people and extend treatment to the affected persons. Chief Minister held a review meeting at Pragati Bhavan here on Wednesday on the measures being taken to curb the spread of COVID-19. “So far, 259 containment zones were created in the State based on the number of people affected by the coronavirus and were being monitored strictly. Serious efforts are being made to prevent the spread of COVID-19. An adequate number of test kits are ready to conduct tests for any number of people to confirm positive cases,” he said. Mr. Rao also made it clear that the lockdown would continue in the State in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union government. He said the government has taken many steps to ensure that no one suffered from hunger during the lockdown period. Cash incentives have been announced to those who deserved it. The goverment has credited Rs. 1,500 into the account of every poor household while a scheme taken up to distribute 12 kg of rice to each member was almost complete. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa discussed with his Cabinet colleagues issues related to management of supply chain in the farm sector, problems faced by farmers, rural daily wagers and migrants during the second phase of the lockdown. Mr. Yediyurappa has constituted three ministerial teams for speedy containment of COVID-19 to help the people affected by the disease, and ensure continuation of essential services. ‘Central aid needed’ In Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Cabinet would on Thursday consider various options to ease the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in low-risk localities in a staggered manner. Mr. Vijayan expressed concern that the Centre had not announced its relief package for States. “Let us hope it is in the offing”, he said. The threat of the epidemic persisted. The State could not afford the virulence to outpace its health infrastructure, he said.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. not releasing COVID-19 Central relief funds: Yanamala||Senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has accused the State government of not releasing the COVID-19 relief funds given to the State by the Centre. The government has asked the treasuries not to release funds to pay salaries and take up relief measures, he has alleged. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, said the government orders were inhuman. It was condemnable that the government was not releasing funds to procure masks, kits, PPEs to the doctors and staff on sanitation duty. By holding the funds, the government was risking the lives of the paramedics, doctors and frontline warriors, he alleged. The Central government had released funds towards devolutions, grants, COVID-19 relief and 14th Finance Commission. All these funds were withheld at the level of the treasuries without supporting public health, sanitation and virus preventive works, resulting in serious problems for doctors, paramedical staff and different sections of society, he alleged. The government failed to provide essential commodities to the poor families. Alleging that no help was being given to migrant labourers, Mr. Ramakrishnudu deplored that the YSRCP leaders were not showing any interest to bring back the Telugus stranded in other States. Thousands of people who were stuck in other places were going without food, but the government was least bothered to help them, he alleged. HC ruling hailed Referring to High Court striking down GOs relating to English medium, he said, “We welcome the judgment on the government’s decision to convert all government schools into English medium schools.”
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools conducting exams face action||School Education Commissioner Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu has asked the Regional Joint Directors of School Education and District Education Officers to take stringent action against the schools which are conducting examinations, in violation of the lockdown orders. Earlier, the Department of School Education had asked schools to promote the students of classes VI to IX to next class without conducting examinations, in view of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus. ‘Violating guidelines’ However, many managements of private unaided schools have been found to be conducting their annual examinations online, in violation of the guideline, said Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu. He instructed the officials to identify such schools and take strict actions against the managements.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decentralisation of rythu bazaars helped in smooth supply of essentials||Decentralisation of rythu bazaars during the lockdown has resulted in the availability of adequate quantities of essential commodities, with their number going up from 100 to 471. This has helped farmers in realising fair prices for their produce and the move prevented distress sales. Besides, it made social distancing easy for the public, according to an official release.  Apart fr m the temporary rythu bazaars, 451 APSRTC buses have been converted into mobile rythu bazaars selling a wide range of products straight from the farm. With this, essential commodities could be supplied even in remote areas. Check on prices In a bid to monitor prices, a data collecting system has been put in place. Price variations are tracked and those fleecing the customers were duly punished. Moreover, the Agriculture Marketing Department has ramped up it’s door delivery services. The process of on-boarding logistical partners is under way and an app is to be launched soon.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JEE (Main): time extended for corrections||The National Testing Agency (NTA) has extended the last date to May 3 for carrying out corrections in the online application forms submitted by the aspirants of the JEE (Main)-2020. In a statement, NTA Director General Vineet Joshi said that the aspirants could make corrections in the choice of cities for the examination centre. “The decision was taken in response to the requests made by students and their parents. The corrections can be made on the website jeemain.nta.nic.in.,” said Mr. Joshi, adding that the corrections made in the particulars would be accepted till 5 p.m. and submission of fee till 11.50 p.m. on May 3. The aspirants and their parents should keep visiting jeemain.nta.nic.in andwww.nta.ac.infor the latest updates.For further clarifications, the aspirants can dial the phone numbers 8700028512, 8178359845, 9650173668, 9599676953 or 8882356803.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE extends last date||In view of the lockdown extension till May 3 and to facilitate the students appearing for various Common Entrance Tests (CETs) in the State, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education has decided to extend the last date for submission of online application without late fee for all CETs till May 7 (Thursday). In a statement on Wednesday, council’s Special Officer (CETs) M. Sudhir Reddy said students can pay the fee and submit online applications without late fee on or before May 7 for all CETs including Andhra Pradesh Engineering Agriculture Medicine Common Entrance Test, Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test, Andhra Pradesh Integrated Common Entrance Test, Andhra Pradesh Post-Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test, Andhra Pradesh Law Common Entrance Test, Andhra Pradesh Education Common Entrance Test and Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Common Entrance Test.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women SHGs donate Rs. 1 cr. to CMRF||The women Self Help Groups (SHGs) under the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) have donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. MEPMA Director G.S. Naveen Kumar, Additional Director K. Siva Parvathi and the representatives of urban SHGs handed over a cheque for the amount to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Wednesday. Mr. Naveen Kumar briefed the Chief Minister about the relief activities undertaken by the MEPMA during the lockdown priod, which comprises the establishment of 129 temporary shelter and extending support to the COVID-affected people by all means.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. figures on COVID are true: Minister||Brushing aside the allegations made by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Group of Ministers which is monitoring the COVID-19, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said the official data was accurate and Mr. Naidu was unable to assess the gravity of the situation as he was staying in Hyderabad. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivas challenged Mr. Naidu to prove his charge that the number of cases reported by the government was a gross understatement of facts. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botsa Satyanarayana alleged that Mr. Naidu and his son were trying to derive political mileage by making baseless allegations.
16 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tune into AIR for EAMCET training classes’||Minister for Social Welfare Pinipe Viswarup on Wednesday said to enable students utilise their time at home for academic preparation, the Social Welfare Department, along with welfare Gurukulams, has designed an EAMCET training programme that would be broadcast by All India Radio(AIR) , Akashvani Vijayawada centre. In a statement, Mr. Viswarup said the programme would be broadcast for half an hour from 10.30 a.m to 11 a.m from April 16 (Thursday). The Minister said students who did not have a radio set at home, could use a smart phone and download the AIR mobile app to listen to the classes.  Explaining the steps involved in the downloading, he said students should go to Google Play Store and search for “NewsOnAir-Prasar Bharati Official App”, install the app, open it and select “Telugu Language”- live radio, and select “View all”. Go to ‘Andhra Pradesh’ and select “AIR VIJAYAWADA”. In normal mobiles and other radio equipment, the frequency to be selected is: 837 MHz, Medium Wave (MW).
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50% of COVID-19 patients discharged in Visakhapatnam||Four more COVID-19 patients who were being treated at the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) were discharged on Tuesday night, bringing the total number of discharged patients to 10. With this welcome development, the number of active cases in the district has come down to 10, a relieved district administration said. Officials said that the four persons, all male, hail from Thatichetlapalem area. After their samples tested negative, doctors confirmed their recovery and discharged them. All four had returned from Delhi, officials said. It may be recalled that the district reported a total of 20 COVID-19 cases. During the first week of April, one patient from Allipuram area was discharged. On April 8, three more persons (two from Padmanabham and one from Allipuram) who were under treatment for COVID-19 were discharged from GIMSR. Again on April 13, two persons from Padmanabham mandal were discharged from GIMSR after their tests came back negative. A senior official from the district administration said that five COVID-19 patients who are being treated at GIMSR are also recovering. The five persons are likely to be discharged in the next couple of days, he said. Containment zones Right now, seven areas in the district – Thatichetlapalem (including Akkayyapalem, New Colony, ITI Junction, Muslim Thatichetlapalem), Allipuram, Padmanabham, Narsipatnam, Gajuwaka and Poorna Market are considered as containment zones. “Even though a COVID-19 positive case gets discharged from the hospital, the area from where the patient belongs to will be a containment zone till 14 days from the date of his discharge from the hospital, as per protocol,” said Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drivers struggling to make ends meet||Auto-rickshaw and cab drivers in the city are facing a severe financial crisis as the lockdown has left them without a source of livelihood for almost a month now. The drivers are wondering how they are going to save enough money to pay next month’s rent as they have little left even to tide over the present month. “We sometimes earn up to Rs. 15,000 per month and sometimes as little as Rs. 7,000 driving vehicles. This is our only source of income. The lockdown has changed our life for the worse and we don’t know what to do now,” said P. Raju, an auto-rickshaw driver from Arilova. A few drivers also alleged that many of them did not even receive ration and financial help of Rs. 1,000. Several drivers said that police are booking cases and invoking e-challans though they are venturing out by taking citizens in case of emergencies. There are nearly 48,000 auto-rickshaw drivers in the district including 27,500 from urban limits. Apart from them, nearly 2,200 drivers of cabs, and 2,300 drivers of passenger vans and jeeps earn their livelihood driving the public transport vehicles. All of them are now facing an unprecedented financial crisis. Protest staged General Secretary of A.P. Auto-rickshaws & Motor Transport Workers Union G. Vamana Murthy demanded that the State Government pay at least Rs. 10,000 a month to the drivers for three months as public transport has been completely banned. He also appealed to the government to ensure that finance companies do not force the drivers to pay instalments of their vehicle loans. He alleged that a few companies are asking drivers to pay this month’s instalment despite the government directing banks to offer a three-month moratorium on existing loans.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police flooded with requests for vehicle passes||The district police control room is flooded with hundreds of requests for emergency vehicle passes from the public. The control room began receiving applications from April 14 and has so far received nearly 800 applications in just two days through police WhatsApp numbers and official email accounts. According to sources, of the 800 applications received, around 200 have come from rural areas while the rest have been filed from within the city and other urban areas of the district. “In case of applications which belong to our district police limits, we are forwarding it to our higher officials for further verification. If the reason is valid, passes will be sent to them. For the other applications which belong to other areas, we are asking them to contact their respective police station limits and also informing the police officials concerned,” said a police official. Trivial grounds Though the police appealed to the public to ask for a pass only in case of an emergency, hundreds of applications have been filed on trivial grounds. “Emergency vehicle passes can be given only during health emergencies, death of a loved one or some pressing issue. But hundreds of requests are pouring in from stranded persons who are requesting permission to go to their places on trivial grounds. We cannot give permission to such requests,” said a senior police officer. Police said that they can only give passes to residents from Visakhapatnam rural limits. Moreover, there is no need for separate vehicle pass for government employees who are going to other places on official duty. They can show their identity cards wherever requested by police, officials said.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries hail guidelines on easing lockdown after April 20||Several industries are breathing easy with the Centre announcing guidelines for relaxation of lockdown for certain categories after April 20. They hope that it will mitigate the suffering of the working class and start the process to put the economy back on track. The conditional relaxation will not only benefit units located in the Special Economic Zones such as the Visakhapatnam SEZ, AP SEZ, Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City and IT SEZ but also save several small-scale industries from the brink of closure. Social distancing The guidelines may not have much impact on the process units such as the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and HPCL-Visakh Refinery as they are managing production by deploying minimal staff. “We are adhering to the social distancing norm and screening the workforce at the workplace regularly to prevent spread of the COVID-19 pandemic,” informs an official. According to VSEZ Development Commissioner A. Ram Mohan Reddy, 241 units in SEZ and export-oriented units (EoUs) in VSEZ are not operational as on date. “With the guidelines circulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs, all these units will become operational,” he told The Hindu on Wednesday.  Rule 18 (ii) allows the VSEZ office to become operational with 100% attendance from the Joint Development Commissioner and above and other staff up to one-third functional on rotational basis as per requirement. “This relaxation will enable all limping units to start functioning to some extent,” he said. CEO of Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City, Parawada, P.P. Lal Krishna, said the units in the zone were already functioning with skeletal staff by granting many the work from home facility. “Now, with relaxation of guidelines, many may be asked to work from office as per conditions stipulated by the Centre,” he said.  Word of caution Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce & Industry executive member A.V. Monish Row welcomed resumption of economic activity, and sought its implementation on scientific basis. “Otherwise, any spike will lead to another lockdown in a few months,” he said.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaggery farmers relieved as market yard reopens||After a gap of nearly three weeks, the Anakapalle market yard opened on Wednesday providing a breather to farmers saddled with jaggery stocks. The sudden closure of the market after the announcement of the lockdown brought purchase of jaggery from sugarcane farmers to a grinding halt in the peak season. MLA takes the lead Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Monday held a meeting with Marketing Department officials, trade organisations, farmers and workers on the travails of farmers who were not being able to sell the produce. On Wednesday, a total of 40,000 lumps were bought and auctioned. “With the market starved of stocks since March 24, the arrivals were lapped up in no time,” said trader Korukonda Butchiraju. Instead of the usual process of 50 to 70 lumps being kept in one lot, 2,000 to 3,000 lumps were kept and after a cursory look, the auction was completed in an hour, it was learnt. While the low-end varieties got a price of Rs. 305 (for 10 kg), the superior varieties commanded up to Rs. 370, which is Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 more than the rate at which the market closed previously. About 80 farmers brought their produce to the market, a major one for jaggery with a turnover of Rs. 100 crore. “It will take at least three days for the lumps to be stocked after weighing and taking measures like sewing them up in gunny bags,” said Mr. Butchiraju.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat owners seek solatium as annual fishing ban begins||The annual fishing ban on motorised boats began on the east coast of India from the early hours of Wednesday, with 700 mechanised boats staying anchored to the shore due to lockdown imposed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Unlike previous years, the fishing ban came unofficially much ahead due to the coronavirus scare and the prohibitory orders issued by the district administration on the sale and auction of fish at Visakhapatnam fishing harbour to enforce the social distancing norms.  The 61-day ban aims at conservation of the dwindling number of fish resources and allowing unhindered breeding . The ban period is utilised by boat owners for repairs and overhauling of their vessels. Meanwhile, the boat owners have sought payment of a cash compensation of Rs. 10,000 each due to heavy loss suffered by them during the lockdown. So far, the cash compensation announced by the State government is being extended only to the fish workers and the drivers. “Due to extraordinary situation and losses suffered by us, the cash compensation should also be given to all boat owners,” said AP Mechanised Boat Operators’ Association president P.C. Appa Rao. Letter to Minister In a letter to Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkataramana, he said the compensation should also be extended to women fish vendors who eke out a living by selling fish in the streets.
16 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA PO sacks ambulance driver||ITDA Project Officer D.K. Balaji on Wednesday issued orders terminating the services of ambulance driver of Munchingputtu for dereliction of duty. The driver had taken patients to Visakhapatnam on Tuesday and in the return trip in the night, he reportedly picked up four passengers. Mr. Balaji issued a stern warning that any negligence in the time of COVID-19 will be not be tolerated. He added that the health of tribal people was his top priority. Mr. Balaji visited the Guttulaputtu village weekend shandy at Paderu mandal on Wednesday and oversaw the arrangements made for the sale of turmeric. He directed officials to allocate specific places for buyers and sellers visiting the shandy and to ensure cleanliness. He said that masks would be distributed to the farmers.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training for Rapid Response Teams||Training for the second batch of Rapid Response Teams as part of COVID-19 containment measures was conducted on Wednesday at the Children’s Arena. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana said that in the first batch, 50 RRTs worked in shifts. The teams were formed by the Medical and Health Department and Andhra Medical College (AMC) following instructions from the District Collector. With their 15-day tenure over, fresh teams will now take over. The teams comprise doctors from Andhra Medical College, paramedical and city planning staff of GVMC. District Medical and Health Officer Tirupati Rao and AMC principal P.V. Sudhakar conducted the training.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CTF team raids bar, restaurant selling liquor||Based on reliable information, a City Task Force team led by ACP A. Trinad Rao raided a bar and restaurant in Sujatha Nagar under Pendurthi police station limits and arrested three persons for possessing and selling liquor at higher rates, here on Wednesday. They were booked for violating Excise rules (dry day provisions) and violating the provisions of the lockdown. A total of 341 bottles (194 liquor bottles and 147 beer bottles) worth Rs. 2,01,640 and cash of Rs. 9,000 was seized from the accused.
16 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stevedores offer meals in VPT dock area||Visakhapatnam Stevedores’ Association on Wednesday launched free distribution of lunch and dinner in the dock area for the workers, drivers, CISF personnel and others. Association president K.V. Krishna Kumar said they took up the programme to improve vessel operations and cargo movement in the dock area. He said the facility was aimed at providing nutritious meals to those on duty at the dock area. As cargo movement at the port was an essential service, they decided to provide meals to 400 people every day till the situation improves. Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Rama Mohan Rao lauded the gesture of the stevedores and assured full support in ensuring normal operations.
16 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students urged to lead by example||Vizianagaram District Educational Officer G.Nagamani has urged students to raise awareness among the family members on the benefits of the extension of the lockdown to contain the pandemic in the country. She also asked the students to lead by example by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. On behalf of an NGO World Vision, she distributed masks and sanitisers to children at Brighter Future organisation.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to go for massive testing||The Chief Ministers of Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala on Wednesday announced measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 and provide relief to people in view of the Centre’s fresh directives on extension of lockdown. In Hyderabad, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the State government is prepared to conduct COVID-19 tests for any number of people and extend treatment to the affected persons. Health Minister Rajender explained to the Chief Minister about the arrangements made for tests to diagnose coronaviris, the treatment being extended and measures being taken for future requirement. At present, 553 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals for coronavirus infection and among them, eight persons who recovered were discharged on Wednesday and another 128 persons would be discharged on Thursday.Mr.Rao expressed satisfaction that lockdown was being implemented effectively in the State to control the spread of the disease. “So far, 259 containment zones were created in the State based on the number of people affected by the coronavirus and were being monitored strictly. Serious efforts are being made to prevent the spread of COVID-19. An adequate number of test kits are ready to conduct tests for any number of people to confirm positive cases,” he said. Mr. Rao also made it clear that the lockdown would continue in the State in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union government. He said the government has taken many steps to ensure that no one suffered from hunger during the lockdown period. He announced cash incentives to those who were striving hard and they were being given to those who should get it.Cash incentives have been announced to those who deserved it. The goverment has credited Rs. 1,500 into the account of every poor household while a scheme taken up to distribute 12 kg of rice to each member was almost complete. The special cash incentive to municipal and Gram Panchayat staff and 10% additional wages to medical staff were also paid. He said that as sanitation work should continue without any interruption in villages and towns, Rs. 308 crore for Gram Panchayats and Rs. 148 crore for all corporations and municipalities were released for the month of April. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday discussed with his Cabinet colleagues issues related to management of supply chain in the farm sector, problems faced by farmers, rural daily wagers and migrants during the second phase of the lockdown. Mr. Yediyurappa has constituted three ministerial teams for speedy containment of COVID-19 to help the people affected by the disease, and ensure uninterrupted continuation of essential services. ‘Central aid needed’ Issues related to procurement of farm commodities, horticultural produce, crop loans and subsidies too have been discussed with Mr. Ashwath Narayan, Mr. Suresh Kumar, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Mr. Ashok. In Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Cabinet would on Thursday consider various options to ease the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in low-risk localities in a staggered manner.Mr. Vijayan expressed concern that the Centre had not announced its relief package for States. “Let us hope it is in the offing”, he said. The threat of the epidemic persisted. The State could not afford the virulence to outpace its health infrastructure, he said. The crucial period till April 20 required enhanced vigilance and the rigorous imposition of social distancing norms. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged this in his address to the nation, he pointed out.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agonising wait||
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highway to nowhere||
16 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Sitaramachandra Swamy temple plans online puja||The authorities of Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam are mulling introducing an online facility to enable devotees get their pujas performed by temple priests in view of the complete closure of the temple due to the lockdown. As the COVID-19 induced nationwide lockdown kept the historic temple out of bounds for devotees, the proposed online initiative is likely to facilitate some arjitha sevas (paid services) such as ‘archana’ and ‘antaralaya abhishekam’ sources said.According to temple sources, the online facility is expected to allow devotees get select pujas done and seek the divine blessings of the temple deity from their homes. After the pujas, the temple staff will send confirmation messages to devotees on their registered mobile phones, sources added. The temple online seva portal called www.bhadrachalamonline.com is being updated to introduce the new online service in the next few days. The mobile application ‘T-App Folio’, recently launched by the temple authorities for placing orders for Mutyala Talambralu online, received a good response from devotees. Around 10,500 devotees placed orders for Mutyala Talambralu through the mobile app till date. Meanwhile, the nityaannadanam seva has been reintroduced in strict conformity to social distancing norms near the temple complex in Bhadrachalam. The temple staff distributed sambar rice and curd rice packets to several daily wage workers and destitute persons at a choultry abutting the temple complex on Wednesday.
16 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||A 15-year-old tribal girl died after she was attacked by a wild boar in the forest fringe area near Pusuguppa of Charla mandal in Bhadrachalam Agency on Wednesday. Police identified the victim as Sodi Kavitha, a native of Pusuguppa She ventured into the forest area along with her family on Wednesday morning to collect mahua (ippa) flower. A wild boar suddenly pounced on her. She suffered grievous injuries on her head and chest and succumbed while being taken to a hospital.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Containment zones have 258 cases||Concentration of COVID-19 positive persons is exceptionally high in certain circles of the GHMC area, where the number of containment zones too is high, as per the consolidated data available with authorities. While officials are tight-lipped about the spread of the disease, data in possession of The Hindu reveals that circles such as Malakpet, Santhosh Nagar, Chandrayangutta and Mehdipatnam have higher density of infected patients. Not indicative of extent The high numbers might be due to testing of all primary contacts of the persons who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz event, and might not reveal the actual extent of the disease spread, officials caution. There may be several people who have not been tested, but could be hosting the virus. A total of 139 COVID-19 containment zones have been demarcated in the city based on positive cases, which have been barricaded to prevent contact between those inside with outsiders. While 98 of them are marked in limited areas where only one positive case has been identified, 41 are in zones with multiple cases. A total of 258 COVID-19 patients have been identified from all 139 containment zones, with four to five circles accounting for more than half the number. Of these, Mehdipatnam circle alone has the highest at 38 cases, while 33 were reported from Malakpet. Chandrayangutta has 29 positive cases, while Santhosh Nagar has 25. The containment zones, too, are correspondingly higher in these circles. Mehdipatnam has 21 such zones and Malakpet has 10 followed by Santhosh Nagar (8) and Chandrayangutta (7). A single instance of 16 cases, the highest among all, has been demarcated as containment zone in Chandrayangutta, around Hafiz Baba Nagar area. Another zone with 14 positives is demarcated around Talabchanchalam of Santhosh Nagar. The containment zones altogether have as many as 12,814 households, and 55,855 persons. Several of these areas are densely built, with each structure hosting multiple households, sometimes up to double digits, officials shared. People inside the containment zones have been strictly instructed not to venture out, even within the zone. All their supplies will be ensured by teams of officials made responsible for the zones.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS ready to do COVID-19 tests for any number of people: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that the State government is prepared to conduct COVID-19 tests for any number of people and extend treatment to the affected. Mr. Rao also made it clear that the lockdown would continue in the State in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union government. The initiative being shown by people’s representatives in implementing lockdown and helping the poor and people’s cooperation should continue, he said. The CM held a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday on measures being taken to curb the spread of COVID-19, help extended to patients, implementation of lockdown, help extended to the poor, procurement of agricultural produce and Centre’s guidelines. The meeting was attended by Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, Principal Secretary, Finance, Ramakrishna Rao and others. Mr. Rajender explained to the CM the arrangements made for COVID-19 tests, treatment extended and measures taken for future requirement. At present, 553 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals and among them, eight persons, who recovered, were discharged on Wednesday and another 128 persons would be discharged on Thursday. “So far, 259 containment zones were demarcated in the State based on the number of people affected by coronavirus and were being monitored strictly. Serious efforts are being made to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” he said. On implementation of lockdown, aid being extended to the poor, and procurement of agricultural produce, Mr. Rao said people’s representatives were monitoring effectively. He appreciated the work of sarpanches, municipal chairpersons, mayors, councillors, corporators, MLAs and Ministers. The programmes being taken up by the government should reach people. “All Ministers except Health and Municipal Administration and MLAs should remain in their districts and constituencies and monitor the situation,” he said. Mr. Rao said the government had taken many steps to ensure that no one suffered from hunger during the lockdown and announced cash incentives to those striving hard. The goverment has credited Rs. 1,500 into the account of every poor household and programme to distribute 12 kg rice to each member was almost done.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Driven by hunger, migrant workers begin long trek||Carrying back-breaking loads of luggage, they walk slowly under the scorching sun on the black-topped Bhongir-Alair road. These migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh are not going to any nearby village in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. Driven by hunger as there was no work, this group of 21 men and women carrying four children, are headed for their villages in Kabirdham district of Chhattisgarh on foot! “We have been working at a construction site in Bhongir. For the past two weeks, there has been no work. No ration either,” says Vishram Patel. The distraught group of workers seemed determined for the long journey. But the unsparing hot sun made them get tired easily, compelling them to stop by the shade of a roadside tree. “We have no option but to walk. We can manage by eating once a day, but what about children,” said another worker Birghu Patel. Observing that nobody was ready even to listen to their woes during the lockdown, the group said it decided to walk to their villages even if it meant facing danger and ruining their health. They maintained that they had come to work in Bhongir in the past one year to six months. Recently, they went back to their villages and returned to work. “Lockdown came as a big curse to us. With no work, there are no wages. Obviously, there would be no food. If we go to our village, at least we can survive,” Dhiraj Patel said. Soon after lockdown was announced, they decided to go back home. Some of them even booked railway tickets. “I booked a train ticket for March 23. But the trains got cancelled. There are no buses either. So, walking is the only way for us,” he said, showing the train ticket. Break the journey when too tired and begin the ‘long march’ again after taking rest is their strategy. A Sub-Inspector of Police G. Raju, who was on duty at a check-post on the fringes of Alair on the Hyderabad-Warangal highway, said he also learnt of their journey. “We would arrange food for them when they reach this check-post. Will persuade them not to take up such a long journey on foot,” he said. Alair SI E. Ramesh, speaking over the phone later, said the local police were doing their bit to provide food to every group of labourers in his jurisdiction. He said he had not come across the batch of Chattisgarh labourers who undertook the march for survival. For the Chattisgarh workers, the journey has just begun.
16 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UPSC non-commital on Prelims postponement||The UPSC has notified that it will be deciding on the status of the schedule of the Civil Services Personality Test-2019 (Interviews) after the second phase of lockdown ending on May 3 but remained non-committal on deferment of 2020 preliminary exam. The Personality tests for candidates who have qualified at the Civil Services Main Examination 2019 and scheduled from February 17 to April 3 were deferred midway and about 600 candidates are yet to be interviewed. The preliminary exam of the Civil Services-2020 is scheduled to be held on May 31 and the UPSC remained non-committal on the dates apparently due to the fact that it will have ample time for a review after the lockdown ends. A special meeting of the UPSC was held on Wednesday to review the situation. Aspirants, however, are expecting a postponement as their preparation has been thrown out of gear due to the lockdown. Many had to return to their native places and with coaching centres too closed for the last one month, their preparation is badly hit. Though they are relying on online classes or material on the web, the personal interaction with trainers makes a huge difference to learning. “The present situation does demand a postponement of the Prelims. The aspirants are under psychological pressure due to the lockdown and the externalities associated with it. It is hoped that the UPSC will postpone the preliminary by at least a month so that the aspirants can adjust to the new normal,” said director of Brain Tree V. Gopala Krishna. Since the UPSC has advanced its schedules this year, postponement of the preliminary by a month is not expected to have any major impact of the time cycle for the next year. Meanwhile, many examinations, scheduled in March and April, have been deferred by UPSC. Deferment notices have already been posted for the Combined Medical Services Examination, the Indian Economic Service and the Indian Statistical Service Examination 2020. Dates for the CAPF Exam 2020 will also be notified later. The National Defence Academy (NDA-I) Examination has already been postponed till further intimation. A decision on the NDA –II Examination will be posted on June 10, 2020, the scheduled date for its notification, the UPSC release said.  The present situation does demand a postponement of the Prelims. The aspirants are under psychological pressure due to the lockdown. It is hoped that the UPSC will postpone the preliminary by at least a month so.   V. Gopala Krishna Director of Brain Tree
16 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Opp demands all-party meeting||The Opposition parties on Wednesday demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao call for an all-party meeting to take their views and suggestions on the ongoing relief measures and lockdown situation in the State and put up a combined fight against the virus. Led by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, leaders of different opposition parties met at Exhibition Society Office and discussed the current situation. Telangana TDP president L. Ramana, TJS president M. Kodandaram, CPI State secretary Chada Venkatreddy, former MP V. Hanmanth Rao and Cheruku Sudhakar were present. They discussed various issues, especially problems faced by the poor, middle class, workers of unorganised sectors, and migrant workers. They prepared a long list of demands and gave several suggestions to the government. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the CM had announced on March 23 that free 12-kg rice per person and Rs. 1,500 per family would be given to white ration card holders across Telangana but it is yet to reach all the beneficiaries even after 24 days. He wanted to know if the Central government had released 5-kg rice to the BPL families and if the 12-kg announced by the CM included those 5 kgs. Mr. Ramana sought a white paper on the State’s financial situation while Cheruku Sudhakar wanted the government to focus on improving the blood reserves. The Telangana BJP urged the government to provide food and shelter to scores of migrant workers stranded here. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay wanted the government to ease the supply constraints for free movement of agriculture produce to help farmers. He also noted that his party leaders and workers have been in the forefront in providing essential provisions to the poor. Meanwhile, senior leader K. Laxman oversaw the distribution of 6,000 litres fruit juice packs to municipal staff at north zone office.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Though stranded, they are not eager to go home||Migrant labourers and homeless in Wanaparthy district are not eager to head back home any more, as the police administration has ensured that these stranded families have enough food to survive on. In fact, after a recent distribution of food material that can last them for two weeks, labourers stranded here told The Hindu that they received much more help than they had expected. “After the police distributed several food items like oil, dal, haldi, potatoes and even tea powder, I checked with my relatives and acquaintances stranded in neighbouring States and in other districts of Telangana too. They have not received much help and are in bad shape. It made me think that I and my friends are better off here,” said Robin Jana, a migrant worker from West Bengal. Mr. Robin and 12 others migrated to Peddagudem near Wanaparthy town from Kolkata and different parts of West Bengal and are engaged in building centring work at the State government’s prestigious double bedroom housing project. “We are living in a rented house and had no money to even buy vegetables. The distribution by police came as a saving gesture for us. SP madam came to our site and distributed the commodities,” he said in a sombre voice. Jitender Kumar, a carpenter who migrated to Metpally from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, said the distributed food material was in large quantity and would be sufficient for at least 15 days. “We don’t have to worry about food now and have decided not to go back to our native place till the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Each packet of food materials handed out to 2,058 migrant workers and homeless comprises 10 different dry items, such as 12.5 kg rice, atta, dal, sugar, chilli powder, haldi, which would be sufficient for a family of three till May 3. Wanaparthy SP Apoorva Rao said people from various States in north India and neighbouring Karnataka were staying put due to lockdown and were facing difficulties. There were around 1,800 migrant workers in the district and initiative was taken to ensure that no one was left hungry, she said. “This situation reminds us that this is not an individual’s battle and we have to fight it together by taking care of each other,” Ms. Rao said. The officer, who started the initiative on Sunday, said they had collected the data of all workers in the district and more people from local communities were approaching the police for help. “The supply will continue as more and more needy people are approaching us,” she said.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Several positive cases sans symptoms||Mass testing using rapid diagnosis kits could reveal several COVID-19 positive cases in the city of Hyderabad, with no outward symptoms whatsoever experienced by the patients concerned. Evidence for the same is coming forth from the cases within the containment zones identified in the city, officials share. Officials under the condition of anonymity confirmed that several family members and primary contacts of the persons with COVID-19 infection, have tested positive for the virus though there were no overt symptoms such as fever, cough, throat pain and breathlessness. They all have been sent to the designated hospitals where treatment for the virus-infected patients is being given. “Doctors and medical staff of the hospitals are at a loss to understand what kind of treatment to give. They are simply administering vitamin supplements to bolster immunity, besides keeping them in isolation to arrest further spread of infection,” an official shared. He recalled two instances where the patients who returned from Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz event were admitted to Gandhi Hospital. While one died, the other is recuperating. COVID-19 tests were run on all family members of both patients, and all tested positive. Strangely, none have showed any symptoms so far.  “We have identified more primary contacts who are not family members, but moved closely with the infected persons and their kin. We have counselled them and sent them for testing to the nearest quarantine centre,” an official in charge of a containment zone said. Facing resistance Due to their symptom-free status, officials are facing resistance from the persons concerned, first to get tested and then to get admitted in the hospital if tested positive. “The resistance is not without a reason. After getting tested, results arrive only after 24 hours, and during this time, the persons are not allowed to go home, which irks them,” shared another official, hoping that diagnosis process would get easier with arrival of rapid testing kits. However, rapid mass tests could pose another challenge, fear officials, as the administrative machinery and infrastructure might not be able to cope with the number of positive cases with or without symptoms. “While it is a good thing that people have developed resistance to the virus, irresponsible behaviour on their part could result in the virus being spread to their contacts with compromised immunity. Hence, it is better that they be isolated,” said the official.  While it is a good thing that people have developed resistance to the virus, irresponsible behaviour could result in the virus being spread to their contacts with compromised immunity. An official
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘More testing will help us know COVID-19 spread’||COVID-19 may have peaked in United States or Europe, but here, it is only after two weeks that one can understand if the virus is hitting the plateau or still climbing. “We are still in the danger zone and although the lockdown seemed to have had some effect, the extent of virus transmission will be known only through more testing,” asserted CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra on Wednesday. An all-time high of 20,000 samples in a day was tested yesterday, but this is not enough, he added. “You may have noticed that cases are spiking as we are testing more samples. It is only by testing more that we can know how far we have been efficient in controlling the virus spread. We can enhance the testing capacity multi-fold by pooling in samples; the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already recommended to the government to allow five samples to be tested in one go,” he explained. CCMB, which currently has a testing capacity of 350 samples a day, is very much capable to doing the pooling samples testing to enhance this capacity to over 1,000 where multiple samples of a particular cluster is tested in one go, thereby saving time, resources and effort. A lesser percentage of positive cases will indicate the novel coronavirus transmission has been contained. Next course of action “Once we increase the testing multiple-fold, it will help governments formulate the next course of action on where restrictions can be eased, to what extent and other measures needed at the identified hotspots. We should be doing testing on a mass scale in the next two weeks, also because it is not practical to shut down everything for an indefinite period,” Dr. Mishra pointed out. The silver lining is that scientists have, so far, not found any great variation in COVID-19 strain within the country. “We have found virus isolates are from China or Europe. Genome sequencing efforts being done in coordination with CCMB and Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology will help us study the genome variations and allow us to know how the virus is changing, how the infection is spreading and where the medicines can be targeted. We have about 30 genomes of Indian isolates known and more are in the offing,” he said. Regulatory approvals are now quicker, yet an effective vaccine should not be expected for a year or more. “After all, we are going to introduce a foreign material and we have to see how the human body reacts. However, research is on worldwide and if we are lucky, we may get a breakthrough in treatment in three-four months,” Dr. Mishra said. CCMB now has the licence to validate new indigenous testing models and is currently scrutinising offers to provide testing kits. “Only a few firms are making testing kits globally. If our firms can conform to certain standards, we can give them the nod. It will unleash the local entrepreneurial spirit and will help us avoid dependance on imports as the demand is high in other countries too. We are seriously looking at a couple of products and in a week’s time, they may get the approval if all necessary criteria are met,” he added.  We should be doing testing on a mass scale in the next two weeks, also because it is not practical to shut down everything for an indefinite period. Rakesh Mishra, CCMB director
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana move to get nod for plasma therapy clinical trials||The process of seeking permission to start Convalescent Plasma therapy clinical trials for COVID-19 patients in Telangana was initiated on Wednesday. A committee was constituted to immediately coordinate with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other authorities to get permission for the clinical trials. Members of the committee have started to put in place work needed for getting the approval. It is expected that mortality rate might come down when plasma filled with neutralising antibodies are infused into critically-ill patients. However, its effectiveness as a treatment option for COVID-19 is yet to be proved. As there is no vaccine to treat the disease, Convalescent Plasma therapy is being considered as an option. The therapy was used in treatment of H1N1 influenza in 1918. ICMR has invited letter of intent from institutions with equipment and infrastructure to participate in clinical trials to study the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma in COVID-19 patients. Stating that the therapy is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients, it said the hospitals and institutions planning to provide treatment should do so in clinical trials following protocols which includes registering with Clinical Trials Registry of India. On Tuesday, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy issued orders constituting a seven-member panel to complete the necessary formalities. M. Raja Rao, professor of General Medicine at Gandhi Hospital, was appointed principal investigator. Kerala has already received approval from ICMR. Officials said that with 118 people recovering from the infectious disease, the State has a good pool to draw donors of plasma.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outsourced nurses boycott duty at Gandhi||Around 200 nurses employed on outsourcing basis at Gandhi Hospital here boycotted work on Wednesday demanding that basic salary to be paid to them. The outsourced nurses, who were on COVID-19 duty in isolation wards, said that they have been working for the past 13 years and earn a monthly salary of Rs. 17,500. Stating that they are putting their lives at risk to attend COVID patients and suspects, they submitted a letter to the hospital superintendent and nursing superintendent on Tuesday informing about the boycott. “More than 200 of us did not attend duty on Wednesday. We are asking them to provide us basic salary which ranges from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 35,000 per month,”said B. Meghamala, one of the nurses. She, along with the other outsourced nurses including Ch. Lakshmi and B. Prameela, met senior officials of Health department who asked them to resume duty and assured to forward their request to Health Minister Eatala Rajender. They were, however, yet to take a call on ending the boycott.
16 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No shortage of PPEs, says KCR||Mr. K. Chandrasekhar Rao has emphasised that there was no shortage of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits in the State. The State now, has 2.25 lakh PPE kits and the number would reach 5 lakh in the next few days. An order was placed for another 5 lakh PPE kits. Very soon we will have 10 lakh PPE kits, he said. The State also has 3.25 lakh N-5 masks at present and soon the number would increase to 5 lakh and an order was placed for 5 lakh more, taking the total to 10 lakh. “The required number of ventilators, doctors, paramedical personnel and hospital beds, were available to meet any requirement. The State government has made arrangements to treat even a lakh patients and is ready to wage a war against COVID-19,” he said.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||309 units of blood collected at IPM centre||The standalone blood centre at Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Narayanguda, which was announced on April 7, has collected 309 units of blood till April 14. Around 200 blood products were derived from the units. The highest of 172 units was collected on Tuesday through donation at the institute and blood donation camps. Of those, 100 units each were given to Niloufer Hospital and MNJ Institute of Oncology and Regional Cancer Centre. The initiative was launched to avoid cross-infection to blood donors and recipients at blood banks attached to hospitals. People wishing to donate blood can call 84979-58597 or 040-29569047 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. for travel passes which can be shown to the police. . Each caller is asked about international or national travel history in the past one month, and if they suffered from fever, cold or cough, and if they had contact with any COVID-19 patient or a suspect. They are also asked not to donate blood if say yes to any of those questions. In-charge of COVID-19 voluntary blood donation drive, Prasad Muvva said 44 units were collected from the police training institute. “We can collect 200-300 units of blood from them in case of emergency,” he said.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR asks builders to look after workers||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao who held a meeting with builders and builders’ associations on Wednesday asked them to ensure supply of essential items to the workers on construction sites. Mr. Rao asked the builders to adhere to the instructions issued by the government, asking them to ensure food and essential supplies in labour camps, besides educating the workers about COVID-19 and the precautions to be taken. There are 208 labour camps at construction sites, with 32,008 workers staying in them.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. may use HDPE sacks to store paddy’||The State government is considering using HDPE sacks for procurement and storage of paddy to overcome scarcity of gunny bags, said chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Palla Rajeshwar Reddy on Wednesday. He stated that they have enough sacks for procurement of about 30 lakh tonnes of paddy. “Scarcity of gunny bags was taken to the notice of the Prime Minister during the recent video conferences conducted with Chief Ministers,” he said. Besides, CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao had spoken to his West Bengal counterpart over the issue and made a request to the latter to arrange supply of gunny sacks, which are mostly made there. He said that the State government had also spoken to the FCI authorities and owners of rice mills for storing paddy procured by farmers. Mr. Reddy told reporters here on Wednesday that over 3 lakh tonnes of paddy had already been procured from farmers at 3,013 purchase centres.
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks report on conditions at shelter homes||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file an affidavit as to how many temporary shelter homes were set up in the backdrop of COVID-19 and what medical facilities were being extended to the inmates. After taking up a letter written by lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj on the conditions of these shelter homes as PIL petition, a Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud sought details of thermal screenings at the homes. Stating that she had visited some of the shelter homes, the lawyer said inmates included women discharged after delivery from hospitals carrying newborn babies and men discharged after critical surgeries. Their attendants too are there, she said. The AG told the court that adequate test kits were available and thermal screening was undertaken at all shelter homes. The Bench directed the AG to present details on how many persons were tested in hot-spot zones. In another PIL petition seeking direction on security arrangements for doctors, the Bench directed the government to put behind bars, persons attacking doctors or health workers.
16 April 2020||Karimnagar,TELANGANA||Random screening of people in public places||As part of an ongoing crusade against the spread of COVID-19, Health officials have launched random screening of people in public places by using an infrared thermometer in Karimnagar on Wednesday. The teams headed by a doctor, ANM supervisor and ASHA workers, screened 748 people at banks, vegetable markets and shopping malls.
16 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Cooperate with govt.: KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration and IT K Taraka Rama Rao has called upon all sections of society to cooperate with the authorities as the coming two weeks are crucial to check the spread of COVID-19 in the State. The Minister made a surprise visit to the Sircilla textile town on Wednesday and interacted with the district officials about the measures being taken to check the spread of the virus. Talking to newsmen, he said there was no medicine for the virus and prevention was the only way to check its spread. “Self-isolation and maintaining good hygiene and wearing masks are crucial to check the virus,” he said. Appreciating the district authorities for their crusade against the virus, he said rural masses were better than their urban counterparts in checking the spread of the virus. He appealed to urban people to adopt the measures being followed by rural masses such as maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks and hygiene. Instructing people not to come out of their houses till the completion of the lockdown period, he said the police would deal firmly against violators of lockdown. He said Telangana would emerge COVID-19-free with the team work and cooperation of all sections of society. The district administration was taking care of migrant labourers by providing them all assistance. Paddy procurement With regard to paddy procurement during the season, he said there was bumper harvest in the district owing to the abundant availability of water from the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project. Paddy produce which was 1.8 lakh metric tonnes in kharif season had increased to 3.2 lakh metric tonnes. With the KLIP, the upland Rajanna-Sircilla had been transformed on the irrigation front, he said. Promising to procure paddy from farmers, he said the authorities had decided to open 212 procurement centres and so far opened 139 centres. The authorities had roped in 116 harvesters in the district for the benefit of the farming community. For the welfare of the power loom weavers during the lockdown, polyster association representatives of the town handed over financial assistance of Rs. 18 lakh to the Minister and he handed over the cheque to Collector D Krishna Bhaskar.
16 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Godavari water reaches Ranganaiksagar pool||Godavari water from Kaleshwaram reached the surge pool of Ranganaiksagar project on Wednesday. Engineers said water flowed for 2.5 kilometres through gravity and 8.9 kilometres through tunnel. Till last reports came in, water reached 373 metres of height in the surge pool and once it reaches 490 metres, it would be pumped into the reservoir.
16 April 2020||Tirumala,TELANGANA||Ayurvedic disinfectant tunnel at Tirumala temple||As a part of its efforts to check the spread of COVID-19, the TTD has set up an ayurvedic disinfectant tunnel for the benefit of temple priests and employees attending to their regular duties inside the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. The tunnel has been set up a few yards away from the main temple complex in the vicinity of Ratha mandapam. The passageway developed by Nano Life company was donated by Chennai-based Usha, Abhaya, and the family members of Srisrimal Jain. TTD health officer R.R. Reddy termed the disinfectant tunnel one of its kind and said the sensors fixed inside the passageway spray disinfectant herbal solvents acknowledges the entry of a person.
16 April 2020||yderabad,TELANGANA||Stay put, says Cyberabad CP||With the nationwide lockdown extended till May 3, the Cyberabad police urged migrant workers to stay put and don’t try to reach their native places. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V. C. Sajjanar said the workers could be injured in accidents and might suffer dehydration and other health issues. “The administration is making all arrangements to provide them food and shelter for their safe stay during the lockdown period,” the Commissioner said.
16 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Unofficial restriction on selling meat hits retailers||Meat retailers at one of the most prominent wholesale markets in Greater Noida complain they are reeling under a double whammy. First, it was the Navratras, when demand dips to non-existent levels; then came the inexplicable restrictions allegedly placed on sale of meat during the first installment of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Accusing the authorities of forcing them to shut shops, based mostly on alleged apprehension that consuming meat can lead to contraction of COVID-19, retailers said they have to sell their existing stock clandestinely. They are selling with half-downed shutters and consumers are requested to conceal bags containing the meat. Hoping for better days As the second installment of the lockdown came into effect on Wednesday, shopkeepers and customers said they hoped for better days if relaxations kick in on April 20 as announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs. They, however, wondered how long the supply chain would take to resurrect itself. “They [authorities] came on March 25 and ordered us to shut our shops. We thought it was because of the Navratras, but when we opened up again on April 3, a day after the festival ended, we were forced to shut down again. Some of us tried to argue that our products were clearly essential items because they were foodstuff. We were told that meat caused COVID-19. That was all,” said a retailer, choosing to stand a distance from his shop to keep an eye out for any “trouble” as his younger brother hurriedly prepared an order for a customer. Mutton prices soared to Rs. 600 over the weekend before it became unavailable due to lack of supply on Monday. Chicken is selling for Rs. 200 per kg while fish, in the absence of storage arrangements, has not been available for weeks, said shopkeepers. “I have heard about the new guidelines but they will come into effect four days later. Who knows how long it will take for the supply chain to become operational. Many small retailers will go out of business by then,” said a shopkeeper. “We have been struggling to finish even the minuscule stock we had. I had nine chickens on March 24. Almost three weeks later, I still have six left because the authorities turn away the customers,” complained another retailer. “Most of my stock of mutton and fish had to be thrown away because the person who I used to buy ice from isn’t allowed to operate because of the lockdown. If things continue like this, I will have to sell my shop,” said a shopkeeper.  Lack of clarity Customers questioned the lack of clarity regarding the sale of meat products. “It is all food. Isn’t it? I was asked to return and told I would contract COVID-19 if I ate meat,” said Manish Singh, a resident of Omega I.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 17 new COVID-19 cases||Two deaths and 17 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,578 and the toll to 32, according to a daily bulletin released by the Delhi government. The Delhi government also added one more area to its list of containment zones, taking the total to 56. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these areas.  Out of the total 1,578 cases reported so far, 40 people have been discharged and 1,505 are still in hospitals. A total of 16,605 samples have been tested for the virus in the city. Also, 2,517 people are in quarantine facilities and 11,987 people are under home quarantine. “An order has been issued to all registered nursing homes and private hospitals that they shall not refuse treatment to the injured or serious patients brought to them for any reason,” an official statement said. The government also said that house-to-house surveillance is being carried out in containment zones. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of RML Hospital, where two female doctors have tested positive for COVID-19, said that the hospital was yet to ascertain how the two doctors were infected. The Delhi government has also appointed 10 bureaucrats as nodal officers for coordination with resident commissioners of States to address the concerns of migrants in the city amid the ongoing lockdown.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lok Nayak doctors, staff abused and threatened by patients: RDA||Resident doctors working at Lok Nayak Hospital were allegedly verbally abused and threatened by patients on Tuesday evening. The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the hospital claimed that there were multiple lapses on the part of hospital authorities and the police, and demanded deployment of armed policemen in COVID-19 wards. “A patient started hurling verbal abuses and passed vulgar comments on a female doctor. When objected upon by accompanying doctors, the patient gathered a large number of patients in the ward and started threatening the doctors and staff. The healthcare workers had to hide in the duty room as the patients tried to break the door open,” read a letter written by the RDA to the hospital’s medical director, J.C. Passey. ‘Calls unanswered’ The RDA claimed that the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) on duty did not pick up crisis calls made by the doctors and when approached, she diverted the matter to the security officer posted at the casualty ward. “The security guard and the police officer posted at surgical block did not respond even after seeing and hearing the security alarms on the fifth floor,” the RDA said in the letter. The RDA also demanded “institutional FIR to be filed immediately against the patient concerned” and “suspension of the security officer on duty at casualty”. It also demanded “letter of explanation and disciplinary action against the floor in-charges, Vivek Sachan and Azam Mohammed and the CMO on duty. “The incident happened in a COVID-19 ward and now the police deployment has been increased. The hospital has approached the police to file an FIR, but they said that the female doctor has to file a complaint first,” an official at the hospital said. The official and doctors at the hospital said that the people who allegedly abused the doctor were part of a religious congregation held in March here, who were evacuated by the government. The police said that no FIR was filed till Wednesday evening.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for alleged assault of women doctors granted bail||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to a man, who was arrested for allegedly assaulting two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital after accusing them of spreading COVID-19 in Gautam Nagar here. Juctice Rajnish Bhatnagar, who heard the bail plea through videoconferencing, said, “No useful purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner [Sanjeev Sharma] in judicial custody and overcrowding Tihar Jail. Statements recorded The High Court also noted that as far as the investigation is concerned, the statements have been recorded, including that of an eyewitness who was present at the spot. “The country is passing through a very difficult phase and the doctors are rendering yeoman service to the nation. The petitioner being an educated man, an interior designer by profession, should have been respectful to the doctors rather than abusing and threatening them,” the court said. The complainant, who is a 29-year-old and residing in Gautam Nagar area, is working as Junior Resident [Casualty] at the Safdarjung Hospital. On April 8 at about 9.30 p.m., she, along with her sister who is also a doctor, went to a shop at gate no 4 of Gulmohar enclave to buy fruits. Sharma who was standing at the spot started speaking about social distancing and remarked that doctors like them were spreading virus infection in the residential areas. Abusive, aggressive When the doctors tried to reason with Sharma, he “got abusive and aggressive and threatened that he would get a case registered”. The doctors also alleged that when they tried to leave the place, Sharma “assaulted them and even touched them inappropriately”. Following the registration of a First Information Report, Sharma was arrested.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Religious event: foreign nationals to join probe||More than 2,000 foreign nationals who attended a religious congregation here in March have completed their quarantine period and will be joining the investigation, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. Visa violation The police officer said that the foreign nationals have tested negative for COVID-19 and the police will record their statement at respective centres where they were quarantined. They will also be adding sections under the Foreigners Act against the foreign nationals for violation of visa norms. “We will connect with other authorities concerned to accommodate them because a look-out circular has been issued against all of them and no one will be allowed to go out of the country till further orders,” said the officer. The nationwide lockdown has been extended till May 3 and all domestic and international flights remain suspended. The centre here where thousands gathered for the congregation last month has turned out to be a COVID-19 hotspot not only in Delhi but the entire country. The Delhi police on Wednesday said they have charged the chief of the centrefor culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Approval to use plasma enrichment technique||Delhi has been given the go-ahead to use plasma enrichment technique on a trial basis to save the lives of critical COVID-19 patients, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal was told at a review meeting on Wednesday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia and Health Minister Satyendar Jain among others were part of the meeting, chaired by L-G, which was conducted via videoconference. During the videoconference with health teams, Raj Niwas said, Mr. Baijal stressed on the requirement of a strong communication network between all hospitals and the Health Department. The Health Department presented the patient management system and requested in-charges of all hospitals to update it daily so that correct data is collected and a clear picture emerges, enabling decision makers to swiftly plan resources for emerging scenarios. Dr. S.K. Sarin, Director, ILBS informed that the Delhi government has got approval to use convalescent plasma technique on trial basis to save the life of serious patients. “The Delhi government will be deploying it as per the protocol of MoHWF,” Raj Niwas stated.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Temperature crosses 40°C mark in Capital||The maximum temperature in the city crossed the 40° Celsius mark for the first time this season on Wednesday to settle at 40.1 degrees, which is three degrees higher than the normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature settled at 24° Celsius, which is three degrees higher than normal. Several parts of the national capital recorded temperatures over 40° Celsius earlier this week but it was the first time that the official reading of the Capital, given by the Safdarjung weather station, crossed the 40° Celsius mark, which is the first of the two criteria to declare a heatwave in the plains. To fulfill the second criteria, the temperature must be 4-5 degrees higher than the normal for a particular time of the year. However, thundershowers accompanied by gusty winds has been forecast for April 17 and 18 that is likely to bring the temperature down by 2-3 degrees, said an official from the Met department. The Met department said that there is a 40% probability that temperatures in Delhi which falls in the “core heatwave zone” in April-May-June (AMJ) period will be above normal. The season’s average mean temperatures are also likely to be warmer than normal by more than one degree Celsius in Delhi.  Arrival of monsoon The India Meteorological Department has forecast a normal south-west monsoon season (June to September) and rainfall all over the country likely to be normal. The monsoon is likely to hit the coast of Kerala on June 1 and make its way to Delhi by June 27.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. partners with app for free medical consultation||The Delhi government has partnered with CallDoc app to launch 24x7 free online medical consultation services in Delhi to help patients connect with doctors remotely via mobile app for their non-emergency medical needs. “This will save the trouble of physical travel for regular OPD visits, especially to senior citizens. Over 100 doctors from Delhi who are offering their services for free via this app,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. CallDoc is a cloud-based platform created by Oncall Medicare Pvt. Ltd.. Users will be able to connect to doctors via video, audio, or chat. “Earlier, it was a paid service but we have made it free for the public now,” a government official said.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||15-DE-Rocky-Bar Council of Delhi to disburse 5K each to needy advocates||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), in an unprecedented move has decided to dusburse an amount of Rs. 5,000 each to 4,639 advocates who had sought financial assistance to tide over the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. BCD chief K.C. Mittal said the decision was taken after the Council “unanimously resolved to provide minimal financial assistance to needy advocates”. For the purpose, he said, applications were invited through email till April 2 from advocates enrolled with BCD in Delhi/NCR.
16 April 2020||Noida,||Noida removes two hotspots, adds 7 others||A residential society and a housing sector in Noida were on Wednesday removed from the list of COVID-19 hotspots in Gautam Buddha Nagar, while seven more places were added to the list, officials said. With the latest changes, Gautam Buddha Nagar now has 27 hotspots, as defined by the district administration, which are completely sealed and any movement into or out of them except for emergencies is barred, the officials said. So far, 80 COVID-19 cases have been detected across Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar district and 25 of these patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals, the officials added.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Spraying spree||
16 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Continue social distancing: Odisha govt.||When extended lockdown period began on Wednesday, the Odisha government reiterated its appeal to the people to continue maintaining social distancing strictly to contain spread of COVID-19 in the State. Thanking the people for following lockdown restrictions during the past 25 days, Mission Director of National Health Mission in the State Shalini Pandit cautioned that any violation of restrictions may result in contracting the disease. Ms. Pandit informed that Odisha was ahead of many other States in the country in containing COVID-19. The rate of spread of the virus was less in Odisha as only 60 COVID-19 cases were detected after testing 5000-odd samples collected from all the 30 districts. As a result of increase in testing facilities, 803 samples were tested on Tuesday, and testing would be further ramped up in the State in the coming days, she said. Ms. Pandit further said that of the 60 patients while 18 had recovered and one had died, the remaining 41 patients were also recovering fast. Only two active cases were in need of proper medical care, she added. Meanwhile, COVID-19 testing commenced at Ispat General Hospital, Rourkela and Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar on Wednesday.  COVID-19 hospital Further, another exclusive COVID-19 hospital with 200 beds was made operational in Subarnapur district taking the number of such hospitals to 21 in 19 districts, increasing the number of beds to 3620. Besides, as many as 7034 temporary medical centres/camps have been completed in 6798 gram panchayats in the State with 1,63,528 beds, according to an official release. With Bhubaneswar emerging as the hotspot in Odisha with 45 COVID-19 cases detected so far, the government has assigned senior administration officials to be in overall charges of containment and prevention of the disease in the city.
16 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Curbs right medicine with painful side effects’||Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Wednesday said the nationwide lockdown is “the right medicine at the right time but with painful side effects which need to be attended to immediately before they become more dangerous than the disease itself”. “The poor, especially the daily wage earners, are the worst affected by these side effects and need immediate care. The other low income groups are also not far behind,” he said. The Shiromani Akali Dal leader lauded “the sense of national responsibility” shown by the people who responded wholeheartedly every single time Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked them to. “People have done their duty. Now, it is time for governments to ensure that their hardships are fully attended to,” he said. Describing poverty, unemployment and economic slowdown as three immediate, mid-term and long-term side effects of the pandemic, Mr. Badal called for a “graded strategy to fight all three”. The former Chief Minister said though the lockdown was the only option available to the government, “six weeks was a long time for the poor to survive without income, and particularly without regular supply of food”. ‘Efficient delivery’ “Most of us are not even familiar with the hardships faced by the poor even under normal circumstances. But now, their plight is desperate and needs to be the nation’s immediate and number one priority. Everything else can wait,” said Mr. Badal, adding that the government machinery must be more effective and more efficient in delivery of services, especially food supplies, to the poor. Mr. Badal said that the government must understand and respect the strong natural and human urge of the beleaguered millions to be in their ancestral homes with their families during this tough period. “Governments must provide safe modes of travel to the migrants and others to go back to their homes, especially if the lockdown is to be extended further,” said Mr. Badal. He described “containing and fighting unemployment” as the urgent long-term necessity. The Akali leader emphasised the need for ensuring hassle-free harvesting and procurement of the wheat crop and said that the governments must ensure that no one engaged in these operations is harassed. He urged the Centre to give a “significant bonus” on wheat.
16 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Congress targets Haryana govt.||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday said that the last-minute reduction of mustard crop purchase centres has exposed the Haryana government’s failure and ill-preparedness for crop procurement. Mr. Surjewala alleged that the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party government has left farmers in the lurch and is giving stepmotherly treatment to them. “The government did not make any timely preparations and arrangements for crop procurement despite repeated requests from the Congress. It seems their priority is to get liquor factories running instead of ensuring smooth procurement of wheat and mustard. Sadly, the proof has come on the first day of the mustard procurement,” he said. Referring to the two Food and Supplies Department, Haryana orders dated April 11 and April 13, Mr. Surjewala said that the earmarked 192 procurement centres were reduced to 163 just before start of the mustard procurement. Mr. Surjewala said the government should answer the pertinent question on where farmers should go and when they would they get to know about their new procurement centres.
16 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||2 more cases in Punjab, tally now 186||Punjab on Wednesday reported 2 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the total tally to 186 in the State, according to government statement.  13 deaths in the State State health department said out of the two cases reported on April 15, one is from Patiala and the other is from Sangrur districts. Till now, Punjab has seen 13 virus related deaths, while 27 patients have recovered. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, meanwhile said 25 police officers have been selected across districts for the coveted ‘Director General of Police Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’ for their exceptional community service on the frontlines of the COVID-19 operations and response in the Sate.
16 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||BKU seeks economic package for farmers||The Bhartiya Kisan Union has demanded a comprehensive economic package for farmers and has appealed to peasants to celebrate the International Farmers’ Day on April 17 by clicking and sharing their photographs while cleaning their farming equipment with the Prime Minister, Chief Ministers and the media on the social media at 5 p.m. “Farmers should remain at home, work in fields but they should not remain quiet,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU. “To fight the COVID 19, we demand from the government a separate package of Rs. 1.5 lakh crores for the farmers,” he urged. The pandemic, he said, had proved the weakness of the industry-oriented economy. “In these adverse conditions, farmers are feeding crores across the world. Hence governments should guarantee the safety of the interests of farmers,” Mr Tikait remarked.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pandemic fight needs civil society support’||Aditi Singh is District Magistrate of Hapur district in Uttar Pradesh, which has so far escaped the worst ravages of COVID-19. In an email interview with The Hindu, Ms. Singh provides a picture of what governance amounts to on the ground in the days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Excerpts:      Hapur has reported few COVID-19 cases so far. Why is the figure so low in Hapur when it is close to hotspots like Meerut and Noida?  Presently, Hapur has 16 confirmed positive cases with eight hotspots. From the second week of March, we were receiving information from the State health department and local sources regarding people with foreign travel history. In the last five weeks, 150 persons were actively tracked, examined by medical teams and home quarantined for 14 days. To prevent violation, notices were pasted outside their homes with names and dates of persons quarantined to generate social awareness and pressure and discouraging them from leaving their homes during quarantine period. In case of repeat violators, stricter legal measures were adopted such as registering FIRs, one in Garh and three in Hapur tehsils respectively. Forty mobile medical teams have been proactively surveying urban and rural areas for inter-State and inter-district travellers leading to the tracking and home quarantine of 6,673 persons in the last four-five weeks. Further, active surveillance of persons under home quarantine is being done over phone through temporary call centres set up at the district level. Also, urban local bodies and Panchayati Raj sanitation workers have been instructed to dispose of household waste from all quarantined homes as biomedical waste after segregation. Intensive sanitisation with hypochlorite solution is being done across the district by local bodies. What are the profiles of these cases? Have you done contact tracing? All nine positive cases are of male patients ranging from ages 15-71 who belong to cluster from a religious gathering in New Delhi. So far 72 persons have been traced in the district from this congregation. A total of 343 of their contacts were traced by us through local sources and surveillance techniques. Of these, 140 high-risk contacts have been kept in hospital quarantine wards and 203 low-risk contacts are in tehsil quarantine centres.  How is the administration providing door-to-door services in the hotspots? Are you facing any challenges in that given that U.P. has dense populations and a stretched administration?  Presently, we have eight hotspots where doorstep delivery of food, medicines and other essential commodities is being done through district supply office, food safety and drug administration office, and mandi parishad. A total of 40 PDS ration dealers, 173 people for delivering milk, and 367 mobile vans, e-rickshaws, tractors, and hand-drawn carts are being utilised to deliver fruits, vegetables, medicines and other essential items. Magistrates and police force have to be deployed to regulate public activities and ensure social distancing which is a challenge. Some streets in city area being very narrow also pose a challenge in delivering foodgrains.  On Monday, there was a video circulated of a weeping old woman not getting food in the Hapur Collectorate. Following some TV reports, the administration provided food to her. Was there some kind of a lapse in the system? How are you ensuring that the poor, homeless and unemployed get fed?  On Monday, a group of women including Dharmawati (woman shown in the video), Usha, Riya and their family members who reside in a locality called Ganeshpura in Hapur city had gone to SDM Hapur’s office in Hapur Nagar Palika premises. According to the Hapur SDM, they came around 10 a.m. and spoke to a Home Guard named Ramreek, posted in Commandant Home Guards’ office, asking for food. He informed them that cooked food arrives there between 11 a.m.-12 noon and will be provided by tehsil authorities then. Meanwhile, there were some media persons observing this exchange who took the group of women aside and recorded their interview. Both SDM and Tehsildar Hapur were in the field during this time ensuring containment activity in hotspots. When the matter came to the knowledge of tehsil authorities around 12 noon, the Hapur Tehsildar promptly reached the spot and provided cooked food packets which had by then been prepared. Additionally, both the SDM and Tehsildar were sent by me to Dharmawati’s house in the afternoon to provide dry ration packets to her and her neighbour, which will be replenished as per requirement. For homeless persons, four shelter homes, one in each urban local body, have been set up. Officials have been asked to carry out a daily survey and ensure no homeless persons are left sleeping on footpaths or in railway/bus stations. Till now, 35 homeless persons have been shifted to Hapur and Garh Nagarpalika shelter homes where their daily medical check-up is conducted and food is being provided. For poor and unemployed persons, five community kitchens are being run by district authorities and nine NGOs have been permitted to distribute cooked food packets and dry rations. A total of 1,36,789 food packets have been distributed in the district since March 26. Of these about 90,000 food packets have been distributed with the help of civil society groups. Additionally, the State government had announced direct beneficiary transfer of Rs.1,000 per month to registered workers of labour department and unemployed daily wagers living in cities. Under these schemes, we’ve covered 7,843 and 6,012 persons in both categories respectively during lockdown and are continuing to add more beneficiaries. Also, free ration is being provided to 25,577 beneficiaries including MGNREGS card holders for the next three months. We also have a district control room functioning 24x7 in the Collectorate where public can register any complaint through helpline number 0122-2304834.  Are any of the positive cases in Hapur linked to the migrants who came from Delhi and other States?  No.   Have there been any incidents of migrants kept under quarantine leaving from these centres? There have been such reports from Azamgarh, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Sultanpur and other districts. What is the reason, according to you? And what are you doing to ensure such things don ’ t take place here?   When migrants started moving out from Delhi-NCR on March 24 evening after announcement of the lockdown, we received instructions from the State government that no migrant workers should be left stranded and to facilitate them in reaching their homes. A total of 12,157 migrants who were on foot were ferried by us through UPSRTC buses between March 25-29. Presently, there are no migrant workers staying in our tehsil quarantine centres. However, we do get information from time to time regarding migrant workers from other States living within factory premises in industrial areas of district. In such cases, officers are sent to enquire about their well-being and provided food as per their requirement either by administration or factory owners.    Are the quarantine centres well-equipped? The Additional Chief Secretary (Home) had said DMs could change food menus and even instal TVs for entertainment. Anything on the cards in Hapur? Presently, our six quarantine centres have 203 low-risk contacts of positive patients. These are being run in educational institutions, which we have temporarily acquired for this purpose. They are regularly inspected by me and subordinate officers to check quality of food being served, sanitation, electricity supply, supply of personal hygiene items and we speak to them to further ascertain their requirements. Also, round-the-clock magisterial and police duties have been deployed to prevent any untoward incidents.  In case of a sudden spurt in cases, is the district medical system well-equipped to deal with it in terms of isolation beds, PPEs and ventilators?  In order to gear up our healthcare system, we’ve converted the Community Health Centre, Hapur, into a 30-bed facility with trained medical personnel. The District Hospital has a 100-bed [CHC-level] attached facility for asymptomatic positive cases. Three private medical colleges of the district have readied 50 isolation beds, 87 ICU beds, and 698 quarantine beds. Fifty-one ventilators and 464 PPE kits, 2,408 N95 masks, 11,119 gloves, 10,744 triple-layer masks, 2,671 hand sanitisers are currently available with the health department. All health personnel and quarantined persons exposed to positive cases are being administered prophylactic dose of hydroxychloroquine phosphate. Timely supply of VTM [Viral Transport Medium] and PPE kits have to be closely monitored due to high demand. We’re trying to enhance our testing capacity for better containment. This pandemic cannot be combated without active and meaningful cooperation between government and civil society. Any person in the district who either needs food or has not got the benefits as per eligibility can approach the district administration and her grievances would be addressed swiftly.
16 April 2020||ROHTAK,||Amid lockdown, Rohtak boy marries Mexican girl||Fond of languages, he wanted to learn Spanish. She was keen on English. The two, thus, happened to meet on a language learning app four years ago and fell for each other. Transcending geographical boundaries, Niranjan, a resident of Rohtak, eventually married Danna Zahory, a Mexican woman, on April 13, amid the lockdown. “She is very, very innocent,” stressed Niranjan, 22, when asked what he liked the most about Danna, 21. A head waiter, Niranjan joined “Hello Talk”, a language app, in 2015 to learn a new language and the two ended up being partners. “She wanted to learn English. I was interested in Spanish. Since the app requires us to choose a learning partner, we chose each other. Gradually, we began talking and developed a liking. I spoke to her parents as well. In 2017, her family visited India and was impressed by the welcome accorded to them and the hospitality. They liked the Indian culture as well,” said Niranjan. Though the concept of “engagement” was alien to Danna and her family, she readily agreed when told that this way Niranjan would be “reserved” for her. Niranjan, however, recalled that they had a tough time maintaining the long-distance relationship for almost two years because of different time zones. With the Indian Standard Time around 13 hours ahead of Mexico, the two would find it difficult to talk. Her family finally came to Rohtak on February 11 and they applied for court marriage a week later. But as the old proverb goes, “there’s many a slip ’twixt the cup and the lip”. One of the witnesses failed to make it on the slated day, March 18, and the wedding was postponed till March 23. However, the Haryana government announced lockdown in seven districts a day before the wedding was scheduled and it was again put on hold. “We then made a special request demanding that the wedding be solemnised at the earliest since it was already postponed twice,” said Niranjan. And the administration accepted the plea. Saying that he did not care for what the people had to say, Niranjan said that his parents and grandparents were happy. The couple plans to settle in Mexico after spending a few months in India.
16 April 2020||Geneva,||Trump under fire for attacking WHO||Global efforts to join forces against the COVID-19 pandemic faltered on Wednesday after U.S. President Donald Trump froze funding for the World Health Organization, igniting a chorus of criticism from world leaders who urged solidarity in the face of a crippling economic crisis. Mr. Trump’s shock move came as a patchwork of countries experiment with loosening lockdown measures, ushering the planet into a new and uncertain phase of a pandemic that has killed more than 1,25,000 people worldwide and infected at least two million. In Europe, Denmark became the first country on the badly-hit continent to start reopening schools, while Finland lifted a travel blockade on the Helsinki region. Italy and Spain have also allowed some businesses to restart after signs both are finally flattening the curve. But as governments launch into delicate debates of how to jump-start economies without triggering new waves of infection, Mr. Trump rattled efforts at global solidarity by ramping up his blame-game with the WHO and halting funds to the agency. Fired back Leaders around the globe fired back at the U.S. President, who initially downplayed the dangers of a virus that has now killed more people in the U.S. than any other country. “There is no time to waste,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Twitter following Mr. Trump’s decision, adding that the organisation’s “singular focus is on working to serve all people to save lives and stop the COVID-19 pandemic”. Mr. Trump also earned a rebuke from UN chief Antonio Guterres and billionaire Bill Gates, who tweeted that cutting funding was “as dangerous as it sounds”. Beijing, who has been the focus of Mr. Trump’s finger-pointing for weeks, warned the move would “undermine the international cooperation” at a “critical moment” in the pandemic. The European Union’s foreign policy leader Josep Borrell was similarly disapproving of a move he said lacked any justification, while African Union chief Moussa Faki Mahamat condemned Mr. Trump’s decision as “deeply regrettable”. The controversy erupted as the world is trying to soften the blow of a looming economic catastrophe, which the International Monetary Fund has said could see $9 trillion wiped from the global economy in the worst downturn since the 1930s Great Depression. Underlining the point, Europe’s powerhouse Germany has been in recession since March, the government said Wednesday. Economy contracts The virus-hit Chinese economy probably contracted for the first time in around three decades in the first quarter, according to an AFP poll of economists. With tentative hope the pandemic could be past its peak in some European hotspots, countries are gradually lifting restrictions – to mixed reception. Children started returning to nurseries, kindergartens and primary schools in parts of Denmark, where other measures, such as the closing of borders, bars, restaurants remained in place. Finland’s PM Sanna Marin also lifted a travel ban in the Helsinki region even as she urged residents to continue avoiding movement, saying “now is not the right time to go to the summer cottage”. Italy is allowing bookshops, launderettes, stationers and children’s clothing retailers to reopen. And Spain, which saw another dip in its daily death toll, has permitted work to start some factories and construction sites, though most people remain under strict stay-at-home measures.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How pandemics have changed the world||Pandemics have had great influence in shaping human society and politics throughout history. From the Justinian Plague of sixth century to the Spanish flu of last century, pandemics have triggered the collapse of empires, weakened pre-eminent institutions, created social upheavals and brought down wars. Here’s a look at some of the deadliest pandemics and how they influenced the course of human history. Justinian Plague One of the deadliest pandemics in recorded history broke out in the sixth century in Egypt and spread fast to Constantinople, which was the capital of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire. The plague was named after the then Byzantine Emperor Justinian. The outbreak, which spread from Constantinople to both the West and East, had killed up to 25 to 100 million people. The plague hit Constantinople when the Byzantine Empire was at the pinnacle of its power under Justinian’s reign. The Empire had conquered much of the historically Roman Mediterranean coast, including Italy, Rome and North Africa. The plague would come back in different waves, finally disappearing in AD 750, after weakening the empire substantially. As the Byzantine Army failed to recruit new soldiers and ensure military supplies to battlegrounds in the wake of the spread of the illness, their provinces came under attack. By the time plague disappeared, the Empire had lost territories in Europe to the Germanic-speaking Franks and Egypt and Syria to the Arabs. Black Death The Black Death, or pestilence, that hit Europe and Asia in the14th century was the deadliest pandemic recorded in human history. It killed some 75 to 200 million people. The plague arrived in Europe in 1347, where up to 50% of the population died of the disease. In the words of Stanford historian Walter Scheidel, pandemics are one of the “four horsemen” that have flattened inequality. The other three are wars, revolutions and state failures. In his book, The Great Leveller ”, Mr. Scheidel writes how the Black Death led to improved wages for serfs and agricultural labourers. “Land became more abundant relative to labour [after the death of millions of working people]. Landowners stood to lose, and workers could hope to gain,” he writes. In parts of Europe, wages tripled as labour demand rose. The most significant impact of the Black Death was perhaps the weakening of the Catholic Church. The Church was as helpless as any other institutions as the plague spread like wildfire across the continent, which shook the people’s faith in Church and the clergy. While Church would continue to remain as a powerful institution, it would never regain the power and influence it had enjoyed before the outbreak of the plague. The Protestant Reformation in the 16th century would further weaken the Church. Spanish Flu Spanish Flu, which broke out during the last phase of First World War, was the deadliest pandemic of the last century that killed up to 50 million people. One of the major impacts of the outbreak was on the result of the war. Though the flu hit both sides, the Germans and Austrians were affected so badly that the outbreak derailed their offensives. German General Erich Ludendorff in his memoir, My War Memories, 1914-18 , wrote that the flu was one of the reasons for Germany’s defeat. Germany launched its Spring Offensive on the western front in March 1918. By June and July, the disease had weakened the German units. The Armistice was signed on November 11, 1918 that ended the War. But the flu continues to ravage parts of the world for many more months. COVID-19 It’s too early to say how COVID-19 would change the world. But the outbreak has seen countries, both democratic and dictatorial, imposing drastic restrictions on people’s movements. The western world lies exposed to the attack of the virus. Unemployment rate in the U.S. has shot up to the levels not seen since the end of Second World War. Governments across the world, including the U.S. administration, are beefing up spending to stimulate an economy that shows signs of depression. Radical changes, good or bad, are already unfolding.
16 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Roping in Army to fight virus||Some 10,000 frontline health workers in Sri Lanka are working tirelessly to arrest the spread of COVID-19 that has affected 237 people and claimed seven lives until Wednesday. Partnering them in their response to the public health crisis is the Sri Lankan military, playing many roles from contact-tracing to running quarantine centres to distributing relief. As soon as the Epidemiology Unit of the Ministry of Health hears from a designated laboratory of a positive case, its staff activate “case search” among the infected person’s close contacts, doctors attached to the unit said. The “activation” essentially involves informing the military and State Intelligence Service immediately, who then proceed to trace those who had been in contact with the patient, and direct them to quarantine, Dr. Deepa Gamage, Consultant Epidemiologist, told The Hindu . Doctors underscore the military’s efforts in stepping up the national response to the pandemic. But they also point to the public health system’s track record and its strengths particularly in preventive community medicine that are proving valuable at this time. Sri Lanka’s Health Ministry has earmarked ‘Medical Officer of Health’ (MOH) areas across the island of 21 million, to provide preventive health services at a community level, through a team of medical officers, public health nurses, health inspectors and midwives. “It [MOH area] was started in 1926 and then expanded. So, we have these networks and a system in place, going back nearly a century, especially in the area of maternal and child health care,” said Dr. Manuj C. Weerasinghe, head of Department of Community Medicine, University of Colombo. Critics of militarisation If that is the case, does the public health sector really need military assistance to combat COVID-19 now is a question that critics of militarisation ask. Dr. Weerasinghe thinks it does. “A pandemic requires rapid action. Military has the capacity and the resources — they are able to run quarantine centres [the military runs 54 centres, say official sources], and maintain supply chains. The public health sector working hand-in-hand with the military has shown results now, hasn’t it,” he said, pointing to Sri Lanka’s relatively low number of positive cases, that sceptics attribute to “low testing”. The military was officially roped into Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 response mid-March, a week after the first local tested positive. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa set up a ‘National Operation Center for Prevention of COVID- 19 Outbreak’ led by Army Commander Shavendra Silva. “Placing an army General at the helm of the campaign against the epidemic is as inane as asking a medical doctor with zero-military training to lead a war,” columnist Tisaranee Gunasekara wrote in Groundviews.org, a Colombo-based civic media portal. But, some Sri Lankan leaders and their supporters have repeatedly likened the pandemic to a “war”, sparking discomfort among sections — especially the Tamil minority that bore the brunt of the actual civil war. Further, local media reports have highlighted the police and Army’s efforts to track down those reportedly in hiding, and evading quarantine. The Sunday Times newspaper reported that the State Intelligence Service is leading the contact-tracing effort that involves perusal of immigration records and data analysis. Meanwhile, the Acting Inspector General of Police directed the Criminal Investigation Department to take stern action against those who spread false information or launch “malicious attacks on public servants” involved in essential services, raising concern over the space for free expression. It is not as if medical professionals don’t have a say. They play a key role in decision making and charting out the action plan, senior doctors in the public health sector and outside the system said. But when the future course isn’t clear, many questions emerge, said Dr. R. Surenthirakumaran, attached to the Department of Community Medicine, University of Jaffna, referring the economic problems and the continuing curfew. “It is true that there are limits to the capacity of public health officials. The military has the resources. But just because they seem efficient, do we allow the military to take charge?” he asked, adding: “this is not a war”.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||China sat on pandemic news for 6 days||In the six days after top Chinese officials secretly determined they likely were facing a pandemic from a new coronavirus, the city of Wuhan, which was the epicentre of the disease, hosted a mass banquet for tens of thousands of people; millions began travelling through for Lunar New Year celebrations. President Xi Jinping warned the public on the seventh day, January 20. But by that time, more than 3,000 people had been infected during almost a week of public silence, according to internal documents obtained by AP and expert estimates.  But the delay by the first country to face the new coronavirus came at a critical time — the beginning of the outbreak. China’s attempt to avoid panic set the stage for a pandemic that has infected almost 2 million people and taken more than 1,25,000 lives. “If they took action six days earlier, there would have been much fewer patients and medical facilities would have been sufficient. We might have avoided the collapse of Wuhan’s medical system,” said Zuo-Feng Zhang, an epidemiologist at the University of California. Other experts noted that the Chinese government may have waited on warning the public to stave off hysteria, and that it did act quickly in private during that time. But the six-day delay by China’s leaders in Beijing came on top of almost two weeks during which the national Center for Disease Control did not register any cases from local officials, internal bulletins obtained by the AP confirm. Yet during that time, from January 5 to January 17, hundreds of patients were appearing in hospitals not just in Wuhan but across the country. It’s uncertain whether it was local officials who failed to report cases or national officials who failed to record them. Under Mr. Xi, China’s most authoritarian leader in decades, increasing political repression has made officials hesitant to report cases without a clear green light from the top. “It really increased the stakes for officials, which made them reluctant to step out of line,” said Daniel Mattingly, a scholar of Chinese politics at Yale. “It made it harder for local officials to report bad information.”
16 April 2020||Washington,||Google launches ‘journalism relief fund’||Google said on Wednesday it will launch an emergency fund to help local news outlets struggling to maintain operations in the face of the pandemic. The internet giant gave no specific figure for its fund, but said it would offer grants ranging from the “low thousands of dollars” for the smallest operations to “low tens of thousands for larger newsrooms.” The move comes with the media sector facing deep cutbacks resulting from lockdowns, an intense economic slump and a retrenchment in advertising revenues that many news outlets depend on. The New York Times has estimated that news outlets have cut 28,000 jobs as a result of the health crisis and subsequent economic impact. Facebook on March 30 said it was donating $100 million to support news organizations globally hurting from the coronavirus pandemic.
16 April 2020||Brasţlia,||99-year-old war veteran beats virus||A 99-year-old Second World War veteran in Brazil was released from hospital with military honours on Tuesday after recovering from the coronavirus. Second Lieutenant Ermando Piveta, who served in the Brazilian artillery in Africa during the Second World War, was brought out of Brasilia’s Armed Forces Hospital to trumpet music and applause.
16 April 2020||OAKLAND,||Google, FB may be facing an ad slump||Google’s and Facebook’s advertising businesses, which have roughly tripled in combined size over the past five years, may be headed for a rare stumble as the pandemic pushes the global economy into a tailspin. Once-abundant travel and entertainment ads have all but disappeared from Google search. The prices for Facebook advertisements are at record lows. And Wall Street analysts are estimating that annual revenues will decline for the first time in the history of the two companies. The prices of Facebook ads have declined 35% to 50% on average in recent weeks, said Alex Palmer, an analyst for Gupta Media, a digital marketing agency. “Our business is being adversely affected like so many others,” Alex Schultz and Jay Parikh, Facebook vice-presidents, wrote in a company blog post in March. ‘Sensitive events’ Google said it had started a “sensitive events” policy last month, which restricts ads on coronavirus content. On March 9, it also placed a temporary ban on ads selling masks, citing a supply shortage for medical professionals. But mask ads served by Google continue to appear on publisher websites. There are also ads served by Google for hand sanitiser and disinfectant wipes from e-commerce sites offering a wide selection of masks and other items in short supply at significant markups. Facebook banned the placement of predatory ads for masks, sanitisers and other personal protective gear, and it eliminated nearly all mask ads across the social network.NY Times
16 April 2020||Washington,||Warren endorses Biden for President||Former White House hopeful Elizabeth Warren on Wednesday endorsed her one-time rival Joe Biden, becoming the final major Democratic candidate to publicly support his presidential bid. The formal backing from Ms. Warren comes a day after former President Barack Obama endorsed Mr. Biden.AFP
16 April 2020||Berlin,||Berlin, April 15, 2020 (AFP) -||German police have arrested five Tajik nationals on suspicion that they belonged to an Islamic State terror cell planning attacks on U.S. forces stationed in Germany, prosecutors said on Wednesday. Four of the suspects were arrested after raids at several apartments in North Rhine-Westphalia. Another suspect was held earlier.AFP
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Cease the distractions, seize the moment||The government has issued two ordinances, Parliament has modified its rules to reduce the salary and allowances of Members of Parliament and Ministers, and the Union Cabinet has decided to cancel the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years. These measures are purportedly to save costs as the nation tackles the COVID-19 pandemic. Cosmetic cuts The cuts in salaries and allowances are a distraction from the real issue: are our parliamentarians performing their constitutional roles during the crisis? Let us quickly consider the impact of the cuts. The 30% cut in the Rs. 1 lakh per month salary and the Rs. 27,000 cut in office and constituency allowances amount to savings of less than Rs. 5 crore per month. The cut in sumptuary allowances for Ministers results in a total savings of Rs. 25,000 per month; yes, you read that right. These amounts are immaterial for the Central government with an average monthly budget of Rs. 2.5-lakh crore. Interestingly, the United Kingdom has increased the allowance for Members of Parliament by £10,000 to help them manage extra costs of working from home. During the crisis, Members of Parliament should be deliberating on the actions and policies to be taken to manage the epidemic, and the costs and consequences of various alternatives. They should also be trying to figure out ways to have committee meetings and even the meetings of the full House through alternate mechanisms such as video-conferencing. For example, while the U.K. has also implemented a lockdown, its Parliament is connecting all Members through video-conferencing (by April 15) so that the session can resume virtually on April 21 after the Easter break. The British Parliament has created a page on its website tracking all government orders related to the pandemic, and its Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee is scrutinising the orders. Other Parliaments are also working to fulfil their role as oversight bodies. The New Zealand Parliament has formed an Epidemic Response Committee that will examine the government’s management of the epidemic. This committee and other select committees are meeting through video-conference. Parliament absent The Indian Parliament adjourned on March 23, the day after the janata curfew, in view of the pandemic. In the previous week, even as the crisis was unfolding, Parliament was debating the establishment of a Sanskrit University and an Ayurveda institute, and that of regulatory boards for aircraft, Indian Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy. The Finance Bill was passed without any discussion on the last day. There was no discussion on the possible implications of the coronavirus epidemic and policy measures to tackle it — this was the week when the Prime Minister made the first televised speech to the nation on the issue. Remarkably, there was no recognition of the pressures on the Budget when it was passed that week. Since then, Parliament has not held committee meetings. There have been no official statements regarding the possibility of holding these through video-conference. Thus, the government’s actions are going unchecked. In brief, Parliament has abdicated its role as the elected body that checks the work of government on behalf of citizens. Instead, we get the symbolic gesture of reductions in pay and allowances. Good move on MPLADS The cancellation of MPLADS for two years, on the other hand, is a welcome move. This scheme should not be resumed after the crisis. In financial terms, there are savings of nearly Rs. 4,000 crore per year. While this is not insignificant, the larger benefit is that this will help Members of Parliament focus on their roles as national legislators. MPLADS creates several issues of accountability and jurisdiction. It impinges on separation of powers, both horizontally across different organs of state, and vertically across different levels of governance. Other than making laws, Members of Parliament have two key duties. They sanction the size and allocation of the government budget. They also hold the government accountable for its work, including that of spending funds appropriately. MPLADS brings in a conflict in both these roles. It asks them to identify and get specific projects executed rather than to focus on policy measures to achieve the same results and ensure that the government is implementing those policies. It distracts them from allocating and monitoring the Union Budget of Rs. 30-lakh crore to micro-managing the constituency fund of Rs. 5 crore. And since the financial audit of MPLADS is done by the Comptroller and Auditor-General and further examined by the Public Accounts Committee consisting of Members of Parliament, it adds another layer of conflict. MPLADS is typically spent on capital works at the local level such as a bus stop, hand pumps, school rooms, etc. These fall within the domain of the panchayats and municipalities. Members of these bodies are elected to perform an executive role. MPLADS transforms the Member of Parliament from a legislator looking at national issues to an executive solving hyper-local problems. After all, if Members of Parliament spend a large part of their time on work that should be done by local-level government, how would they have time to inform themselves while making national laws and checking the work of the Central government? Scope for reform The current crisis provides several opportunities for reform. For example, Parliament should explore how technology can be used to improve its efficiency. Much of the daily paper work such as filing questions and other interventions have been digitised while protocols and infrastructure may be needed if meetings have to be held through secure video-conferencing. Other issues such as pay and allowances for Members of Parliament need to be discussed. The Members of Parliament should be provided with office space and research staff. They should be compensated in line with their duties as national legislators. For example, the pay (Rs. 1 lakh per month) and allowances (Rs. 1.3 lakh per month) pale in comparison to that of U.S. Senators (pay $174,000 per annum plus allowances over $3 million per annum). At the same time, hidden perks such as housing in central Delhi must be made transparent — few democracies provide housing for legislators or civil servants; they are paid well and expected to find housing on their own. We need public debates on issues that impact the working of our legislatures. We need to ensure that we have the right compensation structures to attract the best people to make our laws and policies. We also need to hold them accountable for their work as national legislators, i.e., the positions they took on various issues and how they ensured the government remained accountable for its actions. Distractions such as MPLADS must be done away with. After all, a representative democracy functions only as well as its legislatures do. And our freedoms are safe only if we have a robust legislature and a fiercely independent judiciary. M.R. Madhavan is President of PRS Legislative Research, New Delhi
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||End the harassment of farmers now||Drafting orders without caring for implementation seems to be the nature of governance during the period of lockdown. An order dated March 28 said all agricultural, horticultural activities and those relating to harvesting, transportation, procurement, mandis, farming operations and the like are exempted from the lockdown. The order was made so that “harvesting would continue uninterrupted.” The exempted categories included “agencies engaged in procurement of agriculture products, including MSP operations; mandis; farmers and farm workers in the field; custom hiring centres related to farm machinery; manufacturing and packaging units of fertilizers, pesticides and seeds; and intra- and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing-related machines.” The order went on to say that “this decision has been taken with a view to facilitate unhindered activities related to agriculture and farming so as to ensure essential supplies and that farmers and common people do not face any difficulty.” In a press release on March 27, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordinating Committee (AIKSCC), in a representation to the government, had asked the police not to stop peasants and said “there should be no harassment and violence against peasants, farmers, vendors and transporters.” The committee demanded that all harvested crops, milk, poultry, meat and eggs should be procured and that regulated markets should operate at requisite strength, failing which, the panel feared, village-level procurement and supply “will rot and ruin the producer farmers.” Harvesting winter crops Similarly, on April 1, the AIKSCC, in its letter to the Chief Minister of Punjab, warned that “these are the peak days of harvesting winter crops, wheat, barley, pulses and seeds; but all the farmers/workers are shut behind the doors. Sir, who will harvest the crops? What will be the fate of vegetables/fruit growers particularly the high value perishable crops, these can hardly be stored. With no means to transport, god knows what will be their fate. Imagine the fate of milk producers and of poultry. The unfortunate peasants are forced to spill milk in the canals. The poultry farmers don’t know what to do with their products. The landless labourers and their families have absolutely no work. Who will provide them food on their plate?” In Madhya Pradesh, the Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA) wrote to the Chief Secretary that despite the lifting of the lockdown, “all mandis at district level are closed,” and complained that when farmers sent tarbooz (water melons), oranges and grapes to the mandis, the gates were closed and they had to return on foot. Hence, the traders were refusing to come to the fields to collect their produce. The NBA found it ironic that migrant labourers were facing starvation while agricultural and horticultural produce was rotting in the fields. The All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS), in its letter dated April 4, to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, complained that “farmers have suffered losses in their mustard crop which could not be harvested in time and the local police have stopped the peasants from reaching their fields and harvesting and transporting the crop.” It warned that “we are looking at a very severe crisis in the coming days if this attitude continues. It will lead to a major crisis in food availability and may result in large numbers of hunger deaths.” The panel pointed out that five lakh migrant labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh work in Punjab. However, many of them ran away due to the police. In Odisha, the panel pointed out that MGNREGA has completely stopped, forcing lakhs of rural workers into distress. “Everything can wait” it warned, “but not farming as a season lost means a year is lost.” Assaults on forest dwellers Equally ominous are the assaults on tribals and non-tribal forest dwellers by the police and officials in all the tribal areas of the country. Forest produce is by nature inherently seasonal. Officials have interfered with the collection of non-timber forest produce, as allowed by the Forest Rights Act, causing hunger and distress to millions of tribals. Overzealous policemen and officials have lathi-charged farm workers and interfered with the movement of agricultural produce to the mandis. If harvesting is interrupted, if transportation of produce is halted on account of vehicles with passes not being available, if farmers and farm workers are lathi-charged on their way to work and if the mandis do not operate at full strength, there could be an unprecedented food crisis. The judiciary must carefully review its approach of meekly following the executive while the latter makes blunder after blunder. The lockdown was introduced irrationally without ensuring the continuation of provisions statutorily mandated under the National Food Security Act, 2013. Consequently, the anganwadis were closed in panic and supplementary nutrition for children below 6 years and for pregnant women, lactating mothers and adolescent girls came to an immediate stop. Chaos continued until the government issued an order, dated March 30, acknowledging “that in many States/UTs [Union Territories], the anganwadi centres are closed”. Hurriedly, patchwork activities began, which resulted in provision of take-home rations, instead of hot, cooked meals. Tens of thousands of those below the poverty line suffered terribly. Similarly, the mid-day meal, which reaches millions of school-going students, was abruptly discontinued. The provision of Rs. 6,000 to every pregnant woman and lactating mother, mandated under the Maternity Benefit Act, also virtually came to an end. Imperial in its announcement and in its execution, the lockdown caused untold pain to the poor. A hastily imposed lockdown This is not to say that some form of a lockdown was unnecessary; however, the harshness and arbitrariness and lack of thought and preparation in its execution was certainly avoidable. It is typical of governments run dictatorially and with lack of transparency that when mistakes are made, they turn out to be gigantic and irreversible. Further, to stifle criticism, we are now told by no less than the Solicitor General that it is not in public interest to highlight the human suffering and that the government’s point of view should be accepted without demur because the crisis demands that everyone falls in line. What the learned law officer fails to understand is that Indians may be poor, and sometimes gullible, but they are not sheep to always fall in line with a military-like command. They have reserves of democratic resistance that will in the coming months perhaps surprise this government. Starvation deaths on account of hunger and merciless police beatings have been reported from across the country. The judiciary must now shift track. For some time, the courts have deferred to the government in view of the unprecedented crisis. But now, with the crisis spreading to agriculture, the judiciary must abandon this hands-off approach. Colin Gonsalves is a senior advocate at the Supreme Court
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting the containment strategy in India right||The novel coronavirus infection is extremely contagious and spreads fast through respiratory droplets and contaminated surfaces. Although a very high proportion of infected individuals (around 85%) have mild symptoms, the sheer number of people infected means that large numbers become seriously ill. Social distancing and frequent handwashing were advised to slow the spread. Countries with well-established social security systems used lockdowns as a desperate measure. Unplanned step In India, the lockdown was sudden and not accompanied by effective social security measures. Migrant workers, in their millions, crowded into any available means of transport to return to their homes. No social distancing was possible. Many lakhs walked long distances to return home with little food and water. The morbidity and mortality that this has caused can only be guessed. It is likely that the virus has been carried to the hinterland which was largely protected since the virus was brought into India by air travellers. The concept that the social situation forms an integral part of disease, most commonly attributed to the German pathologist Rudolf Virchow, came into prominence once again after the Second World War. Response to a pandemic has some worldwide elements, but it also has elements particular to countries. An effective response in India must consider not only the behaviour of the pathogen but also the socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of the country. Geoffrey Rose, a pioneer in preventive medicine wrote; “The primary determinants of disease are mainly economic and social, and therefore its remedies must also be economic and social. Medicine and politics cannot and should not be kept apart.” The pathogen in the present epidemic was identified very quickly. Only supportive treatment is available for the seriously ill. A vaccine will be ready only after the present crisis is over. India does not have the capacity to manage a large number of very sick patients simultaneously and cannot ramp up resources significantly in the short time available. Besides infrastructure, critical-care medicine requires a large number of highly skilled health-care workers. We simply do not have the numbers. The Indian Council of Medical Research performed surveillance of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness at 41 sentinel sites between February 15 and March 19. Diagnostic kits and laboratories equipped to perform the Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction test were few. This limitation has hampered efforts to get a good estimate of numbers infected in India. The extent of testing required for better estimates may never be done considering the resources required. One of the principles of screening laid down by Wilson and Jungner over 50 years ago is that the cost of case-finding (including diagnosis and treatment of patients diagnosed) should be economically balanced in relation to possible expenditure on medical care as a whole. India’s poor are vulnerable Imposing a lockdown as a means of enforcing social distancing ignores the reality that the poor have no option but to live in densely packed slums and tenements. Personal hygiene in the form of frequent handwashing is impossible in their present circumstances. The World Bank estimates that there are over 650 million poor people in India (living on less than $3.20). The current policy of geographical containment may protect the rich and the middle-class, but it ensures rapid spread of the infection among the poor because they have no chance of maintaining the recommended six feet distance. Learning from success South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Japan have been successful in containing the disease. South Korea relied on active, free and massive screening, closing schools and recommending remote working. Nearly 20,000 tests are done every day. There is widespread use of masks and sanitisers. No lockdown was imposed. In Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan, surveillance systems identified potential cases and their contacts. Diagnostic tests were developed early, and laboratory testing capacity was increased. In all these countries, costs are covered by the government. Countries which imposed lockdowns have very strong social security systems. In India, the lockdown has caused severe suffering among the poor, especially migrant workers, and has been unsuccessful in the primary objective of enforcing social distancing. The reports that over an estimated two lakh migrants returned to Uttar Pradesh after the lockdown is only the most extreme facet of the problem. Without massive support from the government, chiefly in providing adequate shelter and food to all those who need it, social distancing is impossible. At present, the burdens of quarantine, lockdown and social distancing have been left to individuals. Worse still, in many rural areas and towns, governments have shut down small private clinics. All government health staff are now concentrated on COVID-19. Important primary health-care services including maternal and child health, immunisations, deliveries and tuberculosis care are on hold. It amounts to abandoning the poor to their fates. The lockdown has imposed tremendous economic hardship on the poor, without any important benefit as they cannot practise social distancing or proper personal hygiene. If the Central government is serious about the containment strategy proposed by the Ministry of Health and saving lives irrespective of social class, it must provide economic and social resources on a massive scale. It has revealed no such plan. States and individuals cannot handle this crisis on their own. Exhortations to help oneself sound cruel when people have no means to do so. Dr. George Thomas is an orthopaedic surgeon at St. Isabel’s Hospital, Chennai
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Harmonising with nature||Aristotle Onassis counselled, “It is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light.” So, even as we observe the curfew while under a lockdown, this hiatus offers a rare opportunity to reflect and take the long view. The way society behaves after a crisis can vary significantly. Germany’s abiding obsession with fiscal discipline and aversion to inflation, even today, can be traced to lessons learned during the 1920s, when that country experienced devastating hyperinflation. In the aftermath of the Great Depression, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt unleashed a series of reforms under his New Deal that covered financial sector regulation, insurance of private savings, labour standards and the introduction of social security — lasting interventions that serve U.S. society to this day. The 9/11 attacks, and India’s own tragedy of 26/11, altered our perspectives on safety in public spaces, and we have come to accept intrusive security checks as a price we must pay. Yet, other crises seem to leave no lasting imprint even when they ought to have made a bigger impact. In a world once again awash in cheap funds, lessons from the 2008 financial sector collapse seem forgotten. Changing our outlook So will the COVID-19 pandemic change the way we behave in the years ahead? If there can be any enduring takeaway from the cost imposed by COVID-19, it must be that our much-vaunted modern and technologically sophisticated society can be humbled by nature operating at its most microscopic scale. At this scale, the speed of replication and proliferation is astounding and, within a few weeks from its first manifestation, the virus has brought a globally connected economy to a standstill, and endangered the lives of total strangers across all continents. At the same time, almost silently, at the other end of the scale, a slow but perceptible escalation of climate calamities, including more severe storms, more destructive forest fires and faster melting of glaciers, indicate a carbon-emissions-triggered crisis where nature in reacting on a macro scale. The sobering conclusion is that our armoury is inadequate to deal with either end of nature’s scale of intervention. So, what can society do, as we ponder life after the pandemic? To start with, it would help to shed some of the chutzpah that we have allowed ourselves to adopt through the 20th century — that we can develop technologies to overcome nature and re-shape our environment. There is no doubt progress in science and technology has served humanity well over centuries and they will continue to be called upon to serve society for centuries to come. What we will need, however, is an outlook that seeks to harness our knowledge of science to work in harmony with nature, rather than attempt to bulldoze it. Is this merely a romantic theory with limited practical use? Not really. NASA’s Voyager mission to explore the edge of the solar system would have been impossible with even the most powerful rockets, without leveraging the slingshot manoeuvre using the gravitational fields of planets along the way. The growing appeal of renewable power generation stems from the fact that it can harness nature without damaging it. And most doctors treating COVID-19 patients vouch for the role of healthy living and robust immune systems as the best bet, so far, to protect ourselves. Wellness advocates have a number of useful suggestions on how we may fortify our natural immunity, even as we await the development and certification of vaccines. The approach suggested is certainly not novel. When Rachel Carson advocated use of microbes to combat agricultural pests instead of harsh chemical compounds like DDT, she was at the vanguard of our growing interest in bio-control. E.F. Schumacher’s book, Small is Beautiful — A Study of Economics as if People Mattered , gained fame during the energy crisis, but quickly faded, as if that thesis did not matter anymore. Actually, in a world where the digital economy has unleashed the power for Davids to take on Goliaths, these ideas are even more relevant. In all of this, nature seems to expect of us a certain economy of consumption and gentleness of impact. A human society that is sympathetic to and in harmony with our environment, and where humans listen to and nurture their selves, may be an enduring recipe for a safer future. India has a long heritage of nurturing one’s inner self — yoga and meditation have been adopted globally as exercises for a more robust constitution. India also has a long tradition of dealing with frugality as a virtue and can easily relate to what in ancient Greece was revered as gaia — dealing with the earth as our mother. These can be timeless lessons as human society seeks closer harmony with nature, to take us on to a safer trajectory in a post COVID-19 world. V. Sumantran is the Chairman of Celeris Technologies
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||In India’s response, a communications failure||As India grapples with COVID-19, a widely prevalent belief is that the crisis is purely driven by the disease. However, the truth is that confused, and often disempowering communication, has contributed equally to our present predicament. That India has no crisis communication strategy was evident from the government’s request to the Supreme Court to curb the media from publishing or broadcasting news on the pandemic, without checking facts with them. The question then arose, was the government giving the media or the people enough information? This is a time when the government needs to be forthcoming and transparent in its communications. It should also use the media as an ally to broadcast its messages and, at the same time, take steps to pull down fake, misleading and alarmist news. Every daily briefing should be used as an opportunity for engagement, not circumvention. The more information the government gives, the less speculation and rumours will circulate. The government has done the exact opposite. It has not created even a single central repository of public information and communication that speaks credibly, directly and continuously to people. As a result, there was and remains confusion, on the transmission data and facts; on the measures to self-protect; and most importantly, on the support, if any, the government is going to offer.  Media engagement strategy The government should also have begun a media engagement strategy, along with a multilingual, information campaign on every aspect of the crisis. The response should have been communicated in painstaking detail to the implementers, the media and the public. During times of crisis, the government has to over-communicate. It, however, chose to under-communicate. Those in charge should realise that poorly communicated or insufficient information directly impacts disease control. It results in stigma, fear and poor health-seeking behaviour, and increases vulnerability. It also causes lopsided reporting, theorising and fake news. In fact, during health crises, populations absorb health information better if it is communicated frequently, and from reliable sources. This is where our communications response is failing. Also, missing in India’s approach is empathy and efforts to improve social cohesion and connectedness. The media could be a critical ally here. Already, certain communities have become the object of blame. If India continues with this approach, all it will be left with is an atmosphere which makes everyone look out for themselves. Finally, the government should stop underestimating the audience. It doesn’t seem to realise that India’s people are more vulnerable to incorrect information if the government and the media do not give them the right information first. It’s a mystery as to how with such a large and vibrant media landscape, the government wants to control information and, at the same time, give out unimaginative and disempowering messages. For a young media-centric country gripped by crisis, this strategy is all wrong. Underlying these actions is a belief that the media should report what the government wants them to and the people should trust and follow everything it says. All this even as the government keeps giving limited information. It is still not too late. The government needs to revise its media and communications strategy around the COVID-19 crisis to build an atmosphere of trust, social cohesion and purpose — where the media and people are participants. It needs to be transparent, open about its limitations and accept criticism. If the government wants to control the crisis, it needs to stop controlling the media or patronising the public. Chapal Mehra is a writer based in Delhi
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Disastrous decision||At a time when the World Health Organization has been seeking at least $675 million additional funding for critical response efforts in countries most in need during the pandemic, U.S. President Trump has done the unthinkable — halting funding to WHO while a review is conducted to assess its “role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of coronavirus” and for “failing to adequately obtain, vet, and share information in a timely and transparent fashion”. The decision comes a week after he first threatened to put funding on hold for the global health body. At over $500 million, the U.S. is WHO’s biggest contributor; America is also the worst affected country — over 0.6 million cases and nearly 26,000 deaths. But halting funding at a crucial time will not only impact the functioning of the global body but also hurt humanity. Many low and middle-income countries that look up to WHO for guidance and advice, and even for essentials such as testing kits and masks, will be badly hit for no fault of theirs. With a little over two million cases and over 1,27,000 deaths globally, the pandemic has been unprecedented in scale. When solidarity and unmitigated support from every member-state is necessary to win the war against the virus, withholding funding will not be in the best interest of any country, the U.S. included. Failures due to oversight or other reasons, by WHO or member-states can always be looked into but not in the midst of a pandemic. Contrary to what Mr. Trump claims, WHO cannot independently investigate but can only rely on individual member-states to share information. There has not been one instance when it has been found “covering up” the epidemic in China. Rather, it has been continuously urging countries to aggressively test people exhibiting symptoms and trace, quarantine and test contacts to contain the spread. It repeatedly spoke of the window of opportunity, and once warned that it is narrowing. Historically, WHO has been against travel and trade restrictions against countries experiencing outbreaks, and its position was no different when, in January, it declared COVID-19 a public health emergency of international concern. But it did support China’s large-scale mitigation measures to contain the virus spread. Faulting WHO for imaginary failings cannot help Mr. Trump wash his hands of many administrative failures in containing the epidemic. He has been blaming everyone else for his shortcomings in dealing with COVID-19. But moving beyond blaming and actually withholding WHO funding can have disastrous outcomes. If indeed he fervently believes that the U.S. has been misled, it is China that he must hold responsible for a delayed alert. Previously, he praised both China and WHO. Obviously, the change in line is linked to a desperate bid to hide his own failures.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Stress test||The revised protocol for the extended period of lockdown that is now scheduled to end on May 3 indicates its staggered rollback starting from April 20. A partial reopening of the economy is being proposed, but a lot will depend on the extent of success in containing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in particular areas. State and local administrations could continue with a tighter level of control on economic and social activities if required, according to the Centre’s guidelines announced on Wednesday. It is now clear that the battle against the pandemic will be drawn out, and normalcy in life will have to wait until a vaccine or a treatment line is found. It is impossible to keep the economy shut and people at home indefinitely. The proposed relaxations are, hence, a step forward. Industries outside city limits, certain types of construction both in rural and urban areas, segments of the service sector, and manufacturing partially will reopen after April 20. Small service providers, such as electricians, plumbers, IT repair, motor mechanics and carpenters, will be allowed to operate, which will help them and those who need to hire them. It will be a good idea to add tailors to that list, an essential service now that masks are mandatory in public and workplaces. New measures also include punishment for spitting and a ban on tobacco and gutkha at workplaces. Those violating the quarantine could face up to six months in jail. Coercive measures fall heavily on the poor, and the government’s sledgehammer strategy for containment is pushing millions into a corner. Hungry and desperate migrants have rioted in several parts of the country. A more comprehensive strategy must involve helping people stay at home, incentives to employers to pay salaries, and expansion of welfare support for the most vulnerable. MGNREGA, which is meant to guarantee a minimum income to the poorest in situations of distress such as this, has completely collapsed. The programme will be allowed to restart now, but there must be proactive efforts to expand it. Another area in need of urgent attention of governments is the breakdown of general health care in many parts of the country, claiming several lives and leaving far too many begging for treatment. States such as Kerala and Rajasthan have involved local bodies and community organisations to provide food, medicine and other essential items to people at their locations, leading to near total compliance of lockdown guidelines. Going into the future, getting the country back on track will require mass education on mask use, hand hygiene and physical distancing to change social behaviour. The Centre must take the initiative to ensure that best practices from successful States are adopted across the country.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Crisis in Space||From an editorial If all had gone well with the Apollo 13 mission, Astronauts James Lovell and Fred Haise should now have been happily making their last-minute preparations in the lunar landing module for setting foot on the moon. Instead they, along with their colleague, Astronaut John Swigert, are at this moment battling for life as their crippled spaceship hurtles down for an emergency splashdown scheduled for Friday (April 17, 1970) in the Pacific Ocean. That the three are still alive and have a fighting chance of safe return is itself a tribute to their courage and efficiency in face of fearful odds and to the competence of the technologists and scientists on the ground who are helping to bring the ill-fated craft back to earth. Right from the start of the final phase, the Apollo 13 mission has had luck in short supply. But those hitches pale into insignificance compared to what later happened. About 300,000 kilometres away from the earth, when everything seemed to be going well, two of the three fuel cells on the command ship, Odyssey , failed, gravely restricting the supply of oxygen and electric power. The authorities on the ground at once called off the rest of the mission and ordered the crew to bring the spaceship back.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Wipro skips Q1 guidance, net drops 6%||Software services major Wipro on Wednesday refrained from giving any guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2020-21, for the first time since it became a listed entity, following the uncertainty surrounding the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The company said it did not have the visibility as to the extent to which COVID-19 would disrupt operations, and thus decided not to provide revenue guidance for the June 2020 quarter. The company said it would resume providing revenue guidance once market visibility was restored in terms of both demand and supply-side factors. As per Wipro’s estimates, its IT services revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 was negatively impacted by COVID-19 by $14-$16 million (0.7-0.8% of revenue). Wipro said most of its key customer geographies such as the U.S., U.K., Europe, West Asia and India were affected. Revenue for the company rose 4.7% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs. 15,711 crore from the year-ago period. The operating margin for the quarter came in at 17.6%, down 0.8% quarter-on-quarter (QoQ). However, it reported an almost 6% YoY fall in profit to Rs. 2,345 crore for the fourth quarter, compared with the corresponding quarter last year for its IT business. Addressing the media via video-conferencing, Wipro CEO and MD Abidali Neemuchwala said: “Times are tough. Economic turbulence is just unfolding. Business decline will be more if the uncertainty continued. We are already seeing pricing pressures, cut in budgets and delayed decision cycles. “Sectors such as energy, retail, manufacturing, automotive, banking and media will witness pressure.’’ ‘Fluid situation’ He further said, “We are witnessing a very fluid situation, we really don’t know where it is going as of now. Recovery is a matter of time, but we don’t even know how long the uncertainty will continue. This is going to be much bigger than the global financial crisis we have seen.” Wipro currently has cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 billion, as per Jatin Dalal, chief financial officer. “The quarters ahead seem challenging and require a tremendous response on costs. We also expect our working capital to increase, but our strong balance sheet provides us with the confidence that we will emerge stronger and better. Due to the volatility in the external environment, we have decided not to provide a quarterly guidance on revenue,” said Mr. Dalal. Usually, the quarterly earnings are given first either by Infosys or TCS. This time, however, Wipro breasted the tape.  The quarters ahead will require tremendous response on costs; working capital may increase Jatin Dalal CFO, Wipro
16 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Liquor ban costs States dear||Industry bodies representing the alcohol sector have written to the government to consider opening of wine shops, allow home delivery of alcoholic beverages and e-tailing of liquor as Indian states are collectively suffering a revenue loss of about Rs. 700 crore a day owing to no sales of alcoholic beverages during the lockdown. Most states earn about 15-30% of revenue, or a total of Rs. 2.48 lakh crore, from the alcohol industry. Maharashtra alone will lose about Rs. 2,000 crore revenue in a month in excise duty and other taxes. In FY2019-20, Maharashtra generated a revenue of Rs. 24,000 crore, Uttar Pradesh generated Rs. 26,000 crore, Telangana Rs. 21,500 crore, Karnataka Rs. 20,000 crore, West Bengal Rs. 11,874 crore, Rajasthan Rs. 7,800 crore and Punjab generated Rs. 5,600 crore from sale of alcoholic beverages. Huge financial pressure “Every State was already under heavy pressure financially and excise duty on alcohol is an important revenue source for them, which does not exist at the moment. Earlier this week, many States raised bonds from the market at 150-200 basis points (bps) higher than government securities, compared to a 60-70-bps spread earlier,” said Amrit Kiran Singh, chairman, International Spirits and Wine Association of India (ISWAI). ISWAI is the representative body of the national and international spirits & wine companies having business establishments in India.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Industry gears up to press the restart button||Welcoming the Centre’s move to allow some industries to reopen from April 20, India Inc. on Wednesday said the decision would not only help them prepare better for restarting economic activities, but also address livelihood concerns. However, some industries, such as the auto components sector, reiterated the demand for an urgent fiscal stimulus from the government. Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) director general Chandrajit Banerjee said, “The phased manner of the exit from lockdown is welcome and provides a roadmap for economic restart after May 3. With this advance guidance, industry would be able to better prepare for the restart of economic activity. ”The industry body expressed hope that in the next phase, the government would allow opening up of important labour-intensive sectors. Noting that all digital and communication highways are built using electronic and ICT products, Nitin Kunkolienker, president at Manufacturers’ Association for Information Technology (MAIT), said that the step was crucial to cater to the pent-up demand for ICT products, estimated to be about $2.5 billion per month, which, otherwise would have to be fulfilled via imports. The software industry — about 90% of whose workforce is working from home — is also looking to get back to office premises, albeit in a phased manner. While the MHA directive allows 50% of IT and ITes staff to get back to work, industry body Nascom said it had advised members to start with 15-20% workforce being back at office premises in phase 1.  E-commerce E-commerce players also welcomed the move. A Snapdeal spokesperson said that at this critical juncture, the e-commerce industry could ensure that citizens stay indoors and all their needs are met through home deliveries with immense precautions. Likewise, Srinivas Mothey, senior V-P, Paytm Mall, told The Hindu that they were having discussions with brands and merchants on readiness in terms of inventory, packaging material and sales estimations. “We believe categories such as health products, consumer electronics, home appliances, kitchen essentials, mobile phones and accessories and clothing would show an increase in demand in a phase wise manner.”Mr. Mothey added that there were few pending orders with sellers, while for some orders the company had refunded the money to users. The Internet and Mobile Association of India, in a statement, pointed out that one e-commerce delivery person can help avoid 350 persons from visiting a retail store, and considering that the e-commerce platforms can cater to 75-100 million customers over 19,000 pin code areas, these platforms can prove to be critical tools of maintaining social distancing even while facilitating economic revival. Meanwhile, the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association said it was in touch with original equipment manufacturers and resumption of their operations will be aligned to their commencing operations as also on the directions from the local authorities.
16 April 2020||Mumbai,||Rupee slips 17 paise, closes at record low on virus spread||The rupee slipped 17 paise against the dollar on Wednesday amid heightened uncertainty over the economy as the COVID-19 pandemic continued to spread at a brisk pace. The rupee opened at 76.07 compared to the previous close of 76.27, touching the day’s low of 76.48 a dollar before closing at 76.44, an all-time low. The rupee, which has weakened about 7% against the dollar this year, hit a record intraday low of 76.55 last week. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against the basket of six currencies was trading 0.3% higher at 99.19. The rupee may depreciate further as the Centre is likely to announce an economic package to fight the loss caused by the pandemic. “There are multiple kinds of risks for the rupee. One is the government launching a major fiscal support for the economy, which would be needed eventually. That would mean that the borrowing has to go up. Primary market in its current shape cannot absorb that borrowing… long term yields will move up. To keep that in check, the RBI has to step in and do deficit financing. If that be the case, the rupee may depreciate further,” said Anindya Banerjee, currency strategist at Kotak Securities.  Dealers said the RBI has not intervened strongly in the market to stem rupee depreciation in the last few sessions. Dealers expect the central bank to intervene once the rupee breaches the 77 to a dollar. In its macroeconomic review last week, RBI had said if the rupee depreciates 5% from the baseline, inflation could rise by 20 basis points (bps) while GDP growth could be higher by about 15 bps via increased net exports.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI / Mumbai,||Microfinance industry seeks extension of loan moratorium||Microfinance industry association Sa-dhan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking extension of loan moratorium benefits to the microfinance industry. “Despite Reserve Bank of India’s circular pertaining to moratorium on retail loans, financial institutions are refraining from extending the same benefits to microfinance institutions,” P. Satish, executive director – Sa-Dhan said. Mr. Satish explained that microfinance institutions (MFIs) borrowed from banks and development financial institutions (DFIs) to lend to the end user. While MFIs were providing moratorium to their customers following the RBI announcement, they would still have to repay banks. “Without any collection, MFIs will be under tremendous financial strain in the absence of the three-month moratorium,” he added. Sa-Dhan pointed out that not extending the moratorium would cause MFIs to face significant cash flow issues, in the absence of any collections even for their operating costs. “In such a scenario, it is likely that they will default on repayments, further increasing the stress in the banking system. The net impact will be felt on the vulnerable segments of society, who in the absence of their regular sources of incomes or funds from their usual micro-finance lenders, may turn to predatory money lenders out of desperation.”  Meanwhile, ratings agency ICRA said the decision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide a 3-month loan moratorium to customers will put a strain on the liquidity position of microfinance institutions and could lead to asset quality pressure. As collections from borrowers could stay muted for a while after the lockdown eases, the industry stares at a cumulative cash shortfall of about Rs. 2,600 crore, ICRA said based on an analysis of 29 MFIs, which constitute about 70% of the industry.
16 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Work-from-home spurs client collaboration’||The Work From Home (WFH) environment created as a result of the pandemic COVID-19 has led to increased customer collaborations for the company across the globe, says Wipro. Currently, some 93% of Wipro’s 1,82,886 total employees have approvals for WFH, while the remaining operate in critical support areas. Bhanu Murthy, COO at Wipro, said work went on as usual under the new arrangement and customers globally ‘are happy’. “Collaboration minutes have risen almost 26% and the method in which people communicate through chat and so on has risen 47% this quarter. The distance, be it 10 miles or 10,000 miles from the customer, doesn’t matter as long as bandwidth and technology bring them closer to us.” However, the company said on the Business Process Management (BPM) front, only 85% of staff had approval to work from home as the work also included critical, live data and the like. Responding to a query on the company’s search for a new leadership, Wipro president and chief human resources officer Saurabh Govil said, the selection process was still on and was expected to conclude in Q1 and until then the current CEO Neemuchwala would continue. He further said the company had decided to defer all its hiring plansfor the time being due to the current market conditions.
16 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex ends in red after strong intraday gain||The Indian equity benchmarks gained strong ground in the first half of the session but pared all the gains at the fag end and ended in the red on Wednesday. The 30-share Sensex, which gained nearly 880 points to touch an intra-day high of 31,568.35, closed at 30,379.81, down 310.21 points, or 1.01%. The broader Nifty ended the day at 8,925.30, shedding 68.55 points or 0.76%. Market participants attributed the fall to the overall weak trend in most markets on account of concerns related to a weak economic outlook. Interestingly, even as the benchmarks fell on Wednesday, many of the side counters gained ground with over 1,400 stocks advancing in BSE, as against 955 that declined. In the Sensex pack, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries, HDFC, Kotak Mahindra Bank, and Bajaj Finance contributed the maximum to the day’s losses. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), however, were net buyers at Rs. 1,359 crore on Wednesday even as their domestic counterparts sold shares worth nearly Rs. 1,100 crore.
16 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Construction sector welcomes easing of curbs||The Centre’s decision to allow partial construction activity from April 20, mainly in rural parts of the country and non-COVID-19 hotspot areas, has been welcomed by the industry. The revised guidelines also permit transportation of construction workers in dedicated vehicles and also transportation of construction materials to the work sites. “This should help in resuming activities at most of our government and private sector projects. The projects that are away from the municipal areas would find it relatively easier to kick start the construction activities, a spokesperson for Shapooji & Pallonji Group, said.  The group believes that it would take a minimum of six months before the operations return to normal. M. Murali, CMD, Shriram Properties Ltd., said, “This will help to solve the problems faced by the migrant blue collar workforce to a certain extent. We expect the government to ease the restrictions for urban areas as well in the coming days.”
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||WPI inflation cools to 4-month low||Wholesale price inflation eased to a four-month low of 1% in March on sharp fall in prices of food and fuel items as demand slowed. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) based inflation was 2.26% in February and 3.10% in March 2019. As per official data, food inflation fell to 4.91% in March from 7.79% in the previous month. Fuel and power basket witnessed deflation of 1.76%, while manufactured products witnessed inflation of 0.34% in March. WPI inflation in March is the lowest since November 2019 when it was 0.58%.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Exports dip 34.6%, deficit narrows||India’s exports dipped by 34.57% to $21.41 billion in March, while it declined by 4.78% to $314.31 billion for 2019-20. Trade deficit narrowed to $9.76 billion in March this year from $11 billion in the same month last year. It was $152.88 billion in April-March 2019-20 compared to $184 billion in the previous fiscal. “The decline in exports has been mainly due to the ongoing global slowdown, which got aggravated due to COVID-19. The latter resulted in large scale disruptions in supply chains and demand, resulting in cancellation of orders,” the Commerce Ministry said. Imports in March dipped by 28.72% to $31.16 billion. It contracted by 9.12% to $467.19 billion in 2019-20.
16 April 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI postpones IPL indefinitely||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has formally informed the eight Indian Premier League (IPL) franchises that the 13th edition of the T20 league has been “indefinitely postponed” due to COVID-19. A day after the Government of India extended the lockdown across the country till May 3, IPL chief operating officer Hemang Amin called each of the franchise owners and told them that the tournament could not be scheduled in the conventional window (April-May). “All of us were expecting it anyway, but today it was formalised. Hopefully, the fans can watch their favourite IPL teams in action at some point later this year,” a franchise executive told The Hindu on Wednesday. Conference call It was reported in these columns on Monday that the BCCI was set to indefinitely defer IPL-2020 after a conference call between the office-bearers. That con-call was eventually held on Tuesday, hours after the Prime Minister’s decision to continue the lockdown. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, secretary Jay Shah, treasurer Arun Dhumal, IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel and Amin decided that there was no way the IPL could be held before the situation eases. According to the BCCI executives, an official announcement was “expected soon” from the secretary. The statement hadn’t been issued at the time of writing. This will be the first time since its inception in 2008 that the T20 extravaganza will not be played during India’s summer. All the 12 editions have been played between March and May. This year’s tournament was originally slated to be held from March 29 to May 24.  With COVID-19 cases on the rise, the BCCI, on March 13, had suspended the IPL till April 15. Once the India went into lockdown and many other countries shut down their airspace, it was clear that even a truncated IPL in May would not be possible. Though the BCCI hopes that it can squeeze in the IPL later this year — either a shortened or a full tournament in case the T20 World Cup, scheduled for October-November in Australia, gets postponed — it is premature to discuss the feasibility. “Like all things in the world, the cricket calendar will also be revised when things become normal. All we can do is to wait and keep our fingers crossed,” said another franchise executive.  The BCCI top brass, after consulting Brijesh Patel and Hemang Amin, felt that there was no way the tournament could be held before the situation improved This will be the first time the IPL will not be played during India’s summer
16 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA faces financial setback||With lockdown extended till May 3 and the IPL 2020 postponed indefinitely, Hyderabad Cricket Association will suffer a loss of Rs. 3.5 crore straightaway if it is not held at all this year. As per the revised norms of the BCCI, the hosting fee for each IPL game has been increased from the previous Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh which would mean a revenue of about Rs. 3.5 crore for the seven home games of the host association. In addition, the BCCI has also decided to pay Rs. 50 lakh to the State association, effectively increasing the staging fee to Rs. 1 crore.  “This is a serious setback for sure. We have to find ways to sustain the association in what will arguably be very tough times when the current crisis eases,” said a senior member of the Apex Council of the HCA, in a chat with The Hindu . Annual grant  Interestingly, though the HCA, like most of the affiliated units of BCCI, will get about Rs. 40 crore as annual grant, it is not released at one go as in the past. “Yes, now instalments of Rs. 10 crore are released and the next payment will be made only after the association submits detailed audited accounts for each of the instalments paid,” he said. “No doubt, this is the right thing to do as there will be far less scope for manipulation or misappropriation,” he added. The official also hoped that there would be a shortened version of IPL around August-September. Outside chance “The fact that the franchisees were told that IPL has only been postponed and not cancelled for the year 2020 means there are still some outside chances, of course, if things change for the good on the COVID-19 front,” the HCA official said. No response Meanwhile, it was informed that there was no response so far from the State government to the HCA offer to set up an isolation centre at Rajiv Gandhi Stadium (Uppal) which was to originally host the IPL matches.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||HI tweaks format of Nationals||A day after indefinitely postponing all remaining National championships for 2020, Hockey India on Wednesday announced a re-structured format for conducting the same from 2021, removing the existing two-tier system and creating separate competitions for States, institutions and academies across age-groups. The new format, approved by the Hockey India Executive Board, provides for separate Nationals for registered States/Union Territories, Public Sector Units/departments/institutions and registered academies. While the PSUs would compete in the junior and senior categories, the academies would battle for honours at the junior and sub-junior levels. The National championships for State units, however, would be held across all age groups — sub-junior, junior and senior. One team, one category HI has also decided to allow a player to represent only one team and one age-category “to ensure more athletes are given the opportunity to participate”. It has also been mandatory for States to conduct their respective championships in each category to be eligible to field a team at the National championships. “The previous system of A and B Divisions would no longer prevail. By this restructuring, we want to encourage more States and Union Territories to develop players in their regions, and institutions to pursue hockey,” Hockey India president Mohd. Mushtaq Ahmad said. The competitions would continue to be played on a league-cum-knockout format depending on the final number of participants. The classifications and eligibility would be done on the basis of the final results of the last National championships before December 31, 2020. However, given the fact that the various age-group competitions for the year are uncertain, it is likely the 2019 edition might be used for classifications. This is not the first time HI has changed the format for its National championships. The A and B Division structure was introduced in 2014 to address the issue of largely mismatched games between stronger and weaker teams, especially in the initial rounds. Prior to that, the senior tournaments were held at one go while the age-group events had zonal competitions before a National finals.  Competitions will continue to be played on a league-cum-knockout format This is not the first time HI has changed the format of the Nationals
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Virtual tennis, the Indian way!||It may look a mere flight of fantasy, but it has some substance too. With the lockdown extended, former National champion Nitten Kirrtane has set out to keep the tennis fraternity engaged with a virtual competition that features players from Ramanathan Krishnan to Ramkumar Ramanathan. Those who follow the sport know that the two are not related! Krishnan, who made the Wimbledon semifinals twice and lost to the eventual champions, is widely acknowledged as the country’s best ever. Ramkumar has considerable potential, as he showed by engaging the former US Open champion Marin Cilic in two long tie-breaks in the recent Davis Cup tie against Croatia in Zagreb. Popularity counts In a virtual contest, it is the number of votes and the popularity of the player that tilts the balance in a match-up. Former Davis Cup captain Mahesh Bhupathi weighed the singles performances of the players in the Davis Cup while preparing the seedings’ list, paving the way for a 64-player draw. Krishnan is the top seed, Vijay Amritraj the second seed and Leander Paes third. Ramesh Krishnan, Jaidip Mukerjea, Somdev Devvarman, Bhupathi and Naresh Kumar form the rest of the top-8. Rohan Bopanna, who assisted Nitten and Sandeep Kirtane in developing the idea, has been seeded 11th behind S.P. Misra and Premjit Lall. Zeeshan Ali, Sashi Menon, Akhtar Ali, Anand Amritraj and Ramkumar are the other seeds. It will be interesting to view the voting pattern on social media from Thursday. The draw has been kept long enough, perhaps to last till the end of the lockdown on May 3! Remarkably, the draw, made with the support of qualified supervisor Tejal Kulkarni, binds the players of different eras in a single sheet. Ramanathan Krishnan will not lose in the first round since he has a bye, but there will be no such guarantee when he meets the winner of the Vishaal Uppal-Enrico Piperno match. That is the reality of the virtual world!
16 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Priya’s goal against coronavirus||The world has changed a lot since coach P.V. Priya led Gokulam Kerala to a historic Indian Women’s League football title at Bengaluru in February. Football, or any sport for that matter, is hardly the priority now. Life is. And life certainly is not easy in Priya’s district Kannur, in north Kerala. With 80 confirmed cases of COVID-19, it is the second-most affected district in the State (after neighbouring Kasaragod). So when an opportunity came along to serve people in these tough times, Priya jumped at it. For the past fortnight, she has been volunteering at a helpline centre in Kannur. “I am attached to the Kerala Sports Council as a coach, so when I was asked whether I would be interested in joining the centre set up jointly by the council and Kannur District Panchayat, I said yes straightaway,” Priya told The Hindu over phone. “I attend calls from people who need medicines and groceries.” Pretty hectic She said there have been days when she has attended more than a 100 calls. “It can be pretty hectic, but I am only happy to contribute in our battle against this pandemic outbreak,” said the former India Under-19 girls’ coach. “There are many people who have tough time getting medicines, and when they call back to thank, it feels great.” She isn’t the only from the field of football who is at the help centre — India international C.K. Vineeth is also there. “I meet him every day,” said Priya. “He is also working hard at the centre.” She may be busy as a volunteer, but Priya also finds time to reach out to her wards through social media. “I am in constant touch with the Gokulam players as well as the students at the G.V. Raja Sports School here,” she said. “I give them tasks that they could do at home.” As for meeting them on the ground, she is willing to wait.
16 April 2020||PARIS,||Tour de France to now start on Aug. 29||The Tour de France will be raced from August 29 to Sept. 20, organisers of the event announced on Wednesday, postponing cycling’s flagship event originally slated to start on June 27 due to the coronavirus lockdown. The new dates, the latest ever for the Tour founded in 1903, follow the extension of a ban on public gatherings until mid-July. The race would follow the same route as the original itinerary with a start in Nice. While the news comes as a relief to professional cycling teams and fans, it also moves the three-week race out of its traditional slot in the summer holidays where crowds of around 12 million would have been expected to gather in festive spirit. With the Olympics and Euro 2020 both postponed, the Tour is the last major event remaining on the summer sports calendar.
16 April 2020||Coimbatore,||COVID-19 has made us realise how fragile life is, says Gill||India’s celebrated driver Gaurav Gill has seen the best and worst during his two-decade career in racing and rallying, but COVID-19 is something that has shaken him to the roots. “This is something shocking. We used to see such things only in movies but now we are experiencing this in real life. The pandemic has made us all realise how fragile our lives are,” Gill told The Hindu from New Delhi on Wednesday. The three-time APRC champion believes that the earth is healing itself. “We burn so much of fuel and rubber and it’s time we understand that, and learn to respect nature and everything around us,” he said. The Arjuna awardee revealed that he was focusing on the World championship races in Mexico and Argentina and the upcoming INRC season when things took a sudden turn. “I wanted to get some testing done at Coimbatore but couldn’t do it because of the lockdown. I feel sad to see mankind suffering,” said Gill. He spends a lot of time doing innovative workouts with the limited equipment he possesses. “That’s not all. I teach my young ones (Aryan and Veer) as the online schooling has started for them.” Gill said he also plays rally games and soccer with his boys. “I believe in physical activity and don’t want them to become couch potatoes,” he said. Is it only family time now? “Not really. I am taking my rally school online. I am also starting an online consultation programme later this week. People who engage with me will be given expert advice on how to drive, be safe in the car and much more.” The challenge Gill has a tricky assignment ahead of him. His wife, a doctor, has challenged him to make a cheese cake for their eldest son’s (Aryan) birthday on Thursday (April 16). “I can cook and bake a bit, but I will get some quick tips from my mother as she is a baking expert. I hope to win this one,” he signed off.
16 April 2020||CHENNAI,||TFFI’s programme for coaches||With the lockdown extended till May 3 across India, the Sports Authority of India and Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) have come up with a 15-day online ‘Coach Education Programme' (through Zoom app) beginning Thursday. “Everybody is at home now.” Great motivation “This programme will be a great motivation and education for coaches as they get to learn from renowned coaches and players like Peter Engel, Manjit Dua, Kamlesh Mehta, S. Raman, Muralidhara Rao, Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Harmeet Desai, Sandeep Gupta, Soumyadeep Roy, Brett Clarke and, N. Ravichandran, among others. “There will be more than 100 coaches from SAI and TTFI panel,” M.P. Singh, Secretary of TTFI, told The Hindu on Wednesday. The TTFI calendar, according to Singh, will be finalised once it gets the approval of SAI and Union Government. “Because National ranking tournaments involve a large gathering of more than 1000 players. “When the International Table Tennis Federation is done with their calendar, we will do ours,” he said. “We require at least 12 days for one National ranking tournament. “Once we start, we will do it very fast. It will be very hectic, though, for all the players.” The new foreign coach, said Singh, will be more or less decided by October-November next year. “We have received some names from Sharath Kamal & Sathiyan and we will see what can be done,” he said.
16 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sajan caught in lockdown wave||Swimmer Sajan Prakash landed in Phuket in the second week of February to resume training with Spanish coach Miguel Lopez. But the outbreak of COVID-19 saw lockdown being enforced in Phuket. Sajan and 17 other trainees have been left stranded at the training base. The 25-year-old was slowly coming back to peak fitness after recovering from a neck injury and was looking forward to this training stint before the Olympic qualifiers. “We were caught unawares. The disease was spreading rapidly and the decision was taken all of a sudden. The airport was closed and we couldn’t do anything but stay at the centre. “ But the lockdown is set to continue till the end of this month and, in all probability, will be extended. The pool is closed and there is no training,” said Sajan. “Kerala Sports Minister called me on Monday. It was a nice gesture on his part. He told me not to worry and wished me all success.” Sajan, who achieved the Olympic ‘B’ standard qualification norm, was aiming to achieve the ‘A’ standard in the qualifying meets.  “I don’t know why I pick up these injuries at the wrong time. I had injured my shoulder before the Rio Olympics and my performance suffered. I am really frustrated.” Sajan is disappointed that the Olympic Games have been postponed. “Personally, it is a bit disappointing. You spend four years training hard to compete and it is frustrating to see it get postponed. Now you have to start the whole process of qualification again. At the back of the mind are the injuries and one year is a pretty long time in the career of a sportsman.” Future programme Once the lockdown is lifted, Sajan said he will chart out his future training programme after consulting personal coach S. Pradeep Kumar and Lopez. It is an agonising wait for the lockdown to be over.
16 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Aid of technology in the time of lockdown||Lockdown has spread the use of technology in the wrestling fraternity. Like other sportspersons, wrestlers know how to use smartphones for their training. The compulsion of staying indoors has made them friendlier with the device. A reality “As shown in the movie Dangal, a few years ago people used to mock technology and say, ‘Are you going to teach wrestling on mobile phones?’ Now it’s a reality. “The mobile phone is an asset which keeps one connected with the coach and helps in getting inputs,” Kripa Shankar Patel, who taught wrestling to the actors of Dangal, told The Hindu . “Even as I take care of my ailing father and do my training for the World veterans’ championships, I get several calls from wrestlers who seek help. “I help them through video chats and other apps. “Lockdown has definitely spread the use of technology among wrestlers,” said Patel, an Arjuna award-winning wrestler - turned - coach - turned - referee. Mahavir Prasad, a Dronacharya award-winning coach, concurred. “When we were active wrestlers, it took us months to know the latest trends. Now we keep ourselves updated because of technology. “Technology is helping today’s wrestlers, especially in the time of lockdown. All of them are using video-calling apps and Whatsapp to get inputs from their coaches and mentors,” said Mahavir. Positive impact Well-known coach Vinod Kumar, a Dhyan Chand award winner, noted how technology made a positive impact on wrestlers. “Most of the wrestlers may not be very well educated, but they are acquainted with social media and the latest mobile technology. It goes well with the growing awareness and availability of sports science back-up. “Had the lockdown happened in our time, in the 1980s, our training would have been badly hit without any guidance and inputs from our coaches. Today’s world is completely different.” Vinod gave a fine example of the use of technology. “The message from United World Wrestling president Nenad Lalovic over internet has provided motivation to the wrestling fraternity during this crisis. It has given a lot of hope,” said Vinod.
16 April 2020||DUBAI,||Indian women qualify for 2021 WC||India on Wednesday sealed its qualification for the 2021 Women’s World Cup following the cancellation of the ODI Championship round against Pakistan with the BCCI not getting the government clearance to play the latter. The India-Pakistan round was scheduled to take place between July and November last year but was always subject to government clearance. Both teams will share points for the cancelled three-match series. “With respect to the India v Pakistan series, the Technical Commitee concluded that the series could not be played because of a Force Majeure event after the BCCI demonstrated that it was unable to obtain the necessary government clearances to allow India to participate in the bilateral series against Pakistan, which forms a part of the ICC Women’s Championship,” said the ICC in a statement. The development means that India, which finished runner-up in the 2017 edition, has secured its berth for the event in New Zealand. Format All eight teams in the 2017-2020 edition of the ICC Women’s Championship were to play each other in a three-match series. “Australia (37 points), England (29), South Africa (25) and now India (23) have qualified by virtue of being the top four. Pakistan (19), New Zealand (17), West Indies (13) and Sri Lanka (5) complete the table,” the statement added.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||W.V. Raman live!||Catch former India opener and current Indian women’s team coach, W.V. Raman in a live chat on Sportstar ’s Instagram handle (@Sportstarweb) on April 16, 2020 at 8.15 p.m. IST.
16 April 2020||KOLKATA,||AAI’s ‘Train the Trainer’ from today||The Archery Association of India (AAI) expects a good response for its first-ever online ‘Train the Trainer’ programme, to be conducted in association with the Sports Authority of India, from Thursday.  The programme can be accessed through the Zoom app at https:// us02web.zoom.us/j/ 288782815 from April 16 to May 2. Besides, coaches can also benefit from lectures related to sports science by logging in to https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83599988550 between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. from April 16 to May 12.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Modi lauds chess players||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lavished praise on Indian chess players, including Vishwanathan Anand, for coming up with an “innovative” way to raise funds for the country’s fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban, K. Humpy and D. Harika, alongside Anand, had participated in an online chess exhibition and helped raise Rs. 4.5 lakh for the PM-CARES Fund.PTI
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons on good conduct||The basic dharma pertaining to human life is found in the Vedas and the Vedas are the very life breath of the Supreme Brahman. The Vedas merely state, ‘Speak the Truth. Don’t speak untruth. Don’t harm anyone in thought, word or deed. Honour mother, father and teacher as equal to God. Don’t do anything that goes against the sastras. Uphold dharma and don’t swerve from this path.’ Apart from these commands on good conduct specified in the Vedas, there are no precise indications about how dharma is to be upheld in definite situations or individual actions. Nor is there any exact definition of adharma, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. But a detailed exposition on the nuances of right conduct and behaviour and on adharma is to be found in the texts on dharma sastras known as Smritis. These have been written by those who are well versed in the Vedas and have thought about the deep insights from various angles to explain their essence. Moreover, there are many practical illustrations of the ethical code in the context of the narratives in the Puranas and the Itihasas. It is shown that abiding by the rules of right conduct and avoiding the wrong path which results in sin and punishment is mandatory for all. The law is clear that each individual is answerable to his deeds good or bad. The sinful life led by Ajamila brings the messengers of Yama to his deathbed. In the case of Ravana, when he threatens Sita in Asoka Vana, Sita refers to his adharma of coveting another’s wife is enough to eclipse all his meticulous observance of samskaras and sastras. Ravana is known for his austere penance and his devotion to Siva. Following outward samskaras cannot absolve anyone of the sins that one commits. The emphasis is on good conduct and purity of mind.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 07:55 IST,||Sudoku - April 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||In the hot zone||A year before Stephen King’s The Stand , a novel that imagines humanity decimated by a superflu called Captain Trips, hit the stands, Chennai-based author Timeri N Murari wrote The Oblivion Tapes . The book was published in 1978 across the UK, the US and Germany, and is the story of American TV reporter Piers Shatner who discovers the horrifying truth behind a plague that paralyses and kills millions. But the truth has Shatner running for his life. In a strange twist of fate, Murari, a prolific writer — of novels, young adult books, non-fiction, plays, films and television scripts — especially of things past, found The Oblivion Tapes eerily reminiscent of the present. In an email interview, he says, “London publisher Lume Books has re-published the book online on April 12. It is out under a new title — The Final Contagion — with some updating of the original text.” Modernising the plot Murari, whose recent Empress of the Taj , melds the story of a fabled queen with travels across India, says, “When the novel was first published, we used to use ‘tape’ for filming. Today we use digital cameras, so I wanted Shatner to use modern technology to record his reporting on the plague in a South American country. Also, I decided to give him a cell phone and a laptop. Apart from those technological updates, the rest of the novel’s theme, character and story line remain the same as the original. As tapes are obsolete now, we needed to change the title.” The idea for the book originated in 1976, when Murari read a study Population Resources Environment by Paul Ehrlich and Anne Ehrlich. “It was a massive study, complex and thoroughly researched which warned about the possibility of a conflict between the rich and poor nations for diminishing natural resources. I met up with a scientist friend and we discussed climate change. When I began working on the novel, the theme became darker, a warning about what could happen,” says Murari, who was living in New York at that time. “I met a few scientists who guided me with the technological terms, suggested the graphs and drawings in the novel and even gave me alternative plots to work on. Apart from that there was, of course, the New York Library.” With e-books on pandemics registering an extraordinary spike in sales, the world’s reading list swings between Albert Camus’ The Plague , Dean Koontz’s The Eyes of Darkness and Homer’s Iliad, which has Apollo firing arrows of contagion on those who anger him. EvenJane Eyresurvived a school epidemic before she fell in love with the brooding Mr Rochester. Lume Books, UK, plans to run a print edition soon and Murari says the plot still holds good. “Populist forces are taking control and those countries are all drawing up the bridge, building walls and using their economic power to control the progress of developing nations. Leading nations are using the power of sanction, acts of piracy for scarce resources and withdrawing from international agreements.”  The Oblivion Tapes was written as a ‘break’ between Murari’s first novel The Marriage , on Indian immigrants, followed by a non-fiction work on racial conflicts in Liverpool. “I wanted to try my hand at writing a political thriller. To be honest, I had forgotten about that novel until the Coronavirus struck. I do not see the virus as fulfilling my prescient thoughts back then. We are all reaching a tipping point in our survival.”  Available on Amazon and Kindle
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Stock-home syndrome||Instant noodles make for a delicious, if ineffective armour, against COVID-19. Yet, we have stripped supermarket shelves of them. They sit in our pantries in unwieldy piles, besides stacks of biscuits, potato chips and all the ready-to-eat food that could be swept into shopping baskets on that last, frantic, masked grocery run. Why do we panic buy? As news of COVID-19 sweeps the world, we have been watching aisle after aisle being emptied in hapless supermarkets everywhere, despite governments repeatedly assuring shoppers that there will be no shortage of essential supplies. Even while hand sanitisers, gloves and masks were selling out, as people began to bulk buy and hoard, rice and noodles disappeared from shelves in Asia. In Europe, flour became almost impossible to find. In Australia, the now-infamous toilet paper brawl between shoppers turned into a viral video on YouTube. Not that anyone can point fingers. As the pandemic grips the world, it is becoming increasingly clear that while we may panic buy and hoard different products, depending on cultures and geography, ultimately we all react the same way when faced with uncertainty: trying to wrest back some semblance of control in whatever way we can. “When there is so much uncertainty, you feel a loss of control. So you latch on to anything that makes it seem like you have control again — such as buying,” says Delhi-based psychologist Arvinder J Singh, director of the Ashoka Centre for Well Being. She adds it is important to remember that right now, we are also suffering emotional contagion, as other people’s reactions and WhatsApp forwards heighten anxiety. “You tend to ape others, when you see them panic, you think, ‘Oh they must know something I don’t.” Hence even when you approach your supermarket with a calm mind and grocery list, it is easy to get carried away. Especially when you see just one bag of rice left on the shelf. When faced with a dramatic threat, it is only natural to feel like our response should be appropriately dramatic. Instead we are being called to sit on our couches, to watch Netflix and attend endless meetings on Zoom in pyjamas. It just doesn’t feel like enough. “There is no emotional outlet here,” agrees Arvinder. “In a disaster, you can go out and do things to help other people. Here, there is a continuous threat to your life. People are measuring themselves by how vulnerable they are: ‘Am I 60 plus. Am I diabetic?’ And that makes you feel even more desperate,” she adds. Something basic Interestingly, it is basic comfort food that is selling out everywhere. Ignoring once popular gourmet cauliflower pizzas, kombucha and quinoa cereal, people are buying the staples — and snacks — they grew up eating. “It is atta , dal , chawal flying off the shelves now,” says Arvinder. “People don’t want luxury. Just like if your head is dunked under water the only thing you want to do is breathe; when we feel vulnerable, we go to our basic needs.” Kolkata-based psychologist Mansi Poddar adds that “people who hoard have a perceived inability to tolerate distress, and will try to avoid it by panic buying because they perceive extreme distress in the future.” She adds, “Plus there is a general mistrust of authority when they say goods will be available.” She explains how products serve a psychological need. “For example, you may love instant noodles because it symbolises good times in the past... People might buy it as a way to hold onto those moments. A sense of pleasure in a difficult time,” she adds. Arvinder states that it is important to acknowledge everything you have accomplished and learnt so far, to cope better. “Everybody is doing something new, whether it is cooking, or doing a virtual workout, or learning a new skill. Accept that these are, extraordinary circumstances, and the way each person deals with it will be different. Cut yourself some slack.” She suggests building some exercise into your day, dressing up for work and practising good sleep hygiene, saying “calmness lies in small things. Human beings are resilient, so we will bounce back.” Both psychologists say that creating a daily routine is important to help you get through the rest of this lockdown. “A routine is one thing that gives us control…knowing how the day is going to go,” says Arvinder. “Add to that simple things we have always learnt from grandparents: practise gratitude. Fear comes from a space of perceived scarcity. Gratitude comes from a mindset of abundance, if we are counting our blessings, we will feel abundant.”  Mansi Poddar helps you shop Plan meals in advance. Use what is in your home, and finish old stock  Try to be rational. There is a difference between fear and danger. If you buy one kilogram of flour Vs three, are you in danger of starvation or is it fear?  Pause and reflect on why you are buying. Do you need it or are you trying to feel in control?
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying positive with Atul Khatri||If not for the lockdown, noted standup comedian Atul Khatri would have been on a 16-city tour in the US now. The cancellation of his tour was followed by the cancellation of all his shows in India. “I was obviously angry and anxious about the entire situation but there is nothing much we can do about it. The lockdown is for our own good; it will help us save lives collectively,” says Atul. As news of COVID-19 spread, all that one could watch and hear on TV was the rise in the number of cases, the hatred and the panic. “This is my first pandemic lockdown and hopefully, the world never sees another one. Like most of the others, I too was tired of all the negative news. So I decided to look at only positive news,” says Atul. Soon after Holi, on March 11, Atul began his Only Positive News on his YouTube, Facebook and Instagram handles, with the focus on positive news and to bring cheer. In the 31 episodes of his personalised news delivery so far, Atul advises people on reasons not to hoard or panic buy, the importance of abiding by the lockdown rule, the good efforts of public health, sanitation workers and cops across the country and most importantly “the need to be united as a country to fight the pandemic”. Without sermonising or using negative terms, Atul has been able to earn a lot of cheer from viewers across age groups. “I decided to avoid cuss words because a lot of my viewers are young children . I also do a lot of planning and scripting to make sure the content is up to date. This is followed by pulling out all the props I have collected over the years,” laughs Atul. In the 10 minute-videos, Atul is sometimes seen dressed as Superman, sometimes in a beach body (T-shirt), and sometimes hanging out from his balcony as if doing a stage performance (with no audience from across his street). “That’s because I do it in the afternoon when everyone is taking a nap. I don’t want my neighbours to think I am a weirdo,” he laughs. The businessman-turned-comedian also gives out personal nuggets from his childhood and young days to connect better with the young audience for whom social media is the only source of news. “I make it a point to take tips on mental health from my sister Dr Anjali Chhabria who is a clinical psychiatrist and daughter Dr Diya Khatri who is a clinical psychologist,” he adds. In his 30th episode he stressed on the need to use a table for WFH. He ended his news session with the video of the monkeys taking a dip in an apartment pool. For the 31st episode, Atul stressed on education and experience and spoke about many online free courses. He also appealed to his fans to help a 65-year-old farmer who cycled from Tamil Nadu to Puducherry with his wife for her cancer treatment. Is he up for live shows? “I don’t think that would work well for standup comedians. Unlike other artistes, we need instant gratification to work on our jokes and stage presence. Lives are a good medium but I am not up for it,” he adds.  I do it in the afternoon when everyone is taking a nap. I don’t want my neighbours to think I am a weirdo!
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||What are you wearing to work today?||Instagram’s latest craze #pillowchallenge shows people draped in pillows, which are fastened to their bodies with fanny packs and chunky designer belts. Some even jazz up the ensemble with matching bags and stilettos. For many, this seems like a logical transition from bed to laptop. However, despite the pillow warriors, comfortable and effortless athleisure is what gets top billing as #ootd (outfit of the day) now. Working from home now involves hoodies with shorts or leggings, depending on the weather, despite iconic designer Karl Lagerfield’s infamous quote “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat. You lost control of your life so you bought some sweatpants.” But who cares what anyone says when the world is slowly, and unsteadily, trying to get used to a new normal indoors. Pyjamas and boxers are fast emerging as crowd favourites too. And yes, then there are those who love lounging and working in their birthday suit best. It is perhaps this category that has given rise to the most hilarious WFH disaster memes currently doing the rounds on social media. That nightmare of finding yourself in a board meeting with no pants? It could happen now, as WFH wear is combined with endless virtual meetings, and a dozen new apps on your phone that you are still learning how to use. “Accidentally seeing a co-worker in his underpants is not something I had ever imagined. Clearly, the novel Coronavirus has been a revelation in many ways,” laughs New York-based Janine (name changed), whose day now begins with a video conference call with her team at 10 am. She confesses to adopting the time-tested formula of dressing from the top down. A formal shirt, for video conferences, and under the table, shorts and funny socks that no one will see. She enviously adds that her friends who do not have to be on video calls have it easier, as they can spend their day in hydrating face masks, snug in bath robes. “Everybody hates laundry day,” she laughs. Started in mid March, Wfhfits, an Instagram page with more than 22.4 k followers, showcases what the world is wearing as it works from home. The page encourages people to submit their outfits of the day. The collection thus far comprises pleated palazzos, frilly maxis, kaftans and head wraps. There are animal-printed trousers, shimmery dresses, metallic leggings, and OTT entries such as the swan outfit (that was made famous by Icelandic artist Bjork during the 73rd Academy Awards in 2001.), pantsuits with feather detailing, bodysuits with leotards... you get the drift. If you prefer to work in something more practical, designer Saaksha Bhatt of the label Saaksha & Kinni offers a few easy options: “Pair a printed collared shirt that emotes confidence and efficiency with a relaxed trouser, joggers or leggings which keeps you comfortable and is not visible whilst on conference calls. Hair should generally be tied back if you are a professional, and makeup done subtly,” she says. Her go to outfit while operating out of home is a printed shirt and black satin pyjama pants. “It’s important to wear slightly official clothes — not to ease back into it for when you have to go back to work because that’s something you don’t have a choice about — but more so to keep you in a healthy frame of mind to be proactive and not lazy,” she adds. With every situation, one must be prepared to change and adapt accordingly, believes Nisha Jamvwal, Mumbai-based socialist, interior architect, columnist, brand and art consultant. She is all about adding excitement to every day things so that even the mundane tasks don’t seem that way. To work from home is no different to when you get out and work, says Nisha. “It is important to bathe, dress up, plan comfortable, presentable, but professional pieces like skirt and jacket shirt, a shirt dress or even a long dress which does not resemble beach wear. It must create a work atmosphere in your mindspace,” she explains. And that, she insists, instantly changes the entire outlook and mood from that of a loungy, free day, to a performance-oriented day. “I'm a dress person, and I like wearing a collar dress or a skirt and shirt with a scarf. This is also because I'm on Zoom calls a lot and visible on various live chats and webinars,” says Nisha.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Your dose of Nathan Drake||Sony-owned PlayStation has announced Play At Home, as part of the world’s continued efforts to stay at home and flatten the curve of the COVID-19 pandemic. Jim Ryan, President & CEO at Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE), announced the initiative via a PlayStation blog, “[Play At Home] has two components: first, providing free games to help keep the PlayStation community entertained at home; and finally, establishing a fund to help smaller independent game studios...” Developer Naughty Dog LLC (known for The Last Of Us series and the Uncharted franchise) announced via a Facebook post on April 14 that the entire Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection would be offered on PS4 free to everyone until May 5. The Nathan Drake Collection includes Uncharted: Drake’s Fortune, Uncharted 2: Among Thieves, and Uncharted 3: Drake’s Deception, but excludes The Lost Legacy, a spin-off game. There is excitement around the Uncharted games, as a feature film is currently in pre-production. Actor Tom Holland is to play Nathan Drake and Mark Wahlberg will portray Victor Sullivan. Antonio Banderas is also on board, though his role is currently unknown. Divya Kala Bhavani
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The tsunami survivors||Laya Project, a documentary about the lives, music and culture of communities hit by the 2004 tsunami, is now available worldwide as a digital release. The award-winning production by EarthSync delves into the tsunami-affected regions of Sri Lanka, Thailand, Indonesia, Maldives, Myanmar and India — “six shores sharing one ocean, one sky, and one language of survival and music,” according to a statement. The film is a tribute to the resilience of the human spirit, and celebrates a variety of cultures and music. The documentary can be watched online atwww.layaproject.com, and the music is available athttps://earthsync.bandcamp.com/album/laya-project.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Every mother’s favourite||During the lockdown, we’re all beginning to pay more attention to the flora and fauna around — suddenly the trees seem grander, the butterflies prettier, the flowers more vibrant. And the creepy crawlies are back, devouring leaves like there’s no tomorrow. Staying home didn’t seem like a happy proposition for a naturalist like me at first, but I am now overwhelmed by the richness of my own concrete backyard with potted plants. One of my mother’s favourites is the curry leaf ( Bergera koenigii aka Murraya koenigii ), a small deciduous tree or bush with strongly scented leaves, a much loved ingredient in several Indian cuisines. The plant, also called meetha Neem belongs to the family Rutaceae, which also includes citrus. The bark is brown, thin and delicate. The older barks may show shallow fissures. The leaves take a compound arrangement with about 9-25 small pointy leaflets. White fragrant flowers appear on the plant with about five petals and pink berry like fruits arrive at first and slowly turn purple and then shiny black towards the end, Pradip Krishen’s book Trees of Delhi tells us. In Delhi, the bush is mostly grown in pots and is not often found growing wild as a tree. Very few exist in tree form, found mostly in Sunder Nursery. In Jawaharlal Nehru University campus they are found as hedgerows. The kadi patta plays host plant to the caterpillars of the Common Mormon ( Papilio polytes ) butterfly that belongs to the elegant Swallowtail family. During the long hours at home I discovered caterpillars devouring the leaves – delightful for me; an annoyance for my mother, though she is learning to take it in her stride. Common Mormon butterflies keep coming to my backyard to lay more and more eggs in singles under the leaf. This behaviour of laying their eggs under the leaf is a defence mechanism to avoid losing eggs to predators. Although caterpillars in their lifetime have the luxury of only eating and pooping, their life is not a bed of roses. The several stages between a butterfly oviposting (laying an egg) to the new butterfly emerging from the pupa are very delicate and prone to several dangers. From the egg being damaged, to the caterpillar being eaten by birds and lizards to wasp parasitism, they have to brave it all, but most fall prey. In the process, my curry leaf plant has lost at least two caterpillars, one in pupa form to a macaque and the other under mysterious circumstances! But all is not lost. I have found more eggs and can’t wait to chronicle their life cycle. So if you have a curry leaf plant at home, try looking for the caterpillars. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
16 April 2020||April 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Purpose, positivism, and other principles of ageing gracefully||“You don’t look your age.” Many would consider this a compliment. This is what Marie de Hennezel (psychologist, psychotherapist, special adviser to the French Government on palliative care, and author of The Warmth of the Heart Prevents your Body from Rusting ) addresses. She says, “Our world presents us with a disastrous image of old age. We are afraid of dying badly, of ending our lives alone, unloved, perhaps dependent or suffering from dementia. …Instead of confronting this fear, we ward it off by clinging to our youth, in a rather pathetic state of denial. In so doing, we run the risk of missing out on what I call ‘the work of growing old’ — that is to say, cultivating a positive awareness of ageing.” This ethos is what Guy Robertson, founding director of Positive Ageing Associates and author of The Ten Steps to Positive Ageing , brings up frequently, to convince people that the latter part of one’s life can be both happy and purposeful.  What is ageing?  “My personal definition of ageing is that it is important to recognise that it is a process… which, like all other stages in life, has great satisfaction and joy, as well as challenges and disappointments,” he says in an email interview. Robertson’s new book explores the physiological and psychological aspects of ageing and offers exercises and questionnaires by which readers can question their own point of view. The focus is not on the external — diet or exercise — but on what’s going on in our heads. Our attitude to growing old can affect our physical and mental well being, he says, citing Becca Levy’s research “that found that people who have more positive attitudes about ageing live on average 7.5 years longer than those who feel more negative about ageing.... It is a very powerful indication of the power of the mind in affecting our health and wellbeing.”  From personal experience  Another revelation came from Robertson himself undergoing sudden kidney failure. He had to be admitted for emergency dialysis. “One of the things I observed was that there were two kinds of kidney patients: those who had given in to their illness; they had become dominated by it and ended up very negative about their lives. Another group, equally ill, chose to focus on the positive aspects of life and made the most of what abilities they had and what aspects of life that they could still engage with. This group maintained a sense of well being and positivity in the face of quite challenging circumstances. I knew instinctively which one I wanted to join! My experience illustrated the old saying: ‘It’s not what happens to you in life but how you respond to it which determines your happiness’.” The key factor here is “how you respond to it”. In the book, Robertson addresses socio-cultural attitudes to ageing and even to death. Focusing on death and mortality, he says, “can actually enliven and bring more joy and satisfaction to our lives.” He moves on to protecting ourselves from toxic ageism and harnessing the power of relationships and mindfulness to positive ageing. Answering a query on the response of healthcare professionals, Robertson agrees that they “need to examine their own attitudes and make sure that they are not being ageist. By that I mean that they treat each older person as an individual person rather than just a ‘type’, by virtue of age. …Second I think they need to highlight that not every illness means tragedy.” Despite being on dialysis, he says he managed to “lead a full and active life with lots of joy and achievements.”  For support staff  For those who are professional carers, he advocates a “doing with” approach rather than “doing for”. “There is a lot of evidence to show that health and care staff can ‘disable’ and make matters worse for older people by attitudes which see every older person as frail and in need of having everything done for them. The starting point needs to be to approach the older person as an individual and to find out what their hopes, fears and worries are and what they do and don’t need help with.” The key take-away from this book is that one needs to prepare to age. “Just as we had to learn to grow up, so we have to learn to grow old,” he says.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Odd-even policy at Azadpur Mandi a non-starter||At Azadpur Mandi, one of the largest markets for vegetables and fruits, cattle walked amid littered organic waste, horns blared due to a traffic jam and the odd-even policy ordered by the government was not being followed on Wednesday. The Delhi government had on Monday announced that vegetables will be sold at staggered timings and sheds, which are numbered, will operate according to the odd-even policy. The Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee, on April 4, had already issued the detailed order to be implemented from April 6 to control the crowd. The vegetable mandi is divided into four blocks (A, B, C and D) and 116 sheds. The fruits mandi has 19 sheds. The order stated that blocks B and D and sheds 1-56 will operate on three days while blocks A and C and sheds 57-116 will operate the remaining three days. Similarly, for fruits, even numbered sheds are to operate on even days and odd ones, the rest. Also, vegetables are to be sold from 6 a.m.-11 a.m. and fruits from 2 p.m.-6 p.m., according to the order. No one follows rules However, the system seemed to be crumbling as a miniscule number of people were found following the rules and many were unaware even as Civil Defence officials, Rapid Action Force, Delhi Police and government officials deployed at the mandi tried hard to bring order. Vegetable vendors identified as Sanjay, Mahender Singh, and Jagga operating in D-Block claimed that they were unaware of the odd-even policy. A labourer, aware of the rule, identified as Rampati said, “No one is really following the rules here. It’s not possible to manage thousands of people. Policemen force them to leave and they come back again,” he said. An onion trader, Rakesh, said that while people aren’t following rules, restrictions have been put. “If we are four partners in the trade, only one is allowed,” he said. Madan Lal Rajeev Kumar, a fruit vendor in shed number 4 who adhered to the rule, said, “People are hardly following the rules. Fruits are to be sold from 2 p.m. but they are being sold in the morning. The place around is so dirty. This is probably the only place where there is traffic jam,” he said. Another trader said, “Fruits and vegetables are perishable, that’s the reason it’s tough to follow. If a truck full of vegetables or fruits arrives on an even day and the trader can sell on odd, what can be done”. However, the crowd had visibly lessened. The reason, though, didn’t appear to be adherence to the policy but, that small vendors and retailers inside the mandi have been removed by enforcement agencies. Zakir held his seven-month-old son, while his wife Bano took care of the small sack full of vegetables which they planned to sell in the next few hours but they were scared. “Every day we are beaten up by policemen but we come back because how else will we earn and feed our little sons. For how long will we depend on free food? We could have gone home but even that’s not allowed,” said Bano, hailing from Haryana’s Palwal. Guddu, who sells on a cart in Shalimar Bagh and had come to buy vegetables, said that he comes walking every day because now, his cart is not allowed inside. “All the rich traders are still doing fine, we are the ones who are suffering,” he said. A Delhi Police officer and another from enforcement squad walked around with sticks trying to control crowd and making sure people followed rules but they said that no one was willing to abide by law there.
16 April 2020||MANESAR,||Several Manesar daily wagers struggle to get a day’s meal||Forced to pay the rents and settle pending grocery bills for March, over a thousand daily wagers, inhabiting a large cluster on the outskirts of Kasan village in Manesar’s Industrial Model Township, are now at the mercy of social organisations for their daily meals till the lockdown lasts. Though none of them were paid for the 10 days of lockdown in March, many were not even paid for the extra hours they put in. Migrant couple, Vijay and Neelu, who were not paid even for a single day of work, had the most poignant tale to tell. The couple has been frantically calling the contractor, but his mobile is switched off. The woman worked for 19 days in two different garments company put together. Her husband worked for 12 days and put in four hours of extra work daily. “It has been around a month since we are having rice in a langar twice a day. The children insist for rotis and milk. But we cannot afford,” said Neelu. Their neighbour Shiv, also a daily wager, said he too worked for 12 days in March, but did not get the payment. Another worker, Ashok Mandal, said he was paid only half of the total wages. Seema, 40, said it took them threehoursevery time to go and fetch food from a temple. “It is a long queue. We need to wait for more than an hour for our turn. And the food is not enough for the family of five,” she rued. Having paid her rent, grocery bills and mother’s medical bills, she said she was left with just Rs. 450 for an “emergency”. Many said they did not have even that much. Landlords turn ‘deaf’ The workers claimed they pleaded with the landlords to not ask for rent, but their prayers fell on deaf ears. The neighbourhood grocery store owner, too, has stopped offering ration on credit, adding to their woes. Priyanka, a worker, said it was not possible to walk hundreds of kilometres with children and temperatures rising. An area ASHA worker said the locals would beat up workers and took away their mobiles to extort rent. Maruti workers Meanwhile, a message was also doing rounds on social media on Wednesday calling upon the Maruti workers to gather outside the company’s guest house in the evening with a demand to transport them back to their homes and start marching on foot in case no help was coming. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Manesar, Deepak Saharan, said the matter is under investigation. He said that all landlords in the area were told not to press for rent for March.  It has been around a month since we are having rice in a langar twice a day. The children insist for rotis and milk. But we cannot afford  Neelu Daily wager
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||85% of Delhi-NCR saw incomes fall: survey||Almost 85% of the Capital’s residents saw their incomes decline in the first few weeks of the COVID-19 lockdown, with casual workers being the worst affected, according to a survey carried out by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER). About a third of households faced shortages of food, cooking fuel and medicine during the same period, raising concerns about the impact of an extended lockdown. The survey, carried out between April 3-6, covered a representative sample of 1,750 people living in the rural and urban parts of the National Capital Region, in 31 districts spread across Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Almost 55% of respondents in the survey said that the COVID-19 outbreak had reduced their income “very much”, while another 30% said their incomes had fallen “somewhat”. The situation was worse among casual workers, with almost 75% reporting that their income had fallen “very much”, in comparison to 47% among salaried workers and 42% among farmers. However, NCAER warned that “it is possible that the effect on farmers could be greater after the harvesting season is over [towards the end of April or May], given that the lockdown and social distancing may make it difficult for farmers to sell and deliver their produce.” Supply shortage Access to essential items was more difficult in rural areas, where 33% of respondents experienced supply shortages, in comparison to 25% in urban areas. More than one in five of all households faced shortages of vegetables and fruits (25% in rural areas), while 14% faced shortages of grains and cereals. Almost 9% of households faced difficulties in accessing medicines,” said the report.
16 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Workers paid wages only for workdays||Despite the government urging employers to pay workers their salaries during the COVID-19 lockdown, several employees have complained that they have been paid wages only till March 22 and have been asked to return after the end of the lockdown. Kamli from Jharkhand, who works at a footwear factory in Narela Industrial Area, said that she and 200 other workers were asked to come on Wednesday to collect their wages but were paid only up to March 22, the last day that they worked. “There were about 200 workers who were called and paid only for the period in March that they had worked and said that the account was now settled. How will we survive if we don’t get paid?” Kamli said. She added that although she was willing to speak up against the factory, several colleagues were unwilling to protest and demand their wages. “They may not pay us for two months, but when this lockdown ends, it is the same factory that will employ us again. If we upset the management, they will not take us back. Then where will we find work?” said Babita, also from Jharkhand, who works at another footwear manufacturing unit. Wage laws A report by the Stranded Workers Action Network on the plight of migrant workers during the first phase of the lockdown, released on Wednesday, stated that there are wage laws which mandate that workers are entitled to full and timely payment of wages but it was the government’s responsibility to ensure compliance of these laws for a safe and secure working environment for migrant workers. “A majority of stranded workers were not able to recall the name of the main builder or company they have been working for. Their only link to the city or town where they are working is through their contractor. In most cases, contractors have switched off their phones leaving workers to fend for themselves,” the report said. The report stated that 60% of the workers from Delhi and Haryana said they had been able to access cooked meals but were apprehensive of visiting foodand relief centres fearing the spread of COVID-19 due to congestion.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||UPSC chief, members to forego 30% basic pay for one year||The chairman and members of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which conducts civil services examination to select the country’s bureaucrats and officials, have decided to forego 30% of their basic pay for one year to aid the government’s fight against COVID-19, according to an official statement. The commission made the decision in a special meeting held on Wednesday. In addition, all officers and staff members of the UPSC have volunteered one-day salary to the PM Relief Fund/PM’s Citizenship Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation Fund (PM CARES Fund). The UPSC added that dates for all interviews and exams will be reviewed from time to time as per the situation. A decision on fresh dates for the remaining civil services-2019 personality tests will be taken after May 3. “Any decision in respect to exams, interviews and recruitment boards will be made available on the Commission’s website,” it added.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ambulance driver held for ferrying people||Amid the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Delhi Police on Wednesday stopped an ambulance in Vasant Kunj in which nine people were travelling. The driver, Krishan Kumar, picked up the eight people from Manesar in Haryana, the police said. The nine people, including the driver, are residents of Basti, Uttar Pradesh. The driver struck a deal for Rs. 16,000 to pick up the passengers from Manesar in Haryana and drop them off at Basti, a senior police officer said. When they reached Vasant Kunj, the police checked the ambulance and found no patient inside it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC against the driver, the police said. The passengers have been sent to Mahipalpur shelter houses.
16 April 2020||New Delhi,||BJP MLA launches drive to help senior citizens||Laxmi Nagar BJP MLA Abhay Verma on Wednesday launched a programme to provide two meals a day to senior citizens living alone in the area. According to Mr. Verma, the area had “many families” consisting of senior citizen couples whose children did not reside with them. “The objective is to feed such families at least two meals: lunch and dinner. We got 17 orders today and calls to book 70 more tomorrow,” he said.
