16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 Indian High Commission staff abducted, released by Pakistan||Two Indian nationals, employed as drivers in the Indian High Commission in Islamabad, went missing for several hours on Monday, in a suspected case of abduction by local security agencies. Paul Selvadhas and Dwimu Brahma were, however, later released by authorities in Pakistan after India lodged a strong protest. Upon the release of Mr. Selvadhas and Mr. Brahma, Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed in a note that both the drivers were involved in a traffic accident in the morning and were arrested. The initial police report had claimed that the duo were involved in fake currency circulation, though the issue remains unconfirmed by the Pakistan foreign office. Visible injuries Informed Indian sources said visible injuries on the two show that they were beaten up in police custody. They underwent medical tests upon returning. The two drivers went out on Monday morning but failed to return to the mission, prompting a frantic search amid concerns that two were possibly taken away by Pakistan’s security agencies. In response, India summoned Syed Haider Shah, the Charge d'Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi and handed over a strong note of protest. “The demarche to the Pakistan CDA made clear that there should be no interrogation or harassment of the Indian officials. The responsibility for the safety and security of the concerned diplomatic personnel lay squarely with the Pakistani authorities,” said informed sources. The sources confirmed the Pakistanis had also taken possession of at least one vehicle belonging to the Indian mission. Diplomatic sources from Pakistan said their government would make further statements regarding the case. Pak. staffers expelled The incident comes a fortnight after India expelled two employees of the Pakistan High Commission in Delhi on espionage charges. Abid Hussain and Mohammed Tahir were accused of behaviour “incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission” and were asked to leave India within 24 hours. Since the expulsion, the Indian mission in Pakistan has witnessed persistent harassment of diplomats and non-diplomatic staff. The daily harassment had become serious, and India had sent a note verbale last Friday to ensure its officials are treated according to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 1961, and the Code of Conduct of 1992 that ensures safety of Indian and Pakistani diplomats during hostile exchanges. The note from Islamabad's MoFA states Mr. Brahma has been working at the Indian mission since September 8, 2017, and Mr. Selvadhas arrived soon after. The abduction of the drivers along with their vehicles, apparent physical assault and charging them with crimes, is part of the high tension diplomacy between the two countries. Despite the talk of treating diplomats according to international conventions, diplomats often run the risk of harassment. In June 2013, a senior Pakistani diplomat’s driver was allegedly beaten up by Indian security personnel near the Jawaharlal Nehru University and in 2016, in the aftermath of the Uri terror strike, Mehmud Akhtar, an official in the Pakistani mission, was apprehended and deported.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,||12-day complete lockdown in Chennai as cases spike||In view of the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State capital, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced a further 12-day ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and certain parts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts between June 19 and 30. Certain essential supplies and services will be allowed to function. Mr. Palaniswami’s announcement followed recommendations by medical experts and a Cabinet meeting earlier in the day. He said that on June 21 and 28 (Sundays), the shutdown will be complete, except for milk supply and access to medical facilities. Govt. U-turn Just last Friday, Mr. Palaniswami had rejected speculation that a lockdown was likely for Chennai and its neighbouring districts. The Tamil Nadu government in its submission to the Madras High Court had also said there was no such proposal. When asked about the sudden rethink, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam told The Hindu, “The figures were going up. Medical experts, too, recommended restricting relaxations. We also want to control the movement of people going out of Chennai to other districts.” Provision and grocery stores and petrol bunks would be allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. by maintaining physical distancing norms. “The general public are advised to buy essential supplies without using their vehicles and from stores that are located within 2 km from their residences,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Banks with 33% of staff would be allowed to operate on June 29 and 30 alone. Banking services ATMs and related banking services and transport would function as usual. Though autorickshaw, taxi and private vehicles would not be allowed during the complete lockdown, they would be allowed if used for essential medical requirements. Restaurants can operate only takeaway services, while tea shops will be shut again. Food delivery services are allowed and employees involved should get the necessary ID cards from their employers.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Nepal move on altering map is unilateral, talks difficult now’||Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s move to bring a constitutional amendment that alters Nepal’s map to include territory in India has “prejudged” any future discussions, said New Delhi, virtually ruling out talks with Kathmandu for the moment. With the vote on changing the map depicted in the Nepali national symbol to include Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura being passed unanimously in the Lower House of the Nepal Parliament on Saturday, and another one expected to go through the Upper House this week, the Modi government appeared to take a tougher stand with Kathmandu than it has in the past few weeks. However, comments by sources, who refused to be identified, were at variance with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s comments, at a party address on Monday, that the issues would be resolved through dialogue. “We have always conveyed our willingness to talk,” sources said.
16 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Minister turns labourer to help neighbour||Lalnghilhlova in Aizawl’s Chite Veng (locality) was strapped not just for financial resources but also labour to rebuild his dilapidated house. A donation of Rs. 4,68,663 to the community leaders of the locality from an anonymous donor a week ago took care of the money. However, the tougher part — getting enough workers for the actual construction — remained as the Mizoram government reimposed a total lockdown for two weeks from June 9. His neighbours decided to pitch in as part of their community service by carrying the construction material from the stock yard about 60 m downhill from the site. But COVID-19 protocols meant not too many people could join in, and hefting the heavy stones up the steep slope was way beyond what the volunteers, who turned up on Saturday, could manage. It was then that 53-year-old Robert Romawia Royte, Mizoram’s Minister for Sports and Tourism, from the adjoining Chhinga Veng, decided to step in. He took the local youth by surprise as he joined the workers to nonchalantly hoist a boulder on his shoulders, and walk up the slope to leave it at the construction site. The Minister worked through Sunday and Monday to help shift material for Mr. Lalnghilhlova’s house. Turning labourer for a day is par for the course for Mr. Royte, who has worn many hats — a footballer-turned-government officer-turned businessman-turned-politician. “I may be from another locality but Chite Veng is part of my Assembly constituency (Aizawl East II). Everyone in the area knows me and looks up to me as a leader and it is important for a leader to lead by example,” he told The Hindu after lending a hand at the site for the second day. “I am not surprised by the Minister’s gesture, who is quite well-known as a philanthropist and a sports promoter. What astounded me was the ease with which he lugged the boulders, as if he were carrying a football,” said local footballer Lalmama. “Robert proved to be fitter than most boys who worked along with him,” said F. Vanlalsawma, the local council chairman. A football fanatic like most Mizos, Mr Royte played at the university level. His dream of representing the Mizoram football team did not materialise, but his enthusiasm continued and he became one of the State’s top sports promoters and bought the Aizawl Football Club. The club created history by winning the I-League crown in 2017. He entered politics and joined the Mizo National Front a month before the 2018 Assembly election, and was reportedly the richest candidate in Mizoram.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre, Delhi team up to fight against pandemic||The Centre and the Delhi government are planning to rope in members of political parties and those who have recovered from COVID-19 to volunteer, as they looked for ways to contain the rising number of cases in Delhi. On Monday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah called an all-party meeting to discuss the situation. Delhi has recorded more than 41,000 COVID-19 cases and around 1,300 deaths so far. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh, who attended the meeting, said that from June 20, testing per million would be increased to 18,000 a day from 14,390 tests conducted on June 14. “The Home Minister said that all political parties will have to fight the infection together, keeping differences aside. We will appeal to people who have recovered from COVID to come forward and assist the system. This also includes doctors who have recovered. Since there is no known case in India of a person being infected again, their services will be of immense help,” said Mr. Singh. Volunteers from parties Members of political parties would also be used as volunteers. As many as 1,900 beds were being added in Delhi government-run hospitals and 1,178 and 2,000 in private and Central government hospitals respectively. If the need arose, an additional 500 railway coaches with 8,000 beds would be added. Currently, the Delhi government has 9,993 beds dedicated for COVID-19 patients. There was no talk of imposing the lockdown again, said Mr. Singh. Asked if the lockdown had failed to stop the spread of the virus, he said, “The condition is worse in Delhi and Mumbai as they received the maximum number of international flights.”
16 June 2020||MUMBAI,||State reviews virus data as Oppn. cries cover-up||With the COVID-19 pandemic completing 100 days in the State on Monday, the administration has ordered a full-fledged review of the official data on infections and fatalities — the highest in the country so far — even as the Opposition alleged that several deaths caused by the virus had been covered up. Former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that 451 deaths from the virus in Mumbai have been labelled non-COVID-19 fatalities by the BMC death audit committee, while 500 more have not been presented before the committee as yet. This was a breach of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms, he said, and urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to punish those responsible for what he termed “not just unforgivable negligence but a criminal conspiracy.” Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, while admitting to “discrepancies” in the manual loading of data to the ICMR website, said there was no deliberate suppression of figures. In several cases, the cause of death may have been shown as COVID-19, while the actual reason may have been cardiac arrest or renal failure, he said. “There is no question of suppression of facts and figures, even as there are political allegations we have buried data. We will probe any instance where the mismatch has been deliberate. However, these have mostly been inadvertent errors, if any, during the manual phase of data uploading,” Mr. Mehta told The Hindu . “Now that the matter has come to light, the government and Chief Secretary have sent a letter to local bodies for a reconciliation drive, saying it wants to update the complete statistics on COVID-19. This is a deliberate attempt to hide what has happened, strict action needs to be taken,” Mr. Fadnavis wrote to the CM.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||82 new cases in State, one death takes toll to 20||The State reported 82 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the active number of cases to 1,348. One more death was recorded, taking the toll to 20, and 73 were reported to have recovered on Monday. A 67-year-old man, residing at Vanchiyoor in the capital, had for long serious respiratory diseases and heart ailments too, an official release issued by the Health Department said. However, he did not have a travel history nor had he been in contact with anyone with a travel history. Of the 20 deaths reported so far in the State, there have been seven deaths wherein the infection was acquired through “contact” or the source of infection remained totally unknown. All cases were reported to have other co-morbidities. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 72 are imported cases of infection in people from abroad or from other parts of the country. Nine are cases wherein the infection was acquired through contact with known or unknown sources. Five new regions in Thrissur, Kasaragod, and Kannur districts entered the hotspot list, while two other regions in Palakkad were dropped from the list. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 125.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State registers record spike of 304 cases||The State registered a record 304 fresh COVID cases during the past 24 hours as on Monday, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Two deaths were reported during the period. It was the biggest single-day spike so far and also for the first time single-day tally crossed 300-mark. While 246 were the cases in the State, 52 were other State cases and six were foreign returnees. With this, the tally went up to 6,456 and the toll mounted to 86. The number of recoveries also increased to 3, 385 with 69 being discharged and 2, 985 patients are undergoing treatment. The two new deaths were reported from Kurnool and Anantapur districts. Of the total cases, 5,087 were from the State, Kurnool reported a whopping 60 cases and its overall tally crossed the 1,000-mark and reached 1,036. In the past 24 hours, Krishna reported 56 cases, East Godavari 35, and Anantapur 22 cases. They are followed by Guntur (19), Nellore (16), West Godavari (15), Kadapa (10), Chittoor (6), Visakhapatnam (4), Prakasam (2) and Vizianagaram (1).  Break-up The district tallies according to State's COVID dashboard are as follows: Kurnool (1,036), Krishna (757), Guntur (642), Anantapur (485), Nellore (412), East Godavari (387), Chittoor (359), West Godavari (301), Kadapa (257), Visakhapatnam (220), Prakasam (103), Vizianagaram (73) and Srikakulam (55). In the past day, as many as 15,173 samples were tested and so far 5,67,37 samples were tested. The tests per million population ratio has gone up to 10, 625 and the positivity rate is at 1.14. The recovery rate is at 52.43% and mortality rate is 1.33%.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China military commanders hold talks||In continuation of the ground-level dialogue to resolve the ongoing stand-off on the border, India and China on Monday held talks at the Brigade Commander and Commanding Officer-level in the Galwan area of eastern Ladakh, defence sources said. The talks were focused on de-escalation at patrolling points (PP) 14 and 17A, the sources asserted. Ground-level military talks were on regularly to resolve the stand-offs and it was an incremental process, the sources stated on the stand-off, which has entered the seventh week. So far, both sides have held five rounds of Major General-level talks, of which two happened last week after the Corps Commander-level talks on June 6. There have also been a series of talks at the Brigadier and Colonel levels. Meanwhile, the limited “disengagement” agreed by both sides was under way, the sources said. Massive build-up However, there has been no change in the massive build-up in the depth areas on the Chinese side, the sources noted. In addition to moving into Indian-held territory in some places, China had undertaken build-up of troops and deployed fighter bombers, rocket forces, air defence radars and jammers, among others, on its side. India would continue to maintain its build-up until China withdrew the build-up, the sources reiterated. Last Saturday, in the first acknowledgement of the stand-offs, Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane said troops from both sides were “disengaging” in a phased manner following a series of ground talks and a lot of disengagement had happened in the Galwan river area.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,||7.5% quota for govt. school students in MBBS intake||The State Cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance, envisaging 7.5% horizontal reservation in the State government's quota of MBBS/BDS seats, for students of government higher secondary schools. The “quota within quota” covers government seats in private colleges too, said sources, adding that the proposed ordinance would be sent to Governor Banwarilal Purohit for assent. The prerequisite for qualification is that students of government schools should have qualified in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). ‘Reasonable’ limit Though the proposal was speculated to be for a 10% quota, the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, kept it at 7.5%, as it felt that the quantum prescribed should be “reasonable”. The Cabinet decision was based on a recommendation made by a panel, which was headed by former judge of the Madras High Court, P. Kalaiyarasan. The panel’s report was submitted to the Chief Minister last week. The panel had observed that there was a “cognitive gap” among students studying in government schools. The committee suggested that students who had passed the higher secondary exam after having studied for seven consecutive years in government schools be provided the reservation. Asked whether the government’s move would stand legal scrutiny, the sources replied in the affirmative. They cited the case of Karnataka, where there is a scheme of horizontal reservation of 15% of State government seats for rural students in admission to professional courses.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka changes rules||The Karnataka government has announced mandatory institutional quarantine of three days for those coming from Delhi and Tamil Nadu, followed by 11 days of home quarantine. In an order issued late on Monday, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said those coming from Maharashtra would continue to have institutional quarantine for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine.page 8
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||We share close ties: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said whatever differences had arisen between India and Nepal over the construction of the Lipulekh-Dharchula road would be resolved through talks and that the ties went beyond mere geographical or political ties to spiritual connections and a roti-beti vyavahar (consanguinity and inter-dining, a sociological term to describe close kinship relations).page 9
16 June 2020||Pune,||State reports highest spike of 178 deaths||Maharashtra reported its highest rise in COVID-19 deaths on Monday, with the virus claiming 178 more lives to take its toll to 4,128. As many as 2,786 new cases took the tally to 1,10,477. As per the State Health Department, the number of active cases has come down to 50,554. With the discharge of 5,071 patients, the number of recoveries till date is 56,049. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the recovery rate has increased from an average 47% in the last few days to 50.61%. The case fatality rate, too, has climbed to 3.70%. Mumbai reported 1,067 new cases and 68 deaths. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 20 deaths were reported from Vasai-Virar, 13 from Mira-Bhayandar, 12 each from Thane and Navi Mumbai and seven from Kalyan-Dombivali. While 14 deaths were reported from Pune, 13 from Dhule, and more from Solapur, Nashik and Jalna.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Petrol, diesel prices highest since Oct. 2018||The price of petrol and diesel was hiked for the ninth consecutive day on Monday. Fuel rates are now the highest since October 2018, when crude oil prices were at a record high. The price of petrol was hiked by 46 paise per litre and diesel by 59 paise a litre. Since June 7, when oil firms resumed daily revision of prices following an 82-day hiatus, petrol prices have gone up by Rs. 4.98 a litre and diesel prices by Rs. 5.23 a litre.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Activists, artists express solidarity with Mander||Nearly 160 activists, academics and artists from across India issued a statement in solidarity with social activist Harsh Mander, condemning what they called a “motivated, compromised investigation and vilification of a person with commitment to a just society”.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCW records spike in domestic violence||The National Commission for Women registered a spike of at least 2.5 times in domestic violence complaints since the lockdown, according to official data. The rise belies Union Minister Smriti Irani’s remarks that there was no such increase and NGOs were “scaremongering”.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||1,647 new cases; Kejriwal says no lockdown plan||The Capital reported 1,647 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 42,829. Also, 73 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 1,400. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal ruled out another lockdown in Delhi, quelling rumours that started following a spurt in cases.
16 June 2020||Belagavi,||Shops reopen but weavers continue to suffer||Thousands of weavers in north Karnataka — faced with low sales of produced goods and nearly nil fresh demand — continue to suffer even after lockdown has been eased for various sectors. Worst hit are the small and marginal weavers. Meagre earnings has forced most of them to seek other work or take up petty business.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Now, worksheets, homework for students||With the State government banning online classes till class five, schools are giving assignments, worksheets, and homework to students. Some are even getting students to come online for classes without any video.
16 June 2020||DHARWAD,||Dharwad records third COVID-19 death||The total number of COVID-19 deaths in Dharwad district rose to three as a 65-year-old man (P- 7,060) died at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Sunday night. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district rose to 155 with 34 new cases recorded on Monday. Of these, 23 persons are from Morab village and who are the contacts of P-6,222. As on date, the district has 102 active cases and 50 persons have been discharged.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,||No whip was issued to OPS, others, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has informed the Assembly Speaker that the Chief Government Whip had not issued any whip to 11 AIADMK MLAs, including O Panneerselvam, to support him during the Motion of Confidence moved by him in the House on February 18, 2017.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,||1,843 COVID-19 cases, 44 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 1,843 new COVID-19 cases and 44 deaths on Monday. This took the State’s overall tally of cases to 46,504 and the toll to 479. A total of 797 persons were discharged from hospitals.
16 June 2020||Chennai,||Rs. 1,000 assistance for rice card holders||In view of the complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts between June 19 and 30, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 for rice ration card holders in these areas.
16 June 2020||Vijayawada,||15brief1||The State government has approved the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of a greenfield non-major port proposed at Ramayapatnam in Prakasam district. “The DPR prepared by the RITES Limited has been approved,” said a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven on Monday.
16 June 2020||Vijayawada,||15brief3||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will address the joint session of the Assembly and the Council through video link at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The Governor will address both Houses from the Darbar Hall in Raj Bhavan.
16 June 2020||Vijayawada,||15brief2||The per capita income of the State has gone up to Rs. 1,69,519 from Rs. 1,51,173 in 2018-19 fiscal year, registering a growth of 12.14%, according to socioeconomic survey for the 2019-20 financial year, which was released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Nepal share close ties: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said whatever differences had arisen between India and Nepal over the construction of the Lipulekh-Dharchula road would be resolved through talks and that India and Nepal ties went beyond mere geographical or political ties to spiritual connections and aroti-beti vyavahar(consanguinity and inter-dining, a sociological term to describe close kinship relations). Mr. Singh was addressing the Uttarakhand unit of the BJP as part of a series of Jan Samvad virtual rallies organised by the party. He began by speaking about how the construction of the Lipulekh-Dharchula road would reduce the Kailash Mansarovar yatra by six days. Spiritual connections “The construction of the Lipulekh-Dharchula road which is on Indian territory, will reduce the length of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra by six days. We are hearing of some misunderstanding by the Nepalese government over the construction of this road, whatever that misunderstanding is, it can be resolved through talks. India and Nepal’s ties go beyond mere geographical or political ties, these are spiritual ties. Can we forget the connection between Baba Pashupatinath and Baba Amarnath? We have aroti-beti ka vyavahar. The Indian Army’s Gorkha regiment has the war cry“Jai Mahakali, Aayo ri Gorkhali”, Maa Kali is workshipped in Bengal, in Poorvanchal, in Uttarakhand, how can ties like this be bitter? I want to state unequivocally that no Indian can ever harbour bitterness about Nepal, our relationship is beyond the ordinary relationship between countries,” the Minister said. Map fallout Mr. Singh’s comments come at a time when the Nepalese Parliament has endorsed certain changes in the country’s map including areas that India claims as its own. Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Oli has, in his address to the people, blamed India for inflicting a particularly virulent strain of the coronavirus to the Himalayan country. A couple of days ago, the Nepalese police opened fire on Indian villagers, killing one, for being on Nepalese soil in Bihar’s Sitarmarhi. The Ministry of External Affairs has disapproved of the Nepalese Parliament’s decision on endorsing the new map, but Mr. Singh’s statements point to a more proactive move of talking things out.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre, Delhi team up to fight pandemic||The Centre and the Delhi government are planning to rope in members of political parties and those who have recovered from COVID-19 to volunteer, as they looked for ways to contain the rising number of cases in Delhi. On Monday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah called an all-party meeting of Delhi based political parties to discuss the situation. Delhi has recorded more than 41,000 COVID-19 cases and around 1300 deaths so far. Ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, who attended the meeting, said that from June 20, testing (per million) would be increased to 18,000 a day from 14,390 tests conducted on June 14. “The Home Minister said that all political parties will have to fight the infection together, keeping differences aside. We will appeal to people who have recovered from COVID to come forward and assist the system, this also includes doctors who have recovered. Since there is no known case in India of a person being infected again, their services will be of immense help”, Mr. Singh, a Rajya Sabha member, said. As on June 14, the number of patients who had recovered from the infection stood at 15,823. Members of political parties would also be used as volunteers. Beds numbering 1,900 were being added in the Delhi government-run hospitals and 1,178 and 2,000 in private and Central government hospitals respectively. If need arose, additional 500 railway coaches that have 8,000 beds would be added. Currently, the Delhi government has 9,993 beds dedicated for COVID-19 patients. Of them, 4,477 were vacant as on June 14. On Sunday, Mr. Shah met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and it was decided to provide 500 railway coaches for COVID-19 patients. Shah visits LNJP hospital On Monday, Mr. Shah visited the Delhi government’s LNJP hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility. Delhi State Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said the party had submitted 11-point suggestions to the Home Minister recommending that sports stadiums be used for treating COVID-19 patients. “We have been told about a test that will give results in 15 minutes. It costs Rs. 450 and will be used soon for mass testing. Senior IAS officers are being appointed to coordinate between the State and Central governments”, Mr. Singh said. No lockdown again There was no talk of imposing the lockdown again, he said. When asked if lockdown had failed to stop the spread of infection, Mr. Singh said, “the condition is worse in Delhi and Mumbai as they received the maximum number of international flights”. Home Ministry in a statement said, “Mr. Shah appealed all parties to rise above political differences in the interest of people. Political unity will create confidence among the public and lead to improvement in the situation in the capital”.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Why suspend sex test rules?’||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government to explain its decision to suspend crucial rules of a parliamentary law against pre-natal sex determination and sex selection till June-end, amid the COVID-19 national lockdown. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit issued formal notice to the government on a petition filed by Sabu Mathew George challenging an April 4 notification issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which put on hold the implementation of certain rules of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex-Selection Rules) of 1996 till June 30, 2020. Mr. George, represented by senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, asked how the government could temporarily freeze rules framed under a parliamentary law through a mere notification. The court told the petitioner to alert it if the government made any move to extend the suspension beyond June 30. Penal provision One of the suspended provisions, Rule 8, is intrinsically connected with the statute’s provisions dealing with the mandatory registration of genetic counselling centres, laboratories and clinics. Non-compliance leads to penalty. “The Central government has arbitrarily and selectively weakened a legislation aimed at curbing the pernicious activity of sex-selection and sex-determination. The number of girls missing at birth due to the practice of gender biased sex selection in India has been estimated at 0.46 million girls per year for the period 2001-12 (which is 5.52 million girl children, missing at birth for the 12-year period), and the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act and the Rules thereunder, are aimed at remedying this social evil,” the petition said. By suspending the Rules, the government has diluted the PCPNDT Act, the petition said. “This will result in misuse of technology by unscrupulous individuals who will no longer be deterred by the monitoring mechanism provided in the Rules,” it said. “This illegal suspension of Rules, while medical establishments continue to function, will provide avenues for misuse of technology for purposes of sex-selection and sex-determination, and will result in a loss of the gains made in the strict implementation of the Act,” the petition argued.
16 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha begins door-to-door survey||The Odisha government on Monday announced that a 45-day door-to-door survey would be undertaken from Tuesday to detect COVID-19 cases. The ASHA and ANM workers would visit every home between June 16 and July 31 in both rural and urban areas to find out if any member of a family had symptoms of COVID-19, Odisha Mission Director of National Health Mission Shalini Pandit told presspersons here. The workers would inform the authorities so that necessary steps would be taken immediately for collection and testing of samples, Ms. Pandit said. The State had already tested 2,02,513 samples by midnight of Sunday, she said. She said the State had changed its strategy in testing samples as per the revised Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. While one positive case was being found by testing samples of 200 asymptomatic persons earlier, now one case was being detected by testing samples of 20 persons with symptoms and contacts of COVID-19 positive cases, she said. ‘Right track’ Stating that Odisha was on the right track in its fight against COVID-19 in the last three months, Ms. Pandit said the State had emerged as a model for others. While the national average was detection of 25 COVID-19 positive cases per one lakh population, Odisha’s rate was 9.3 persons, Ms. Pandit said. The mortality rate per one lakh population was 0.03% in Odisha against the national average of 0.7%, and the State’s recovery rate was 67% against the national average of 51%, she said. Ms. Pandit said the coming four to six weeks would be crucial in fighting the pandemic. The State could succeed in defeating COVID-19 if people continue to cooperate in a similar way by following social distancing norms and obeying restrictions. Of the 2 lakh-odd samples tested in Odisha so far, 75,000 were tested in the Regional Medical Research Centre, Bhubaneswar by Monday, said RMRC Director Sanghamitra Pati. After obtaining the COBAS 6800 machine, the RMRC was able to enhance its testing and it was able to test 10,000 samples in 22 days, Ms. Pati said. Meanwhile, 146 more positive cases were reported in the State, taking its total to 4,055 on Monday. The active cases stood at 1,187, while 2,854 persons had recovered and 14 had died — 11 of COVID-19 and three of other ailments.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Toll climbs to 479 in T.N. as it reports 44 new deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,843 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and 44 deaths on Monday. This took the State’s overall tally of cases to 46,504, and toll to 479. Another 797 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of persons discharged in the State to over 25,000, while 20,678 persons were under treatment. The State’s mortality rate stood at 1.03%. Chennai reported 1,257 of the new cases. With this, the city’s case count climbed to 33,244 - 17,476 discharged, 15,385 active cases and 382 deaths. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said a total of 1,85,000 samples were tested in Chennai with a population of 87 lakh. Of the 44 fatalities (32 in the government and 12 in private hospitals) in the last three days, 11 persons did not have co-morbidities. Four of the deceased were in their 30s, while six were in their 40s. A 32-year-old man, a resident of Tiruvallur, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) with bronchial asthma on June 14. He died on the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure. Two deaths each due to COVID-19 were reported by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, while one more fatality was reported in Kerala, taking the toll in that State to 20. In Kerala, COVID-19 was confirmed in 82 more persons, while 73 were reported to have recovered from their disease on Monday. The number of active cases in the State was 1,348. Bengaluru city on Monday recorded 35 new COVID-19 cases. Of these, 13 were related to Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI). The State war room estimated that the ILI positivity rate across Karnakata remained low, but in Bengaluru it had gone up since June 3. The positivity rate (positive cases per 100 tests) for ILI across districts was being tracked. Officials said an increase in ILI positivity rate (where no other known history or source of infection) meant that it was spread by someone not tracked. On Monday, 213 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka, taking the total to 7,213. The highest was from Kalaburagi district with 48 new cases, followed by Bengaluru. Of the two deaths reported, one patient was a 65-year-old man from Dharwad district who had passed away on June 14, and another a 75-year-old male from Bengaluru district. This patient was diagnosed with ILI, diabetes mellitus and hypertension. The total number of deaths stood at 88. Kurnool leads in A.P. Andhra Pradesh registered a record 304 fresh COVID-19 cases, the Health Department said. While 246 cases were from the State, 52 were other State cases and six were foreign returnees. The two new deaths were in Kurnool and Anantapur districts.  (With inputs from Bengaluru and Vijaywada and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India, China nuclear arsenals grow’||All nations that have nuclear weapons continue to modernise their nuclear arsenals, while India and China increased their nuclear warheads in the last one year, according to a latest report by Swedish think tank Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). “China is in the middle of a significant modernisation of its nuclear arsenal. It is developing a so-called nuclear triad for the first time, made up of new land and sea-based missiles and nuclear-capable aircraft. India and Pakistan are slowly increasing the size and diversity of their nuclear forces...,” according to the findings of SIPRI Yearbook 2020, released on Monday. The report said China’s nuclear arsenal had gone up from 290 warheads in 2019 to 320 in 2020, while India’s went up from 130-140 in 2019 to 150 in 2020. Pakistan’s arsenal was estimated to be between 150-160 in 2019 and has reached 160 in 2020. Both China and Pakistan continue to have larger nuclear arsenals than India. The nuclear arsenals of the nuclear-armed states other than the United States and Russia were considerably smaller but all these states were either developing or deploying new weapon systems or had announced their intention to do so, it noted. Low transparency Together the nine nuclear-armed states — the U.S., Russia, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea — possessed an estimated 13,400 nuclear weapons at the start of 2020, which marked a decrease from an estimated 13,865 nuclear weapons at the beginning of 2019. The decrease in the overall numbers was largely due to the dismantlement of old nuclear weapons by Russia and the U.S., which together possess over 90% of the global nuclear weapons. The availability of reliable information on the status of the nuclear arsenals and capabilities of the nuclear-armed states varied considerably, the report noted. “The governments of India and Pakistan make statements about some of their missile tests but provide little information about the status or size of their arsenals,” it said. The U.S. had disclosed important information about its stockpile and nuclear capabilities, but in 2019, the administration ended the practice of publicly disclosing the size of its stockpile, the report stated. The U.S. and Russia have reduced their nuclear arsenals under the 2010 New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START) but it will lapse in February 2021 unless both parties agree to prolong it. However, discussions to extend the New START or negotiate a new treaty made no progress with the U.S.’s insistence that China must join any future nuclear arms reduction talks, which China has categorically ruled out. “The deadlock over the New START and the collapse of the 1987 Soviet–U.S. Treaty on the Elimination of Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles (INF Treaty) in 2019 suggest that the era of bilateral nuclear arms control agreements between Russia and the U.S. might be coming to an end,” the report cited Shannon Kile, Director of SIPRI’s nuclear disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation programme, as saying. Russia and the U.S. have already announced extensive plans to replace and modernise their nuclear warheads and delivery systems. “Both countries have also given new or expanded roles to nuclear weapons in their military plans and doctrines, which marks a significant reversal of the post-Cold War trend towards the gradual marginalisation of nuclear weapons,” the report observed.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR distances itself from study||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has disassociated itself from a modelling study, co-authored by at least two of its in-house scientists and the chairman of a government-appointed National COVID Task Force, and that was reported in several newspapers including The Hindu . The study that is not yet peer-reviewed but appears on the medxriv pre-print server since June 12, a repository for scientific communication, shows that an eight-week lockdown along with public health measures would still mean a minimum of 40 million infected by the virus. It forecast different scenarios of different levels of lockdown effectiveness: 20%, 40%, 60% and 80% — the latter being the most effective — and cases peaking as late as January and most likely in November. It also calculated that the overall economic health system cost of the pandemic is estimated to be 6.2% of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which is much more than what’s ostensibly allocated. The study isn’t critical and rather commends the government’s actions. “The findings of our study validate the steps taken by the Indian government to use the lockdown to buy time for preparing the health system,” the authors note. However, Rajnikant Srivastava, head of ICMR’s research management, policy planning and coordination cell, said on Monday on an ICMR-administered WhatsApp group that “..News reports attributing this study to ICMR are misleading. This refers to a non- peer reviewed modelling, not carried out by ICMR and does not reflect the official position of ICMR.” He didn’t respond to calls for additional clarification. The study, ‘A Model Based Analysis for COVID-19 Pandemic in India: Implications for Health Systems and Policy for Low- and Middle-Income Countries’, lists as its first author Dr. Shankar Prinja, Additional Professor of Health Economics, PGIMER, Chandigarh.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul targets govt. on lockdowns||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meetings with Chief Ministers on Tuesday and Wednesday to decide the road map for India’s future COVID-19 strategy, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday targeted the government on the previous stages of lockdown. Mr. Gandhi took to Twitter and quoted scientist Albert Einstein to attack the government. “This lock down proves that: ‘The only thing more dangerous than ignorance is arrogance.’ Albert Einstein,” the former Congress chief tweeted and tagged a videographic that claimed the lockdown flattened the wrong curve. Using retail activity as a ‘proxy for the economy,’ the graph showed the economy going from zero in Lockdown 1 to almost -90 (on a scale of 0 to -100) between Lockdown 2 and 3. On the other hand, the COVID-19 infections grew from 100s in the first week of March to 1,000s. From initially supporting the nationwide lockdown, the Congress changed its position and described the measure as being a case of ‘the cure being worse than the disease.’ The Congress had been particularly critical of the government’s handling of the migrant workers’ issue and the government’s refusal to go for direct cash transfer into the Jan Dhan accounts of the poor.
16 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,||No social distancing at Vemulawada||The physical distancing norm went for a toss at Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada of Rajanna-Sircilla following the arrival of hordes of devotees to offer prayers to the presiding deities on the auspicious Monday. Though the government had reopened the temple on June 8, the pilgrim rush was very normal and social distancing norms were maintained. On Monday, which is considered auspicious for the presiding deities, the pilgrims rush swelled. The mandatory thermal screening of pilgrims in queue lines was not done by the temple authorities. The only saving grace was that all the devotees were wearing face masks. Though the government had restricted the entry of devotees above 65 years of age and below 10 years, all age groups had entered the temple. However, the temple authorities ensured that the pilgrims were made to walk through the disinfectant tunnel before entering the temple. Surprisingly, the queue lines were spread to over 3 km and the devotees took around two to three hours for darshan in spite of ‘laghu darshan’ as the temple had already cancelled all the special rituals and pujas to check the spread of coronavirus. Devotees were seen crowding at the main entrance to break coconuts as an offering and lighting lamps. Local residents are a worried lot over the arrival of hordes of devotees and not following the social distancing norms. The temple authorities say same rush will be seen on Tuesday as devotees would offer ‘Bonalu’ to Baddi Pochamma temple.
16 June 2020||Mangaluru,||Amid pandemic, traditional art of ‘talamaddale’ goes digital||The traditional art of ‘talamaddale’, a variant of Yakshagna theatre, too has gone virtual in times of COVID-19. A performance was streamed live on social media on June 13 and more such are in store. Vasudeva Ranga Bhat, the artiste who enacted the role of Rama in an episode of Ramayana performed from Udupi, while his counterpart Sripada Hegde, who played the part of Lakshmana, was in California in the U.S. Another artiste Ganapathi Bhat Sankadagundi who was Bharata was in Mysuru. The musicians — Anantha Hegde Dantalige, the ‘bhagavatha’ (singer-cum-director), and Ganapathi Bhagvat Kavale, the ‘maddale’ player — were in Yellapur in Uttara Kannada. The episode titled ‘Paduka Pradhana’ was streamed live for more than two hours from 8.45 p.m. on YouTube and Facebook using a virtual meeting app. The hosts were Sanathana Yaksha Ranga Cultural Centre and Northern California Havyaka Group. COVID-19 and lockdown have forced artistes of different streams to explore digital platforms and social media to reach out to art lovers. Unlike Yakshagana performance, in the conventional ‘talamaddale’ the artistes sit across in a place without any costumes and engage in testing their oratory skills based on the episode chosen. It is an art form minus dance, costumes and stage conventions. Under the changed circumstances due to the lockdown, many Yakshagana artistes and Yakshagana-related organisations are hosting the virtual ‘talamaddale’ live programmes on the Facebook, YouTube since past over a fortnight. Their links are shared on social media platforms. Virtual live streaming is not a new trend in case of Yakshagana performance. But when ‘talamaddale’ is concerned, it is. If some used virtual meeting apps and then streamed it live on social media, many others streamed the conventional ‘talamaddale’ (where all artistes had a ‘baithak’ in a place) live on social media. A senior ‘arthadhari’ (‘talamaddale’ artiste who is an orator) Radhakrishna Kalchar told The Hindu that in virtual ‘talamaddale’ an ‘arthadhari’ will have to speak keeping the wider audience in mind. “Conventional ‘talamaddale’ attracts a limited number of audience who are familiar with the art form and there is response from them. Hence the narrations adopted by an ‘arthadhari’ to reach out to the audience will not fit while reaching out to a wider section of audience under the virtual platform. The narrations will have to be altered accordingly for the virtual form,” he said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Karan Singh faults India and Nepal for map imbroglio||Former Rajya Sabha member Karan Singh on Monday said the Nepal government’s decision to include parts of India by redrawing its map is an “irreversible confrontational act but also called it a diplomatic lapse on India’s part”. In a statement, Dr. Singh slammed Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for redrawing the boundary. Dr. Singh belongs to the former royal family of Kashmir and is married into Nepal’s former royal family. ‘Dismayed at Oli’s move’ “As one who has been closely associated both personally and politically with Nepal over several decades, I must express my sense of deep regret and dismay that Prime Minister Oli has moved the country in what can only be described as an irreversible confrontational posture vis-a-vis India despite the profound social, cultural, religious, economic and political relations that go back many centuries,” Dr. Singh said. “Whatever impact this move may or may not have on India, I fear the consequences for Nepal will not be favourable for the people of its beautiful country.” Dr. Singh’s statement comes after Nepal’s lower house of Parliament last Saturday passed a constitutional amendment Bill to include parts of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district in its updated map.  The veteran Congress leader also asked why the government of India had allowed things to reach such a pass. “...We should have never allowed the situation to deteriorate like this.” He said though Nepal had raised it in November last, India ‘surprisingly’ didn’t take it seriously. “We should have immediately initiated Foreign Secretary level talks and then, if necessary, raise it to the level of Foreign Minister or even the Prime Ministers. Prima facie, this appears to have been a serious diplomatic lapse, the consequences of which are before us,” Dr. Singh said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Javadekar, Jairam spar over notification on coal||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar defended his Ministry’s recent notification scrapping the mandatory requirement of supplying washed coal to all thermal units more than 500 km away from the coal mine. How is coal not dirty within 500 km, and how does it become dirty after 500 km, he wondered. He said this responding to a letter written by Congress leader and former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh. Mr. Ramesh had accused the Ministry of succumbing to the pressure of “politically powerful power producers.” A war of words has erupted between the two over the notification issued on May 21, in which the Ministry amended the Environment Protection Act to drop the mandatory washing of coal supplied to thermal power plants. This notification undid the government’s 2016 order, which made coal washing mandatory for supply to all thermal units more than 500 km from the mine as part of its climate-change commitments. Pollution load Mr. Ramesh, in his letter to Mr Javadekar dated 13th June, had said that the notification would “undo whatever limited progress” was made so far in reducing pollution load at coal-based power stations. Mr. Javadekar in his reply, accessed by The Hindu , said, “The fact that coal washing is not required till 500 km distance. How coal is not dirty within 500 kms, and how it becomes dirty after 500 kms?” Shooting off another e-mail to Mr. Javadekar, Mr. Ramesh explained that from January 2014, the Environment Ministry had been working towards “progressive reduction” of distance that unwashed coal would travel, keeping in view that ultimately all coals, irrespective of distance from supplying mines, will have to be washed and comply with less than 34 per cent ash limit. He quoted four orders by the Environment Ministry since 2014 to this effect. The Minister put the onus of washing coal on thermal plants, rather than Coal India which is the monopoly producer of coal in India. In his reply to Mr. Ramesh, Mr. Javadekar said, “[power] plants are free to wash coal. It is not banned.”
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘There will be no conflict if Indian Army doesn’t enter our actual line of control’||The Chinese have literally stuck to their guns since the 1962 border conflict when it comes to approaching a border settlement with India and reaching a common position on who sits where along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A slice of history from the archives reveals that Beijing would be unyielding if India tried to disturb the post-1962 status quo, something that could shine a light on current border incidents with China. In December 1963, a year after the November 1962 border conflict with India, Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai told Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser that there would be “no conflict between the two sides if the Indian army does not again enter our actual line of control.” At pains to explain Chinese actions to President Nasser, Mr. Zhou said about the post-war situation: “What is the outlook for the Sino-Indian border conflict? Frankly speaking, all is well for now. Since our side has taken the initiative of a ceasefire and such mitigation measures as initiating a withdrawal of 20 kilometres along the entire front line, there will be no conflict between the two sides if the Indian army does not again enter our actual line of control.” Chinese assessment Given the recent impasse along the LAC and fisticuffs between Indian and Chinese soldiers, Mr. Zhou’s dictum holds good — all would be well as long as the Indian side did not assert itself. A record of the Zhou-Nasser conversation, available on the Wilson Center Digital Archive, showed the Chinese assessment of New Delhi’s position: “India’s attitude is: for the eastern border, we must accept the McMahon line; for the western border, India wants it where it has never been, an area where Chinese have been living for several hundred years and made their own.” Mr. Zhou claimed that he visited India three times – in 1954, 1956 and 1957 – but the Indian side never put forth any proposals. In July 1962, Foreign Minister Marshal Chen Yi and Defence Minister Krishna Menon met in Geneva in a “situation where both sides were prepared to settle through discussion in maintaining the border status quo [both the eastern and western border were more to India’s advantage at that time than at present] and hold talks without conditions to resolve the issue”. No agreement “At the time we assumed that the Indian side could accept a negotiated agreement reached with us on the basis of maintaining the border status quo. But unexpectedly, Menon wanted our side first to demarcate several areas to give to him, commit them in advance, and then hold talks again. Because of this, the two sides did not come to an agreement,” Mr. Zhou told Mr. Nasser. The Chinese side seems stuck on this even today – they have not agreed to share maps on their perception on the eastern and western sectors of LAC first at the Joint Working Group (JWG) mechanism at foreign secretary-level agreed upon during Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s path-breaking visit to Beijing in December 1988. Maps in the less contentious middle sector were shared at a JWG meeting in 2001. In a major step-up, the two countries agreed to set up a dedicated mechanism at the level of Special Representatives (SRs) to resolve the border dispute during Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee’s China trip in June 2003. This superseded the JWG. Though the SR mechanism led to a “guiding principles” agreement in 2005, the two countries are still to exchange maps on where each side is in the eastern and western sectors. “Advance demarcation” still appears to be a problem for the Chinese side, although the contours of a possible settlement referred to by Mr. Zhou is no longer Beijing’s official position. A pressing issue Over the years, India and China have agreed on a number of mechanisms to enhance confidence at the military level, but their inability to agree to a border settlement have led to consistent problems – troops coming into conflict with each other – and continues to be a pressing issue. Mercifully, there have been no fatalities on either side for the past 45 years – since the two countries restored full diplomatic relations in 1976.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR recommends use of faster COVID-19 testing kit||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the use of Standard Q COVID-19 Ag antigen detection test in containment zones and healthcare settings in combination with the RT-PCR test. Collected nasal swab is used for testing in this procedure. “A positive test in antigen, result of which is available in 30 minutes, should be considered as a true positive one and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test. It will show whether the patient is currently infected,” said L.K. Sharma, scientist and media coordinator, ICMR. The kit, validated by the ICMR and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), was different from the Rapid Antibody Test kit. “Sample is nasopharyngeal swabs in this test, while blood is collected in the antibody test. The kits will allow faster diagnosis,’’ he stated. The Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit is a rapid chromatographic immunoassay for qualitative detection of specific antigens to SARS-CoV-2. It has been developed by SD Biosensor, a South Korea based company, having its manufacturing unit in Manesar, Gurugram. An advisory released by the ICMR stated that in view of the high specificity (ability to detect true negatives) and relatively low sensitivity, the Council recommends the use of this test in containment zones or hotspots to test symptomatic persons with influenza-like illness and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities of a confirmed case. “They should be tested once between day five and day ten of coming into contact with such individuals,’’ the ICMR said. “The test can be interpreted as positive or negative after 15 minutes... The maximum duration for interpreting a positive or negative test is 30 minutes,’’ the ICMR said.
16 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Woman drags 100-year-old mother to bank on a cot||The manager of a bank in Odisha’s Nuapada district was suspended after a 60-year-old woman dragged her 100-year-old mother on a cot to the bank for withdrawing money from a Jan Dhan account. The manager of the Bargaon branch of the Utkal Grameen Bank (UGB), identified as Ajit Kumar Pradhan, had sought physical verification of Labhe Baghel, a centenarian. She is a resident of the same Bargaon village. Ms. Baghel had received Rs. 1,500 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package announced by Centre. Monthly assistance of Rs. 500 (April to June) had been deposited to her account. On June 9, Punjimati Dei, her daughter, visited the bank to withdraw the amount since her mother was bedridden. When physical verification was needed, having no option, Ms. Dei placed her mother on a cot and dragged her along the road to the bank for about 400 m. She was then able to withdraw her money. A video of Ms. Dei dragging her mother on a cot has since gone viral. ‘Communication gap’ “This unfortunate incident was taken seriously by the State government and the Chairman of UGB was requested on Sunday to take stern action after inquiry. Based on the request, the bank authorities isuspended Mr. Pradhan, pending disciplinary action,” a government statement said. The bank, however, clarified that the manager had offered to visit the woman’s house, but could not do so as there was a rush at the branch, which has only a single officer assigned to it. “In her anxiety to get the money early and avoid rush the next day, she [Ms. Dei] had come to the branch on June 10 before business started...,” the bank said.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Van Dhan Yojna helps tribals beat odds||A few years ago, tribal communities in Langleng, one of Nagaland’s poorest districts, used to sell their unique hill broom grass for just Rs. 7 a kg. Today, by making the brooms themselves with support from the Van Dhan Yojna, they now earn Rs. 60 a broom, making four or five brooms from a kg of grass. “Broom grass coming from the hills is in demand because it is much sturdier and finer quality, but it was the middlemen and traders who were making all the money,” says Anungla Imdong Phom, Joint Director of the Nagaland’s Department for Development of Underdeveloped Areas. “Two years ago, after a partnership with TRIFED [Tribal Cooperative Marketing Federation of India], we started buying the grass for Rs. 30 per kg, and there was huge supply. But the real gains came over this last year with the Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVKs), which enabled people to start making the brooms themselves,” she told The Hindu in a telephonic interview. “Today, the villagers sell each broom for Rs. 60. They are sold in Guwahati for up to Rs. 170 each.” The hill broom project is one of the biggest success stories of the Van Dhan Yojna, launched nationwide on Independence Day 2019 to ensure that van dhan , or forest wealth, stays in the hands of forest dwellers, by providing local platforms for processing, value addition, marketing and sale of minor forest produce. Ten months later, 1,205 tribal enterprises employing 3.6 lakh people through 18,000 self-help groups have been set up under the scheme. About Rs. 3.5 crore worth of sales have taken place through these platforms, TRIFED managing director Pravir Krishna told journalists at a webinar on Monday. He hopes to treble participation to 10 lakh people and 50,000 SHGs under the COVID-19 relief plan. A digital procurement platform is expected to be in place by month-end. The products range from hill brooms, wild honey, candles and ointments made of rock beeswax, bamboo bottles, aloe vera soaps and gooseberry wine in the north east, to hawan [incence] sticks, moha laddu and, amla murabba [preserved gooseberries] in Maharashtra and Rajasthan, and tamarind blocks, dried tendu leaves, processed mahua, lac bangles and eco-friendly leaf plates from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh.
16 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||A way on wheels for contact-free testing||The district administration here has rolled out a unique Rapid Testing Vehicle (RTV), facilitating a smoother, safer and people-friendly way of collecting throat and nasal swabs for screening people for SARS-CoV-2. The RTV is part of the district administration’s Total India Remote Analysis Nirogya Abhiyan (TIRANGA) project. Vinay Goyal, Thiruvalla Subcollector, who is also a medical doctor, backed by District Collector P.B. Noohu, is the brain behind the novel project. TIRANGA comprise two modified vehicles — one an automated non-contact rapid screening vehicle that avoids undue exposure of health workers to suspected patients and the other a Rapid Testing Vehicle (RTV) that facilitates contact-free collection of throat and nasal swabs of suspected COVID-19 patients. Rapid Testing Vehicle Dr. Goyal told The Hindu that the RTV had two chambers and a glass window with projected gloves separating them. The cabin driver and doctor would sit in the front and in the rear chamber, the person whose sample is to be taken. A mike system is in place for communication with the person. There is also the facility for keeping the viral transport media (VTM) in cold storage. After taking 10 to 15 samples, the rear cabin would be fumigated for 15 minutes using formaldehyde for disinfection. Dr. Goyal also said the airflow system would start after fumigation. He said it took Rs. 1,00,000 to modify the vehicle with all equipment. Technical team The technical team under Dr. Goyal comprised Justin Raj, Jeffy Jacob and Mamman, all doctors, and Ananthu Gopan, Jinesh M.S., and Noble Davis, engineers. The vehicle and the fund for its modification was provided by the Thiruvalla-based NMR foundation. The RTV would ensure the safety of the health-care staff, as it helps to avoid human contact while taking the samples. The samples are collected on the field and people do not need to come to hospital. “We took 20 throat and nasal swab samples on the first day on Saturday and will be able to take 50 to 60 samples daily,” said Dr Goyal.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala may raise retirement age by 2 years||Raising the retirement age of government employees from 56 to 58 years and abolition of redundant posts have been mooted to bail out the State from the current fiscal crisis. An expert panel headed Sunil Mani, director, Centre for Development Studies, which explored various options for mopping resources and paring down government expenditure in the wake of the resource crunch deepened by COVID-19, has said raising the retirement age would help save Rs. 5,265.97 crore annually in terms of benefit outflows and ease the pension burden in the long term, given the high life expectancy in the State. An interim report submitted by the committee has proposed a five-day week schedule, with a rider that employees could work from home, if needed. Ban on post creation The committee has proposed a ban on post creation for two years in government and aided institutions and abolition of posts that have become redundant or have been vacant for more than a year. It has mooted a review of temporary posts and cautioned against creation of new and regularisation of existing posts. Leave norms The maximum period of leave without allowance should be capped at five years and unauthorised absence beyond that time-frame should be treated as resignation. This proposal has been put forward on detecting a blatant misuse of the Kerala Service Rules provisions to avail of 20 years of leave in spells of five years for taking up overseas assignments or joining spouse. Contractual engagement of retired employees should be done away with. Whittling down clerical posts, especially in technical institutions, has been suggested in view of computerisation of departments and other institutions. The 25,000-odd fresh entrants to government service annually may be paid only 75% of the total emoluments while on probation so that the government could save Rs. 66 crore annually, the report has said. Leave encashment The government may have a rethink on the earned leave provided to employees, a practice that exists only in Kerala. Employees may be allowed to accumulate leave up to 300 days during their entire service and encashment should ideally be allowed only during retirement. Judicial commissions that have been functioning for more than 2 years should be asked to submit their final report in two months so that they could be wound up. Reprioritisation of Plan projects in consultation with the Planing Board has also been proposed. The panel has also proposed merger of uneconomic schools and a turnaround strategy for the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation.  An interim report has proposed a five-day week schedule, with a rider that employees could work from home, if needed
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays green tribunal’s orders in Vizag gas leak case||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order of June 1, which directed the appropriation of Rs. 50 crore deposited by LG Polymers for the restoration of environment and payment of interim compensation to victims of a gas leak from its factory at Visakhapatnam on May 7. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit stayed the tribunal order for the next 10 days. On June 1, the tribunal also directed the framing of a “restoration plan”, final quantification of the compensation to be paid to victims and action against officials responsible for allowing the company to function without statutory clearances. All of these directions have been stayed for the time being. The stay order came after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for LG Polymers, argued that the company cannot mount a defence against the charges as its records were sealed. He contended that the NGT’s enquiry committee report into the gas leak was published only on May 28, hardly three days before the June 1 order. This gave the company inadequate time to respond. Mr. Rohatgi had sought suspension of the disbursal of the Rs. 50 crore. The Bench asked the High Court to decide the various disputes in connection with this case by the end of next week. The Bench scheduled the case for hearing after two weeks. Meanwhile, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu wrote letters to the victims. “I had planned to personally meet you and hand over Rs. 50,000 as financial assistance, but the government is not giving me permission to visit Visakhapatnam,” he wrote.
16 June 2020||Patna,||Tejashwi continues attack on ‘missing’ Nitish Kumar||Continuing his attack on Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for his long absence from public life during the coronavirus crisis, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly and Tejashwi Yadav on Monday released a poster that said: “The whole of Bihar is asking: where has Nitish Kumar been hiding?” Mr. Kumar, meanwhile, came out of his residence on Monday to attend the 72nd State-level bankers’ meet at Patna’s Adhiveshan Bhawan. “Why has Bihar’s Chief Minister been missing for the last 90 days?” asked the huge poster unveiled by Tejashwi Yadav outside the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) headquarters at Patna’s Beerchand Patel Marg. It said: “He spent 77 lakh 76 thousand seconds in hiding and yet he is traceless…and, above all, calling labourers goons, lootere (robbers) and criminals…neither do you take care of poor people, labourers, farmers or youth…what did you do? Only rest, rest, rest and rest.” Addressing mediapersons at the party office, Mr. Yadav said such posters would be put up at every block and district headquarters. Later, he also tweeted: “Shouldn’t the chief minister who is missing from 90 days visit the Covid hospitals, which are at some distance from his luxurious bungalow, to take stock of the preparation there?...Shouldn’t he talk to the labourers?... Everything seems rosy at closed door meetings but the ground reality comes when one visits the ground.” Earlier on Sunday, poll strategist and former Janata Dal (United) leader Prashant Kishor too took a jibe at his former party boss. “Despite the lowest testing rate, 7-9% positive case rate and more than 6,000 cases, Bihar is discussing more of elections than corona. Nitish Kumar who had not come out of his residence for last three months due to fears of corona, thinks there is no danger for people in stepping out of their home to participate in polls,” Mr. Kishor tweeted.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCW records spike in domestic violence amid lockdown||The National Commission for Women (NCW) registered an increase of at least 2.5 times in domestic violence complaints since the nationwide lockdown, according to official data. The sharp spike belies Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani’s remarks that there was no increase in such incidents and that NGOs were “scaremongering”. Between March 25 and May 31, the NCW received 1,477 complaints of domestic violence. Nearly 727 of these complaints were received on its WhatsApp helpline (+917217735372 ) set up in April to ensure women, who couldn’t access emails or send complaints by post, could receive help. The total complaints during the 68-day period were 1.5 times the 607 of complaints received between March and May last year. ‘Scaremongering’ Despite the numbers, Ms. Irani dismissed concerns over the rise in incidents of domestic violence. News reports last week said that during a webinar, the Minister had denied there was in increase in incidents. Ms Irani said there was some “scaremongering done especially with some development partners who are in the NGO sector that 80% of women who are now at homes in India or across the world will be getting beaten up.” Anuradha Kapoor, Director of Swayam, an NGO in Kolkata, said, “The kind of violence that is now being meted out to them is much more severe. We had a woman locking herself up in a room and asking us to call the police to rescue her because she feared for her life. Another woman, who was pregnant, was beaten up so badly that she fled the house with her 5-year-old daughter and walked to her parents home in the middle of the night.”
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Engage with private sector to provide care, Centre tells States||The Centre has asked States to engage with the private sector for augmenting healthcare infrastructure, and provisioning of critical care at reasonable rates. This direction, issued on Monday, according to the Health Ministry, comes following several reports indicating an emerging shortage of healthcare infrastructure, including hospitals with ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen supported beds, etc., for the management of COVID-19 patients. “There have also been reports of overcharging by healthcare providers for COVID-19 treatment,” the Ministry said. “In order to ensure that patients receive prompt, good quality care at reasonable rates, it has been suggested to States to have consultations with the local private healthcare providers and arrive at reasonable rates, while factoring in cost elements for personal safety equipments for healthcare providers,” a release noted. The Ministry has suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicised so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dilution of labour laws puts children at risk: activists||The relaxation of labour laws across 11 States combined with closure of schools and reverse migration to rural areas due to the nationwide lockdown will force lakhs of children into child labour, while those already employed will be forced to work longer hours for meagre wages and under hazardous conditions, warn activists and labour law experts. The changes made to labour laws by various State governments can be broadly divided into two categories — allowing longer working hours and suspending labour rights resulting in lax enforcement — explains Rahul Sapkal, Assistant Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “The easing of norms will lead to an overall increase in insecurity and informalisation of labour, loss of bargaining power among labourers and deterioration in working conditions, but the impact on children and adolescents will be more severe. There will be an increase in hazardous work,” said Mr. Sapkal. India contributes to nearly 15% of the global child and adolescent labourers. There are over 10 million working children in the age group of 5 to 14 years and 22.87 million adolescents. “Even in the absence of these relaxations, children were extremely vulnerable as witnesses of food and livelihood insecurity resulting in them falling out of the safety net,” says CRY’s Preeti Mahara. “It is possible that adolescents may willingly drop out of school to help their families improve their financial resources.” Her organisation is working with partners in 19 States to collaborate with local administration to maintain a headcount of children who are returning to rural areas so that they can be linked with social protection schemes. Ms. Mahara says in the days to come it is imperative that governments work on a vulnerability analysis and reach out to those children who have not returned to schools.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Pension deferment orders prima facie illegal’||The orders issued by Telangana government deferring 25% of pensions and 50% of salaries are prima facie illegal, said Telangana High Court on Monday. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a batch of PIL petitions challenging deferment of pensions and salaries, said the government orders were not backed by any provision of the law. Observing that State government cannot issue ‘farman’ as per its wishes, the CJ said that a “Government Order’ has to go if it was not backed by the law. During the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19, the State government in April issued orders deferring 50% of the pension amounts to retired employees. Following the HC intervention, the deferred pension amount was brought to 25%. The bench asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad how the government expected the retired employees to manage with 25% of pension deferment since that was the only source of income for them. How can they meet their medical and other expenses, it sought to know.  ‘Pensioners suffering’ Even as the AG requested time for explaining the government stand, the bench said it cannot adjourn it till July since the pensioners were suffering. The court cannot allow the retired employees to face difficult situations, it said. “We cannot leave them hanging in air,” the bench remarked. Presenting his contentions, the AG said the State was reeling under financial repercussions arising out of the lockdown due to coronavirus. Even the Centre had deferred release of GST related arrears to the State. The AG said that impossibility theory had emerged in the backdrop of lockdown and even the courts had recognised the situation. He told the court that the government’s decision to defer pension amounts was backed by Supreme Court judgements and would present before the bench in the next hearing. But the bench, differing with the AG’s contentions, said pension payments cannot be deferred until and unless government declared a financial emergency.  Statutory payment “Once an appointment is made under statutory rules, the conditions of service are governed by statutory rules and pension was part of it,” the bench said. Stating that unless those statutory rules empower State to defer pension, the government orders can be set aside, the bench noted. The bench said the government should clarify how long pension payments would be deferred and it cannot keep the pensioners guessing. The matter was posted to Wednesday for next hearing.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Curbs on people from Delhi, T.N. in Karnataka||The Karnataka government has announced mandatory institutional quarantine of three days for those coming from Delhi and Tamil Nadu, followed by 11 days of home quarantine. In an order issued late on Monday, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said that those coming from Maharashtra would continue to have institutional quarantine for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine. Those travelling from other States would have 14 days of home quarantine as earlier. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a high-level meeting of Ministers and senior State administration officials to deliberate on measures to stem the spread of COVID-19. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, the Chief Minister pointed out that of the total of over 7,000 cases reported in the State, as many as 4,386 were travellers from Maharashtra and 1,340 were their contracts. Further, 216 people who tested positive were those who came from abroad, while 87 cases and 67 cases were reported from those who came from Delhi and Tamil Nadu, respectively. “A system will be in place to ensure that home quarantine rules are strictly adhered to,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. “As many as 8,000 booth-level task force will be set up to identify persons suffering from various illnesses and precautionary measures will be taken,” the Chief Minister said. The review meeting was called in the light of increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, the Chief Minister’s office said. The Chief Minister also said that a special task force for Bengaluru and neighbouring districts had been set up to monitor the pandemic. “There is an indication that the virus spread could increase, and efforts are being made to contain it. People should cooperate,” he said. Meanwhile, he also clarified that there was no plan to impose lockdown again in the State. “In fact, we are going to seek further relaxation from the lockdown guidelines during our videoconference with the Prime Minister. The cases have increased because of people coming into the State from outside,” he said.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI alert on scams linked to COVID-19||The CBI has alerted the police in all States and Union Territories on online advance payment scams and use of methanol for making spurious sanitisers. The alert follows inputs from the Interpol. “Such scams involve instances of criminals approaching as vendors of PPE and other protective equipment related to the COVID-19 pandemic and entering into business transactions with clients online”, the CBI said. After receipt of payment via bank transfers, the fraudulent vendors do not make any delivery of items. Besides, there have been instances in other countries wherein methanol has been used for preparing spurious hand sanitisers. The modus operandi has been devised to exploit the huge demand for sanitisers. Spurious sanitiser “Methanol can be highly toxic and dangerous for the human body,” said the CBI in a statement. Based on information received from the Interpol, the CBI last month sent alerts to all the States, Union Territories and the Central agencies. The banking Trojan, Cerberus, sent messages using the lure of COVID-19 related content to download the embedded malicious link.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||60 lakh migrants took 4,450 Shramik trains||Since May 1, 60 lakh migrants had taken 4,450 Shramik specials at an average ticket price of Rs. 600, of which the Railways had recovered 15%, Railway Board chairman V.K. Yadav said on Monday. At a virtual press conference, Mr. Yadav said most migrants had gone back to their States but the Railways had asked the governments if they wanted more trains. The Railways had started the specials on May 1 for migrant workers hit by the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The Railways had also readied its train coaches to be used as the pandemic care centres in case medical infrastructure in any State is exhausted. Mr. Yadav said Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana had shown interest. The Centre has said the Railways was charging only 15% of the cost of operations from the originating State governments and 85% of the cost was being borne by the Centre.
16 June 2020||K.M. Dayashankar,||Call for more excavations||The unearthing of the statue of Lord Mahaveera in Kotla Narsimhlupalle village of Gangadhara mandal in Karimnagar district has once again brought focus on the need for more excavations and investigations by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to unravel the history of the region. On Saturday, an idol of Lord Mahaveera was unearthed in the fields of Voggu Anjaiah while ploughing by using a tractor. Incidentally, an idol belonging to the 23rd Jain Theerthankara called Parshvanatha was found in the same fields on June 13, 2007. This spot is just 15 km away from Bommalammagutta, which was the first capital of Rashtrakuta dynasty, which ruled the Telangana region and adopted Jainism. The Kotla Narsimhlupalle village is known for historical reasons because of location of the hillock ‘Devuni Gutta’ which houses the ancient Sri Laxmi Narasimha Swamy and Sri Annapoorna Vishwanatha temples dating back to 7th and 8th century of imperial Rashtrakutas. Kirti Kumar Kalvakota, a native of the village and hereditary trustee of the temples on the hillocks, said that following his representation, ASI officials from Chennai and Hyderabad have inspected the hillock on April 23, 2015; October 11, 2017; and on March 11, 2020. The ASI officials have confirmed that the Ugra Narasimha temple dates back to 8th century AD and stressed on the need for preservation of the rare sculptural panel of the temple. Mr. Kirti Kumar wanted the authorities to remove the thick coat of lime plaster on the walls of the temple to show hidden sculptures and inscriptions.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka schools make do with worksheets||With the State government banning online classes till class five, schools are giving assignments, worksheets and homework to students. Some schools are even getting students to come online for classes without any video. These require students to log in at a specific time every day where the teacher will explain the plan. The government has said all kinds of virtual classes should be stopped till the committee formed to deliberate on the guidelines for online classes submits its recommendations. National Public School, Rajajinagar, in an email to parents, has stated that the survey handed out to parents indicate that they want online classes to continue, but adds that they will have to put classes on hold for students in lower grades. They have, however, said that asynchronous classes will begin from Tuesday for students in classes one to five. Students or parents are expected to login at 9 a.m. every day and a teacher will guide them through a plan. The school has stated that the lessons will have tasks such as worksheets and activities, which ‘can be managed at the child's pace independently by the child with minimal supervision’ by the parents. The mail states that each task or worksheet will have clear instructions from the teacher. “Curiosity, capacity to absorb and memory are at the peak in young children. When we stifle learning, we stifle a child’s potential. Prolonged physical inactivity, lack of mental stimulation, social isolation, lack of routines and structure can result in aggression, destructive behaviour or worse, mental health issues,” the mail says. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said that they were providing worksheets and ‘do it yourself’ kits to students. “These activities cover both academic and non-academic aspects,” he said. While parents were asked to pick up some material from the school, a large chunk of the assignments were sent to parents via social messaging platforms. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said that they have asked parents to refer to a list of websites and learning resources sent by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and Central Board of Secondary Education to keep the students engaged. Manila Carvalho, principal, Delhi Public School, Bengaluru East, said they have sent worksheets to students of some grades where the teachers had completed a few lessons in online classes. “We are uploading them in the school software. Parents can make the children practise the assignments when they have the time. We cannot correct them, but will provide a copy of the correct answers,” she said. But many parents are complaining that the worksheets are “stressful” for them as they are already overstretched working from home. “All the worksheets require our guidance, and it is tiring for us. Since the government is yet to take a decision on online classes, we want schools to pause the activities till they come up with guidelines of how online classes should be conducted,” a parent of a primary school student said.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Nepal move is unilateral, talks are difficult now’||They refuted Mr. Oli’s allegation that the Modi government had not responded to calls for Foreign Secretary-level talks on the Kalapani dispute and claiming that it had even offered talks last month. “We had offered talks and a video-conference before the tabling of the [constitution amendment] bill (on June 1) also. However, the unilateral act of PM Oli has created a difficult situation and prejudged the outcome of any future talks. It is now for Nepal to create a conducive atmosphere for dialogue,” the sources added, claiming that the Nepal PM had hidden India’s offer from his parliament and party colleagues. The sources, however, declined to give precise dates of the offer made by New Delhi. An official in the Nepali government “outrightly rejected” the Indian claim that there had been any offer. Visibly upset by Mr. Oli’s suggestion during the debate in parliament that “85% of Nepal’s COVID-19 cases had come from India”, the sources said the accusation was “false and distorted”. Of 8 million Nepalese people who live and work in India, only a small number had returned over the India-Nepal border given the lockdown in both countries, they said, and they entered Nepal with the permission of their government. Hence, it was Nepal’s responsibility to ensure any returning citizen was quarantined and treated for the virus. India had provided overflight to flights to Nepal from several other countries, including China as well, the sources pointed out, and it was unfair to single out just one country for the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, the sources questioned Mr. Oli’s motives for bringing up the dispute over Kalapani, saying it proved “the intention is to politicise the boundary dispute”. They also claimed that Nepal has itself encroached on Indian territory in Narsahi and Susta by settling its own population in disputed areas, and asked why all the claims over issues settled during the 1815 Treaty of Sugauli (Article V) were being raked up after “200 years”.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Petrol, diesel prices highest since Oct. 2018||Following the latest price revision, a litre of petrol costs Rs. 76.26 in Delhi, Rs. 83.17 in Mumbai, Rs. 79.76 in Chennai and Rs. 78.10 in Kolkata. Similarly, a litre of diesel costs Rs. 74.62 in Delhi, Rs. 73.21 in Mumbai, Rs. 72.69 in Chennai and Rs. 70.33 in Kolkata. Around 70% of the retail price of fuel comprises taxes (excise duties, VAT, cess, etc). The current spike in auto fuel rates can be attributed to the excise duty hike of Rs. 10 per litre on petrol and Rs. 13 per litre on diesel last month. Besides, several State governments have also hiked VAT or cess on fuel but its impact was immediately passed on to customers.. The state-owned oil marketing companies (OMC), Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers, adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of international oil prices falling to two-decade lows. According to the OMCs, the base price of petrol charged to dealers as on June 1 is Rs. 18.28 a litre, including freight charges. The price goes up with the addition of Rs. 32.98 of excise duty, Rs. 16.44 charged as VAT and Rs. 3.56 a litre of dealers’ commission. Similarly, the base price of diesel is Rs. 18.78 a litre including freight charges. The retail price goes up with Rs. 31.83 of excise duty, Rs. 16.26 of VAT and Rs. 2.52 a litre charged as dealers’ commission.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China military commanders hold talks||At the Corps Commander talks, India had firmly conveyed its demand of restoring the status quo ante to pre-May 5 positions. Beginning early May, the two sides were engaged in stand-offs at several locations at Ladakh, and at the Corps Commanders talks on June 6, both sides mutually agreed on five locations of conflict — Patrolling Point (PP) 14, 15, 17A, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul — and also on partial disengagement from some of these places. Army sources said that at the Galwan area, limited “disengagement” had began earlier and such limited de-escalation at PP 15, 17A and Gogra areas was agreed at the Corps Commander level. Next round undecided All areas, except the Finger 4 area of Pangong Tso, were seeing some disengagement and could be resolved at the local level, the sources observed. Pangong Tso remains a major area of concern where Chinese troops have moved up to Finger 4 area and dug in on Indian territory. The next round of Corps Commander-level talks have not been decided yet.
16 June 2020||Kolkata,||IIT-Kharagpur bans staff from speaking to media||The Indian Institute of Technology-Kharagpur (IIT-KGP) has issued a notice barring its employees from speaking to the media, quoting from the institute’s Conduct Rules. The notice was issued recently by the Registrar of IIT-KGP and it has noted that some of the employees are causing “embarrassment” to the institute by talking to the press. An internal communication from the Dean’s office has also advised the faculty to “seek permission” for participating in any webinar or video conference. However, they can publish — without any sanction — about their scientific works in “journals of repute”. “…a few cases are reported in the media which may have the effect of an adverse criticism of the policies or action of the Institute or which is causing embarrassment in the relations between the Institute and the Central Government/any State Government/any other Institute or organization or members of the public,” the notice noted.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The mighty bird||In his Garuda Panchasath, Vedanta Desika recalls the story of Vibhaavasu and Suprateeka, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Garuda’s father, sage Kashyapa, tells the hungry Garuda to eat a tortoise and elephant that are fighting. The two were brothers in a previous birth, and had the names Vibhaavasu and Suprateeka. When the family property had to be divided between them, a quarrel arose as to who should have the lion’s share. They cursed each other, and as a result they were born as an elephant and a tortoise. But the fight, which began in the previous janma, continues! The two brothers, now reborn as animals, fight fiercely, but inconclusively. Their noisy fight disturbs the sages doing penance. So, sage Kashyapa decides to achieve two things in one shot — providing food to Garuda and ridding the sages of the trouble caused by the fighting brothers. Garuda comes upon the two animals, and he picks them up. But they continue to fight in his beak; they fight even when they are held in his claws; they fight when he places them on a rock. Garuda eats them, and even as they pass through his throat, they continue to fight. And even when they reach his stomach, they do not stop fighting. Desika prays that Garuda who ate these two creatures should protect us from harm. Desika refers to Garuda as pakshimalla — the powerful bird. When Garuda goes to get nectar, the snake sons of Kadru mock him. They wonder if he will get it from the crescent moon on Siva’s head. If he does, it would be insufficient for all the snakes. Or will he try to get it from the ocean? That will yield nothing, because the nectar had been churned out of the ocean long ago. But Garuda laughs at their ignorance of his strength, and finally does get the nectar.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Call to protect TS share in Krishna water||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has decided to take the issue of Andhra Pradesh plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam reservoir by explaining the huge blow it is going deal not only on the farmers in South Telangana but also for other sections. First meeting of the ‘Krishna Nadi Jalaala Parirakashana Committee’ (Krishna River Water Protection Committee) of the TPCC was held here on Monday and was attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy, former legislators S.A. Sampath Kumar and T. Rammohan Reddy, former MP Mallu Ravi and several others, including DCC presidents of the impact areas. Speaking at the meeting Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the plans of the Andhra Pradesh government to increase the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator from the existing 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs and taking up Rayalaseema Lift Scheme to draw another 3 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam reservoir would result in deficiency in Krishna water availability to farmers and others depending on the river water for irrigation and drinking needs through the projects/canal systems based on water stored in the two inter-State reservoirs at Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar. Protect State’s interest The TPCC president said the party would expose Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s collusion with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy in diverting the Krishna water to non-basin areas at the cost of in-basin inhabitants in South Telangana. Party leaders who attended the meeting expressed their resolve to protect Telangana’s share in Krishna River water by stopping illegal diversion plans by the neighbouring AP. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that restoration of Telangana’s share in river waters was one of the main objective of formation of Telangana and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) was an ally of Congress party and was part of the government in AP at the Centre when the Pothireddypadu’s capacity was enhanced for the first time in late 2000s. He pointed out that KCR did not oppose the capacity expansion of Pothyreddypadu then but now is blaming the Congress for the same. During the meeting, Dr. Nagam Janardhan Reddy gave a power-point presentation explaining how Telangana’s share in Krishna waters was being diverted to AP illegally. “A system is already in place to divert 34 tmc ft of surplus water and 67 tmc ft of flood water in 17 days to AP,” he said adding that AP was planning further expansion.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka-A.P. buses from tomorrow||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to resume inter-State services between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh from Wednesday after over two months. The services will resume in a phased manner. In the the first phase, buses will be operated between Bengaluru and destinations such as Tirupati, Vijayawada, Puttaparthi, and Nellore. For the time being, only non-AC services will be operated on these routes. The KSRTC will also operate buses from Ballari to Mantralaya, Kurnool and other places, as well as from Raichur to Mantralaya and Shahpur to Mantralaya and Kurnool. A KSRTC official said that 160 buses would be operated from Karnataka and the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will operate the same number of buses to different destinations in Karnataka, including Bengaluru. “Both the State governments have agreed to run inter-State buses. As per the previous agreements, both the corporations can operate 550 buses each. However, we will operate buses depending on the response from the public. In the first phase, 160 buses will be operated and the number of services will be increased in the next five phases,” the official said and added that passengers would be screened at the boarding and alighting points. “For intra-State services, we are screening passengers only at the boarding points. But for inter-State services, passengers will be screened at both the points.” The official said that negotiations were on to operate buses to Telangana and by next week, both the State governments were likely to reach an understanding on resuming services. In the first week of June, the KSRTC had announced that it is keen on operating inter-State buses to Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Goa, and Telangana. However, officials had expressed reservation over operating inter-State buses to Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu owing to high prevalence of COVID-19 cases. “We are yet to get a response from the Goa and Kerala governments on resuming services,” said the official. The State government had directed the KSRTC to stop inter-State service buses on March 22 after COVID-19 outbreak. The transport corporation was operating 1,078 services to neighbouring States, including luxury AC buses. It is suffering revenue loss of Rs. 1 crore per day owing to non-operation of inter-State services. Increase in services Within the State, the KSRTC has gradually increased the number of services. At present, 3,500 KSRTC buses are running, and officials said bus services to villages had resumed in various parts of the State. “Earlier, around 72,000 people were travelling in KSRTC intra-State services, now the number has touched close to three lakh. KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC are operating close to 8,500 buses per day,” officials said.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||New norms for visitors, students||Visitors from abroad and within the country can remain in Kerala for a maximum of seven days without having to move into a hotel or institutional quarantine. However, they have to procure their passes through the COVID-19 Jagratha portal in advance. The allowance is only for people seeking to enter Kerala for appearance in court, management of property, business, trade, official, and medical purposes. Six days for students Students appearing for examinations can remain in the State for not more than six days without having to go in quarantine. They can enter Kerala three days before the examination but must leave the State within three days of the conclusion of the test. The government has asked the State police and revenue authorities to ensure that people visiting the State for short periods leave within the stipulated period.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deferred Bihar MLC polls on July 6||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday announced the schedule for elections to nine Bihar Legislative Council seats that had been deferred in April due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Polling and counting would take place on July 6, the ECI said. The terms of Ashok Choudhary, Krishan Kumar Singh, Prashant Kumar Shahi, Sanjay Prakash, Satish Kumar, Radha Mohan Sharma, Sonelal Mehta, Md. Haroon Rashid and Hira Prasad Vind ended on May 6.   “Adequate measures for close monitoring of the election process by appointing observers shall be taken to ensure free and fair election. Commission has also directed the Chief Secretary of the State to depute a senior officer from the State to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making poll arrangements,” the ECI said. The ECI also announced that by-election to one seat in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council that fell vacant with the resignation of Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad, would take place on July 6. Mr. Prasad’s term was till March 29, 2023.
16 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bank denies money due to 2 Assam girls||The Congress in Assam has complained against officials of the State Bank of India (SBI) for denying two underprivileged girls money due to them as scholarship amount even 18 months after the maturity of the fixed deposits. Rimpy Thapa and Purnima Thapa of Nazira in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar district had received a scholarship of Rs. 5,000 each from then Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi in 2012 for excellence in school. The amount was placed as a term deposit in the SBI’s Dispur Branch. No response The two beneficiaries were to have received Rs. 7,806 each as maturity amount on December 8, 2018. However, bank officials allegedly did not respond to their applications for withdrawal or to several follow-up questions. Drawing attention to the “completely unprofessional and unjust” conduct of officials of the bank, Congress MLA Debabrata Saikia on Monday sought the intervention of Thotngam Jamang, RBI’s Banking Ombudsman in Guwahati. “I, too, requested the Branch Manager in question to release the scholarship amount to the beneficiaries on October 31, 2019. I had further enquired whether there was any impediment in releasing the funds, but the Branch Manager did not have the courtesy to respond,” he said in the complaint. Mr. Saikia sought the RBI’s intervention and disciplinary action against the errant bank officials.
16 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 514 new cases, 28 deaths||There appears to be no respite for Gujarat from the COVID-19 pandemic as Monday saw 514 fresh infections and 28 fatalities, taking its toll to 24,104 cases and 1,506 deaths. The number of patients who have been discharged stands at 16,672, with 339 discharged on Monday. There are now 5,926 active patients under treatment across the State, including 71 who are critically infected and on ventilator support. So far, 2,92,909 samples have been tested in the State. On Monday, 23 deaths were reported from Ahmedabad where the toll mounted to 1,210 fatalities while the count in Surat has climbed to 110, the second largest death toll after Ahmedabad.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,||9 repatriation flights to reach Kochi today||Nine repatriation flights, including stopover operations from Moscow and Cairo by Air India and a direct flight from Moldova by a Turkish airliner, will land at Cochin International Airport on Tuesday. These flights will bring in 1,672 international passengers to Kochi, said a press release here. The relief operations will commence with 6E9324 Indigo flight from Kuwait landing at 12.30 a.m. The airlines will operate another flight from Kuwait, 6E9324, which is slated to touch down at 11 p.m. Air India confirmed an evacuation operation from Moscow. AI1924 Moscow flight is expected to reach Kochi at 1.35 a.m. after stopover and disembarkation of passengers in Delhi.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Two found dead||A 15-year-old girl was found dead at her residence in Rajendranagar here on Sunday night. The victim, Nishath Begum, allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. The incident came to light only after her parents who returned home after work found her hanging. A case was registered and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. At Suraram village in Medchal mandal, a homemaker, who got vexed by harassment from her husband, allegedly committed suicide by hanging on Monday. The victim, Padma (35), wife of Vijay Kumar, had three children.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Govt. caps COVID charges at private facilities||The State government has fixed charges for COVID-19 tests and treatment in private hospitals and laboratories following concerns over expensive healthcare at corporate facilities. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said if a COVID-19 patient is admitted for routine isolation, the charges per day will be Rs. 4,000 while treatment in Intensive Care Unit without mechanical ventilator support will cost Rs. 7,500 a day. In case ventilator support is provided, the charges will be Rs. 9,000 per day. Making this announcement at a press conference held at State Health department’s Command Control Centre in Koti on Monday afternoon, Mr Rajender said hospitals can bill under ‘extra charges’ if costly antiviral drugs are administered. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said a government order will be issued detailing charges under various categories. This would help people know if there would be any other extra charges for the treatment. Guidelines on who should be admitted based on severity of COVID-19 and display of crucial details such as number of beds available will be issued too. It was earlier highlighted in these columns that a COVID-19 patient was billed nearly Rs. 20 lakh for 23-day treatment at a corporate hospital in Banjara Hills, and that there is a need to put a cap on the treatment charges. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed officials to prepare guidelines for private hospitals and labs to conduct coronavirus tests, offer treatment and costs to be paid.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,||Minister launches anti-COVID mats||Anti-COVID Health Plus Mats from the Kerala State Coir Corporation, Alappuzha, was launched by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Monday. The Minister handed over a mat to M. Kumararaja, Secretary of Coir Board, at a brief function organised here. The Minister said that the coir industry would be able to overcome the current adverse market conditions through innovative products like the anti-COVID mats, which will be made available to all homes in the State at a reduced price. He said that these mats will be required during reverse quarantine measures that could happen in the future when houses have to ensure hygiene. He said the user-friendly and affordable product was made out of 100% natural material. N. Padmakumar, secretary, Coir Department; T. K. Devakumar, chairman, Kerala State Coir Corporation and G Sreekumar, managing director of the Corporation, were present. The product will be available in the market in July through Coircraft, Kerala State Coir Corporation distribution chain and also through Kudumbashree.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter marries DYFI president||T. Veena, daughter of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and T. Kamala, got married to Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) president P.A. Mohamed Riyas here on Monday morning. The austere function was held at Cliff House, the official residence of the Chief Minister at 10.30 a. m. Senior leaders of the CPI (M), DYFI, and close relatives attended the function organised according to the COVID-19 guidelines. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan was the only member from the LDF Ministry to take part in the function. The marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act last week. Ms. Veena is an IT professional based in Bengaluru. She runs her own start-up Exalogic Solutions Private Ltd. Mr. Riyas, who had his school and college education in Kozhikode, started his political career as a Students Federation of India activist while in school. Later, he became active in the DYFI. Mr. Riyas had officiated as DYFI State vice president and joint secretary, all-India joint secretary and then national president. He contested the Lok Sabha election in 2009 as LDF candidate against UDF candidate M.K. Raghavan from Kozhikode, but lost by a margin of 838 votes. Recently, Mr. Riyas was arrested for participating in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. This is the second marriage of both Mr. Riyas and Ms. Veena.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No whip was issued to OPS, 10 others to support me: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has informed the Assembly Speaker that the Chief Government Whip had not issued any whip to 11 AIADMK MLAs, including O. Panneerselvam, to support him during the Motion of Confidence moved by him in the House on February 18, 2017. A whip was only issued to the 122 MLAs, who had given letters of support electing him as Leader of the AIADMK legislature party, he said. Hence, there was no necessity to disqualify Mr. Panneerselvam, now Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator, under the anti-defection law. “Even though there was no direction issued by the Chief Government Whip to the respondents, no action was initiated by the AIADMK party contemporaneously to disqualify the respondents in the fond hope that respondents would express their solidarity with the party and thus, even at that stage, their action of voting against the confidence motion was condoned,” Mr. Palaniswami contended. The Chief Minister’s stand came in the form of a reply to the Speaker in an affidavit dated June 1 seeking to “dismiss the pleas of six former [AIADMK] MLAs”, who sought disqualification of Mr. Panneerselvam and 10 others, who voted against the Motion of Confidence. The Speaker had on June 10 informed the six petitioners of the same and sought their response within seven days. Mr. Palaniswami argued he had met the Governor only on the basis of the written support of 122 MLAs and was invited to form the government and prove his majority. “Thereafter, the Chief Government Whip had issued individual communications in the form of a whip to each of the 122 MLAs who had elected me as the Legislative Leader to vote for the Resolution in the Assembly on February 18, 2017. I then proved the majority on the floor of the House on the support of these MLAs,” Mr. Palaniswami stated. He contended that the issue of disqualifying Mr. Panneerselvam and others did not arise as the 11 MLAs continue to represent the AIADMK in the Assembly. Besides, the Election Commission has recognised that the true AIADMK party was the one that was jointly led by Mr. Paneerselvam and him. Stating that the petitioners were not in the AIADMK, he said their petitions deserved to be dismissed. In his preliminary reply to the Speaker “received on March 16 this year”, Mr. Panneerselvam too said he had not received any whip. Also he was not among the MLAs who were invited to the meeting of AIADMK legislators on February 14 and therefore did not participate in it. He said the petitions were based on the “unsubstantiated claim that there was a whip/direction issued to the respondents by the Chief Government Whip” on February 17, 2017.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flights on, but transport to and from airport a worry||The intensified lockdown in the city, beginning June 19, has many persons who have booked tickets to travel on both domestic and Vande Bharat flights concerned about how they will reach the airport. Some clarity from the State government is needed on this front, they insisted. The State government has said that flights would continue to operate to and from the city. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has also confirmed that flights would go on as per the existing regulations. But the question that looms large is how will travellers reach the airport as no taxis or autorickshaws will ply in the city during the intensified lockdown. Sources at the airport said that passengers would have to rely on private vehicles to drop them off and pick them up at the airport. “It is not clear what will happen to those without private vehicles. Similarly, I think those arriving will have to arrange for someone to pick them up outside the arrival hall,” a source said. Another aspect that is unclear is whether vehicles that are headed to the airport will be stopped by the police, and whether they need a pass to get through. Social media abuzz Several people have taken to social media on this issue, asking how they can get to the airport if a strict lockdown is in place. Prashanth, one such concerned traveller, posted: “I have a flight to Delhi on the 28th and will continue onward to Chicago on the 29th. With the new lockdown, are flights still operating from Chennai airport? How do we get to MAA airport with the lockdown?” Another traveller, Rajat Gupta, had his own set of queries. “Chennai is going under another lockdown from June 19. And I have booked tickets to Delhi for June 27. Are flight operations on? If yes, how to reach the airport during this lockdown? Is an e-pass required? If yes, how to get that?”
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,843 new cases, 44 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 1,843 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 44 deaths on Monday. This took the State’s overall case tally to 46,504*, while the death toll rose to 479. As many as 797 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the total figure beyond the 25,000-mark, while 20,678 persons were undergoing treatment. The State’s mortality rate stood at 1.03%. Chennai accounted for 1,257 of the fresh cases. With this, the city’s case count reached 33,244, including 17,476 who had been discharged, 15,385 active cases and 382 deaths. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that a total of 1,85,000 samples had been tested in Chennai, which has a population of 87 lakh. “The city is overcrowded, and hence, the numbers are high,” he said. Of the 44 persons who died (32 in government hospitals and 12 in private hospitals) in the last three days, 11 did not have co-morbidities. Four of the deceased were in their 30s, while six were in their 40s. A 32-year-old man, a resident of Tiruvallur, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) with bronchial asthma on June 14. He died on the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure. A 34-year-old resident of Chennai, who had no co-morbidities, died at RGGGH on Sunday due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure, while a 35-year-old woman died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital due to bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. A 39-year-old man with systemic hypertension was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 8. He died on June 14 due to sepsis, septic encephalopathy and bronchopneumonia. A 42-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital on June 12 with complaints of cough, fever, breathing difficulties for three days and loose stools for five days. He died on June 13 due to multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and acute respiratory distress syndrome. With 120 new infections, the overall case count in Chengalpattu surpassed the 3,000-mark. There were 50 cases in Tiruvallur, 39 in Kancheepuram, 34 each in Ranipet and Thoothukudi, 33 in Madurai, 32 in Tiruvannamalai and 27 in Cuddalore. Fifty-four of the new cases were persons who had returned from abroad and from other States. They included 18 returnees from Maharashtra. A total of 7,29,002 samples have been tested in the State so far, including the 18,403 samples tested on Monday. The Minister, in response to criticism from DMK leader M.K. Stalin, said, “Do not politicise the numbers (number of positive cases). The government is transparent about the facts.” He added that it was wrong for Mr. Stalin to say that the State government was struggling to control COVID-19. “The aim of the government is to detect positive cases — that is why we are testing more — and to prevent deaths,” he added. Noting that facilities in government hospitals were being scaled up, he said, “There are 17,500 beds in Greater Chennai Corporation limits. In government medical college hospitals in the city, 5,000 beds have been readied. A total of 75,000 beds are ready in the State. All facilities are being scaled up, and oxygen lines are being readied. COVID-19 Care Centres are also being scaled up.” “As of date, the details of 162 private hospitals are available on the portalstopcorona.tn.gov.in. A total of 7,042 beds are vacant,” he said. He added that the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation had procured and distributed Tocilizumab, a life-saving and costly drug, to government hospitals, and was procuring another drug — remdesivir.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Frauds totalling Rs. 100 crore detected at two public sector banks||Frauds involving bulk deposits amounting to almost Rs. 100 crore have been detected in two separate transactions at Canara Bank and Indian Bank. At Canara Bank, the fraud amounting to Rs. 47.17 crore involving a bulk deposit of a government organisation was detected, following which the bank advised its branches to exercise utmost caution while handling government deposits. An inter-office memorandum issued by Canara Bank explained the modus operandi . According to it, one of its branches in Bengaluru got a lead for canvassing a bulk deposit of Rs. 100 crore from a government organisation. After confirming the interest rate for one year and one day, the bank got a transfer of Rs. 100 crore from another bank on 18.11.2019. Immediately after the transfer of the Rs. 100 crore, a person purported to be the Accounts Officer (Finance) approached the branch with a letter to open a fixed deposit for Rs. 50 crore and requested the opening of a current account with the necessary documents, for crediting the balance amount of Rs. 50 crore. After the Rs. 50 crore amount was credited to the current account, the Accounts Officer (Finance), who was the authorised signatory to the said account, transferred amounts totalling Rs. 47.17 crore to individuals/firms at various bank branches of Axis Bank, Canara Bank, ICICI Bank and Indian Overseas Bank in Chennai through 97 RTGS transactions of Rs. 48,62,500 each between 20.11.2019 and 05.12.2019. Canara Bank said the fraud came to light after some other middleman approached the branch to arrange another Rs. 250 crore bulk deposit and open a fixed deposit and current account similar to the earlier transaction. The branch got suspicious about the earlier transaction and enquired with the government organisation, which informed that they had not given instructions to open a current account and that they had received two fixed deposit receipts of Rs. 50 crore each, the bank said. Fabricated accounts From the current account, Rs. 47 crore had been transferred to various accounts within about 10 days and subsequently it came to light that the current account was opened by submitting fabricated documents and the amount was siphoned off by fraudsters, it said in the inter-office memorandum. Its investigation also showed that the fixed deposit receipts were not genuine. Canara Bank noted that the original instruction was to keep the entire amount in fixed deposit for one year, one day. However, it said the branch had not ensured the genuineness of the subsequent communications received to open a current account and transfer funds from the account. The branch had not checked up with the department while money was getting transferred through many cheques. “Do not entertain middlemen. Documents/communications sent through messengers should not be relied on. Branch should directly deal with the official incharge of the department,” the bank said. Police officials in Chennai said they had received a complaint about a similar fraud transaction amounting to Rs. 50 crore. The parties were Chennai Port Trust and Indian Bank, and since the amount involved was over Rs. 3 crore, the case had been transferred to the CBI. Indian Bank officials said an internal investigation was under way.  (With inputs from Sanjay Vijayakumar, Sunitha Sekar and R. Sivaraman)
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Screening stepped up through fever camps||The Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified screening of residents by conducting fever camps in all the 15 zones of the city. Residents have been asked to share their mobile numbers to civic officials during the screening. The officials have directed private hospitals and labs to collect mobile numbers of patients to trace contacts. After increasing the fever camps in the past few days, the civic body has found that a large number of the residents with influenza-like illness have had contacts with COVID-19 patients. The Corporation has started tracing the contacts of such residents using call detail record analysis. A batch of call detail record of residents with influenza-like illness have been analysed by the civic body with the support of the police. Of the 2,988 telephonic contacts, 190 of the contacts were with COVID-19 patients. 200 fever camps held An official of the Corporation said at least 10,000 residents, who had participated in fever camps conducted on Sunday had shared their mobile numbers for call detail record analysis. After the arrival of mobile medical units, the civic body had been conducting more than 200 fever camps in the city. Starting Tuesday, the fever camps would be extended to 680 locations, including all the 140 urban primary health centres. Civic staff had started door-to-door collection of data on influenza like illnesses and on other conditions. The Corporation had found that 33 of the 200 wards accounted for 80% of the COVID-19 cases. The call detail record analysis linking the positive cases with other residents with influenza like illnesses was expected to facilitate containment measures in wards reporting fewer cases. The civic body has decided to distribute PPE kits to all sanitation staff to insulate them from viral infection.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Some areas may get respite from heat||For the second consecutive day, the day temperature remained close to 40 degree Celsius in the city. However, Chennaiites may have a respite as the India Meteorological Department has forecast light rain in some areas for two days. According to meteorologists, though peak summer days and scorching heat are associated with May, such soaring mercury levels are normal in June too, particularly in coastal areas. The average maximum temperature for Chennai in June is 37 degrees Celsius, which is the same as May. On Monday, weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 40.1 degree Celsius and 39.5 degree Celsius respectively. Last year, the mercury level soared to the maximum of 41.5 degree Celsius on June 11 and June 16. Some areas such as Kodungaiyur and Kolathur experienced light rains in the evening on Monday. N.Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai said the presence of strong southwesterly winds and convective activity would trigger light to moderate rain in few areas of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Coimbatore, Theni and Nilgiris districts. One or two places in Puducherry too would experience rains on Tuesday.  During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Chinnakalar in Coimbatore district received the highest amount of rainfall of 3 cm. The Meteorological Department forecast that the maximum temperature would be around 38 degree Celsius in Chennai till Wednesday.
16 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Skywalk project in T. Nagar gains pace||The skywalk project planned between Mambalam railway station and the T. Nagar bus terminus is picking up pace. The Greater Chennai Corporation which is executing this project under the Smart City Mission has completed more than 10% of the work. A senior official of the civic body said the project, costing about Rs. 28 crore, would have be completed in 15 months. The civic official said of the total of 42 piles to be constructed for the project eight had been completed in one month, that too in the most congested and narrow station road. The lockdown had come as a blessing as the station service road where the market was functioning had been closed. However, he said once the pile foundation work is completed, the market would function as usual. The skywalk, having a length of 600 metres and width of 4 metres, would snake its way through Madley Road subway and the Station Road. The civic official allayed the residents fear that the service road on one side of the Madley Road subway would be completely closed and said the width of the road would not be affected.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams CM over lockdown move||Taking a dig at Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami following the State government’s decision to impose a ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and parts of neighbouring districts, DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Monday said the Chief Minister did not know what was happening in his government. “Only two days ago, the Chief Minister said that reports of another complete lockdown were just rumours. Today, he is announcing a full lockdown from June 19. He doesn’t know what is happening in his government,” Mr. Stalin said in a tweet. The DMK president said he hoped that the upcoming lockdown would be implemented properly, unlike the one that preceded it. “The AIADMK government should snap out of the illusion that a lockdown alone is sufficient to stop the spread of COVID-19, and conduct more tests, trace contacts [of cases] and give proper treatment [to patients]. This is the only way to stop the spread of the virus,” he tweeted.  ‘Explain rising cases’ Earlier in the day, Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government must explain why there had been a steep increase in COVID-19 cases if its claim on there being no community transmission in the State was true. He also sought to know the government’s plan of action to flatten the curve, especially in Chennai. Addressing a virtual press conference, Mr. Stalin demanded that the government release the reports submitted by various committees that had been tasked with suggesting ways and means to curb the spread of the virus, and look into the alleged discrepancies in death data. He said the DMK will approach the courts if the government does not release the ‘true data’ on deaths due to COVID-19 within the next two days. Tally mismatch Countering the Health Secretary’s claim that the mismatch in the tally of deaths was due to a ‘procedural lapse’, Mr. Stalin wondered how officials could be unfamiliar with reporting mechanisms even after 85 days of lockdown. “Data mismanagement of this scale cannot be possible unless the government at the highest level is complicit,” he alleged. “For how long does the government plan on duping people into thinking that it is finding solutions to the problem without putting forth reports of committees in the public domain?” he asked. He claimed that the government had taken most of its decisions, including the cancellation of the Class X board exams, only after the DMK raised questions regarding such issues. The DMK leader sought to know from the Chief Minister why the government was, according to him, continuously refusing to collaborate with Opposition parties, experts and other stakeholders. “When will the government take a pre-emptive approach regarding budgetary re-allocations, economic revival, or the unemployment that COVID-19 has caused?” he asked.  Only two days ago, the CM said that reports of another complete lockdown were just rumours. Today, he is announcing a full lockdown from June 19
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Report deaths within an hour of occurrence’||The State government has reiterated its instruction to private hospitals to report COVID-19 deaths within an hour of occurrence. Though this is an existing guideline, the Health Department has, under the Clinical Establishments Act, directed private hospitals to strictly adhere to the norm on “immediate reporting” of deaths, after noticing delays on this front. “We have issued strict instructions to private hospitals to report COVID-19 [deaths] within an hour. Already, as per the Government of India guidelines, private hospitals have to report deaths due to COVID-19 on the portal immediately. They will have to upload the case sheet, and we will analyse the cause of death. This is to ensure that deaths are reported early,” a health official said. Already, a rapid response team comprising a microbiologist and doctors from the fields of general medicine and social and preventive medicine has been analysing the deaths in medical college hospitals. “We have made prompt reporting of deaths stringent under the Clinical Establishments Act. This is to prevent delayed reporting of deaths. There were instances of private hospitals reporting deaths after three or five days of occurrence,” the official said. The hospitals upload the relevant details on the COVID-19 portal and also fill a form provided by the department. “A three-member team, comprising the joint directors of medical services, non-communicable diseases and Clinical Establishments Act, are involved in the process. They will analyse the deaths and look at factors including co-morbidities of the deceased,” the official added. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine had already constituted a committee to reconcile COVID-19 death reports of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). The need for this arose after the number of deaths in the GCC burial ground figures did not match with the deaths officially announced by the government, officials said. “Deaths that occurred in private hospitals from the end of March to the first week of April may still go unreported as the guidelines and parameters for reporting COVID-19 deaths were brought in much later. However, the Health Department has asked private hospitals to submit all death records from their medical records section since the start of the lockdown in March,” a source said.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rice cardholders, workers under labour boards to get Rs. 1,000 cash aid||In view of the intensified lockdown in Chennai and parts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts between June 19 and 30, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced that a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 will be provided to all rice ration cardholders in these areas. The Chief Minister said the amount will also be paid to workers in the unorganised and other sectors who reside in the areas concerned, if they are members of any of the labour welfare boards. “Construction activities are allowed if workers are available on site,” he said. There will not be any ban on the movement of cargo and essential supplies. “Only those who produce necessary documents to support their case for leaving Chennai for other districts for weddings, medical treatment and funerals will be granted an e-pass,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The existing arrangements will continue for trains and flights arriving from other States, and ships and flights from other countries, he said. Central government offices and some departments of the State government will function with only 33% staff, while those living in containment zones need not report for duty, and have to obtain prior permission from the authorities in this regard. “Even if the government imposes a lockdown and implements various restrictions, the spread of the disease cannot be contained if there is no cooperation from the public,” Mr. Palaniswami said, reiterating his request to the public to wear masks while stepping out, wash their hands regularly with soap and ensure adherence to physical distancing norms in public places. People who develop symptoms should reach out to government hospitals for medical consultation and treatment, he said. He urged the public to extend full support to the government’s measures. A senior official explained that the ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and parts of three neighbouring districts had two primary objectives. “One is to control the movement of people leaving Chennai for other districts and taking the infection to those areas. The other is to restrict people's movement within Chennai and those districts,” he said. By restricting people’s movement, the State government will be able to control further spread of the infection. “During the [lockdown] period, the spread could be limited to their family members,” the official said. When asked if the State government had any specific targets for the lockdown, he said: “We cannot put a figure on it, as we can only aim to reduce the speed of the spread [of the virus].”
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles seized from three places||The city police have seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) at three places and arrested suspects who had hoarded bottles for selling them at higher prices. A bootlegger, who had allegedly stocked the alcohol, was caught on Sunday in Adambakkam. The Adambakkam police arrested the 42--year-old person, identified as R.Settu, and seized 101 liquor bottles from him. During interrogation, he told the police that he had bought the bottles from Tasmac outlets in neighbouring districts and used to sell a Rs. 100 bottle for Rs. 400. Woman arrested Similarly, the Triplicane police arrested a 58-year-old woman, identified as Kanchana of Pallavan Salai, and seized 105 bottles of IMFL. She sourced them from her associates and was selling to prospective customers. On Sunday, Avadi Tank Factory police arrested Ravi alias Julius, 56, who was selling the IMFL from a house in Vellanur and recovered 60 bottles of liquor from him. The police arrested another woman identified as Muniammal for similar offence. A senior police officer said, “Despite lockdown restriction, these suspects crossed the border and went to neighbouring districts to buy alcohol and stock it up here. They were selling to customers at higher price.”
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cycling, anyone? Fancy bikes to be available for hire soon||In an attempt to motivate larger numbers of people into taking up cycling, a company plans to roll out chain-less and puncture-proof bikes on the city's roads. SmartBike Mobility will soon be launching state-of-the-art electric bicycles and 500 new-generation bikes that are chain-less, puncture-proof and come with alloy wheels. It has 500 bicycles across Chennai. SmartBike launched its operations in February 2019 with 250 bikes and 25 bike stations, in collaboration with the Greater Chennai Corporation, after winning a tender for public bike-sharing. It has 500 bikes and 79 bike stations. “We expect that with social distancing and hygiene requirement norms catching on, people will prefer bike-sharing over public transport, which can significantly drive our efforts,” said Dharmin Dontamsetti, co-founder and managing director, SmartBike Mobility. “We sanitise our bikes thoroughly at regular intervals with disinfectant. We have a team in place dedicated for this purpose. Nevertheless, we advise our customers as well to sanitise the handlebar grips and seat before riding,” he added. According to Mr. Dontamsetti, in the current scenario, cycling was the safest mode of public transport. The overall climate of economic stress would also push people into opting for affordable yet hygienic public transport options, he said. China had witnessed a 187% uptick in bike-sharing post the lockdown in Beijing, while New York had seen a spike of 52%.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD to start work on museum for Keeladi artefacts at Konthagai||In about a week, the Public Works Department will start work on building a museum at Konthagai village, Sivaganga district, to display artefacts excavated from the Keeladi archaeological site. Designed to reflect the culture of the region and domestic architectural character of the region, the building would come up on two acres. The museum spread over about 30,000 sq.ft. would be built with traditional construction materials. The Rs. 12.21 crore project has been entrusted to the Heritage wing of the PWD. PWD officials said the museum would have eight blocks, which would include galleries, an audio visual hall and an administration block. The museum would have sloped terracotta roofs, stone pillars and hand-made Athangudi tiles to reflect the traditional architectural style of the region. While the first block would house the administrative office, ticket counters and information spaces for visitors, four blocks would be dedicated to galleries for display of artefacts excavated from the Keeladi site. Two blocks would have mezzanine floors. Replicas of the excavation trenches would be part of the collection. Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Development Ma Foi K.Pandiarajan told The Hindu : “The Archaeological Survey of India has assured us that some of the artefacts excavated by the ASI will be loaned to the Tamil Nadu Archaeological Department to be displayed at the Keeladi museum.” Open air theatre Besides souvenir and snack kiosks, the museum would house semi-open and open spaces, including an open air theatre, said an official. These spaces would be used for art performances, crafts workshops and traditional games, said an official. There are plans to screen documentaries of Keeladi excavation at the audio visual hall, which would accommodate up to 100 people. The museum would also have a Chettinad block with courtyards and employ elements of local craftsmanship in facades. Landscape would have local flora. Officials noted that though the tender was finalised in April, there was a delay in starting the work due to lockdown.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RT-PCR testing for industrial workers||Employees of industrial units located in areas falling under the Greater Chennai Police limits will be allowed to work on the campuses or in nearby areas, provided they undergo an RT-PCR test for COVID-19 once, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Monday. The same will apply to those who reside in areas under the Greater Chennai Police limits and travel to other places for work. “During these 12 days, people will not be allowed to go to work on a daily basis from areas falling under the Greater Chennai Police limits,” Mr. Palaniswami said. However, continuous process industries and those involved in manufacturing essential commodities will be allowed to operate with necessary safety precautions.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Licence for Chinese kits issued after validation, drug controller tells HC||The office of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) told the Madras High Court that it had issued import licences to various importers between March 26 and April 22 for procuring SARS-CoV-2 antibody test kits manufactured by Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Co. Ltd in China only after obtaining a validation report from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told that all licences were cancelled on April 29 after the performance of the test kits was found to be unsatisfactory by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The submission was made in reply to a public interest litigation petition which claimed that use of defective kits was posing a challenge in controlling COVID-19. A counter affidavit filed on behalf of DCGI stated that import licences were issued based on submission of a host of documents including power of attorney, free sale certificate issued by the national regulatory authority of country of origin (China), in-house performance evaluation report, stability report and validation/evaluation report from NIV, Pune. The ICMR, in its counter affidavit, told the court that the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zuhai Livzon Diagnostics were evaluated in field conditions and the results showed wide variations in their sensitivity. Hence, on April 27, all State governments were advised to stop using the kits procured from the two companies and return them to the suppliers. The council also stated that it validates new diagnostic kits for COVID-19 if they had not been approved by US-FDA or European CE. “The kits which are found promising, after validation, are referred to the DCGI for approval and marketing permission. The ICMR is not according approval to any kits independently as this does not fall under the purview of ICMR,” its counter read. After taking the counter affidavits on file and hearing preliminary arguments of advocate Kabilan Manoharan, representing the PIL petitioner M.L. Ravi, of Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi, who insisted upon the need to use good quality kits to diagnose the disease, the judges adjourned the case to Thursday for hearing Additional Solicitor General G. Rajagopalan. In his affidavit, the litigant stated that there were two types of test kits: RT-PCR kits and Antibody Rapid Test Kits. Quality kits He said nations that had controlled better the spread of COVID-19 were the ones which had done extensive and effective testing using good quality kits and cited South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong which achieved success without resorting to measures such as lockdown. He said test kits with even a 3% false result were not interpretable and those with a 13% false result were useless.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders back lockdown||Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has extended support to the State government’s decision to enforce complete lockdown in four districts, including Chennai, between June 19 and June 30. A release said traders would open shops between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. to ensure availability of essential commodities such as milk, provisions and vegetables as directed by the government. Peramaippu State president A.M. Vikramaraja urged the government to allow all tea shops, commercial establishments and hotels to function after the lockdown period. He said there was interference from officials in certain places where shops were sealed or fined though traders followed the norms. This had affected the trade.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear today plea for OBC reservation||The Madras High Court on Monday agreed to hear on Tuesday a batch of cases filed by a host of political parties in the State seeking 50% reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical seats surrendered by the State government to the All India quota. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy accepted a request made by senior counsel P. Wilson for DMK and K. Balu, representing Anbumani Ramadoss of Pattali Makkal Katchi, to hear the cases on Tuesday since post-graduate medical admissions were under way. The counsel urged the Madras High Court to hear their cases urgently since they had insisted upon staying the recently declared results of the all India quota for post-graduate medical as well as dental seats and provide reservations for OBCs from the academic year 2020-21 itself. Dravidar Kazhagam, All Indian Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and other parties too had filed similar cases in the court.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for making maanja thread||Kumaran Nagar police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old youth for manufacturing and storing maanja thread, the production and sale of which is prohibited in the city. Following information, a special team raided a house in Annamalai Nagar, West Mambalam and seized a huge quantity of threads and other material from the premises. Police arrested J. Sujith. Last month, Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan issued an order prohibiting the use of maanja thread for the purpose of kite flying and its manufacture, storage, import and sale.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No ambiguity in calculating tariffs: Tangedco to HC||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Monday asserted before the Madras High Court that there was no “ambiguity” in the manner in which it had decided to calculate power consumption charges for domestic consumers during the lockdown period when meter readings could not be recorded. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy, Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian said the methodology adopted by Tangedco for calculating the charges was strictly as per the regulations in force and hence, there was no necessity to entertain a litigation preferred in this regard. On the other hand, advocate Kabilan Manoharan, representing public interest litigant M.L. Ravi of Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi, contended that the methodology forced domestic consumers to pay more than usual. He said the middle class, who generally consume between 100 to 500 units, were hit by the “unjust” method of calculation. After hearing both of them, the judges granted a week’s time for Tangedco to make its submissions in writing by way of a counter affidavit. They adjourned the case to June 22 for further hearing.  The judges granted a week’s time to Tangedco to make its submissions in writing by way of a counter affidavit
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constituency declared vacant||Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal on Monday notified the Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni Assembly constituency as vacant following the death of DMK legislator J. Anbazhagan last week. Two other Assembly constituencies, Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham, fell vacant following the passing away of DMK MLAs, K.P.P. Samy and S. Kathavarayan, in February.
16 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Experts urge ‘tightening’ of curbs||Public health and medical experts on Monday recommended that the Tamil Nadu government ‘tighten’ certain relaxations that had been granted during the COVID-19 lockdown in areas with higher case counts. The panel of experts took part in a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and senior officials at the Secretariat. “We made recommendations on how relaxations can be tightened to stop the spread of the virus among the general public,” P. Kuganantham, one of the experts on the panel, told reporters. V. Ramasubramanian, another member of the panel, said, “We have given recommendations on how to sharpen the focus on specific areas and the manner in which restrictions have to be strengthened.” Dr. Kuganantham said that like any other infection, the spread of COVID-19 would go down only after reaching a peak, adding, “We are now in the peak stage, and we told [the CM] that we will begin to see the decrease [in cases].” Dr. Ramasubramanian said the State was reporting more cases and deaths “as expected”. Bringing the spread of the pandemic under control depended not only on the State government’s efforts but also on the behaviour of the public, he said. “All of us have to take steps, including wearing face masks, [avoiding] spitting in public and maintaining physical distance. Without adherence to these norms, it is difficult to control the spread,” he added.
16 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Minjur by a gang||A 30-year-old man was hacked to death in Minjur by a gang in full public glare. The police identified the victim as Ganesh Kumar, 30, who was staying in Kesavapuram, Minjur. He was living with a woman who was estranged from her husband. Pasupathi, her husband, had frequent quarrels with him, the police said. Killed on the spot On Monday, Pasupathi came with his associates and hacked Ganesh Kumar with knives and fled the spot. Ganeshkumar died on the spot. Minjur police are searching for the gang members.
16 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Raw materials and labour, major challenges for vessel manufacturers||For the utensil manufacturers in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts, reopening industries last month has come with challenges such as shortage in availability of raw materials and workers. According to Suresh Shankar, chief executive officer of Gomathi Metals, for the aluminium utensil manufacturers here, numbering nearly 10, availability of manpower is a major issue. As it is a labour-intensive work, the units employ large number of unskilled migrant workers. The skilled workers are mostly from Tamil Nadu. The migrant workers have gone home. A couple of units have not reopened because of labour shortage, he says. However, raw material availability is not a problem and its prices are also lower now. Most of the aluminium vessel manufacturers use recycled aluminium as raw material and it is available locally. However, for manufacturers of copper or stainless steel vessel manufacturers, there is shortage of raw materials. Kathiresan, president of Annuparpalayam utensil manufacturers’ association in Tiruppur district, said that about 200 manufacturers at Annuparpalayam would be able to manage for two or three more weeks with the raw material available. “The stainless steel and copper vessel manufacturers get the raw materials from New Delhi through traders in Chennai. There is no movement of the materials from Chennai now. We are manufacturing with the stock we have and may not be able to continue for long,” he said.
16 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five-day-old premature baby gets a pacemaker||A premature baby weighing 1.6 kg, second child of a nurse hailing from Vellore, underwent a pacemaker implant surgery five days after birth at a private hospital in Coimbatore recently. The girl baby’s mother had undergone surgical correction of a congenital heart disorder called Atrial Septal Defect in 2008 and her first child had died of congenital heart problems soon after birth, a few years ago. The 25-year-old nurse, Priya of Arani near Vellore, gave birth to the second child at a hospital in Thanjavur on May 23. Low levels of amniotc fluid in the womb led to premature delivery. Knowing the financial constraints of the family, doctors referred the mother and child to GKNM Hospital, Coimbatore, which has been partnering with Gurugram-based Genesis Foundation, an organisation that supports treatment of children with congenital heart defects. “During pregnancy, Priya had systemic lupus erythematosus, an autoimmune disease, a condition that puts the foetus at risk for heart problems,” said R. Vijayakumar, paediatric cardiothoracic surgeon with GKNM Hospital whose team performed the pacemaker implant on May 28. Genesis Foundation bore the cost of the procedure through its CSR partner H T Parekh Foundation and arranged a pacemaker from a medical equipment manufacturer free of cost. “The newborn's heart rate at birth was as low as 43 beats per minute as against the desired 100 to 150 beats per minute due to which the baby required a pacemaker,” said Dr. Vijayakumar. “I am delighted that Genesis Foundation could facilitate the implantation of the pacemaker on the fifth day of birth of a very special infant weighing just 1.6 kg. And what is more gratifying is that timely intervention saved this baby of a couple who had earlier lost their first born to a congenital heart defect” said Jyoti Sagar, founder trustee of Genesis Foundation. The mother and child were discharged from the hospital on June 1.
16 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PR dept. employees held for job fraud||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) Coimbatore city police arrested two employees of the Department of Information and Public Relations, the Government of Tamil Nadu, on charges of cheating people by assuring them to arrange government jobs. The police said that V.L. Prabhu (43) of Vadamadurai near Thudiyalur and S. Suresh Babu (49) of SNV Garden near Ramanathapuram were arrested on Monday. Prabhu had worked as upgraded superintendent at the Public Relations Office at the Coimbatore Collectorate, Suresh Babu worked as driver at the office. According to a statement issued by the police, the duo collected several lakhs from many people by promising to arrange them jobs with health, education departments, Coimbatore Corporation and Collectorate among others. Those cheated by Prabhu and Suresh Babu had petitioned Coimbatore District Collector in a weekly grievance redress meeting which led to an investigation by CCB team and the arrests on Monday. They were produced before court and remanded in judicial custody. Sources said that both employees were transferred from Coimbatore some months ago. Prabhu was transferred to public relations section of MGR Government Film and Television Training Institute and Suresh Babu was transferred to public relations office of Krishnagiri district, said sources.
16 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro industries seek time to pay electricity charges||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has appealed to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation and the district administration time to pay the electricity consumption charges. The Federation members presented a memorandum in this regard to the Tangedco Chief Engineer and to District Collector K. Rajamani on Monday. They pointed that they had already appealed to the Electricity Minister for time beyond June 15 as the micro and small-scale industries had just commenced production and were facing several financial challenges. “The units need more time to pay the charges and till the government takes a decision in this regard, the Tangedco should not disconnect supply connections,” the Federation said. Apart from the power charges, the Railway Suppliers Association has appealed to the Centre to reconsider its decision to deduct tax at source from suppliers who do components for government organisations. The Association said 2 % of the payment was deducted at source if the purchase order was more than Rs. 2.5 lakh. This would be remitted to the GST portal and the suppliers could adjust the TDS against the GST payable. This was an additional burden on the small-scale vendors. Suppliers raised GST invoice and e-way bill before dispatching goods and hence there was no possible way to evade tax, the Association said.
16 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||FlyDubai renews cargo flight connectivity to Coimbatore||FlyDubai, which had plans to operate cargo flights between Coimbatore and Dubai, has issued a fresh proposal for air cargo movement on Coimbatore-Dubai sector. According to the revised plan, the flight can be operated three times a week if there is minimum load of 13 tonnes for each trip. The flight will leave Coimbatore at 11 p.m. and reach Dubai at 4 a.m. Cargo can be booked not only to Dubai, but also to Bahrain, Kuwait, Riyadh, Khartoum, Beirut, and Karachi. Potential Sources at Coimbatore International Airport said the potential was huge and a lot of cargo was now moved to Kochi from here to be air lifted to Dubai. Several vegetable and agri product exporters here could make use of the flight service. Even on Sunday, SpiceJet air-lifted 19 tonnes of cargo, mostly perishables, from Coimbatore to Sharjah. This was the third flight that carried cargo from Coimbatore to Sharjah during the lockdown. The Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association president P. Subramaniam said when FlyDubai announced the flight plan earlier too, several exporters had expressed interest. If flights started operating from here to Dubai, the cargo movement would pick up. The connectivity to additional destinations from Dubai, which was offered now, iwas another advantage that the exporters could tap.
16 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom assn.’s plea||The Tirupur, Kovai District Powerloom Association has appealed to the Collectors of Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts to instruct banks not to take over properties of powerloom units that are unable to repay loans. In a memorandum to Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani, the Association said the looms were idle for nearly three months and the weavers were facing several issues. The banks should stop taking action on the units as the Chief Minister had announced waiver of powerloom unit loans.
16 June 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Armed gang robs farm house inmates||In a shocking incident, a 10-member masked gang forcibly gained entry into a farmhouse at Thazhaiyuthu in Palani Taluk, threatened inmates with deadly weapons and escaped with 20 sovereigns of gold jewels on Monday night. Police said progressive farmers had houses close to their farms. Hence, farm owner Murugasami was also asleep at his house along with his two daughters, son and other relatives, when the continued barking of the dog woke them up. Soon, masked men entered the house and searched for valuables and cash. Finding nothing, they brandished knives at the women and decamped with their jewels weighing about 20 sovereigns and fled under the cover of darkness. As the dog kept barking, one of the dacoits attacked the animal with a knife. Superintendent of Police R. Saktivel visited the scene of crime and questioned the inmates of the house. Special teams were formed to nab the dacoits. Fingerprints were lifted from the spot. An investigating officer said that based on information gathered from the inmates, it appeared that the gang members were between 20 to 25 years of age and familiar with the area. They might have visited the farm house at least twice as only those who were familiar with the topography could come to the spot and move about in the dark. Moreover, there was much distance between one farm house and the other and the neighbours had no clue about the incident until morning, he added. Palani Saminathapuram police station registered a case of dacoity and attempt to murder, among others.
16 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised houses along Perumpallam Canal demolished||The Erode Corporation on Monday demolished 120 unauthorised structures along the Perumpallam Canal after the occupants were relocated to houses that were constructed by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board here. The civic body had identified over 1,700 unauthorised structures constructed along the canal and also encroaching the canal at many places in the city. Over 500 houses were demolished so far and the occupants were allotted houses constructed by the board. Under the Smart Cities mission, the civic body has proposed to develop the 12.15 km of the canal at Rs. 183.63 crore and work order was issued as six packages. The work began in December last year. Therefore, the Corporation has expedited the demolition of the encroachments, and the slum clearance board speeded up the construction of the tenements at Chithode to relocate the families. As many as 120 occupants near the Periyar Nagar arch were allotted houses at Kollampalayam Housing Unit by the board and they were shifted to these houses. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that 1,200 unauthorised structures are yet to be demolished. “It will take another two months for the construction of the tenements to be completed, after which the houses will be allotted and the occupants shifted to Chithode”, he said. After this process was over, the unauthorised structures these people had put up would be demolished. The Commissioner said the canal development works were being executed with 50% work force, and that more workers would be employed in the coming days. “Contractors will be given time till August, 2021 to complete the works”, he said.
16 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife monitoring begins in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve||The bi-annual six-day wildlife monitoring exercise to estimate carnivores, herbivores and vegetations began in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here on Monday. Under Phase IV monitoring of tiger reserves by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the pre-monsoon survey is done between June and July and the post-monsoon survey in December-January every year. Around 300 personnel began the exercise in 46 beats in Sathyamangalam Division and 30 beats in Hasanur Division. It will go on till June 20. Each beat comprising four to six members of forest watchers, guards and anti-poaching watchers (APWs) will be involved in direct sighting of animals from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. besides recording pug marks, dung, carcass of animals, tree bark peelings, vegetations including grass, herbs, sedges species and tree species. The teams will also carry out line transect survey on alternative days where two km lines are charted parallel to each other and the transect are walked to detect the movement of animals. “Survey is not only to estimate tiger population, but also wild animals, vegetation, herbivores and carnivores in the forest area as each are inter-dependent”, said an official. The collected data are recorded in the Monitoring System for Tigers – Intensive Protection and Ecological Status (M-STrIPES) app for analysis by the NTCA. The core or critical tiger habitat in STR is 793.49 sq.km. while the buffer or peripheral area is 614.91 sq.km. and has a significant population of tiger, elephants, leopards, black buck, gaur, four horned antelope, striped hyena, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fishes and other creatures. Also, there are nine tribal settlements and 18 tribal revenue settlements in the STR which are not part of tiger reserve.
16 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of works to be taken up to remove electric poles in the Thirunagar Colony electric lines, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on June 17, Wednesday at E.V.K. Sampath Road, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai, Thirunagar Colony, Rajajipuram, Mill Street, Gandhipuram 1,2 and 3 Streets, Kannaiyan Street, Subbaiyan Street, Ranga Street and Abdulkani Street.
16 June 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Norms flouted at Manimuktha dam’s fishing festival||All the norms relating to physical distancing went for a toss in Kallakurichi district with around 1,500 people getting into the Manimuktha dam to participate in the annual fishing festival on Sunday. A shocking scenario unfolded with people congregating in large numbers in areas downstream of the dam. The videos of the celebration have gone viral. It was a free for all situation as locals from Agara Kottakalam, Vaaniyanthal, Ranganathapuram, Siruvangur and Soolankurichi participated in this fishing festival not even bothering about the lockdown orders in force or maintaining physical distance from each other or wearing masks. Sources said the traditional fishing festival is celebrated every year. As per custom, a large number of fishlings are released into the water spread of the dam following copious rains. The fishes are caught and cooked by villagers after they reach a considerable stage of growth. People from villages surrounding the dam gathered with nets, cloth and hooks to catch fish. Kallakurichi Collector Kiran Gurrala said that cases had been booked against the locals for violation of prohibitory orders.
16 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Mango season not so sweet for stakeholders in Krishnagiri||The mango season is nearing to a close, leaving behind unhappy stakeholders across the supply chain starting from farmers, traders, retailers to consumers here. The season saw a fall in production due to disease and poor rainfall. What should have been a windfall gain due to fall in supply was marred by the pandemic. This had in turn hurt not just the farmers, but the last mile retailer, and smallest hawkers selling the fruit on the highways. The mango season coincided with the start of the lockdown throwing farmers in a fix especially when it was time for the harvest of pickle mangoes in April. The shutdown of markets and transport, and incremental lifting of restrictions and the pandemic led labour shortage all piled on to the woes of the farmers. However, two months later, as the mango season nears its end, there has been little respite for farmers. While farmers faced labour shortage due to villages placing curbs on entry of workers from outside for harvest, the procurement by traders was hit by lack of transport facilities. Traders relying on inter-state movement of the fruit cut down their procurement. At the retail end, the price of mangoes had doubled, but the incomes of consumers have fallen cutting down their ability to buy the king of fruits. This had affected the last mile retailer. “A small size Malgova variety is priced at Rs. 80 to Rs. 120 a kg. Senthura is Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 a kg, which is the highest. Last year, Senthura was Rs. 20 a kg,” says Mani. The retail end price hardly trickles down to the growers, who are unhappy with the traders and the pulp factories that procure in bulk. For retailers like Mani, the high price has cut down the ability of the consumers to buy off the shelf. “Last year if I procured 1 tonne from the trader and the farmer, this year, I only procured half a tonne, because nobody is buying,” he says of the fallen purchasing power of the consumer, who has been hit by the lockdown. The season is soon coming to a close, but the demand is nowhere growing for the king of fruits.
16 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in brawl||A man was killed in a drunken brawl here on Sunday. Police have arrested a person named Marco in this connection. The victim, Manikandan of Meltheru of Oldpet, had got into an altercation with Marco on Sunday night. Following this, Marco had invited him home for talks. When Manikandan went to their house, Marco and his 19-year-old son Manimaran stabbed him.  Manikandan was rescued and taken to Krishnagiri government hospital, where he died of the stab injuries. Police said Marco was local rowdy and Manikandan too had several cases against him. A search is on for Manimaran.
16 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tourism makeover on at Goripalayam dargah||The Tourism department has resumed the work of giving a makeover to the dargah in Goripalayam, which had been suspended for several weeks due the lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. District Tourism Officer P. Balamurugan said that Rs. 1.80 crore is allocated for the project. The department will build separate toilets for men and women, a cloak room and waiting halls. The dargah has a huge footfall of both the domestic and international tourists throughout the year. “Many international tourists come to the dargah to check out its architectural design. On an average around 400 people visit the dargah every day. During festivals, especially during the ‘Santhana Koodu’ festival, the number reaches beyond 1,000,” he said. The rising number of tourists visiting the dargah prompted the department to construct more amenities in the dargah, he added. “Once the construction of the amenities is completed, we are also planning to include the dargah as an important pilgrimage destination as part of tour plans,” he said. The dargah - one of the largest in Madurai - is believed to be constructed during the 14th century, according to a booklet released by the office-bearers of the dargah. For a brief period during the 14 th century, the Pandya kingdom was ruled by two Sultan rulers- Hazrat Khwaja Syed Sultan Alauddin and Hazrat Khwaja Syed Sultan Shamsuddin. The grave of both these rulers are inside the dargah. The dome of the dargah is believed to have been made out of a single stone. “A large number of people from all religions take part in the annual ‘Santhana Koodal’ festival,” said A.M. Kasim Razvi, manager at the dargah.
16 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fewer vehicles ply on new flyover at Kalavasal, complain residents||For long, the need for a flyover at Kalavasal junction was felt. However, when it took shape, a section of residents suggested that a bridge connecting Arasaradi-Theni highway will be the best solution to decongest vehicular traffic on the junction. However, the State Highways had a different idea. As a result, a four-laned flyover has come up on the other road – Dindigul By-pass road – at the junction. A week after it was officially commissioned on June 8, the fewer vehicles plying on the flyover seem to prove the residents’ suggestion right. “The Government has spent Rs. 54 crore for the flyover. However, its returns are not commensurating,” said S. Sridhar Nedunchezhian (34) of Chockalingapuram. Only a few vehicles are using the flyover. The highways officials had earlier said that the flyover along with road improvement work on the junction would do away with traffic signal. But, still two traffic police have to be posted here as the rotary is not big enough to keep traffic from different directions at a safer distance. The City Traffic Police have planned to put fresh traffic signals at the junction where right turn is allowed on all four roads. “The flyover has not served its purpose as most of the vehicles on By-pass road do use only the road and not the bridge to cross the junction,” complains a traffic activist, O.B. Balaji. Though the bridge was commissioned with lot of delay, the street lights over the flyover are yet to be erected. “Traffic on the flyover is being blocked in the nights to help erection of street light poles,” Mr. Sridhar said. Meanwhile, the highways officials have blocked two openings in the median of By-pass Road on either sides of the flyover as part of access control measure. Similarly, even pedestrian movement is restricted under the bridge only through two spans. While only the road on Arasaradi side is narrower, all other three roads are broader. “This is helping to reduce congestion on the junction,” said a traffic police personnel. If parking of vehicles and halting of buses and autos are strictly prohibited within reasonable distance on all four roads around the junction, traffic congestion could be further prevented.
16 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks govt. to close cases against foreign Tablighi members||Taking a sympathetic view of a group of 31 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, imprisoned for over 70 days, the Madras High Court Bench at Madurai asked the Tamil Nadu government to consider closing the cases against them and allowing them to return. The Bangladesh and Indonesian nationals, including women and senior citizens, were in Puzhal and Saidapet jails for violating Indian tourist visa conditions and indulging in religious preaching. Granting bail to them taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic, Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed, “During times of armed conflict or emergency, the right to leave any country can be invoked. The current pandemic times are no different. The petitioners fortunately have not tested [COVID-19] positive so far. The position may be different tomorrow. The lives of the petitioners may be in danger. Times may be uncertain but rights have to be certain.” Insisting on detaining the petitioners and prosecuting them, can only be characterised as unreasonable, unjust and unfair. “I, therefore, hold that the continuance of the criminal prosecution against the petitioners herein would certainly amount to an infraction of their fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and directing their closure on appropriate terms alone would secure the ends of justice,” he held. ‘Suffered enough’ The court said that the petitioners have already suffered enough for their transgression of law. With the prevalence of medical emergency, they have the right to return to their native countries at the earliest opportunity. Merely because the petitioners contravened the visa conditions, they cannot be seen as criminals. “The situation calls for empathy and understanding. The petitioners are yearning to breathe the native air in their own ground,” he said. Taking the view that the prison term already undergone by them should be considered as sufficient punishment, Justice Swaminathan said “to insist that they should continue to remain in India offends the principle of proportionality and fairness.” Ordering their release on own bonds, he directed the government to consider the proposal of Jamia Qasmiya Arabic College, Chennai, to house them after their release. The petitioners submitted that they would not visit India for the next 10 years and would coordinate with their respective embassies/consulates and bear travel expenses. Hence, the court directed the Central and State governments to play a facilitatory role. “On the execution of appropriate affidavits by the petitioners expressing their regret for violating visa conditions, the proceedings against them shall be concluded by filing final reports recording the same,” the court said.
16 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Many feel mask rules are honoured more in breach than in observance||Despite the authorities slapping fine on those not wearing mask in public places, and insisting on people maintaining physical distance of three feet to keep COVID-19 at bay, the rules are followed more in breach than in observance across Madurai. S. Devendran, a shopkeeper in K. K. Nagar, says he had to beg his customers to wear mask as he feared that his shop could be sealed for violation. “We are putting our lives on the line and working, but people argue with us when we ask them to wear mask. They think it is disrespectful if we refuse to serve them. They do not seem to understand that we also could get the infection. If Corporation officials find our shop serving people without wearing masks, we will be asked to close down,” he says. The gradual decline in people not wearing mask is not limited to small shops. People on roads, markets, hotels, shops and buses do not wear masks, says a Corporation official. He says the initial thrust was on surveillance of thickly-populated areas by officials in their respective wards. Fines ranging from Rs. 100 to Rs. 500 were slapped in Jaihindpuram, Subramaniapuram, Baskaradoss Nagar, SMP Colony, Palanganatham, Karumbalai and SMP Colony. Over time, violators were found across the city. Assistant City Health Officer S. Vinoth Raja says they are continuing to slap fine on people not wearing a mask. S. Vikki, Coordinator for Police Boys and Girls Club in Karumbalai, says they distributed 1,000 reusable masks to residents there. However, people refuse to wear it and they do not seem to be aware of the seriousness of the COVID-19 situation. In thickly-populated Karumbalai, it would spell disaster if there are more cases. K. Kalki, a resident of Sellur’s Kaliamman Koil Street, says the rampant spread of COVID-19 in her area was a jolt. “People are a bit worried when their neighbours are affected. We regularly receive messages on WhatsApp about cordoned off areas. So people here wear masks. but not all. Physical distancing as a concept does not appeal to the people though. The idea of having three feet distance between two people seems bizarre to many,” she says. Collector T. G. Vinay says to ensure that more people wore masks, increasing the quantum of fine is being mulled. The district administration is collaborating with non-governmental organisations and resident welfare associations so that there is community participation towards raising awareness. “We are constantly stressing on wearing masks, washing hands and ensuring social distancing. Wash basins has been placed on arterial roads and residential areas to encourage handwashing. We will be introducing this in rural areas too,” he says. “Wearing a mask is the responsibility of people to protect themselves and others against COVID-19,” he said.
16 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow services: omnibus drivers||Members of the Tamil Nadu Omnibus Drivers Association petitioned Collector T. G. Vinay seeking permission to begin inter-zonal transportation in areas other than Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, here on Monday. Secretary of the association M. Muthuvel said that there are around 900 omnibus drivers who have been without a job since March 22. Without any other skills and few employment opportunities, he said that drivers had been driven to deep debts. “We do not know how to ride other vehicles and nobody is willing to offer us a job at this point of time. We do not know how we will feed our children,” he said. He added that households are making do with whatever little free rations are being provided by the government but he said that it was barely enough. Mr. Muthuvel said that it would be useful for families if they were given monetary relief. “If not, at least we would like to drive in our usual routes - Coimbatore- Nagercoil and Salem-Rameswaram till things settle. We will ensure social distancing and only have half capacity. We hope the State government understands our plight and gives us a solution soon,” he said.
16 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban will lead to job loss, says trade body||The State government’s decision to ban usage of packaging plastic material would lead to loss of lakhs of jobs, said Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). In a press statement, its president B. Muruganantham said that at a time when tiny and small scale industries were struggling to survive, the government’s move towards revoking packaging plastic would severely affect them. “Packaging plastic is essential for manufacturing bread, biscuit, masalas, soap, chips and automobile spare parts. Business owners have no choice but to use plastic as it has been mandated by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) in 2017 in order to maintain hygiene. The sudden alteration of rules on June 5 comes as a shock for small-scale entrepreneurs. Many may have to close shop,” he said. The government commissioned Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET) to find out an alternative for plastic. However, no time frame had been fixed on when the innovation must be completed. “Without any alternative, it is unfair to expect us to make the jump,” he said. Mr. Muruganantham said that entrepreneurs would be willing to make the shift when sustainable means were created. “Until then the government must revoke the ban on usage of packaging plastic,” he said.
16 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do minimum of 3,000 tests per day’||Senior leaders from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) protested seeking a minimum of 3,000 tests to be conducted per day in Madurai district to determine the accurate number of those infected. CPI (M) Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan, DMK MLAs P. Moorthy and P. Saravanan took part in the protest apart from other party functionaries. MP Su. Venkatesan said it was a necessity to follow the ‘Test, identify, cure and contain’ strategy to tackle the disease. “Without testing, people may very well be infecting several others and we might have no idea about it,” he said. He said according to data published in the State government bulletin, Madurai had only conducted 14,102 tests until June 7. This number is abysmally low, he said. “The Collector says that 16,220 tests had been conducted until then but not updated on the Indian Centre for Medical Research’s portal. This makes us question how many deaths and patients too are yet to be uploaded,” he said. The leaders called for a special monitoring officer to be appointed for Madurai district as well. Mr. Venkatesan said that officials must also ensure that home quarantining of returnees from Chennai is carefully followed and documented. “It is said that around 30,000 people have travelled via road from Chennai but only 5,000 have been tested. This is a matter of concern,” he said.
16 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail granted for three||Granting bail to three men from Thanjavur district who had indulged in theft of river sand, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court directed that Rs. 10,000 each which they had undertaken to deposit be utilised for welfare of the district. Justice G.R. Swaminathan granted bail to Santhosh, Chandrabose and Bharathi who had been arrested and remanded in judicial custody. It was said that the trio had committed the offence for the first time.
16 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Boy rescued from couple||An eight-year-old boy, who was in an illegal possession of a couple at Chekkanoorani, was rescued by District Child Welfare Committee. The boy had burn injuries reportedly after being branded by the foster mother. He has been handed over to the reception home on instruction from the CWC. CWC member B. Pandiaraja said that he acted upon a complaint received over Childline. The woman, mother of two girl children, had reportedly said that she had found the boy abandoned. She adopted the child as she did not have a male child. “It looks like the couple had tampered with the birth certificate of their second daughter and forged it with the name of the boy to make it appear that the boy was born to them,” Mr. Pandiaraja said. When asked about the burn injury, she admitted that she had branded him after he had stolen some money from home. The Chekkanoorani police have issued a community service register receipt for the complaint. Further investigation is under way.
16 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered against 12 returnees||The police department has registered cases against 12 persons who had allegedly entered the district without e-pass and had not informed authorities about their arrival. According to police sources, the 12 persons had entered Nagapattinam from Chennai and other northern districts by allegedly avoiding the border checkposts. Eight among them who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus have been admitted to the isolation ward in the Government Hospital. The remaining four are under home quarantine, official sources said. Those entering the district without e-pass and without valid reasons were under surveillance of the police department. Monitoring at the checkposts has been intensified, District Collector Praveen P. Nair told mediapersons on Monday. He urged people to get in touch with the toll-free number 1077 in the event of coming across returnees from outside the district. Stringent action would also be taken against rumour-mongers indulging in spreading false information. Covid testing has now been made easier after the start of a testing centre at the Nagapattinam Government Hospital and the results are being conveyed promptly, he said. So far, 10,000 persons have been diagnosed in the district, and 109 COVID-19 positive cases have been detected. There are nine other COVID-19 positive patients belonging to Nagapattinam whose test results were made known in other districts. Five persons were undergoing quarantine in other districts. Sixty one patients have been sent home after recovery. The remaining 52 patients were undergoing treatment at the Government Hospitals, he said. There are eight institutional quarantine centres across the district, and initiatives have been taken to start three more centres, one each in Nagapattinam, Sirkazhi and Vedaranyam. Foreign returnees also have the option of undergoing quarantine in specified hotels, the Collector said, urging them to shed hesitation to return home. Online demonstration Meanwhile, members of Tamil Nadu Towheed Jamaath conducted an online demonstration for about 15 minutes on Monday morning, as part of its State-wide protest, involving participation of people at Nagore, Nagapattinam, Thittacheri, and other places to draw the attention of the government on the struggle being faced by people in other countries to return home. Carrying placards in their homes, the protestors demanded that the government should take efforts to bring people stranded in other countries to their native districts. The placards described the sufferings of expatriates struggling in other countries without food and shelter.
16 June 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Fake e-pass’||Police detained a youth for trying to enter Kanniyakumari district with fake e-pass via the check-post at Anjugramam on Sunday. SP K. Shreenath said on intercepting a multipurpose utility vehicle coming from Chengelpet to Nagercoil, the e-pass produced by S. Vignesh, 28, of MGR Nagar at Arunkundram in Chengelpet was found to be fake. He was arrested along with the vehicle. Vignesh and three occupants were sent to the government hospital at Aasaaripallam for test.
16 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s Goubert market shifted||Puducherry District Collector T. Arun has ordered the shifting of Goubert Market on Jawaharlal Nehru Street to AFT ground before Wednesday. All wholesale and retail vegetable shops functioning at Goubert Market will be closed by Wednesday. Thereafter, shops will function at AFT till further announcement, he said. He directed the municipality to make necessary arrangements for the allotment of shops. Shops should be arranged in such a way that there was adequate space for movement of people and parking of vehicles. The Collector also directed SP (East) and SP (Traffic) to ensure traffic arrangements. The decision to shift the market was taken as people were not following social distancing norms. “It has been brought to the knowledge that social distancing is not being maintained at Goubert Market (Big Market) by the vendors and people who gather to purchase vegetables and fruits. Further, arrangements of vegetable shops are also not conducive to maintain social distancing,” the order said.
16 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases cross 100 in Puducherry||Eight COVID-19 cases, including a few from outlying areas of the city, were admitted to the IGMCRI on Monday. With this, the active cases have crossed 100 for the first time. The affected suburbs are Pillaichavady, Murugampakkam and Pillaiyarkuppam apart from Shanmugapuram, Kalapet and Dharmapuri.
16 June 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for kidnap, gang rape||A six-member gang has been arrested on charges of kidnap and gang rape in the district. Following a complaint with the helpline, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar formed four special teams. Investigation showed that the gang members targeted lonely women in secluded areas and kidnapped them. They videographed the victims and took away their valuables. At times, the women were raped before being released. Later, the gang members sent the videos to the victims and forced them to come to designated spots. When a victim narrated the tale to her nephew, the latter informed the SP’s helpline number and disclosed the identity of the gang members. In a swift operation, police secured the accused and seized the vehicles used for the crime. During questioning, it came to light that the gang leader was Mohamed Seethakathi, 36, and his accomplices were Dhanasekaran, 30, Sethu Pandi,24, Kalidas, 24, Illanchezhian, 25, and Aravindsami, 25. The gang members kidnapped women in Paramakudi, Chathirakudi, Bogalur and other places in the district. They fleeced gullible womenfolk and spent lavishly on liquor, branded clothes and electronic gadgets, police said.
16 June 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Four Rameswaram fishermen missing||Four fishermen identified as Malarvannan, 47, of Akkal Madam, Rajini Baskar, 43, of Rameswaram, Anand, 19, alias Sujinder and Sesu, 60, from Thangachimadam were reported missing on Monday. A hovercraft and helicopter were deployed for search operations on Sunday evening after the four fishermen failed to return to the shore. After about three months, the fishermen from Rameswaram, Pamban, Thangachimadam and other hamlets ventured into the sea on Saturday. At least 4,000 of them set off into the sea and returned on Sunday noon. According to fishermen association leader Jesu Raja, the catch was not lucrative. Late on Sunday, the fishermen realised that four of their colleagues were missing and had not returned to the shore. Panic and uneasy calm prevailed in the hamlets as the families resorted to a sit-in in front of the Fisheries Department office here, pleading for intensification of the search. The Coast Guard and Marine Police deployed a hovercraft and helicopter for the search. Meanwhile, some 10 fishermen from local hamlets set in to the sea in search of the missing persons, Mr. Jesu Raja added.
16 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Virtual rallies planned to mark completion of one year of Modi 2.0’||Virtual rallies have been planned in Coimbatore, Chennai, Tiruchi and Madurai to mark completion of one year of Narendra Modi 2.0, State president of Bharathiya Janatha Party L. Murugan said here on Monday. Speaking to reporters after visiting the family of former BJP State president K.N. Lakshmanan, who died recently, he said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would launch the rally through video conference. Mr. Murugan said, “several long pending issues such as construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya has been solved amicably and construction of Ram temple has now begun. Abrogation of Article 370 has given equal opportunities for all in Kashmir.” Mr. Murugan said that due to cautious measures taken by Centre, the rate at which COVID-19 disease spreads in the country has been controlled. He appreciated State government’s efforts in controlling COVID-19 disease. He welcomed the State government’s announcement on lockdown measures in Chennai and nearby districts from June 19 to 30.
16 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Three held for jewellery theft||Salem city police on Monday arrested three persons and recovered about 100 sovereigns of jewellery worth Rs. 35 lakh stolen by them from various houses. According to police, S.P. Mohan, a resident of Selainikenpatti, lodged a complaint that 31.5 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 85,000 was stolen from his house on January 3. Similarly, the residence of Salem Corporation engineer in Ponamapet was burgled of 35 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 1.3 lakh of cash and the homes of two government employees in Sooramangalam limits were burgled in January. Following a series of burglaries, police formed a special team to nab the accused. After going through CCTV visuals from crime spots, police arrested S. Muthuraj, Anbumanikandan and Mahendran. The accused camped at Vazhapadi and burgled locked houses during the day. The accused had melted the stolen jewellery and converted them into gold coins.
16 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||NGOs begin cleaning Cauvery||Non-governmental organisations in Thiruvaiyaru and Thanjavur have joined hands with the Thiruvaiyaru Town Panchayat in cleaning the Cauvery riverbed in the town limits on Sunday. Members of Thiruvaiyaru Bharathi Iyakkam, Thiruvaiyaru Rotary Club, Thanjavur New town Rotary Club, Thiruvaiyaru Gandhi Bharathi Youth Forum, Vaithyanathanpettai Jeeva Bharathi Youth Forum, Thanjavur Personality Plus, JCJ Association and several resident welfare associations in Thiruvaiyaru stepped into the riverbed and removed the discarded cloth and other materials. At the end of the day, more than a ton of discarded cloths and other materials were removed from by the volunteers who also took a pledge to protect and preserve the river from pollution.
16 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Pearl City, a pandemic hotspot||Awareness campaigns conducted through various media platforms to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district appear to have fallen on deaf ears as protective measures are increasingly being given the brush-off, officials rue. While the health department and local bodies diligently spray disinfectants in public places and buildings, people coming out of their homes are ignoring norms such as physical distancing and wearing face masks, a civic official said. Of growing concern, therefore, is the steady rise in the number of people testing positive in Pearl City, especially in the last seven to 10 days. Not only are more and more residents stepping out of their dwellings, but they are also moving about in groups. Be it private/government vehicles or public places, such incidences have become high. For instance, on Sunday, the fish market witnessed a huge crowd and there was no physical distancing. According to Corporation officials, almost every colony in the city has residents testing positive or displaying symptoms. Inspection in KVK Nagar, Rajapandi Nagar, Millerpuram, Perumalpuram in the city, and Kovilpatti, Vilathikulam, Seithunganallur, Vallanadu, Srivaigundam, Tiruchendur, Thenthiruperai, Athur, Kayalpattinam in towns and peripheries of the district, shows that the virus is fast catching up. As on June 13, the State medical bulletin says, Thoothukudi district has 427 positive patients of whom 271 have been discharged and 131 are under treatment. The number of patients getting admitted is on the rise. On a single day, for example, 30 persons have tested positive and 28 are indigenous cases. Only the remaining two have travel history. In other words, they are ‘imported’ cases. “This is not a good sign,” the official said. The bottomline: every individual has the responsibility to protect himself and there is no point in blaming the administration. During the total lockdown from April until mid-May, the numbers well under control, and Pearl City appeared to be safe from spread of infection. However, relaxation in curfew and people ‘forgetting’ to wear face masks and maintaining physical distancing have come as a major threat and challenge to the medical fraternity, the official added.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers producers company see success in retail outlets||While the lockdown enforced in view of COVID-19 pandemic saw quite a few farmers producers companies being involved in retail vending of vegetables as a contingency measure to help consumers, the WEFSA Farmers Producers Company in Perambalur district has decided to take it up as a permanent venture by opening five permanent retail outlets to sell vegetables in the town. The company has also planned to launch online marketing soon. WEFSA takes the holistic view of the vegetable and produce supply chain and has been working towards professionalising the informal fresh farm produce trade. “We started retail sale of vegetables at the Uzhavar Sandhi in Perambalur on April 14 at the request of the district administration to help consumers during the lockdown. After the Uzhavar Sandhai was closed after a fortnight, we started mobile vending. We procure from the farmers directly and sell the vegetables at the people’s doorsteps. Encouraged by the good response to the venture, we have now decided to open five retail outlets in Perambalur town ,” Mahendra M. Manivaasan, founder chairman and managing director, WEFSA, told The Hindu . “We have sold vegetables worth Rs. 12.6 lakh through the mobile vending unit so far. Now we plan to take up retail vegetable sale as a major business venture. We have requested for allotment of a shop at the Uzhavar Sandhai and continue the trade there. Besides, we plan to open four outlets and we wish to reach out to entire Perambalur within a year. We also plan to launch online sales,” he added. WEFSA, named after the five elements of nature (water, earth, fire, sky and air), was started with 117 members from across the State in 2014 and it boasts of 1,000 members now. WEFSA decided to pursue organic farming right from the beginning and produces organic farm products including organic turmeric, jaggery, traditional paddy seeds etc. The company, whose turnover touched Rs. 1.40 crore last year, also engages with farmers at the grassroot-level to raise awareness and empower them. The company is currently engaged in establishing a seed processing centre with a storage godown and a dhal mill in Perambalur, with financial support from the government to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 15.40 lakh, respectively, extended through the Department of Agriculture Marketing and Agri Business. The seed processing unit would process seeds of traditional paddy varieties, maize (as Perambalur is a major producer of the foodgrain), pulses and vegetables. The seeds would be procured from farmers, dried, cleaned and graded before being certified by the Seed Certification Department and sold. The processing centre includes a 500-tonne capacity godown. Pulses procured from the members of the company would be processed and packed at the dhal mill before being marketed as a branded product.  We have sold vegetables worth Rs. 12.6 lakh through the mobile vending unit so far. Now we plan to take up retail vegetable sale as a major business venture Mahendra M. Manivaasan Founder chairman and managing director, WEFSA
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rethink operation of trains from Chengalpattu: activists||Amid sharp rise in COVID-19 positive cases in Chennai and its neighbouring districts, consumer activists and rail users association have expressed concern over operation of special trains from Chengalpattu to Tiruchi fearing that it could spread the disease here and in other parts of the central region. The State government and the railway administration, the activists say, should rethink operation of train services from Chengalpattu to Tiruchi at a time when total lockdown in Chennai and certain parts of three districts including Chengalpattu has been announced in view of spread of the viral disease. Southern Railway began operating special train services from Tiruchi to Chengalpattu and back with one on the chord line section via Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam and the another on the mainline section covering Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai from June 12 after obtaining approval from the Railway Board, New Delhi. Consumer activists and rail user association say passengers from Chennai, where a large number of COVID-19 cases have been reported, boarding these trains from Chengalpattu with valid e-passes cannot be ruled out completely. “With samples not being lifted for testing at Tiruchi Junction from incoming passengers arriving by both special trains from Chengalpattu, we fear there could be a spurt in infection here as these are daily services,” said N. Jamaluddin, a former member of the State Consumer Protection Council. With the novel coronavirus spreading rapidly even without any symptoms of fever and cough, thermal scanning of passengers was not sufficient, he observed. As it may not be feasible to conduct tests on all passengers, the only solution at this critical juncture would be to suspend the special trains temporarily as its continued operation would only pave way for spread of the disease, he maintained and added that the timing of the introduction of the trains from Chengalpattu to Tiruchi was certainly not right given the spike in COVID cases in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts. “Though the special service on the mainline section proved useful for passengers between Villupuram and Thanjavur to travel comfortably to Tiruchi and other intermediate stations, the train originating from Chengalpattu raises apprehensions among the people of Thanjavur district,” said A. Giri, advisor, Thanjavur District Rail Users Association. Now that the State government has announced a lockdown in the four districts, it would be wise on the part of both the State Government and the railways to rethink operation of train services from Chengalpattu, said Mr. Giri. The special train being run on the mainline section could be short terminated at Villupuram and operated as Tiruchi -Villupuram-Tiruchi express with an additional stoppage at Chidambaram, suggested Mr. Giri. The government and the railway administration could think of suspending the services till June 30 until the lockdown would be in force and resume them after gauging the situation thereafter, said consumer activist M. Sekaran, president, Air, Rail and Road Travellers Federation. If suspending the services was not possible, the authorities could operate the service on the mainline section from Tiruchi to Mayiladuthurai and back, he suggested. Official sources acknowledged that tests on rail passengers were not being done at Tiruchi Junction as Health Department teams in Tiruchi also carry out such exercise at the airport when expatriates arrive from different countries besides being engaged in their routine duties. Railway sources said swab samples were being lifted from rail passengers at Thanjavur and Kumbakonam stations for the past few days.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Online viva voce, webinars working well for BDU||Bharathidasan University’s (BDU) effort to exploit digital space effectively for research programmes is apparently generating the desired outcome. A recent instance of Ph.D. candidates defending their doctorate online was in consonance with the university’s objective to facilitate 300 scholars who have been in queue for public viva voce examinations since March 2020. Last week, two viva voce examinations for Ph.D. degree were conducted on the meeting platform Google Meet. The two research scholars, Rev. Sr. Sheena Mathew from Alphonsa College, Pala, Kerala and Sahaya Jernith, St Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, presented their findings in the field of fractional differential equations, a prominent area of research in Mathematics, through digital media. More than 70 participants including research scholars and teaching faculty attended this academic exercise from different places. One participant was from Germany. Under the Guidance of former Professor of St Joseph’s College, Ruban Raj, the two candidates defended their theses, to the satisfaction of Davamani Christober, Principal and Associate Professor, The American College, Madurai, who acted as the external examiner from Madurai. After the presentation, the questions and clarifications raised by the participants and the external examiner were answered by the two scholars defending their thesis. Considering the performance of the candidates in the public viva voce examination and reports of the referees, the examiners recommended that the candidates may be awarded Ph.D., degree in Mathematics in compliance with the statutory formalities of BDU. The university, according to Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar, intends to facilitate over 7,000 scholars who are officially registered with the university for pursuing Ph.D. to complete their doctorate degrees in the areas of science, engineering and technology, languages, arts, management and other faculties. Many are yet to complete the Doctoral Committee (DC) meetings which are partial requirements of the research programme. The supervisors and the scholars are required to record the whole meeting and submit the same in a memory drive. Hitherto, the signatures of the attendees used to be considered as a proof for the veracity of the meeting. Henceforth, the video recording would be considered as a proof of the presence of the participants. The move by the Research Section to permit Research Advisors to convene all the meetings related to Ph.D. right from registration to declaration of results, will be of great relief to the scholars, the Vice-Chancellor said. Similarly, the university’s emphasis on virtual classes and e-learning has begun eliciting encouraging response from government colleges. A two-day Virtual International Webinar on ‘Smart Topics in Chemistry’ organised by the Government Arts College, Tiruchi, attracted 100 participants, and prominent speakers. The technical sessions were handled by P. Neenu Lakshmi, University of Porto, Portugal, and A.R. Ramesh, Government Victoria College, Kerala, on the first day, and by V. Vijayakumar, Vellore Institute of Technology, and M. Damodharan, PKIET, Karaikal. Principal of Government Arts College, Tiruchi A. Megala said the event held through Google Meet registered 700 views.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region witnesses another spike with 53 cases||The central region witnessed another sharp spike in COVID-19 positive cases on Monday with 53 fresh cases being reported from districts in the region. The maximum number of cases, a dozen, was recorded in Thanjavur district. The count was 11, including three imported cases, in Pudukottai district. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts reported 10 cases each. While Tiruchi accounted for eight cases, Ariyalur and Karur district recorded one case each. No fresh case was reported in Perambalur district. With the 12 new cases, the number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in Thanjavur district went up to 167. Of this, the number of active cases being treated at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital stood at 60 as on Monday. In Tiruvarur, the total number of cases reported has increased to 138. Of them, 83 persons are under treatment at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital while the remaining have been discharged after treatment. Out of the 10 cases in Nagapattinam district, five were found to have returned to their native places from Chennai, where they had gone for employment. Three patients tested positive for the virus when they were subjected for swab tests in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College. Cases were reported from Mamangudi, Tharangampadi, Keezhvelur and Palakurichi. While five patients were under treatment at the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam, remaining five patients were admitted to the Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. In Pudukottai district, where eleven cases were reported on Monday, eight patients had come from Chennai and two others had returned from Maharashtra. Another patient was said to have caught the virus while travelling along with the Maharashtra returnees. All were under treatment at the Ranees Government Hospital in Pudukottai. The lone patient who tested positive for the virus in Ariyalur district belonged to Thandalai in Ariyalur. His swab sample was lifted by the health authorities at Coonoor check post when he was going to Ooty. The 43-old patient has since returned to Ariyalur. Out of eight persons affected in Tiruchi district, four persons belonged to a same family in Thillai Nagar. They were said to have contracted the virus from a contact from Chennai. Mannachanallur and Manapparai accounted for two cases. They too reportedly contracted the virus from contacts from Chennai. All of them were under treatment at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Eight persons were discharged from the hospital. Since a few trader representatives were reported to have tested positive for the virus, the Tiruchi Corporation authorities lifted swab samples from a group of traders from Gandhi Market at a special camp on Monday.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Take precautionary measures at police recruit school’||Inspector General of Police, Training, Chennai, M. C. Sarangan on Monday inspected the Permanent Police Recruit School campus at Anna Nagar on the outskirts of the city where Women Recruit Police Constables were undergoing training and instructed the officers to take all precautionary measures for COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 345 Women Recruit Police Constables from Tirunelveli, Theni, Kanyakumari and Thoothukudi districts are undergoing seven-month training at the school from June 1. Addressing the women recruits, Mr. Sarangan asked them to develop their physical and intellectual abilities through parade, games, yoga and law classes. He advised them to treat the general public kindly and render best service to them once inducted into the force. The IG explained about the precautionary measures to be taken in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic and instructed them to follow all instructions issued in this regard. He distributed protective kits such as masks, gloves made of cotton and rubber to the Women Recruit Police Constables as well as to the workers at the recruit school, a press release said.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Water reaches Upper Anicut||Cauvery water that was released from Stanley Reservoir in Mettur for irrigation in delta areas reached the Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Monday afternoon. In a symbolic measure, a group of enthusiastic farmers waited for a few hours in the morning to give a traditional welcome to the Cauvery water at Mukkombu. However, the fresh water flowed down the regulator only around 2 p.m. Officials and farmers led by R. Baskar, Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, offered flowers at Mukkombu. A group of farmers led by Puliyur S. Nagarajan, president, farmers’ wing, Tamil Maanila Congress, held a prayer and showered paddy seeds and flowers to the River Cauvery. By afternoon 500 cusecs of water was realised at the Mukkombu. However, the inflow began increasing steadily from 3 p.m. and it went up to 2,000 cusecs by 5 p.m. PWD officials said that the dry riverbed of the Cauvery could have absorbed a lot of water, thereby delaying the arrival of water to Mukkombu. Water would flow past Tiruchi on Monday night. With about 10,000 cusecs of water being released at Mettur, the realisation at Mukkombu is expected to go up to around 8,000 cusecs by Tuesday. It would reach the Grand Anicut in the early hours on Tuesday after which water would be released for irrigation in the delta.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Officials deny fleecing of air passengers travelling to native districts||With complaints being aired over alleged fleecing of passengers from abroad for transporting them to their native districts from Tiruchi airport, the district administration has repudiated the charge saying that the passengers were only being asked to bear the transportation cost on divide and share basis. As per arrangements made by the Tiruchi district administration, air passengers arriving here from other countries undergo thermal scan and swab test at the Tiruchi international airport. Passengers with temperature or other symptoms are sent to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital for treatment. Among the rest, those belonging to Tiruchi district are taken to the COVID care centre at the Government College of Engineering at Sethurapatti on the outskirts of Tiruchi for a seven-day quarantine. Passengers can also opt for paid quarantine at the city hotels identified for the purpose. Passengers belonging to other districts are being sent to their respective districts through the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses arranged at the airport. But, there are complaints that exorbitant fares, ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500, were being collected for transporting them to their native districts. Some expressed shock over being forced to pay the charges before boarding the buses. A passenger, who arrived in Tiruchi from Doha by a special flight two days ago, in a video clip widely circulated on a social messaging platform, alleged that the officials were exerting pressure to pay the charges though many of the returnees did not have sufficient money. “We have returned to our homeland after undergoing untold suffering. But, officials threaten to put us in 15 days quarantine if we fail to pay for the transportation fee,” the passenger, who was seen arguing with the police and bus crew members, said in the video. However, officials denied the charge. They said that overseas returnees were being sent to their native district and were required to bear the transportation expenditure. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that overseas returnees, before embarking on planes, were given clear instructions that they would have to undergo 7-day quarantine upon arrival in respective airports so as to rule out COVID-19 virus infection. As per the arrangements, overseas returnees of other districts had to be sent to their native districts after intimating the respective district authorities. It had been noticed that many tend to go to their home straight if they were allowed to travel on their own vehicle or taxis. Hence, State-owned transport corporation buses were arranged to transport them. They were asked to share the actual expenditure of transportation cost and those travelling on the same route had to share the cost, Mr. Sivarasu added.
16 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plus One admissions being made on a first come, first served basis||While Plus One admissions have commenced following the State Government's 'All Pass' decision for SSLC students, due to the unprecedented situation caused by COVID 19 pandemic, the managements are finding a first come, first served approach to be the only practical option. Admissions are apparently being made based on the government's directive that the students will get 80% weightage for half yearly and quarterly exam marks and 20% for attendance. But, those who are seeking early admission seem to be in an advantageous position. “Right now, we are admitting students based on oral accounts about their scores. For, there is no scope for them to get the score sheets of quarterly and half-yearly exams at short notice,” a correspondent of a private school, said. “It is absolutely difficult to toe the hitherto followed pattern of merit-based admission this time as the government's decision has, more or less, created a level-playing field for students to secure admission,” he said. Managements of private institutions with hostel facilities are, in particular, worried as they doubt if parents from far-off places will take the risk of admitting their wards in the prevailing conditions caused by of COVID 19 threat. They, however, hope that the existing students in the tenth standard who have been residing in hostels will not be shifted out. According to a headmaster of a government high school, the details of the students’ scores in quarterly and half-yearly exams will be submitted to the office of Chief Educational Officer only during the next week. It is highly improbable for the school education department to prepare the consolidated mark statement of the scores of students in quarterly and half-yearly exams any time soon, he said.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Most IT employees still prefer to work from home||Most employees of IT companies in ELCOT IT Park at Navalpattu still prefer to work from home even after partial restoration of transport services. More than 80% of the over 1,500 employees have chosen to work from home. Only two companies have resumed their activities in the 60,000 sq.ft. IT building. About 200 employees of the two companies have started coming to work. “Though transport services are available, and permission has been granted to the companies to resume operations at their offices, employees of four companies have chosen to work from home as they find it more convenient,” an ELCOT official said. The entire rental space in the building has been occupied by M/s i Link Systems Pvt Ltd.; M/s Scientific Publishing Company, M/s Vuram Technology Solutions Pvt. Ltd., M/s Vdart Technologies; M/s GI Tech Gaming Co. India Pvt. Ltd.; and M/s VR Della IT Services Pvt. Ltd. A few among these companies have also evinced interest in leasing out space in the proposed new one lakh sq. ft. IT Tower. The project costing Rs. 40 crore for which the plan has already been readied has been entrusted with the Public Works Department. The ELCOT IT Park encompasses a Special Economic Zone on an expanse of 147.61 acres. Special Economic Zone approval has been accorded for an extent of 123.23 acres, as per official records. So far, 34 four acres have been allotted to M/s Sutherland Global Services Ltd (10 acres), M/S. WNS Global Services (P) Ltd. (five acres), M/s. Zylog Systems Ltd. (five acres), M/s. Unlimited Innovations India Pvt. Ltd. (five acres), M/s Assyst International Pvt. Ltd. (three acres); M/s iLink Multitech Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (two acres), M/s Vdart Technologies (two acres), and M/s. Health Plan Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd.
16 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water from Mettur reaches Upper Anicut||Cauvery water released from the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur for irrigation in delta areas reached the Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Monday afternoon. In a symbolic measure, a group of enthusiastic farmers waited for a few hours in the morning to give a traditional welcome to the Cauvery water at Mukkombu. However, the fresh water flowed down the regulator only around 2 p.m. Officials and farmers led by R.Baskar, Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, offered flowers to the Cauvery water at Mukkombu. A group of farmers led by Puliyur S. Nagarajan, president, farmers’ wing, Tamil Maanila Congress, held a prayer and showered paddy seeds and flowers to the river. By afternoon, 500 cusecs of water was realised at the Mukkombu. However, the inflow began increasing steadily from 3 p.m. and it went up to 2,000 cusecs by 5 p.m. PWD officials said that the dry riverbed of the Cauvery could have absorbed a lot of water, thereby delaying the arrival of water to Mukkombu. Water would flow past Tiruchi on Monday night. With about 10,000 cusecs being released at Mettur, the realisation at Mukkombu is expected to go up to around 8,000 cusecs by Tuesday. It would reach the Grand Anicut in the early hours on Tuesday after which water would be released for irrigation in the delta.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi ranked 15th in NIRF Management Rankings 2020||IIM-Tiruchi has been ranked 15th among all B-Schools in the country as per the NIRF 2020 ranking released by the Ministry of Human Resources Development. The ranking has placed IIM-Tiruchi just after the first-generation IIMs and at the top position among the second-generation IIMs. The rating of higher educational institutions by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) is based on several parameters such as teaching, learning, utilization of resources, research, graduation outcomes, outreach, inclusivity, and stakeholder perception. IIM-Tiruchi made significant gains this year on the parameters of research and professional practice and in outreach and inclusivity. These parameters have reflected in its performance in the NIRF 2020 Ranking, which saw participation from 3,800 institutes. IIM-Tiruchi had also made significant progress in increasing its student strength, which includes the number of Ph.D. students; improving student to faculty ratio; expanding its revenue sources through management development programmes; and utilisation of resources for pursuing growth and improving student learning experience. The ranking has also reiterated the high perception of IIM-Tiruchi (sixth among all IIMs) with the academic peers, recruiters, and students, IIM Director Bhimaraya Metri said. Reflecting on future initiatives, Prof. Metri said that IIM-Tiruchi will launch a two year Post Graduate Programme in Management-Human Resources (MBA in HR) and a host of online-based certification programmes. The institution will reach out to more aspirants desiring quality management education.
16 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MSME’s disappointed due to delay in implementing ECLG scheme||Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the region are disappointed over what they perceive as the delay in utilisation of the Rs. 20,000 crore subordinate debt promised for stressed MSME units by the Central Government as part of COVID-19 package for revival of the sector. Not all banks have taken initiatives to transfer the benefit of the initiative to the deserving units. In Tiruchi region, State Bank of India has taken the lead in disbursing funds to the struggling MSME units. “The SBI has disbursed about Rs. 102 crore to around 250 units. We appreciate the speedy disbursal during the crucial period and expect other banks to follow suit,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries Association, said. “MSME sector in the region that been going through a phase of recession over the last four was facing extreme hardship due to the COVID 19 pandemic and are facing difficulties in meeting out the salary and other critical commitments. Though the Central Government and Reserve Bank of India had announced special packages through the Banks, there is a delay in percolation of the directive,” Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Referring to the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee (ECLG) Scheme for availing the utility of the Government's Rs. 3-lakh crore collateral-free loan, the president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association R. Ilango questioned the insistence by banks on Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deed (MODT), despite the scheme providing 100% guarantee coverage for 20% additional working capital term loans through the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited. “In these difficult times, the insistence of bank on MODT will cause additional burden. The RBI has to given clear instructions to the banks not to ask for additional MODT from the MSME units,” Mr. Ilango said. Otherwise, the State Government has to exempt stamp duty on MODT for the ELGC scheme, he said.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||SHG members stage demo||A group of women self help group members under the aegis of ‘Samooga Neethi Peravai’ staged a demonstration here on Monday urging the district administration to take action against those financial institutions exerting pressure on them to repay the loan amount during the COVID-19 period. The women resorted to the step after submitting a petition to the Collector. Around 80 women took part in the demonstration that was held near the old Collectorate building, said police sources.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Revised train timings||The Southern Railway has announced that the Chengalpattu - Tiruchi - Chengalpattu special (Train No. 06795 / 06796) being operated on the mainline section daily will run to revised timings with effect from June 16. In addition to the existing stoppages, the special train has been provided stoppage at Chidambaram (in both directions) with the concurrence of the State government. As per the revised timings, the train will leave Tiruchi at 6 a.m. and arrive Chengalpattu at 12. 45 p.m. In the return direction, it will leave Chengalpattu at 3 p.m. and arrive Tiruchi at 9.30 p.m.
16 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Singapore nationals head back home||Forty-one Singapore nationals stranded in the State due to lockdown left for Singapore by an Air India Express flight from here on Monday. The flight left around 7.25 a.m., airport sources said.
16 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Low pressures, storms saved coral reefs: study||Cyclones Amphan and Nisarga that unleashed destruction in eastern and western India have saved the Gulf of Mannar corals from mass bleaching as windstorms along with two low pressures have significantly lowered seawater temperature in summer, a recent underwater study conducted by a team of experts showl. The Gulf of Mannar (GoM), spread around 21 islands, suffers significant damage caused by livelihood-linked human threats and climate change. The islands and the reef areas collectively constitute the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park (GMMNP). Corals in the GoM usually bleach in summer if the water temperature surpasses 30˚C, but they recover when it drops in August. Under the advice of A.S. Marimuthu, Wildlife Warden, GMMNP, a comprehensive underwater assessment was jointly carried out by Reef Research Team of Suganthi Devadason Marine Research Institute (SDMRI), Thoothukudi, and Tamil Nadu Forest Department to measure the prevalence of coral bleaching in the GoM from April to June. Eleven islands — Krusadai, Manoli, Hare, Valai, Thalaiyari, Poovarasanpatti, Puluvinichalli, Vilanguchalli, Kariyachalli, Koswari and Vaan Islands — representing the three island groups were assessed. “As the water temperature level reached 31.8˚ C in April, partial coral bleaching [less than 5%] was observed. The high temperature levels persisted till May [the highest level being 31.9˚ C], when widespread bleaching was witnessed,” says J.K. Patterson Edward, Director, SDMRI, who headed the assessment. “Average bleaching prevalence this summer is 28.20%. Shallow areas [0.5 and 2m deep] have a bleaching prevalence of 21.20%, while deep regions [2 and 6m] have only 7%,” he says. Thoothukudi group islands have the highest bleaching prevalence (30.80%), followed by Mandapam and Keelakarai groups. In Thoothukudi group, Koswari island has the highest bleaching prevalence (38.40%), followed by Vaan (34.80%) and Kariyachalli (34.70%). “ Montipora is the most affected genus (29.27%) of the 18 coral genera, followed by Porites (27.79%) and Acropora (14.60%),” Mr. Patterson says. The brief coral bleaching event is almost over, and corals have already started recovering. “The water temperature dropped [28.6˚ C] in early June, which has helped corals restore their zooxanthellae. It is expected that the bleached corals will completely recover by July-end without facing any mortality, provided the present climatic condition continues,” he adds. Reduction in sewage inflow, industrial and human activities and halt in fishing during the lockdown have also assisted in improvement of reef health, resulting in enhanced fish population and faster coral recovery.  Reef watch  The Gulf of Mannar is spread around 21 islands  Islands and reef areas constitute Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park  Corals in the reef bleach in summer and recover when temperature drops They are expected to completely recover by July if the present climatic conditions continue
16 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage protest inside tank||Agitated over the installation of electric poles inside Paraakkirama Pandian Kulam near here by a private firm to transmit power generated by its nearby solar power plant, a group of villagers staged sit-in inside the irrigation tank on Monday. They withdrew the protest after they were assured that all electric poles would be removed. A private firm, with its solar power unit near Thalaiyaalnadanthaankulam under Kayathar union in Thoothukudi district, started installing 200 electric poles to transmit power from the plant to the sub-station at Kollankinaru. Seven of the 74 poles to be installed inside the tank, having ayacut of over 2,400 acres in 11 villages under Chittar Basin, were erected. In protest, residents of Keezhakottai, a village nourished by the water body, started the sit-in . They said installation of electric poles inside the water body without permission would kill farming operations in the region, as the private firm would not allow water to stagnate inside the tank in a bid to save the electric poles. Even as the protest was going on since 10 a.m., tahsildar of Kayathar taluk Bhaskaran held talks with the villagers. He assured the protesters that the private firm would be asked remove all electric poles before June 18. “Moreover, the firm will not install any new electric poles inside the water body,” he said. Following the assurance, the villagers withdrew their agitation around 2 p.m.
16 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘We want to go home’||Demanding their immediate repatriation to their home State of Rajasthan, a group of 25 migrant labourers and their children submitted a petition in the Collector’s office here on Monday. The migrant workers said they sold dolls, pillows, balloons and other electronic products in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. Since the lockdown had badly hit their business and, consequently, their daily income, they were starving for the past few weeks. “When a special train was operated to Rajasthan from Kanniyakumari, we were not allowed to board the train as a pregnant woman in our group suffered miscarriage minutes before boarding the train. We are starving now. Hence, the Collector should take efforts to send us back to Rajasthan,” said R. Arun, migrant from Mundavar taluk.
16 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New record in cargo handling||V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust has created a new record by handling 1.89 lakh tonnes of cargo in a single day and 55,363 tonnes of coal in 24 hours. The port handled 1,89,395 tonnes of cargo in a single day on last Friday surpassing the earlier single day record of 1,80,597 tonnes on July 26, 2019. The major cargoes that contributed to the achievement are industrial coal (53,077 tonnes), thermal coal (45,829 tonnes), clinkers (13,217 tonnes), oil cake (4,000 tonnes), caustic soda lye (2,241 tonnes) and containerized cargoes (70,254 tonnes / 3,903 TEUs). The Port also created a new record by unloading 55,363 tonnes of coal in 24 hours at Berth Number 9 from the vessel ‘MV. Green K Max S’ on last Friday.
16 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Award park upkeep to association’||Expressing their disappointment over awarding of contract for upkeep of a public park to an individual, residents of KTC Nagar in Palayamkottai have submitted a petition at the Collector's office. According to the petition, Darling Nagar residents objected to the manner in which the contract has been awarded to an individual by the Corporation. The public park, on a sprawling 3.65 acres of land, has recreation hall, walkers path, play equipment and other facilities. The residents demanded transparency in awarding the contract and demanded that it be withdrawn and reissued to the residents welfare association.
16 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Indigenous cases’ on the rise||Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts continued to record high numbers of indigenous cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Thoothukudi recorded 34 ‘indigenous cases’ and four ‘imported cases’ that took its tally to 436. Now, 132 cases are under treatment. Tirunelveli district added 25 more cases, including 17 indigenous cases, that took the tally to 489 and the number of active cases to 112. When a bridegroom from Chennai reached Gangaikondan check post for his wedding to be held in Palayamkottai on Monday, samples were collected from him and six others. Later, he was allowed to go. Tenkasi district recorded eight cases – six of them ‘indigenous’. Of the total infections of 144 cases, 54 are under treatment. Kanniyakumari reported five indigenous cases that took its tally to 127 and the number of active cases to 53. Madurai Thirty-three persons tested positive in Madurai district, taking the case count to 442. Thirty of the fresh cases were from Thathaneri Main Road, Goripalayam, Vilangudi, Union Bank Colony, Narimedu, Old Kuyavarpalayam Road, Ismailpuram, Mela Anuppanadi, Chinna Anuppanadi, Chintamani Road, Sellur, Paravai, Alwarpuram, Melur, Mela Ponnagaram and Surya Nagar. Three others, who tested positive, are from T. Kunnathur, Munichalai and K. Pudur with permanent addresses in Chennai. Fourteen persons were discharged on Monday. Dindigul  district reported two fresh cases. The officials, who intercepted a car from Keelkattalai in Chennai, found the e-pass to be fake. The occupants were sent to an isolation centre. Inquiries with the driver revealed that he had obtained the e-pass from a travel agent. In Theni, 11 persons tested positive. All of them had returned from Chennai to Cumbum, Kancheepuram to Uthamapalayam and different parts of Kerala to Kumili. They were screened at the entry points and admitted to hospitals. In Sivaganga district, the number of positive cases nosedived from 90 on Sunday to 57 on Monday as per the State medical bulletin. Doctors at Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital said 33 persons who had arrived here were normal residents of Chennai. Hence, they were cross-notified to Chennai. Ramanathapuram reported no fresh cases.  Virudhunagar Nine new cases were reported in Virudhunagar district, where two patients were discharged from hospital. While eight of the fresh cases had come from Chennai, one passenger from Chennai bound to Virudhunagar district was quarantined at Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital after he tested positive on arrived by a flight from New Delhi. The total number of positive cases in the district is 179 and active cases 40.
16 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Child restored to mother||Tiruppur city police on Sunday rescued a three-year-old girl child from Madurai, who was allegedly abducted from Boyampalayam over property issue in April 2019. The girls’ mother Nishanthi lodged a complaint at Anupparpalayam police station on June 9, 2020 stating that her daughter was abducted on April 24 last year by her father Selvaraj and brother Rajkumar. They had also threatened to kill her if she went to Madurai in search of the child. Selvaraj was picked up for interrogation on June 10 and he revealed that the child was with Rajkumar and another person Karthikeyan at K. Pudur in Madurai. Following this, a special team visited Madurai and rescued the child and arrested Rajkumar and Karthikeyan. According to preliminary investigations, Rajkumar abducted the child in a bid to transfer properties belonging to his sister. Anupparpalayam police registered a case and remanded the accused in judicial custody.
16 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Suicide bid at Tiruppur Collectorate||A 23-year-old woman attempted suicide by consuming poison while undergoing counselling at the Department of Social Welfare, on the premises of the Tiruppur Collectorate, on Monday. The woman from Madathukulam in the district attended a counselling session in connection with her relationship with a 27-year-old man. “She claimed that the man married her, but he denied,” an official from the Department said. As the man refused to marry her as suggested in the counselling, she consumed a poisonous substance, an official said. She was rushed to Tiruppur Government Medical College and Hospital and her condition was said to be stable. Helpline Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
16 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Relax procurement norms for cotton’||Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India, has urged the Centre to direct the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to relax the procurement norms to enhance the quantity of procurement by the corporation. In the memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister, Government of India (GoI) and to the Chief Minister, submitted to the District Collector, T. Anand on Monday, P. S. Masilamani, State Deputy Secretary of the association, pointed out that sizeable number of farmers in the delta region had taken up cotton cultivation over the years in the absence of assured `kuruvai’ crop cultivation prospects. This year the CCI had procured just 10 percent of the total quantity of cotton brought for auction by the farmers so far. Thus, the private traders have started offering a rate far below the price quoted by the CCI in the auctions where the farmers were shelling out Rs. 10 per kilogram for picking of cotton from the plants, he said. The reluctance on the part of the CCI and customs duty for export of cotton had directly impacted the prospects of cotton cultivators realising good price for their produce through auctions, he claimed in the memorandum. Cotton cultivation requires much less electricity than paddy raised through lift irrigation, he said. About 1400 units of electricity would be required to irrigate one acre of summer paddy crop through the lift irrigation for four months. On the other hand, cultivation of cotton with lift irrigation facility would only require 800 units of power for six months. While the cultivation of cotton has twin advantages of energy-saving and reducing the loss to the exchequer incurred through free farm power supply, the cultivators were not able to realise profit in cotton cultivation, he said pleaded with the government to encourage cotton cultivation.
16 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Foreign returnees’ house burgled||Valuables worth around Rs. 80 lakh and cash were stolen from a foreign returnee’s house at Aththikadai hamlet in Koradachery police station domain on Sunday. According to police, the complainant, Sherbudheen (34) of Aththikadai had returned to his native place six months ago after discontinuing his employment in a foreign country. He had left his house on Sunday morning to call on his relative who lived in a nearby village. On Monday morning, the villagers found the front door of Sherbudheen’s house broken open and informed him. Sherbudheen rushed home and found the almirah in which the valuables were kept, ransacked by the burglars. In his complaint, he said that the burglars had taken away around 220 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 7 lakh in cash. The Koradachery police have registered a case and are investigating.
16 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ooty’s oldest bungalow to be renovated at Rs. 8.2 crore||The oldest colonial bungalow in Udhagamandalam, known as the ‘Stone House’, is to be renovated at Rs. 8.2 crore. The almost 200-year-old building, constructed in the early 1820’s by John Sullivan, the founder of the British settlement in the Nilgiris, is now part of the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam. The building, which now contains the office of the Principal, forms the main façade of the college, and is the college’s proverbial beating heart, housing many facilities used by the student body. The building was built on land Sullivan bought from the Todas, an indigenous tribal community in the upper Nilgiris, with an apocryphal story that he paid them a single “Indian anna” for the purchase. Over the last couple of centuries since its construction, the building has seen almost no changes to its façade. However, due to the vagaries of the Nilgiris climate, there has been a gradual deterioration of the state of the building, necessitating its renovation. The college authorities had appealed for funds to renovate the building for the last few years. M. Easwaramurthy, Principal, said the funds had already been announced by the government. Specially trained builders, who had experience working on restoring and renovating heritage structures, would be employed for the work. “The construction will be done in such a way that the aesthetics of the building remains completely unchanged, and builders will employ the same techniques that were used in the building’s original construction for its renovation too,” added Mr. Easwaramoorthy. On Monday, he paid tributes to John Sullivan on his 232nd birth anniversary, with a special ceremony being arranged on the Government Arts College premises.
16 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Keep tab on entry of outsiders’||Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan on Monday instructed village vigilance committees to look out for clandestine entry of people from hotspot districts. People coming from districts such as Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chegalpattu and Tiruvallur with e-passes were intercepted at the checkpost and isolated. But, of late, people from other districts entered various parts of Virudhunagar through interior roads by-passing the checkposts. This could lead to spread of COVID-19. The village vigilance committees must alert their Tahsildars and district control room over 1077, he said.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private school sealed for conducting special classes||Revenue officials on Monday sealed a private matriculation school at Tiruchengode for conducting special classes violating lockdown norms. According to officials, following a tip-off, a team of revenue officials, led by Revenue District Officer Maniraj, inspected the premises of a private matriculation school and found that special classes were being conducted for students, who would be appearing for class 10 Board examinations next year. Case to be registered Mr. Maniraj said, “we got the information today morning and on investigation found the charges to be true. Twenty-three students were attending the classes and most of them are from nearby locality. We have sealed the school for violating lockdown norms and posing a risk to COVID-19 preventive measures. A case would also be registered against the school principal. Reportedly, the classes have been for a week and stern action would be taken against such violators.”
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man with COVID-19 symptoms dies in Coimbatore||A 28-year-old man from Coimbatore who was hospitalised with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and symptoms of COVID-19 died late on Sunday. Health officials said that the result of a COVID-19 test done for the man was ‘inconclusive’. As the man suffered from SARI, procedures and precautions followed for the management of dead bodies in the case of COVID-19 were followed for the deceased, they added. Officials said that the man, hailing from R.G. Pudur, had returned from Chennai and got himself admitted to a private hospital at Chinniayampalayam with symptoms of COVID-19, a few days ago. He was diagnosed with SARI and was referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). He was shifted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Sunday evening where he died. The body was sent to CMCH mortuary. Restrictions imposed Officials added that they were awaiting the test result of another sample collected from the man to check whether he had COVID-19. Following the man’s death, containment zone restrictions were imposed at R.G. Pudur area. Meanwhile, three persons from Coimbatore district -- two women and a man -- and a man hailing from Tiruchi tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday Two positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Tiruppur district on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 117. A 22-year-old woman from Kangeyam, who delivered a baby in Tiruppur Government Medical College and Hospital on June 10 and who was referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital the next day, tested positive. The male child, however, tested negative for COVID-19, Health Department sources said. The second patient was an 81-year-old man from Udumalpet with travel history to Chennai. He returned on June 12 and self-reported, following which he was tested and found to be COVID-19 positive, sources said. Both the patients were admitted at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore for treatment. Meanwhile, the 32-year-old pregnant woman from Tiruppur Corporation limits who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday was removed from the tally of Tiruppur district as she contracted the virus at CMCH. She has been cross-notified to Coimbatore district, sources said. The district has only two active cases out of the 117 cases as of Monday. Two more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, the district administration said. According to officials, the two persons, who tested positive on Monday are a 52-year-old woman from Kappachi in Thummanatty, near Udhagamandalam, and a 54-year-old man from Thaimalai in Melur, near Coonoor. On Sunday, it was confirmed that a 22-year-old truck driver from Kulisholar, near Udhagamandalam, had tested positive, bringing the total number of active cases in the Nilgiris to 17. All the three persons are said to have returned to the Nilgiris recently from other districts. The district administration announced that six places in the Nilgiris – Kulisholai, Kappuchi, Thaimalai, Bharathi Pudur near Bikkatty, Nondimedu and Raj Bhavan in Udhagamandalam, have been declared as containment zones. In Salem, three persons, including a woman, tested positive for the disease on Monday. According to health officials, the patients are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC employees stage demonstrations highlighting various demands||Employees of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) staged demonstrations across Coimbatore district on Monday with multiple demands, including adequate safety measures and remuneration while operating buses amid the COVID-19 scare. The demonstrations were organised by the Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions in 17 branches across Coimbatore district and five branches in the Nilgiris district, said general secretary of CITU Coimbatore unit M. Velankanni Raj. Over 50 employees comprising drivers, conductors and technicians participated in the demonstrations held from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. at each of the branches. “We made sure that the bus service did not get affected,” Mr. Raj said. The participants were those who did not have to report for duty on Monday as the duties are assigned on a rotational basis. While the participants wore masks, physical distancing was not maintained in most of the demonstrations. The petition had a set of 23 demands, including asking TNSTC to provide allowances and appropriate remuneration to the drivers and conductors working during the pandemic, to allow only adequate number of employees to the respective branches to maintain personal distancing and to supply more masks and gloves to all employees. The petition also alleged that the employees are being forced to operate buses longer than the stipulated hours (5 a.m. to 9 p.m.) to increase the earnings. Mr. Raj said that the demands were submitted to the Managing Director of TNSTC Coimbatore Division A. Anbu Abraham, General Manager Mahendra Kumar and all the branch managers. The Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions comprises nine unions, including AITUC, CITU and LPF which organised the demonstrations across the State.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A sight to behold||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Headmistress suspended for conducting mass inside classroom||A government school headmistress was suspended for organising a prayer mass on the school premises summoning students of the school in a Shoolagiri village. The video of the prayer mass inside the classroom, with children summoned during the pandemic and the partial lockdown had gone viral, inviting action against the headmistress. The panchayat union elementary school in Chinnakutti in Shoolagiri has 37 students from classes one to five from the surrounding tribal hamlets. The headmistress Jameela with a Christian missionary group is reported to have asked the students to come to the school under the pretext of providing relief and enabled the organisation of the mass for students. The video of the children knelt down for prayer, jostling with each other, without wearing masks, or physical distancing went viral. Collector S. Prabhakar had ordered an inquiry into the incident. A school teacher, Enusenai, who had participated in the mass was issued show-cause notice by the administration.
16 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Even as businesses open up, weavers in north Karnataka continue to suffer||Thousands of weavers in north Karnataka — faced with low sales of produced goods and nearly nil fresh demand — continue to suffer even after lockdown has been eased for various sectors. Worst hit are the small and marginal weavers. Meagre earnings has forced most of them to seek other work or take up petty business. The Wadagaon-Shahapur area, once described as the Manchester of Belagavi, is now a deserted weavers’ colony. The area that used to be filled with the sound of handloom and power looms, is eerily quiet. “As the lockdown began, most looms were closed. Now, we are finding it very difficult to reopen, as we have run out of raw material and cash,” said Tippanna Pujeri, weaver from Shahapur. “Most weavers come from poor backgrounds and the extended lockdown dried up their cash reserves. Three members of our fraternity in Belagavi district ended their lives, unable to repay loans and feed their families,” said Maruti Dhage, a weaver labour leader. A major reason for the closure of the home industry is that import of yarn, the raw material for weaving, has stopped since February. Gujarat and Maharashtra, the two States that supply yarn to most of north Karnataka have been badly hit by COVID-19 and the closing of borders have made yarn transport impossible. Maharashtra and Gujarat, along with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, are also the largest market for saris and other textile goods. But the lockdown has dried up demand and sales. “A weaver has very little control over the demand and supply of his produce or its pricing,” said Sagar Satpute, a young weaver who has two looms at his house in Belagavi. “Usually, an investor, called a Sahukar, buys raw material like yarn and thread and gives it to the weaving family,” he said. Mujahid Rangarez, whose family has been in the business of dying cloth for generations, said the entire chain of workers in the process — yarn twisters, dyeing workers, threaders, and loom mechanics — had been hit by the lockdown. “When the government announces a scheme to benefit weavers, it should take into account all tradesmen,” he argued. The distress of weavers came to limelight after the death of some weavers. Some local legislators met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asking him to announce a relief package for weavers. Abhay Patil, MLA, whose constituency includes the weaving colonies of Wadagaon-Shahapur, urged Mr. Yediyurappa to buy saris produced by weavers directly and supply them to ASHAs, anganwadi workers, and self-help groups. However, not all weaver leaders support this idea. “Government procurement does not help weavers. It only helps vendors and middlemen,” said Gurulingappa Gombi, president of Hatagar Nekar Samaj in Bagalkot. He feels interest free loans, direct benefit transfers to BPL families, distribution of subsidised ration, and health insurance would benefit poor weavers. Officials say there are around three lakh weaver families in the State. Of these, around 60,000 are in Bagalkot and around 40,000 in Belagavi district. The rest are in Bengaluru rural, Gadag, Chitradurga, Haveri, Koppal, and Kalaburagi.
16 June 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Relief yet to reach the poor||Weavers say the much-advertised Chief Minister’s COVID-19 relief package had not reached them yet. Deputy Director of Textiles Keerteppa Gotur said a survey to select beneficiaries would start this week. The department would open 40 outreach centres to help beneficiaries upload details. Number of families As per an earlier estimate, there are 25,270 families working on power looms and 500 using handlooms. Around 2,000 khadi weavers and 3,000 shepherds who weave woollen rugs are also included in the list. But till now, the department has got only 700 applications. The new survey will decide the number of beneficiaries. Weavers, however, are not happy. To start with, the package was not properly conceived. It promises one-time payment of Rs. 2,000 per weaving family. It is not a regular payment for the four months of low income. Officials say the government has capped the subsistence allowance to 1.25 lakh families at the State level. This is less than half the number of deserving beneficiaries. It also does not count allied workers in textiles like ginners, yarn twisters, and dyeing workers, said Ramachandra Yadwad, a weaver from Ramdurg.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council elections: For BJP, it’s about keeping old promises||Keeping old promises has emerged as an important criteria for the Bharatiya Janata Party while considering candidates for Legislative Council polls this time. The State core committee has reportedly decided to recommend the names of three migrants into the party, R. Shankar, N. Nagaraju (MTB) and A.H. Vishwanath, besides former MLA Sunil Vallyapure, who gave up his Assembly seat, to its central election committee, for a ticket to contest Legislative Council elections from the Assembly constituency. While Mr. Shankar went by the party’s instructions against contesting the Assembly elections after tendering resignation as MLA, Mr. Nagaraju lost the polls mainly due to the contest by BJP rebel candidate Sharat Bachhe Gowda. However, Mr. Vishwanath contested the mid-term elections to Assembly much against the party’s suggestion, and lost them. Mr. Vallyapure, who earlier represented Chincholi Assembly constituency, had abided by the party’s decision to field newcomer Avinash Jadhav for the bypolls from his constituency. What weighed in their favour was the fact that they were promised a ticket for the MLC polls scheduled on June 29. Also, the core committee is said to be of the view that fielding the three migrants would help in taking care of the technical hurdles, as the Supreme Court had said that those who quit their Assembly membership to join the BJP should contest polls and win to get ministerial posts. While elections are being held for seven MLC seats, the BJP can ensure the victory of four candidates considering its numerical strength in the Assembly. Sources in the BJP said that the State core committee had also decided to toe the Central unit’s line of accommodating party workers when it comes to nominating five for the Upper House. However, the core committee would meet again sometime in the next week to decide on the nominations, sources noted. Interestingly the BJP leadership, which is yet to recover from the shock of the party high command recently rejecting all its recommendations for the Rajya Sabha polls, desisted from formally announcing the names of candidates that would be recommended to the party Central election committee. Briefing mediapersons about decisions taken by the party State core committee, BJP leader Arvind Limbavali only said that the names of four candidates would be recommended to the Central election committee.  The chosen four  R. Shankar N. Nagaraju (MTB)  A.H. Vishwanath  Sunil Vallyapure
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New strategies for COVID-19 clusters||There has been a steady increase in the number of positive cases of COVID-19 being reported in the city. With many of the restrictions imposed during the lockdown now lifted, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is looking at adopting new strategies to contain the spread in clusters where the number of COVID-19 positive cases is linked epidemiologically. According to the BBMP’s war room report on July 15, the city has four clusters, including Padarayanapura and S.K. Garden. While more than 70 cases have been reported from Padarayanapura, nearly 30 cases are from S.K. Garden and over 15 from Mangammanapalya. There are 197 containment zones comprising streets near the residence of COVID-19 positive persons, 21 apartment complexes and two slums in which one or more resident have tested positive. The report also suggests that West zone has more number of active cases and containment zones where sealing has been extended as compared to other zones in the city. Many containment zones in South zone have returned to normal compared to other zones. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, who is in charge of the BBMP’s war room, said of the 7,213 cases reported in the State, the city accounted for 732 cases. Padarayanapura was one of the first clusters identified in the city. Here, the BBMP adopted Adaptive Stratified Random Sampling method for testing. Ms. Korlapati said that the civic body was constantly trying to improvise on the methodology by taking into account the variable factors. “The variable factors, such as Influenza like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), are looked at dynamically to improve the testing methodology,” she said. She also said that one cannot assume that there is only one type of spread. There may be smaller peaks or point locations. “Towards identifying these locations or clusters within the containment zones, we are going to be taking up spatial temporal analysis,” she said and added that enforcement would be made stricter in containment zones, which would be closely monitored.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) may announce candidate tomorrow||The Janata Dal (Secular) candidate to contest the Legislative Council elections will be decided by party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. The name of the candidate is likely to be announced on Wednesday. Party sources said the JD(S) legislature party that met here on Monday to discuss the probable candidate authorised Mr. Gowda to decide on the same. More than three dozen party leaders have evinced interest for the lone seat that the party can win. While party member T.A. Saravana, who will retire on June 30 after completing his tenure, is also lobbying hard to get a second term, Kupendra Reddy, who will retire as Rajya Sabha member on June 25, has also shown interest. Both are close to Mr. Gowda’s family. Sources said that many former legislators and those who contested elections before are also trying hard.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ILI cases testing positive in Bengaluru worries authorities||Bengaluru city on Monday saw 35 new COVID-19 cases. Of these, 13 were related to Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI). An analysis by the State war room shows that the ILI positivity rate across Karnakata has remained low, but in Bengaluru it has gone up since June 3. The war room is also tracking positivity rate (positive cases found per 100 tests) for ILI across districts. Officials point out that an increase in ILI positivity rate (where no other history or source of infection is traceable) essentially means that it was spread by someone who was not tracked. On Monday, 213 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State, taking the total number to 7,213. The highest number of cases were reported from Kalaburagi district with 48 new cases, followed by Bengaluru. Two deaths due to COVID-19 were reported by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. While one patient was a 65-year-old male and resident of Dharwad district who had passed away on June 14, another patient was a 75-year-old male from Bengaluru district. The 75-year-old male patient was diagnosed with ILI, diabetes mellitus and hypertension. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 stands at 88. Meanwhile, 180 patients were discharged on Monday. With this, the total number of discharges in the State is 4,135. 56 in ICU As many as 56 COVID-19 patients are in the ICU as on Monday, according to the bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The number was only 16 in ICUs in various designated hospitals across the State a day earlier.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court holds 270 virtual sittings since lockdown||The High Court of Karnataka has conducted 270 sessions of virtual court sittings through videoconferencing system and heard 1,758 cases between March 26 and June 6 when the regular court sittings were cancelled due to lockdown. As many as 987 cases were disposed of in virtual court sittings ad 1,237 cases were accepted in electronic-format, introduced specially for lockdown period, during this period across the three Benches at Bengaluru, Dharwad and Kalaburagi, according to data released by the Registrar-General of the High Court on Monday. In Bengaluru A maximum number of 249 virtual court sittings were conducted in Principal Bench at Bengaluru as the Benches at Dharward and Kalaburagi started functioning only in first week of June. While 15 sessions of virtual court sittings were held at Dharward from between June 1 and 6, six virtual courts were held in Kalaburagi during this period. However, the number of cases filed in physical format exceeded the number of cases filed in e-format with 2,526 cases filed in physical format in a short period of time after the High Court allowed limited window for physical filling of cases. As many as 40 virtual court sittings were held between June 1 and 6 in Bengaluru in which 355 cases were heard apart from hearing a few physically filed cases.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc develops online self-assessment tool for workplaces||With COVID-19 related restrictions easing and many workplaces slowly resuming work, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), in collaboration with the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), has developed a ‘Workplace Readiness Indicator’, an online self-assessment advisory tool that helps organisations establish pandemic-specific policies and practices. “The indicator is an advisory tool that can enable organisations to understand their current level of preparedness and key risk areas. It will also help them plan and establish pandemic-specific policies, procedures, and necessary management practices,” said a release. How does it work Any organisation can enter information about their workplace and current level of operation. “Readiness is calculated using 10 specific indices, each with a maximum score of 100. These include infrastructure, precautions, outreach, employee interactions, transport, details of eateries, hygiene and sanitation,” said the release. Rajesh Sundaresan, Professor, Department of Electrical Communication Engineering, IISc, and project lead said: “Once enough organisations use the tool, each organisation can see where it stands among other organisations of the same kind. Such a comparison may induce organisations to be proactive and take more positive steps towards mitigating the pandemic.” According to the release, the tool takes into account broad epidemic factors and social objectives, and suggests a simple readiness threshold that organisations need to meet or exceed in order to operate effectively. Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, KSDMA, said organisations would need to take a holistic approach on restarting to contain the spread of COVID-19 and stay safe. “Emerging from the lockdown, companies and workplaces will need to be more vigilant about health and increase their demands on safety,” he said. The project was carried out with the help of CSR fund from Cisco. Those interested can get information athttps://covid.readiness.in. The open source software can be downloaded from github:https://github.com/cni-iisc/work place-readiness
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPUE gears up for II PU English exam||The II pre-university (II PU) English exam to be held on June 18 will be the first State-level exam after Karnataka went into lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is set to become a test case for future exams, including SSLC examination. A total of 5.95 lakh students will appear for the II PU exam in 1,016 exam centres across the State. The Department of Pre-University Education said instructions had been given to create new additional exam centres wherever needed, to ensure social distancing. A total of 18,524 students who were staying in college hostels and are now back in their hometowns have sought a change in their exam centres. Students are to download additional admission ticket from the department website and carry it along with the hall ticket issued earlier to the new exam centres, a release said. If for some technical reason, a new centre is not allotted or the student is unable to reach the newly allotted centre, they can still write their exam in the old centre. Meanwhile, 1,889 students will arrive from out of the State to write the exam and they have been given centres of their choice, especially in border districts, the release added. The department has already sanitised all 1,016 exam centres and thermal screening will be carried out at the centres. Those unwell or with some symptoms, will be made to sit in a separate room, arrangements for which have also been made. If a student is not able to write the exam due to COVID-19 related circumstances, they can take the upcoming supplementary exam as a regular student, the communiqué from the department said. Admission tickets can be used as a pass on all road transport corporation buses. The department has also opened helplines at every district to counsel and guide students, teachers, and parents on issues related to the exam.  A total of 5.95 lakh students will appear for the II PU exam in 1,016 centres across the State
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC poses queries on proposal to hike fee for PG medical courses||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government whether it had issued proposal on fee structure for postgraduate medical courses, and whether a chairperson of the fee fixation committee for professional courses had been appointed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Vinod G. Kulkarni of Late G.B. Kulkarni Memorial Trust, Hubballi. Pointing out that the High Court had recommended the name of a retired judge for the post of chairperson, the Bench wanted to know whether the government had made appointment. Complaining that the government had carried out a steep hike in fees for PG medical courses acting on the requests of private medical colleges, the petitioner alleged that the fee hike was done in the absence of the committee, which is the authority to fix fees. Seeking a direction to the government on not hiking the tuition fee structure, the petitioner said the annual fee of PG medical course should not be more than Rs. 5 lakh per annum for all students in private medical colleges, if possible.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.K. Shivakumar to assume charge on July 2||Former Minister and seven-time MLA D.K. Shivakumar will assume office as president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee on July 2. The oath taking ceremony will be held at the new KPCC office on Queens Road in the city. Mr. Shivakumar conducted a special pooja at the office on Sunday. The Congress leader has made elaborate preparations for virtual conduct of the ‘Prathijna’ event across the State on July 2. “For the first time in history, about 10 lakh party workers and Karyakartas to virtually take oath. Join hands to build stronger & inclusive @INCIndia @INCKarnataka,” Mr. Shivakumar tweeted. Earlier, the programme was cancelled three times following imposition of lockdown norms by the Centre. Finally, last week Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa gave the green signal to the programme but with limited number of people in attendance.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable booked for assaulting farmer||The Kengeri police have registered an FIR against a police constable charging him under assault, criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint for allegedly assaulting a farmer accusing him of not wearing the mask properly. The victim, Uday Kumar (35), a resident of Ullal Upanagara, had gone to a grocery shop to get change to pay wages to the plumber who had come to work at his house on Saturday. He was confronted by a man wielding a lathi who asked him to wear the mask properly. Uday Kumar ignored him and started walking away, but the man started verbally abusing him. When Uday Kumar asked him to behave, the accused began to assault him with the lathi, he said. Uday Kumar sustained bruises and his phone was smashed to pieces. Passers-by rushed to his help and pacified the accused who left in a huff. The injured Uday Kumar later enquired about the accused and came to know that he was serving as a police constable. The police are trying to track down Veerabharaiah.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Court declines plea challenging mandatory wearing of masks||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday declined to entertain a petition questioning norms of mandatory wearing of masks in public and workplaces, and restrictions imposed on movement between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. as part of the COVID-19 unlock-1 guidelines. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy said that the court cannot interfere in such matters as it is better left to the authorities and experts to decide on whether wearing of masks is good or bad or which type of mask has to be used. Legality questioned Eighty-four-year-old S.R. Krishnamurthy of Bengaluru had questioned the legality of norm to wear masks compulsorily and restriction on movement. The petitioner complained that he had raised these issues in his blog and tagged it to the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister but did not get response. On his grievance that he did not get response for his blog tagged to the PM and CM, the court said that all officials are busy in fighting the pandemic and hence the court cannot find fault in not responding to his blog while pointing out that emails were made available for approaching the officials for redressal of grievances.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress recommends 4 names to high command||The Congress has shortlisted names of four candidates to contest elections to the Karnataka Legislative Council. Of the four candidates, the high command has to finalise the names of two candidates to be fielded in the elections. With the reduced strength of 68 members after the party’s defeat in the 2018 Assembly elections and the resignation of 14 MLAs last year, it will be able to ensure the victory of only two candidates. The required vote for each candidate is 28. Sources in the party said that Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and CLP leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar discussed names of various candidates and finally recommended names of former Minister M.R. Seetharam, incumbent MLCs Naseer Ahmed, M.C. Venugopal, and veteran party leader Margaret Alva’s son Nivedit Alva, to the high command. Sources said Mr. Alva and Mr. Ahmed’s names were short-listed in the minority quota, while Mr. Seetharam and Mr. Venugopal were recommended in the OBC category. The term of Naseer Ahmed and M.C. Venugopal would end on June 30.  Those shortlisted  M.R. Seetharam  Naseer Ahmed  M.C. Venugopal   Nivedit Alva
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film shoots to resume||The State government on Monday gave the green signal to restart film shoots in the State. N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, (Disaster Management), issued an order clarifying that as the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines for the lockdown does not ban film shoots, the industry could resume shooting, following proper guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Kannada television had started shooting since May 25, and now films can do so too. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said the shoots have to adapt to a new normal, limiting the number of people on the set, 40 to 50 persons only, and other health measures like thermal screening, minimisation of contact, packed food, sanitising the location etc. “This order has come as a much-needed breather for the industry that is reeling under severe losses for the past three months,” he said, adding that reopening of film theatres was the next needed step to revive the industry.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Thursday is ‘mask day’||In the light of increasing number of COVID-19 cases, Karnataka government plans to increase awareness on wearing masks by observing Thursday as “mask day.” A walkathon has been organised from Vidhana Soudha at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday to highlight the issue. The government will take severe action against those not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance, and a fine of Rs. 200 will be levied on violators, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Monday.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey to check demand for pre-matric student hostels||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday directed the Social Welfare Department to conduct a survey to find out the demand for pre-matric student hostels in the State. The direction during the review meeting of Social Welfare Department came in the light of information that there are more hostels in the State than there was demand a statement from Chief Minister’s Office said. He also directed the officials to complete the appointment of 993 teaching and non-teaching staff for educational institutions run by the department. The CM advised the department to provide financial support to goods vehicles in rural areas as the department’s scheme Airavatha had been a success only in urban centres. Meanwhile, at another meeting, Social Welfare Minister and Dy.CM Govind Karjol directed officials to enable SC/ST students to get training in institutes that prepare candidates for public service examinations.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru/Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||The dark side of a shining story||Karnataka has been hailed as a stalwart in solar power generation in the country. Much of this has been credited to the Pavagada solar park in Tumakuru. But, is there a dark side to this shining story? Environment and farmer welfare organisations have flagged multiple concerns about the project. Before the COVID-19 outbreak, the Shakthi Sthala Raithara Kshemabhivruddhi Sangha submitted a memorandum to the State government bringing to its notice the pollution from discarded parts of the solar project. The sangha demanded the establishment of a recycling unit at the solar park. “A lot of waste is generated during the installation of solar panels. And panels that are damaged are just thrown out, and disposed of in a scientific manner. Some companies bury the waste, some burn them, both of which pollute the environment. The solar panels consist of heavy metals like mercury, lead, zinc, and cadmium. When buried in the ground, they can contaminate soil, waterbodies, and if burnt, they contaminate the air,” alleged D. Paramesh Naik, convenor of the sangha. The organisation also demanded that the government develop a green belt in the area surrounding the solar park claiming that the temperature of the five villages where the park is established is higher due to the reflection of light by the solar panels. ‘Veritable sea of glass’ An Environment Support Group (ESG) case study on the ‘Socio-ecological and economic implications of transitioning to utility scale solar power projects - The Pavagada Solar Park’ also highlighted several issues. The case study was part of ESG’s notes for the ‘India Workshop of Governance of Socio Technical Transformation Project’. The park, touted to be the world’s largest utility scale solar power farm, is spread over 13,000 acres. These villages, once bustling with a variety of agricultural, pastoral, artisanal activity, typical of any village in India, today resemble “a veritable sea of glass”, the study says. “This phenomenal transformation was made possible through a very persuasive method of making private and commons land in these villages available for the project. Farmer after farmer, and at times entire villages, were persuaded by the Karnataka Solar Power Development Corporation Ltd. (KSPDCL) to enter into a 28-year lease agreement to part with their land, and in return, earn lease rent of Rs. 21,000 per acre a year, with a 5% increase in rent every year. The rationalisation of benefits of parting with land was that farms had turned unproductive due to drought and failing farming systems. Hence, it was in the best interest of farmers to lease their land to a ‘climate-friendly’ project for a regular and secure income,” said the authors in the study. ESG also alleged that almost everyone they spoke to in the affected villages report that were not given a complete picture of what leasing their land to KSPDCL meant. Speaking about the loss of access to their land, the case study refers to women in the Dalit colony clearly set apart from the main Nagalamadike village sharing how they now have to walk long distances to fetch water and firewood, and how some others had to sell their sheep because there was no space for them to graze. President of Pavagada Taluk Raitha Sangha, G. Narasimha Reddy, told The Hindu that the solar park helped only big farmers who have more than 25 acres of land. “It has not helped marginal and small farmers. Though they may get a small amount annually, it is not sufficient. The government should conduct an aerial survey and fix the boundaries of 13,000 acres of land of 2,300 farmers of five villages in Pavagada taluk. Now, the owner himself is unable to identify his land,” he said. A farmer, who did not want to be named, expressed worry about the soil quality after the 28-year lease period. “I have 50 acres and a lot of concrete columns, iron material and other metal objects are on it now. I am afraid it will contaminate my land. I am worried that I may not be able to grow anything after the lease period,” he said.  ‘False allegations’ When contacted, K.J. Nagaraju, CEO, KSPDCL, denied the allegations of unscientific disposal of waste. “This is false information and we have not received any such complaint. A small percentage of panels may be defective but they are safely stacked away in closed places,” he said. About the diminishing greenery, he maintained that compensatory afforestation activities had already been taken up, and added that even last year, there were no crops growing in the areas as it was not conducive for agriculture.
16 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Those violating home quarantine rules warned||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has cautioned that criminal cases would be booked against those violating home quarantine rules. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Ms. Deepa said that despite repeated warnings and appeals, some people were breaching the quarantine norms. The administration would show zero tolerance against such people and initiate stern action against them. Already, five persons have been booked for violating home quarantine rules, she said. Ms. Deepa that task force officials and health assistants have been asked to pay surprise visits to those in home quarantine. This measure has been taken to see that they stayed indoors and complete their quarantine period. Roaming about in public is strictly prohibited for them. Neighbours are requested to inform through the helpline 1077 if those in home quarantine ventured out of their houses, she said. On social distancing in public places and using face masks, she said that there are reports in the media that small eateries are not following social distancing protocol and hence, there is heavy rush at such stalls. The HDMC Commissioner has been asked to form squads and check eateries, particularly in market places. People should not forget that health experts and the governments have been asking them to wear face masks while going out and wash their hands with soap and sanitiser frequently. This is for their own safety and this should be adopted by all to prevent the spread of infection, she added. The police too would be told to check and penalise people not wearing masks, she said. She further advised people, particularly children under10, senior citizens aged above 65 and pregnant women, not to unnecessarily travel. They have to step out of their houses only in emergencies. To a query, Ms. Deepa said that the government has asked those coming from Maharashtra to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine and 14-day home quarantine. People from other States have to stay in home quarantine.
16 June 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Jindal steel plant in Ballari emerges as COVID-19 cluster||With 134 people getting infected from a single source, the Jindal steel plant at Toranagal in Ballari district, the largest steel plant in India, has emerged as a cluster of COVID-19. A similar cluster was formed at Nanjangud in Mysuru district earlier in the pharma company Jubilant Life Sciences, where 74 people, including employees and their contacts, were infected. More than 400 primary contacts of those who were in touch with the first case from the Jindal campus (P-4184) have so far been quarantined at different hotels as on Monday apart from the 300 secondary contacts who are home-quarantined. The entire Corex plant on the sprawling Jindal Steel campus where a major portion of the cases of COVID-19 were reported has been sealed down and around 10,750 employees are asked to work from home. As per senior officers engaged in containment of the pandemic in the district, P-4184, a 35-year-old man and employee of JSW Steel working at the Corex plant on Toranagl campus, after getting permission, took his ailing mother for treatment and dropped her on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border near Anekal. His mother was then taken by his relatives to her native place, Selam in Tamil Nadu for treatment. He came back to Ballari and worked for about five-six days in his plant as he was asymptomatic. After the mother tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, the son who accompanied her to State border was immediately isolated and his sample was sent to the lab. On June 3, he along with one more employee of the same plant who travelled to the plant with him tested positive for the disease. These initial infections led to the spread of the disease inside the Jindal campus, especially the Central Management Department (CMD) that interacted with all other departments. “Apart from Jindal Township in Toranagl, employees from Ballari, Sandur and Hosapete also daily travel together to the Jindal Steel plant in Toranagal, about 35 km from the district headquarter of Ballari, taking the infection to their areas of residences. However, Jindal Township at Toranagal emerged as the hotspot by reporting maximum positive cases,” M. Manjunath, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Ballari, told The Hindu . “Just as the number of positive cases on its campus began to swell, the Jindal Steel swung into action by further tightening the measures and adding new ones. It formed four committees for to take care of various aspects. A fever-centre that works round the clock has been set up in the plant to break the chain of COVID-19 and people were advised to visit the centre if they sense any of the symptoms,” said Jitendra Vashistha, Head - Corporate Communications, JSW Steel. He further said that a control room, help desk and helpline have also been set up. As a fallback arrangement to deal with any eventuality, the company had also kept 110 beds ready at the Jindal Sanjeevani Multi-Speciality Hospital, which is now turned into COVID-19 designated hospital.
16 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Body found on rail track||The body of a 20-year-old unidentified woman was found on the railway track near P&T Quarters here on Monday. It is said that she may have committed suicide. Wadi Railway Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress and having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104. )
16 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MLA booked for violating norms||MLA from Hoovinahadagali constituency P.T. Parameshwar Naik has been booked for violating the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in force for containing COVID-19, during the marriage of his son at Lakshmipur in Harapanahalli taluk on Monday. Mr. Naik violated the SOP that was specifically related to social distancing. It was learnt that hundreds of people gathered in violation of norms. Ministers B. Sriramulu and B.S. Anand Singh were among the dignitaries who attended the ceremony.
16 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sea erosion again threatening shoreline||With work on the Someshwara Shoreline Protection Project yet to be completed, the verdant seashore between Someshwara-Uchchila and Batapady (Talapady), south of Mangaluru, is again facing the threat of erosion with the advancement of monsoon. Rough waves of the Arabian Sea have already started hitting the 2.5-km coastline between Uchchila and Batapady, the village bordering Kasargod district of Kerala. Residents of the area have been spending sleepless nights ever since it started raining. The ADB-funded Shoreline Protection Project under the Sustainable Coastal Protection and Management Investment Programme Tranche 2 envisaged the construction of 10 groyens along the shoreline at an estimated cost of Rs. 30 crore. The work, however, is yet to be completed. Batapady Abdullah, a resident of the area, told The Hindu that the authorities wake up only when sea erosion takes place, citing the example of the near-washing away of the village road to Batapady end-point last year. Only after the road came under the threat of the sea waves, the administration placed boulders. Fortunately, the road did not get washed away; but one is not sure of it remaining unaffected this time, he said. Of the 10 groyens, only eight are completed and the shoreline around them were not affected much, Mr. Abdullah said. About 500 m of shoreline from the last groyen towards the south (Kerala) was left unprotected; groyens should have been built there too as the shore was under threat, he said. Someshwara Town Municipal Council president Rajesh Uchchil said that as of now, houses were not under threat. However, one was not sure of them remaining unaffected in the coming days. He blamed the government agencies for the delay in executing the Shoreline Protection Project and said that if the work had been completed on time, there would not have been any threat. It was surprising that the agencies stopped the work once rain abated and re-started it when it began raining, he said. The Uchchila-Batapady stretch has been witnessing extensive erosion since four-five years with the loss of hundreds of acres of land, coconut groves and a mini forest. Several houses and other buildings too have either been washed away or damaged due to sea erosion.
16 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested for assaulting cattle trader||The city police on Monday arrested six Bajrang Dal activists for allegedly assaulting a cattle trader. The Urwa police identified the accused as Preetam, 29, Shrinath Devadiga, 21, Ashit, 24, Bhavith Shetty, 22, Jayaprashant, 26, and Sachin, 26. The group of Bajrang Dal activists on Sunday morning waylaid a vehicle in which four head of cattle were being carried. They were accused of tying the trader, Mohammed Jokatte, to the vehicle and assaulting him before the police reached the spot. The police arrested Mohammed Jokatte for alleged illegal transportation of cattle. On the complaint filed by Mohammed, the police registered a case against the activists.
16 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Compensation for farmers||The Horticulture Department has invited applications from farmers who have cultivated banana, pineapple and papaya and are unable to sell their produce due to the lockdown or have suffered losses. A compensation of Rs. 15,000 per hectare with an upper limit of one hectare would be paid directly to the bank accounts of eligible farmers. Crops should be standalone and should have been entered in the crop survey of 2019-20 monsoon. June 25 is the last date to submit applications.
16 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||CM launches airport work through video conferencing||The work related to construction of Shivamogga airport was kickstarted by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa through video conferencing from his office in Bengaluru on Monday. The State government had, in 2007, acquired 663 acres of land in Sogane on the outskirts of Shivamogga city and the work had commenced in June, 2008. However, owing to differences with the private joint venture company that had bagged the contract for execution of the project, the work had come to a standstill. The State government had in November 2019 taken a decision to implement the work afresh through the Public Works Department. According to the revised estimate, the project would be implemented at a cost of Rs. 220 crore. The airport would have a 2,050-metre-long runway that would be later extended to 3,000 metres. In the first phase, work on the runway, approach roads, peripheral roads and compound wall would be taken up. The passenger and air traffic control terminals would be constructed in the second phase. It has been planned to complete the construction work in 18 months. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Yediyurappa said that the air connectivity would help Shivamogga district to attract industrial investment and also boost tourism activities as Malnad is dotted with places of scenic attraction. He said that along with the airport work, a slew of road and railway connectivity upgradation projects are being implemented in the district. “The ongoing work on a 2.16-km-long bridge across the Sharavathi river backwaters to connect Kalasavalli and Ambaragodlu villages and that of widening Shivamogga-Tumakuru Road into a four-lane stretch would be completed in an expeditious manner,” he said. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa and Shivamogga MP B.Y. Raghavendra were present.  In the first phase, work on the runway, approach roads, peripheral roads and compound wall would be taken up, and it has been planned to complete the construction work in 18 months
16 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||NMAMIT gets funds||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi, has sanctioned Rs. 11.11 lakh to the Nitte-based NMAM Institute of Technology (NMAMIT) for establishing a Centre for Environment Monitoring under MODROB-Rural Scheme. The centre will provide projects to students and also technical data to industries.
16 June 2020||UDUPI/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Priority to safety of students at exam centres||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that the district administration would give importance to safety of students during the SSLC exams starting on June 25, in view of the COVID-19 situation. He was chairing a preparatory meeting on SSLC exams at the District Offices Complex here. Mr. Jagadeesha said that 14,034 students would be appearing for the exams. As many as 507 students from other districts had registered for the exams here and 82 students had sought a change in exam centre within the district, he said. The exams would be held in 51 exam centres in the district and 12 more centres had been reserved, he said. All the exam centres would be sanitised before the examinations begin. They would be sanitised after the completion of every exam. Every student would be given two masks free.   In Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said that the administration should take all measures necessary to ensure the smooth conduct of the examinations as it was the rainy season. He told officers in a meeting on Monday that students might have to travel to exam centres during heavy rain. “There could be chances of leakage at the exam centres or landslips en rout e  exam centres. Officers have to anticipate these problems and work out measures to avoid any inconvenience to students,” he said. Hassan Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh and officers of the Education Department were present.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘91% of domestic workers not paid’||As many as 91% of domestic workers were not paid salaries in April and 50% of workers, who were above the age of 50, lost their jobs, according to a survey conducted by Domestic Workers’ Rights Union (DWRU), Bruhat Bangalore Gruhakarmika Sangha (BBGS), and Manegelasa Kaarmikara Union. According to the survey on the impact of lockdown on domestic workers, which covered 2,500 domestic workers, 2,084 (87%) of the domestic workers were told not to come to work after the lockdown. As many as 341 workers in the areas surveyed by BBGS and 150 workers in the areas surveyed by Manegelasa Kaarmikara Union lost their jobs during the lockdown. Members of several domestic workers’ unions staged a peaceful sit-in protest at Karmika Bhavan on Monday demanding compensation from the Labour Department and the government, and to ensure their right to retain their jobs. They also submitted the report of the survey to the department along with various demands. “All domestic workers, irrespective of the category, should be included in the social security net. As immediate income and livelihood support, a cash transfer of Rs. 3,000 every month for the months of April and May, and till the end of this year should be given,” the report recommends. Speaking to The Hindu , Radha K., field activist, DWRU, said that the government should direct the Labour Department to ensure domestic workers are registered as workers and included in social safety/security programmes of the government. A domestic worker said that in many places where she worked earlier the salary has been cut. “The work is the same, but I am paid half the salary. I am compelled to work because earning something is better than going hungry,” she said.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP recognises SWM department’s field officials||Across the city, even during the lockdown, several people have been fined for littering, throwing mixed waste and for not segregating waste at source. In a first, the BBMP’s Solid Waste Management (SWM) Department has begun recognising divisional SWM engineers, ward-level health inspectors and marshals for their enforcement efforts. Recently, the top five divisional SWM engineers, top 10 health inspectors and marshals were recognised for penalising violators for May 2020. The top five best performing divisions are Bommanahalli, Kengeri, Mahalakshmi Layout, Bengaluru South and Dasarahalli. This effort, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said, would continue in the coming months. “Apart from encouraging them to perform better, it will instil a sense of competition among all the SWM field officials,” he said. He said that the civic body had begun rating the performance of all field officials from this January. “We get the details of number of compactors and auto tippers collecting waste, apart from quantum of wet waste generated in each division (Assembly constituency), how much of that goes to the landfills and processing plants. Based on this data, we have data of segregation levels. The ranking for the divisional SWM engineers and health inspectors is based on this,” he added. The BBMP has already distributed handheld machines to the marshals for levying on-the-spot fine. “We are getting data in the backend on the number of fines levied, number of transactions and total amount of fines collected,” Mr. Randeep said. A similar exercise will be undertaken for June as well. “As of now, letters of appreciation have been handed out. We are also thinking of issuing a certificate from the Commissioner for best performers on a quarterly basis,” he added.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New landfill being readied at Mittaganahalli||Though the BBMP has been urging citizens to segregate waste at source and pushing for in situ composting, the city continues to depend on landfills. The mixed waste from the city is dumped in these landfills, despite specific directions from both the National Green Tribunal and the Karnataka High Court to ensure that wet waste is processed, dry waste is recycled and sanitary waste is incinerated. Since the Bellahalli quarry pit was closed, the civic body has been dumping mixed waste in a temporary pit at Mittaganahalli. A scientific landfill is being set up at Mittaganahalli at a cost of Rs. 65 crore. This landfill would be ready to accept waste in about two months, senior BBMP officials said. Dumping would continue in the temporary pit until then. The BBMP has been facing several hurdles with regard to these landfills. Initially, the Urban Development Department rejected a tender for the same. The civic body then floated another tender. Earlier this year, the waste management crisis came to head when the mounds of garbage at the temporary pit in Mittaganahalli became unstable and started sliding. The civic body managed to ensure that the landfill issue was sorted out and the detritus of Bengaluru was dumped there. Waste management experts pointed out that as per the civic body’s road map for solid waste management, the city was to have achieved 80-90% in segregation of waste at source, apart from ramping up processing capacity of the various plants. The civic body is far from achieving this, said N.S. Ramakanth, waste management expert. Report The BBMP is all set to submit a report on measures taken at the Bellahalli quarry pit. The landfill was closed in late 2019 after more than 19 lakh tonnes of mixed waste was dumped there. BBMP Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said that the Karnataka High Court had sought a report on whether mud capping and other measures were followed at the Bellahalli landfill.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Labourer electrocuted||A 35-year-old construction labourer allegedly died of electrocution after coming in contact with a live wire while working at an under-construction bridge for a stormwater drain in Ittumadu, Subramanyapura on Sunday night. The deceased, Surjadas, is a native of Odisha. The police said though it was Sunday, their contractor, Biplab Biswas, forced them to work late in the night to finish the work. The police have booked Biplab Biswas for death due to negligence.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government issues order banning virtual classes||Six days after the minister for primary education announced a ban on virtual classes up to class V, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education issued a Government Order on Monday. The department has directed schools across all boards to stop online classes from kindergarten to class V. It also states that no fee should be collected for this purpose. The classes, including pre-recorded videos, should be stopped until a committee appointed by the department submits its report, it says. Many school managements had not stopped online classes even after the government made an announcement as they were waiting for an official order from the department. Officials of the department, who had received complaints last week, too had pointed out that they could not initiate any action as an official order was not issued. The committee, headed by M.K. Sridhar, a senior academician who was also part of the committee to draft the National Education Policy, has been set up to look into scientific ways of offering online education for students between classes 6 and 10 according to their age. The committee will also have to suggest ways on how students between LKG and class V can be engaged without exposing them to online classes. They have also been asked to suggest alternate ways to provide education during the COVID-19 crisis without harming traditional classroom teaching. The committee has to highlight the adverse physical and mental health concerns due to online classes.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KASSIA seeks cut in taxes on fuel||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) industry has expressed concern about the continuous rise of fuel prices in the country when oil prices have come down steeply in the global market. “The industry is particularly hit as a large number are dependent on captive power using diesel where prices have steeply gone up. These add to the cost of production at a time when the industry is passing through an extremely difficult phase,” R. Raju, president, KASSIA, said, in a release. He said price rise was largely due to the incidence of tax, both excise and State taxes, which are kept unfairly high.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC: Put tender on Puttenahalli lake on hold||The Karnataka High Court on Monday restrained the BBMP from taking further steps on a short-term tender to carry out certain works related to Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve (PLBCR). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by Yelahanka Puttenahalli Lake and Boards Conservation Trust. The bench passed the interim order as the government sought time to respond to the court’s query of whether the conservation reserve could have been handed over to the BBMP when a notification issued under the Wildlife (Protection) Act is in force. As BBMP was not represented by any advocate, the bench observed that it would take a serious view if the same is repeated at next hearing on June 30. The trust had questioned the legality of handing over the conservation area to the BBMP in November 2019.
16 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Nod for 5 breakwaters||The State government has accorded sanction for construction of breakwaters in five locations in the district, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. Mr. Sudhakaran said here recently that the last Cabinet meeting had cleared the proposal to build the breakwaters. The breakwaters will be constructed from Komana to Punnapra Finishing Point (2.75 km), Oda Pozhi to Vazhakoottam Pozhi (3.2 km), Vattachal (2.8 km), Arattupuzha (1.2 km), and Pathiyankara (1.5 km). It will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 184.04 crore under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The Minister directed all departments to remain fully prepared to deal with coastal erosion and floods during the rainy season.
16 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Five cases in Alappuzha||The district reported five more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Officials said three of them returned from foreign countries while two contracted the disease through contact. One of the patients, a youth from Karuvatta, came from Dubai on May 28. The second patient, a 54-year-old man from Kayamkulam, came from Kuwait on June 1. Another patient, a youth from Ambalappuzha, reached the district from Qatar on June 6. Two patients — a 72-year-old man and his 66-year-old wife — who contracted the disease through contact are Champakulam natives. The couple’s grandchild, who came from Delhi on May 30, had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on June 12. All the five patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 106.
16 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Steps to contain dengue in Kannur||The Health Department has intensified preventive measures against the spread of dengue fever in the wake of three deaths reported in the district in two months. On Sunday, 38-year-old resident of Ramanthali died at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. Though the clinical features pointed his death to dengue, it could be confirmed after receiving the ELISA test results, said K. Maya, District Surveillance Officer. A 41-year-old man from Eramamkuttur and a 61-year-old woman from Pulingome died of dengue earlier this month and last month respectively. Dr. Maya said 65 confirmed dengue cases and 491 probable cases were reported in the district so far this year. This month 21 cases were reported. The district recorded 212 cases last year. Most of the cases were reported from hilly regions that included 20 panchayats. Hotspots Iyyankunnu, Naduvil, Alakode, Cherupuzha, Peringome, Chaparapadavu, Peravoor, Iruvetti, Aralam, Kelakam, Eramamkuttur, Kangol, Chengalai, Payyam, Kadanapalli, Malapattam, Kottiyur, Ullikal, Paravoor, Udayagiri, Ramanthali, Pariyaram, Cheruthazam, Parassinikadavu, Kuvadam in Taliparamba municipality were identified as the hotspots, she said. These areas are most prone to diseases every year. Though steps were being taken by the department, more support from the people was need to contain the disease. Many people were not allowing health workers to enter their house premises. Cleaning drive A meeting chaired by District Collector T.V. Subhash on Monday directed local bodies to initiate preventive measures against communicable diseases. The civil station premises would be cleaned with the help of the staff on June 19. Clean-up campaigns would be held on the following Fridays at government and non-governmental institutions in the district.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records highest single-day spike with 13 cases||Thirteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday in Ernakulam, taking the total number of COVID-19 patients under treatment to 83. This is the first time that the number of cases in a day has touched the two-digit figure in the district. Among the new patients are a 23-year-old Tamil Nadu native who arrived from Kuwait and a 27-year-old Chendamangalam native who came from Qatar on June 13; 26-year old and 25-year-old Maharashtra natives and a 31-year-old Rajasthan native who arrived from Mumbai on June 12; a 36-year-old Udayamperoor resident who arrived from Delhi on June 2; a 49-year-old Maharashtra native who arrived from Nigeria on May 31; a 23-year-old Ramamangalam native who arrived from Qatar on June 5; a 27-year-old Puthenvelikkara native, a 31-year-old Eloor native, a 52-year-old Cheranelloor native, and a 25-year-old Kadavur native who arrived from Dubai on June 4; and a 43-year-old Alappuzha native who arrived from Kuwait on June 12. Two Kollam natives, who had arrived from Kuwait on June 12 and June 13, are also undergoing COVID-19 treatment in the district. Two patients who were under treatment, a 63-year-old Vadavukode native and a 46-year-old Nedumbassery native, tested negative on Monday. With 846 people being added to the list of the home quarantined, the total number has gone up to 9,834. There are 603 people in COVID care centres and 1,200 in paid centres, taking the total number of people in quarantine to 11,637. A total of 122 people are in quarantine in various hospitals in the district. In Kozhikode The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode rose to 98 as six more persons were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Four others have recovered from the infection. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, two patients, brothers aged 50 and 45, from Maniyoor, had returned from Bahrain. The others had returned from Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and New Delhi. The patients hail from Kodenchery, Koyilandy, Onchiyam, and Kavilumpara. The number of people under observation is 11,574, of whom 3,790 are expatriates. In Wayanad One more person who returned from Kuwait was tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The 40-year-old man from Kunhome under Thondernad grama panchayat limits in the district was home-quarantined after he reached the district on June 10. In Malappuram The Edayur grama panchayat office near Valanchery in the district was closed after an employee was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. As many as 69 people, including panchayat councillors, with whom he is believed to have had interactions in the last few days were asked to go in quarantine. Meanwhile, six more persons in the district were tested positive for the virus on Monday. While three of them had returned from abroad, two had returned from other States. One person contracted the virus through local transmission. IIM-K gesture The Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K), on Monday launched a drive to provide standardised sanitisation kits to 100 households in the vicinity of its campus. Debashis Chatterjee, director, launched it. IIM-K had earlier provided a 100 bed-facility in one of its hostels to serve as a COVID care centre for expatriates.  (With inputs from Kozhikode, Wayanad and Malappuram bureaus)
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dredger sinks near Chellanam||A dredger that was deployed to pump sea sand into geotextile tubes at Chellanam as part of efforts to protect the vulnerable coastal stretches of the panchayat, sank into water during rough weather conditions off the coast of Velankanni on Sunday night. Washed ashore The dredger was washed close to the shore on Saturday night after it broke off its mooring around 200 metres off the coast. Officials visited the site to assess the situation. The sea has been rough for a couple of days, and the dredger was to be brought closer to the harbour at Chellanam earlier.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plugging loopholes in online education||Ernakulam will soon have 140 new centres equipped with televisions to provide online classes for children not having access to a smartphone or television at their homes. Over 13,000 schoolchildren were lacking such facilities as per estimates by the Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) when the online classes were rolled out on June 1 through the Victers channel. Even though the authorities had made arrangements to provide television/internet to these children, the block resource centres under the SSK had requested additional centres to ensure social distancing and safety protocols at the learning centres. “The fifteen block resource centres in Ernakulam have received Rs. 1 lakh each to step up the online learning facilities. Television sets will be purchased as per the requirements made by each block resource centre,” said Usha Manatt, District Project Co-ordinator of SSK. These television sets will be installed at Anganwadis and lower primary schools in various Assembly constituencies in Ernakulam. Schools with lesser number of students had requested for televisions even though they own laptops and projectors for better viewing of the online sessions. “While some centres like Kothamangalam had asked for nearly 20 television sets, there are centres like Ernakulam that already have adequate facilities,” said Ms. Manatt. Offline teaching Meanwhile, the Education Department has initiated efforts to address the issue of poor internet connectivity and power shortages faced by children in tribal settlements by promoting offline teaching methods. The teachers visit these areas during the weekend and recap the online lessons by employing traditional teaching methods. The resource persons also use their smartphones or laptops to replay the recorded online classes. Department officials have also deployed resource persons to support the children of inter-State workers, who are enrolled in various classes in government schools in the district. The online lessons will be translated into their language by the teachers involved in the offline mode of teaching, according to SSK officials.  The fifteen block resource centres in Ernakulam have received Rs. 1 lakh each to step up online learning facilities Usha Manatt District Project Co-ordinator, SSK
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman dies after glass shard pierces her stomach||A 45-year-old woman, Beena, died after a splinter from a broken glass door at the entrance of a bank pierced her stomach on Monday. The police said the incident occurred around 1 p.m. at the Bank of Baroda branch on A.M. Road, Perumbavoor. The glass door at the entrance shattered after the woman crashed into it while she was rushing out to collect the keys of her two-wheeler parked in front of the branch. A resident of Koovappady, near Perumbavoor, Beena is survived by her husband Jiju and three children, they said. Beena was standing near the cash counter when she realised that she had left the keys on her vehicle and rushed to the main door. She failed to notice that the glass door was closed and crashed into it. Internal injuries The CCTV footage showed her rising from the floor holding on to the side of her bleeding stomach. She was helped by the bank employees to a seat. The police said the woman was rushed to the nearby hospital immediately. The internal injuries caused by the splinter resulted in her death, they said. An inquest was held at the government taluk hospital in Perumbavoor. The police have registered a case of unnatural death. The body has been shifted to Government Medical College, Ernakulam, for post-mortem. ‘Use toughened glass’ Glass doors remain a popular choice for banks and commercial establishments in the State. “But there should be no compromise on its quality and strength. Toughened glass should be used as it would break into granules without leaving any sharp edges,” said Lalichan Zacharias, national secretary of the Indian Institute of Architects.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant workers gather, hoping to return home||Several migrant workers gathered at the EMS Municipal Town Hall at Perumbavoor on Monday morning, anticipating that they might be able to register and take a train to their home towns. The Perumbavoor police denied reports of the police resorting to lathicharge to disperse the workers. “Nearly 3,000 workers had assembled at the town hall though there was no registration for Shramik Special trains from here today,” said C. Jayakumar, Circle Inspector, Perumbavoor. Registrations even for workers from nearby areas takes place at the town hall, and workers assemble there every morning, even when there are no trains. Some workers come regularly from districts like Kollam and Alappuzha as well, he added. “We generally ask them to return. There was no incidence of lathicharge,” Mr. Jayakumar said. People who had assembled expected trains to Assam and West Bengal. “With no clarity on registration and train schedule, people were waiting at the town hall from as early as 2 a.m. on Monday morning,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Act’s amendment has no retrospective effect: HC||The amendments made to the Prevention of Corruption Act 2018, stating that prior approval is required to book cases against public servants have no retrospective effect, the High Court has held. Dismissing a petition moved by a few accused facing trial in a corruption case, the court held that the amendments did not apply to cases registered and under investigation and to cases in which investigation had been completed and are pending trial. There was nothing in the statute to indicate that it had retrospective effect, the court held. The purpose of the Act is to eradicate corruption in administration and to punish corrupt officers, the court noted.
16 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CM to open overbridge on June 22||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the Pizhala-Moolampilly overbridge on June 22 through videoconferencing during a function to be held as per COVID-19 precautions at the collectorate conference hall. This was decided at a meeting held here on Monday. The possibility of installing street lights on the bridge will also be examined, District Collector S. Suhas said. It was also decided to complete survey work for the Perandoor-Vaduthala overbridge in a fortnight. The new alignment for the Vaduthala bridge is expected from the Railways. This will be followed by land acquisition.
16 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Police officer’s death: man arrested||The Kadakkal police on Monday arrested Vishnu, a resident of Charipparambu, in connection with the death of Akhil, a civil police officer with the Malappuram reserve battalion, who had collapsed and died after consuming surgical spirit thinking it was alcohol. Akhil had inquired about the availability of alcohol in a WhatsApp group on Saturday for a get-together with friends and Vishnu, seeing this, got in touch with him. Akhil felt uneasy after having the alcohol brought by Vishnu and was taken to a nearby hospital with severe vomiting on Saturday. Later, he was shifted to a private hospital at Venjaramoodu and from there to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, but his life could not be saved. Two under treatment Two other friends who consumed the spirit are currently undergoing treatment at MCH. According the police, Vishnu procured the spirit from a nurse working with a private hospital at Varkala.
16 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||10 new cases in Kottayam||The district here on Monday recorded its single biggest spike in COVID-19 cases with 10 persons testing positive for the disease. According to officials, two of the new patients contracted the virus through contact. They were identified as a 61-year-old man and his 55-year-old wife, parents of a Koruthodu native who had returned from Kuwait recently and tested positive. Of the remaining cases, five had returned from abroad while three came from other States. The persons who landed from abroad include a 24 year-old man from Nedumkunnam who returned from Abu Dhabi on June 4; a 28-year-old pregnant woman of Arppookkara and a 55-year-old man of Maalam, who returned from Saudi Arabia on June 8 and June 6 respectively; a 45-year-old Santhipuram native who returned from Muscat on June 5; and a 24-year-old Changanassery native who returned from Dubai on June 4. From other States A 40-year-old man from Pampady, a 48-year-old Payippad native and a 24-year-old pregnant woman from Changanassery too tested positive. The first two persons returned from Mumbai on June 8 and June 4 respectively while the woman came back from Tuticorin. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district rose to 56.
16 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Common centres to aid online learning||As the online class initiative by the State government entered its second phase on Monday, the district education authorities here have opened common learning centres to cover all school students in the district. V.R. Shyla, Deputy Director of Education (DDE), said learning centres had been opened in 200 libraries, 34 Akshaya centres, 57 block resource centres and in the halls under various grama panchayats. These centres, established by the Department of Education in association with Samagra Shiksha Kerala and various volunteer organisations, will help around 5,000 students to attend the classes.  “The focus is now on extending the learning facility to the houses of every student by providing them television sets free of cost. For instance, around 1,280 of the 1.43 lakh school students up to Class 10 do not posses a TV set in their houses and we hope to cover this gap through sponsorship by the second half of July. Till then, they will be attending the classes from the common centres,” explained the official. Further, plans are afoot to distribute tablet computers to 3,000 students with the support of the Kottayam district panchayat. Collector visits centre To asses the efficacy of the centres, District Collector M. Anjana on Monday visited one such unit at the cultural centre in Koshamattom Colony. Meanwhile, the district education department has started attempts to reach out to the students from Kottayam who reside outside the district. “Twenty-seven have been identified so far. Of this, six who have returned to their native State of Odisha remain untraceable. Efforts are on to ensure that the remaining have access to the learning programme,” the DDE said.
16 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU students can choose exam centres||Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has opened a facility for the postgraduate students who remain stranded in districts outside the university’s jurisdiction due to travel restrictions to appear for their final-semester examination from their current location. To avail themselves of the facility, the students should register their option on the ‘Exam Registration’ window on the official website of the university. The deadline for registration will end at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. The undergraduate students appearing for the fourth-semester examinations can register their options from 5 p.m. on Tuesday till Wednesday evening.
16 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||It’s start, action... for Mollywood again||Malayalam cinema took its baby steps towards its arduous journey to normalcy post COVID-19 on Monday. It may be months before cinemas reopen and viewers feel confident enough to buy tickets, but the resumption of shooting of the film Tsunami , directed by the father-son duo of Lal and Lal Jr., is the best bit of news for the industry since the lockdown began nearly three months ago. Scenes involving actors Balu Varghese and Aju Varghese were shot in Kochi, keeping the strict guidelines prescribed by the government. “We are all happy that Malayalam cinema has finally been able to come out of hibernation,” says M. Ranjith, president, Kerala Film Producers’ Association. “Ten more films will resume shooting over the next few days,” he says. More than 60 films have been affected by the pandemic. Some 22 films are ready for release, in fact. Among them are two films by director Jayaraj. “I was planning to release Backpackers in March,” says the national-award winning filmmaker. “It is great to see that Malayalam cinema is finally on the way to recovery.” He is confident of beginning to shoot his new film in August or September. Mr. Ranjith is hopeful that cinemas could reopen in time for Onam late August. “The industry hopes to release at least some films for Onam,” he says. “But it could well be December though when we could expect for the situation to return to normalcy.”
16 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Fraternity Movement members hurt in lathicharge||Several members of the Fraternity Movement were injured in a police lathicharge in front of the office of the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) here on Monday. Fraternity Movement leaders accused the police of charging at a march taken out by students to the DDE office in protest against the government’s failure to provide textbooks to school students two weeks after the start of the academic year. They said the police caned them mercilessly even before they reached the barricade in front of the office. Among those injured and admitted to hospital are Fraternity Movement district committee members Akheel Nasim, Adil Javed and Naseeb Mankada. The police arrested 16 protesters, including Fraternity Movement State committee member Jamsheel Aboobacker, district general secretary Fayas Habeeb, and district secretariat member Ajmal Thottoli. District Congress committee (DCC) president V.V. Prakash has lashed out at the State government for “beating up students”. “The government is using the police to oppress genuine protests by students in order to hide its failure,” said Mr. Prakash.
16 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Stir against ‘ban’ on PSC postings||The Youth Congress district committee took out a march to the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) office here on Monday, protesting against alleged ban on PSC appointments. The protesters placed a wreath on the gate of the PSC office symbolically describing it as a cemetery of job seekers in the State. Inaugurating the march, Youth Congress district president T.H. Firos Babu said that the government had let down thousands of youngsters in the State by imposing a blanket ban on PSC appointments. “The government has cheated our youth,” he said. Youth Congress district vice president Ratheesh Puthusseri presided over the programme. State secretary Sajesh Chandran, district general secretary Vinod Cherad, N.R. Saranjit, V.S. Vijeesh, C. Vishnu, K. Priyanka, S. Sivaraj, N. Jithesh Narayanan and Shafeek Athikkode led the protest.
16 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||11 NoRKs test positive in Pathanamthitta||Eleven more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) in quarantine tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district has gone up to 142. Three more persons were cured of the disease on the day. A total of 99 persons, including the patients, are under observation in various hospitals. The newly infected persons are: a 68-year-old woman from Chennerkara who came from Maharashtra on June 3, a 28-year-old youth from Koodal who came from Dubai on June 4, a 34-year-old man from Kulanada who came from Abu Dhabi on June 4, a 26-year-old woman from Churulicaud who came from Maharashtra on June 2, a 23-year-old Elanthoor native who came from Dubai on June 4, a 21-year-old woman who came to Naranammoozhy from Chennai on May 16, a 12-year-old boy from Oonnukal who came from Maharashtra on June 3, a 55-year-old man from Maroor who came from Nygeria on May 31, a 33-year-old woman who came to Thottappuzhassery from Kuwait on June 2, a 25-year-old youth from Kadammanitta who came from Abu Dhabi on June 4 and a 42-year-old man from Konni who came from Abu Dhabi on June 4. 4,606 in quarantine As per a medical bulletin, 4,606 persons are in quarantine at various corona care centres and houses in the district as on Monday. As many as 3,364 people among them have come from various other States, 1,123 from abroad and 119 are contacts of infected persons. The bulletin said 176 nasal and throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha tested negative on Monday. Results of 688 samples are awaited.
16 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Monthly rituals begin at Sabarimala||The five-day monthly rituals for the Malayalam month of Midhunom began at Sabarimala, with Tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu performing the Ashtadravya Ganapati Homom on Monday morning. Devotees were not allowed darshan and the temple rituals were performed in strict adherence to the lockdown norms. Only routine rituals were performed at the Ayyappa temple and the adjoining Malikappuram Devi temple at Sabarimala on Monday. Devaswom executive officer Rajendra Prasad said rites such as Ganapati homom, Abhishekom, Ushapuja, Deeparadhana and Athazhapuja would be performed at the Ayyappa temple on the remaining days too. The Tantri, assisted by Melsanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri, performed the ‘25-kalasom’ offering to the deity prior to the Uchapuja. The temple will be closed after the Athazhapuja on Friday evening.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dead man’s swab tests positive||A 67-year-old Vanchiyoor native who was brought dead to the General Hospital here on Friday was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Monday. With this, the district has registered its fourth death due to the disease. Suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, he was confirmed dead on June 12. His swab samples tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 on Monday and the source of infection is unknown. The deceased, who used to work as a daily wager, had received treatment at the General Hospital between May 23 and 28 for severe breathlessness and fever. He was brought to the hospital again on June 10 when he was treated in the casualty wing for breathlessness. He was then referred to the Government Medical College Hospital here from where he was discharged the next day. He was brought dead two days later, official sources said. The body is currently kept at the mortuary of the hospital. While he had no history of travel in the recent past, the younger of his two sons had travelled to his wife’s house in Pathanamthitta on May 28 and returned a few days later, according to Vanchiyoor councillor Vanchiyoor P. Babu. Primary contacts The deceased’s primary contacts include his wife, two sons and brother-in-law who resides with the family. V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, has alleged lapses in the timely detection of COVID-19 in the deceased man. A day after an ASHA worker tested positive for COVID-19 in Kattakada, the district administration declared six wards in the Kattakada grama panchayat as containment zones. Under lockdown Strict lockdown measures will come into effect in Thoongampara, Ponnara, Ettiruthy, Killy, Kavinpuram and Kollode wards. While the authorities have been unable to establish any epidemiological link to detect source of infection, they have identified over 500 persons who came in close contact with the Kulathummal native. A detailed ‘patient route map’ that traces the travel history of the ASHA worker has also been published. Attached to the Amachal primary health centre, she had visited several houses at Perumkulam and Moonampara, and also participated in field visits at Oonampara, Thampuram Road and Thoongampara since May 31. She also took part in meetings of ASHA and Kudumbashree workers, visited a hospital sub-centre at Pottankavu, and engaged with 35 others in an activity undertaken as part of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Experts revisit State’s current surveillance strategy||The increase in the number of COVID-19 cases which do not seem to have any source and are hence untraceable is an indication that Kerala needs to take a relook at its current surveillance strategy, public health experts point out. The cases began to spiral upwards after May 7 following the influx of expatriates and Keralites from other States where disease transmission has been intense. ‘Shift focus’ “At present, Kerala’s surveillance is more focussed on doing a large number of diagnostic tests (polymerase chain reaction or PCR) among a group of people and their primary contacts who are anyway going into quarantine. The real picture will be unravelled only if we do a significant number of tests amongst the general population and the vulnerable, high-risk groups such as health workers and headload workers and analyse the data,” a senior public health professional says. Mostly imported cases “In short, all current COVID-19 projections are based on the numbers we have obtained through the surveillance of these imported cases, when in fact these should be based on the actual data on cases with untraceable source occurring in the community. We have a clear idea about the imported cases but we have no clarity on what is happening outside this population,” he adds. What proportion of the PCR diagnostic tests is done amongst this general community and vulnerable, high-risk groups? What proportion of the tests has turned positive? Exactly, how many cases are there without a clear epidemiological link? How many SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases are being reported from districts and what is the proportion of PCR tests done in this group? Under field conditions, what is the sensitivity and specificity of the rapid antibody kits now being used to conduct community surveillance? Several public health experts say these crucial data are not currently available in the public domain. The larger picture “According to the government, in the first phase of community surveillance, the State did approximately 8,000 PCR tests (augmented and sentinel surveillance) and detected only eight cases. However, the data are very significant because it represents the positivity found in just a small proportion of the population. Not extrapolating this data to the State’s population is a serious error. The data, if extrapolated, would have revealed an estimated 20,000 undetected cases in adults at that point in time,” says a senior epidemiologist, who does not wish to be quoted. Swab collection centres He points out that the recent serological survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research in 69 districts, which pointed to 0.73% of the population being affected by SARS-CoV-2, if extrapolated to the adult population of these districts, would also point out to lakhs having been infected, several times over the official figure. “What we need is a systematic surveillance of ILI (influenza-like illness) cases from grassroots and not the data from tertiary care centres alone. Distributed swab collection centres is needed. These sites should be the reporting sites for SARI. This is necessary in the long run to prepare the State for its long engagement with the pandemic,” they point out.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to expedite widening of NH stretch||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has expedited steps for the four-laning of the 169-km National Highway (NH) 66 corridor from Cherthala to Kazhakuttam. The corridor stretches through Alappuzha, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts with a 45-metre right of way (ROW). The process for the 3(D) notification under the National Highways Act of 1956 was completed for the Thuravoor-Oachira stretch in Alappuzha district. As much as 98% of the land needed for the Oachira-Kadambuttonam corridor in Kollam district is with the NHAI. The steps for 3(D) notification for the Kadambuttukonam-Kazhakuttam stretch in Thiruvananthapuram district are yet to gather pace. The 3(D) notification is issued when the entire details of land to be acquired for development such as area, name of landowners and so on are published after completing the survey. The next stage of land acquisition, 3(G) under the NH Act, would be to award compensation to the landowners. Five packages “The 169-km corridor has been split into five packages for easy execution through different contractors to save time. We will be ready with the 3(D) notification for the all the five packages by year end,” a top NHAI official told The Hindu . The packages are Thurvaoor-Paravoor (38 km), Paravoor to Kottankulangara (38 km), Kottankulangara to Kollam Bypass (32 km), Kollam Bypass to Kadambuttokonam (32 km) and Kadambuttokonam to Kazhakuttam (29 km). The stretch is part of the 526-km NH 66 stretch from Talapady in Kasaragod to Kazhakuttam in Thiruvananthapuram that is four/six-laned by the NHAI. The compensation for those surrendering land would be as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The NHAI, the executing agency, has set December 2020 as the deadline for completing the NH 66 widening, though it will be missed. State hands over funds It has been pointed out that funds will not be a problem as Kerala has already given Rs. 330 crore to the NHAI as the first tranche of the 25% cost of the remaining land to be acquired as demanded by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). The State’s share is being provided by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) tasked to make available Rs. 5,200 crore, which is 25% of the cost of the remaining land to be acquired in the State. To avoid delay in taking up the work, the draft Detailed Project Report is being worked out by the consultant for the NHAI. The work would be tendered once the land is acquired and handed over.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man found dead under mysterious circumstances||A 42-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Sreekaryam on Monday, a few hours after he had gone missing from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) where he was admitted for the injuries he sustained in a scuffle. The Sreekaryam police identified the deceased as Shyju Sathyanathan of Varkala. He was found hanging between two buildings at the Sreekaryam junction at around 8 a.m. Blood stains were found on the floor beneath the body. According to Sreekaryam Circle Inspector Abhilash David, the deceased was involved in a scuffle at Kallambalam on Sunday afternoon. Having suffered a broken nose, Shyju was initially taken to a hospital in Kallambalam, but had to be referred to the MCH owing to the absence of an ENT surgeon in the former. Shortly after he was administered first-aid, Shyju was reported to have gone missing from the MCH by evening. The official said the blood stains could be due to the nose bleed or from the cannula that was not removed from his hand. While the death is suspected to be suicide, the police are yet to rule out other possibilities. Besides, the police are yet to deduce how Shyju turned up at Sreekaryam, around 4 km away from the MCH. A post-mortem examination will be conducted after obtaining the results of the COVID-19 test. An ex-NRI, Shyju used to work in a resort in Varkala. He is survived by his wife and a child. (Suicide prevention helpline - DISHA: 1056, 2552056)
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Healer donates 2.67 acres for LIFE housing project||When a majority of landowners would think of myriad ways to monetise it or of acquiring more cents, Panniyode Sukumaran Vaidyar thinks of making it useful for others. Now, he has donated 2.67 acres of land to the State government’s ambitious Livelihood, Inclusion, Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project, which has been facing a shortage of land in many areas for construction of flats. Hailing from Poovachal in the capital district, the traditional healer who runs a clinic in the region has been known to offer his treatment for free or at a nominal cost. The Poovachal grama panchayat authorities were on the lookout for land for the construction of the next phase of houses under the LIFE project when they got the surprising offer from Vaidyar. “Under the project, we had identified 116 families in the panchayat who were homeless and landless. We had completed houses for 36 of these families in the first phase. But we were struggling to find land for the second phase when we heard that he was intending to build houses for the poor. A team from the panchayat visited his house and told him about the LIFE project. After reading the circular about the project, he said he was willing to donate 2.67 acres of land for the purpose. Now, we would be able to accommodate all the remaining 80 families in flats to be built here,” says K.Ramachandran, Poovachal panchayat president. The land registration in the panchayat secretary’s name was done last Friday. The work on the flats is expected to begin soon. “He runs the Janaki memorial trust, in his mother’s name, which has been funding education for several students over the past many years,” says Mr.Ramachandran.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU ponders over exam options||Amid the prevailing uncertainty over examinations, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has sought suggestions from stakeholders to attain consensus on the issue. While the university is set to commence the eighth (final) semester regular and supplementary examinations on July 1, no decision has been made regarding the examinations of lower semesters. While the university has proposed various options, they have urged Principals, managements, staff, and students' organisations to come up with ideas. In view of the existing difficulties in conducting examinations in the pen-and-paper mode, the university is exploring other possibilities including online exams so that the students can take exams from home. The KTU has also proposed entrusting colleges with the responsibility of conducting exams. If so, besides requiring the colleges to ensure a fair evaluation, the university will decide the final outcome through a process of normalisation that will also factor in the performance of the students in previous semesters. Two semesters together The university is also toying with the idea of conducting the upcoming set of exams along with the next set during November- January, thereby requiring students to attend the exams of two semesters together. Yet another idea is to conduct objective-type exams for all courses to minimise the time required for valuation. The Syndicate meeting on Wednesday is likely to discuss the issue.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 killed in car-truck collision at Attingal||Three people died and five others sustained serious injuries in a collision involving a car and a milk truck at Attingal on Sunday night. The three deceased were travelling in the car and hailed from Kalluvathukkal in Kollam district, the Attingal police said. They were identified as Manesh, 28, Manesh Bhavan, Nadackal; Prince, 33, Nadackal; and Azim, 33, Sajeena Manzil. The injured were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, and other hospitals. Two among the injured, Mahesh, 32, and Subin, 29, are currently undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. The collision occurred at the TB Junction, Attingal, Attingal police said. The Fire and Rescue Service had received an alert at 11.30 p.m. The occupants of the car were returning to Kalluvathukkal from Thiruvananthapuram reportedly after attending a marriage. The truck was on its way from Kollam to Thiruvananthapuram. The car had to be cut open to pull out the occupants, a Fire and Rescue official attached to the Attingal unit said. “The car had overturned and the occupants were trapped inside,” the official said.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M)’s one-hour stir||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has accused the Centre of using the COVID-19 cover for hiking fuel prices. Mr. Balakrishnan said in a statement here on Monday that the prices of petrol and diesel had been hiked continuously on the ninth day after hiking taxes when the rates were low. The CPI(M) was organising a mass protest on Tuesday in consonance with the COVID-19 guidelines against the Centre’s anti-people policies, he said. As many as 10 lakh people are expected to participate in the agitation planned across the State from 11 a.m. to 12 noon.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell moves to second phase||The second phase of online classes for State school students on the Victers channel and other online mechanisms got under way on Monday. The online classes had begun on June 1, but over 2.6 lakh students across the State had no access to television, mobile phone, or the Internet at that stage. The government decided to telecast trial classes for the first two weeks, while it tried to make arrangements for each student to access these classes online or offline. KITE Chief Executive Officer K. Anvar Sadath said the initial aim was to provide facilities for students to view the classes. Now, it had gone beyond that to provide devices to individual children, becoming an initiative to nullify the digital divide. The second set of classes has new content, with focus on inclusion of students. For English medium students, the emphasis is on maximum English usage during content delivery and mandatory display of terms in English. To communicate Hindi lessons better, Malayalam too has been incorporated. Mr. Sadath said that all feedback received was in the process of being incorporated, and by next week, these would be in place. The telecast is from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kulathoor Bhaskaran Nair passes away||Kulathoor Bhaskaran Nair, one of the pioneers of the film society movement in Kerala and co-founder of the country’s first film cooperative which ushered in new wave films to Malayalam, passed away here on Monday. He was 83. In the early 1960s, he, along with filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, floated the Chitralekha film society, which introduced Malayalis to world cinema and played a key role in shaping the film tastes of a generation. Dream But, their dream was not just to screen good cinema but to produce and distribute such movies, for which the Chitralekha film cooperative was formed in 1965 with 25 members pitching in with Rs. 100 each. After producing a few documentaries and short films, they ventured into feature films, producing Adoor’s landmark debut film Swayamvaram in 1972, which garnered four national awards. The film, made at a cost of Rs. 2.5 lakh, managed to recover the cost in the cinemas. Soon after Swayamvaram , the Chitralekha cooperative set up a sprawling film production studio near Akkulam. “We studied together at the Gandhigram Rural Institute in Tamil Nadu during 1957-99. But, we became friends only when we got back to Thiruvananthapuram, where we worked together in a drama troupe. We were close friends back then and he was actively involved in all aspects of the film society as well as the cooperative,” says Adoor. Organisational skill “Kulathoor was known for his exemplary organisational skills, in setting up the film society as well as the cooperative, and in connecting with the right people to get things done. But, more than that, he will be remembered for his love for good cinema and his efforts to inculcate a different film-viewing habit in the public,” says V.K. Joseph, film critic and secretary of the Federation of Film Societies of India. After two decades of frenetic activity from the 1960s to 80s, he slowly withdrew from the scene, as creative differences led to the parting of ways between the members of Chitralekha.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-filing modules for High Court launched||The e-filing modules for the Kerala High Court and subordinate courts, and virtual court system for e-challan and other services were launched on Monday. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court launched the facility. Applications for certified copies from the High Court and lower courts could also be submitted online. The paperless office communication application for the High Court, the Kerala High Court Services App for lawyers, and the programme for interoperable criminal justice system connecting the departments of the State and judiciary were also launched on the day.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to stop septage flow into Parvathy Puthanar||Septic tanks will be provided to the frontline houses dotting both banks of the Parvathy Puthanar along the five-km corridor from Puthenpalam to Moonatumukku to check the flow of septage into the canal that is being rejuvenated. The initiative comes in the wake of the canal that was dredged and cleaned by Kerala Waterways Infrastructure Ltd. getting infested with aquatic weeds. Septage continuing to flow into the canal from the households and lack of septage disposal facilities in 20 per cent of the houses situated along the banks of the canal, had been cited as the main reasons for proliferation of weeds. The decision to provide septic tanks to the 680 frontline houses comes close to making available 9 septic tanks for 26 houses in the Vallakadavau-Puthenpalam stretch of the canal.  The KWIL had looked into the septage flow into the canal closely and had suggested laying a trunk line to the sewage treatment plant at Muttathara as a permanent measure. Official sources associated with the ambitious project of the Parvathy Puthenar rejuvenation said laying trunk line will incur Rs. 55 crore as land acquisition and six to seven pumping stations was needed. Not included As the houses dotting the canal at Vallakadavu, Chakai and Moonatumukku had not been included in the sewerage scheme, residents have no other way to discharge the septage into the canal. The septic tanks are being installed to prevent the pollution of the rejuvenated canal as per the decision of the meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Rs. 1.56 crore needed for 680 septic tanks will be made available from the Suchitwa Mission as per the Government order.
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor opens drip irrigation facility||The city Corporation’s organic vegetable garden has now been equipped with a mobile drip irrigation facility, by which the watering of the plants can be controlled remotely using a mobile application and a sensor-operated system near the plants. Mayor K.Sreekumar inaugurated the system at the Corporation office on Monday. The ‘Smart grow’ app was developed by Troncart Solutions, under the Kerala Startup Mission. The application allows the timing of watering the plants to be set for up to an entire year. The facility is more suited for working professionals who might not have time to spare to take care of the plants. Subsidy is being provided through Krishi Bhavans for the system. The smart irrigation system, to water up to 180 plants costs Rs. 15,000. For more info contact - 7012505530, 9995781010
16 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Padmaja Radhakrishnan||Padmaja Radhakrishnan, wife of musician late M.G.Radhakrishnan, passed away here following a cardiac arrest on Monday. She was 68. She had penned lyrics for a Malayalam film in 2013 and was an artist.
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Entries for TV awards||Entries for the State television awards- 2019 will be received by the Chalachitra Academy till June 20. Application forms are onwww.keralafilm.com. Entries are to be sent to the Secretary, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, Kinfra Film and Video Park, Sainik School PO, Kazhakuttam, Thiruvananthapuram- 695585 or the City Office, TRIDA complex, General Hospital junction.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ways to stop COVID-19||The New Corona Virus, COVID-19 was first reported in the Wuhan city of China in December 2019. Since then it has spread around the world. Globally, as of 15 June 2020, there have been 7.8 million confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 431,192 deaths, reported to WHO. In US alone confirmed cases have crossed 2 million with about 115,112 deaths. In India, from Jan 30 when the first case was reported in Kerala that arrived from Wuhan, to 15 June 2020, there have been 332,424 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with 9,520 deaths. Declared a pandemic by WHO, COVID-19 has taken the world by storm and the world is in the grip of fear from it as there’s no vaccine discovered yet. So, as of now the strategy is to prevent the spread of the virus and to break the chain to escape from the health calamity that is staring us in our face. It takes a chain reaction of events for infections to spread to others. The way to stop germs from spreading is by interrupting the chain. When you go into a hospital or other healthcare setting to receive care, you become vulnerable to catching infections. But the good news is that patients, their families, and visitors can take steps to prevent infections by simply knowing the top infection prevention basics! There are many different germs and infections inside and outside of the healthcare setting. Despite the variety of viruses and bacteria, germs spread from person to person through a common series of events. Therefore, to prevent germs from infecting more people, we must break the chain of infection. The way to stop germs from spreading is by interrupting this chain at any link. Break the chain by cleaning your hands frequently, covering coughs and sneezes by wearing a face mask and staying home when sick, following the rules for standard and contact isolation, using personal protective equipment the right way, cleaning and disinfecting the environment, sterilizing medical instruments and equipment, following safe injection practices, and using antibiotics wisely to prevent antibiotic resistance. The best way is to keep away from potential risks and take personal care and hygiene to prevent getting the virus to infect our body.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||V Shield you from the pandemic||COVID-19 has caused the biggest disruption to human life across the globe. We've been forced to drastically alter the way we live and interact with one another. We've been forced to maintain social distancing and hygiene protocols unheard of, before. In this content the importance of personal protection against the deadly COVID-19 pandemic has assumed great urgency. Initially, the usage of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), was limited to just medical professionals like doctors, nurses and paramedical staff; But with COVID spreading at an exponential rate across the globe, many countries have now adopted much personal protection equipment like Face Masks, Face Shields etc. even for daily use by normal citizens, so as to contain the spread. About V7 Global Innovations - V-Shield has been developed by V7 - a cluster of industrial units based in Kanjikode, Palakkad {Kerala). We've set up the largest manufacturing facility for protective face shields in this region, thereby addressing a critical gap in the supply of protective equipment, reducing our dependence on scare imports, during this critical period. V-Shield is much superior to other competing products- It offers greater quality & durability. While most other low-cost face-shields are just for single-use, V-Shields a rebuilt for durability and can last for over a couple of months and more if properly handled. We request you kindly to consider our product for use by all the departments and personnel working under the Central Government, so as to provide adequate protection for them without affecting their work & performance. We look forward to a positive response from you.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Crushing the Corona with Smart Serve||The COVID-19 pandemic has painfully highlighted the fact that health and hygiene go hand in hand, which has been the cornerstone of Smart Serve Facility Management Services Pvt. Ltd., since its inception a decade ago. “What looks clean could hide harmful pathogens,” says Mr. Surendhu Govindan, founder, who gave up his lucrative job overseas as a CA, to pursue his true calling -improvement of facility management services through upskilling and innovation. By introducing tests to detect pathogens instantly using an ATP meter and making use of automated cleaning machines, Smart Serve has revolutionised the facility-care industry. ATP meter detects microorganisms on surfaces and measures the floor hygiene within seconds. Fighting the invisible is the real challenge during this pandemic for Smart Serve, which aims to standardize cleaning as per international protocols. Smart Serve is committed not only to complete cleaning with reports & awareness training but also to the safety of the cleaning staff, using automated equipment for non-touch cleaning along with usual accessories like gloves, PPE suits etc. Critical touch points have to be identified for the degree of disinfection. Smart Serve has made a name for itself with latest imported equipments and intensive staff training. “Cleaners are our frontline health workers; they are essential for survival but are often undervalued. My vision is sustainable cleaning where quality is relative to the equipment and training imparted. Every chain is as strong as its weakest link.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature - enriched sanitiser for effective protection||Bipha Neem & Papaya Hand Sanitiser - a 70% Alcohol based sanitiser based on W.H.O. recommended formula, enriched with extracts of Neem & Papaya for all round germ protection. An effective formula, with 99.99% action against germs. Available in Tulsi, Rose and Lime fragrances. Bipha hand sanitisers are available in 30 ml / 60 ml / 120 ml and 450 ml pack sizes across all leading outlets and through all leading market places. Products are also available online atwww.biphaayurveda.comand through all leading market places . Bipha is a consumer focussed organisation with an evolved portfolio of ayurveda products in personal care and healthcare segment. The company was founded in 1929 and has a strong presence over nine decades in the healthcare space. Bipha follows strict quality procedures compliant to G.M.P. ,I.S.O 9001, Halal and ISO 220176 standards. For enquiries contact Sheba 09746473740 / Shyam 09746473739
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leading the way in lab chemical sector||Established in the year 1976 , Nice became one of the most respected brands in the Indian Laboratory chemical industry with their prompt service and quality products. Nice Chemicals manufactures around 4000 products ranging from Laboratory reagents, Analytical reagents, Biochemicals, IP/USP chemicals, H.P.L..C solvents, Indicator powders, Solutions, Soil/water testing kits, Food adulteration detection kit, Agrochemicals , Laboratory Glasswares, Laboratory furniture and various types of disinfectants & Sanitization products. Head Office Located at Manimala Road, Edappally, Cochin, Kerala, Nice Chemicals has three manufacturing units in Kerala apart from factories at Ahmedabad and Coimbatore. We have half a dozen ancillary units in South India, where production is carried out under strict and stringent guidelines. Nice Chemicals Pvt Ltd is an ISO 9001 company Certified by DNV. We also ensure prompt service without compromising on the quality aspects. We strive for improving the performance and the quality of work we deliver at a continuous pace. We are having a network of 25 Sole Selling Distributors and 1000 authorised Dealers promoting our brand of products in India, which helps us to reach our products in almost all the research institutions , industries and other various laboratory chemical consumers. Our products are reqularly exported to countries like UAE, Qatar, Vietnam, Srilanka, South Korea, etc.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New bridge||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Recreating an epic battle||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In agitation mode||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The long walk back||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Jonarin cleans Homes like never before||Jonarin has more than four decades of commitment to manufacturing and supplying comprehensive chemical-based home hygiene and detergent products. The company has redefined the cleaning products segment with customized products that are environmentally friendly and of the highest quality.   Veto Power, the latest product range that guarantees to kill 99.99% of germs include hand sanitizers, dishwashing liquid, detergent and toilet cleaner. The range promises to protect families by providing hygienic environments that assure the health and safety of all members. Beauty soaps, detergent bars, hand washes, floor cleaners, washing powders, cleaning powders, glass cleaners, dishwashers, room fresheners, royal therm gel fuel etc are produced in the state of the art facility at Kakkanad and Edayar industrial estate.   Jonarin’s innovative products that are safe and disinfecting have won it a loyal clientele base of five-star hotels, more than 500 hospitals in Kerala, 300 coir factories of Alappuzha district and more than 250 handloom textiles mills. By challenging the standards of the industry, the passionate and dedicated workforce relentlessly works towards creating improved products that are safe not only to humans but also to the environment. The company is moving ahead successfully guided by its lofty mission of creating a germ-free India.
16 June 2020||B. Madhu Gopal VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM’s promise revives dream of making Vizag a film hub||Welcoming the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s assurance on allocation of land to the movie industry in Visakhapatnam, film personalities have said that it has revived the long-pending dream of making the ‘City of Destiny’ a film hub of the state. “Blessed with scenic locations such as forests, hill stations, waterfalls and the pristine sea, Visakhapatnam region stands out as the best choice for being the film hub of the State. The cosmopolitan nature of the city is another advantage as you can get people from across the country if ethnic diversity has to be portrayed in a film,” director P. Sunil Kumar Reddy told The Hindu . Mr. Reddy said he has shot nearly half of his films in the city, mostly with local artistes. According to theatre artiste S.L. Misro, the film industry should have come to the city long ago. “There is no dearth of artistes here. It is time that Andhra Pradesh also got its share in the tax and revenue from the film industry, post-bifurcation,” said Mr. Misro, who has worked as a character artiste in 50 movies. Nandi awards He said the Rama Naidu Studio and scenic locations in the city is a big advantage. “Continuation of the Nandi awards function every year is a must to motivate artistes. It is unfortunate that the successive governments have to be reminded of it,” he said. “The assuarance on single widow clearance for provision of land to the film industry has revived the hopes of making Vizag as a film hub. Vizag MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, who have produced four films, and his counterpart from Rajamahendravaram M. Bharat, are my students. They must pursue the matter with the Chief Minister till its logical end,” said film trainer L. Satyanand, who trained stars such as Pawan Kalyan and Mahesh Babu. Long history “The Andhra University is the first in India to introduce a course in theatre arts at the university-level during 1960s. It has contributed several artistes to the industry. Outdoor shootings have been being done in Vizag for the past several decades, which continues even after bifurcation,” said P. Bobby Vardhan, Journalism and Mass Communication HoD of AU. The first cinema theatre in Visakhapatnam is the Poorna Theatre. Started jointly by C. Pullayya and G.K. Manga Raju, it began as Sri Krishna Touring Talkies in 1927 and became a permanent facility three years later, and was re-christened Poorna Talkies. The first film to be shot in the city is Kulagothralu starring Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Krishna Kumari, which was released in 1962. Araku became popular as a film shooting location following the making of NTR’s Driver Ramudu during 1980s. K. Balachander’s magnum opus Maro Charitra was shot mostly in Visakhapatnam and Bheemuniptnam.
16 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on alert as virus continues its onward march in Chittoor||The steady increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Chittoor district, particularly in the eastern mandals, has turned into a big cause of concern for officials handling the pandemic. The district’s tally stood at 510 cases as of Monday, with five deaths. In the initial days of the lockdown, the cases were restricted to Tirupati and Srikalahasti, but as days went by, the virus started making its presence across the district, even in the remote areas of Tamballapalle Assembly constituency. The mandals of Satyavedu, Varadaiahpalem, Nagalapuram, Pichatur, Puttur, Nagari, Karveti Nagaram, Nindra, GD Nellore, Chittoor and Gudipala, all of which border with Tamil Nadu, witnessed a spurt in cases linked to the Koyembedu market cluster. The mandals of Irala, Bangarupalem and Tavanampalle, which remained virus-free till May, also registered their first patients who had links to Mumbai. Following a sudden spike in Nagari and Satyavedu Assembly constituencies since a week, a testing kiosk was set up at the Government Area Hospital at Puttur on Sunday.  Inspections As people criss-crossing border from Tamil Nadu started showing an impact on the tally, the Superintendent of Police, S. Senthil Kumar, made a whirlwind visit of the border check-posts from Satyavedu and Kuppam, and instructed the men on duty to strictly discourage public and vehicle movement without valid reasons. Hefty fines Inspecting the border check-post on Chittoor-Vellore border on Monday, the SP said: “We have instructed all the police personnel on the field duties to seriously implement the facemask norm and also impose hefty fines on violators, besides filing cases against them.” The Chittoor police had collected a fine of about Rs. 80,000 from people violating rules till last Saturday. They also had reduced the business hours to a couple of hours in the morning in Puttur municipality with sudden spurt in the cases, with close to 15 in one week, including the death of an elderly man. The wine shops at some of the border villages in Chittoor district, particularly in the eastern mandals, were closed to tackle the spread of the virus.
16 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanipakam temple closed after guard tests positive||The temple of Lord Varasidhi Vinayaka Swami at Kanipakam, near Chittoor, was closed on Monday morning after a home guard on duty tested positive for COVID-19. The temple authorities said the temple would be reopened on June 17 after disinfecting the premises. After the temple reopened to devotees for darshan last week, the task force personnel had started collecting the swab samples of the staff and police personnel on duty as part of the guidelines. It was then that the home guard’s test came positive, prompting the temple management to suspend the darshan and close the temple. The man was shifted to COVID hospital in Tirupati. It is the third premier temple, under the Endowments Department, following Tirumala and Srikalahasti in Chittoor district.
16 June 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||New SP takes charge||IPS officer K. Narayan Naik assumed charge as Superintendent of Police of West Godavari district here on Monday. Mr. Naik, who took over from Navdeep Singh Grewal, had earlier served as Superintendent of Government Railway Police(GRP), Vijayawada, and also as Guntur SP. Speaking on the occasion, the SP said that protection of women and children in the district would be his priority and added that steps would be taken to prevent cyber crimes, gambling and rooster fights. “Police personnel, in association with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), will conduct raids and put an end to ID liquor manufacturing dens and smuggling of IMFL and NDPL liquor. Vigil at all the border check-posts will be tightened,” the new SP said. Police will also visit the sand reaches on Godavari bund to prevent sand smuggling, the SP said.
16 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 lakh house sites will be distributed on July 8: Botcha||The government will hand over 30 lakh house sites to beneficiaries in the rural and urban areas on July 8, marking the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana said on Monday. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on early completion of the housing scheme. For those in urban areas, we will be building apartments with all amenities,’’ the Minister told the media at Vengalayapalem, where the government is planning to build 3,240 apartments under the APTIDCO. The Minister earlier reviewed the plans and suggested some changes in the designs. The flats would be of different sizes—435 sft, 365 sft and 300 sft. The beneficiaries would have to pay Rs. 1,000 per square feet for the flats and the government would extend the banking finance facility. ‘Build AP’ project Later, the Minister said that the government had decided to drop the P.V.K. Naidu Market site from the ‘Build AP’ project, under which the government is planning to sell prime lands in cities. “We have decided to drop the plan of selling off the site opposite Gandhi Park. The detail plan will be announced later,’’ the Minister added.
16 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa Steel Plant to have Rs. 500-cr. equity||Kadapa Steel Plant will have Rs. 500-crore equity and negotiations are on with big ticket companies for a joint venture with the State-owned Andhra Pradesh High Grade Steels Limited. This was revealed during a review meeting on Kadapa Steel Plant (KSP) here on Monday, where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was briefed about the developments and that many big companies were showing interest to be part of the joint venture. “There will be Rs. 500 crore equity and negotiations are on with big companies who are showing interest in the venture,” the Chief Minister said. The officials briefed the Chief Minister about the discussions they held on behalf of High Grade Steels Limited with Hyundai Motors, Tata Steels, Essar Steels, among others, who have shown interest in joining the KSP venture which has a capacity of about 3 million tonne annually. The meeting also discussed the proposals of the companies. Further negotiations with the companies would be held soon and after finalising the partner, other formalities with the selected company would be completed within two months, said the officials. Within two years, developing the township and allied infrastructure would be completed. By this month-end soil testing and geo technical survey would be completed. Roads, power supply, main compound wall and other infrastructure would be developed expeditiously, the officials told the Chief Minister. Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy, Industries Department Special Chief Secretary K. Valvan and other officials were present.
16 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New SPs of Guntur Urban and Rural take charge||V.N. Ammireddy on Monday took over as Superintendent of Police(SP) of Guntur Urban Police district from P.H.D. Ramakrishna, who has been transferred and promoted to the post of Director of the State Enforcement Bureau. Soon after taking charge, Mr. Ammireddy said he would give priority to basic policing and would focus on cracking down on illegal activities in the district. A 2010 batch IPS Officer Vishal Gunni took over as SP of Guntur Rural Police district from Ch. Vijaya Rao, who has been transferred and posted as SP, Railways, Vijayawada. Mr. Vishal had earlier worked as an Officer on Special Duty at Narsipatnam and SP of Nellore and East Godavari districts. Soon after taking charge, Mr. Vishal said that he would be accessible for those in need and warned of stringent action against persons pursuing illegal activities. He said his focus would be on clamping down on illegal sand mining, liquor mafia and gambling dens. Later, both the officers called on Director-General of Police(DGP), Gautam Sawang and reviewed the law and order situation in view of Budget session starting from Tuesday.
16 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three kids drown in pond||Three children reportedly drowned in a pond in Tummalacheruvu near Piduguralla in the district on Monday afternoon. The boys, Puli Santhosh, Tempally Mahesh and Sk Nagul Meera, drowned when they went for swimming in the water body, unmindful of the depth. Police said that the pond had dried up and was later filled with water.
16 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply in the following areas in the city due to line maintenance on Tuesday from 7.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. in the following areas: Ravindranagar, Pattabhipuram, Stambalagaruvu and Syamalanagar.
16 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurt in cases after relaxation||The Visakhapatnam district has seen a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases after the lockdown was relaxed from June 1. In the 14 days from June 1, the district witnessed 170 new cases. Returnees from various places, especially from high risk States and cities across the country, have been adding up to the tally. On May 31, the total number of cases in the district were 113 with just 31 active ones. By June 14, the tally rose to 283 with 146 active cases. On June 14, the district witnessed 25 new cases, the biggest single-day spike, so far. Out of these 25, nearly 15 cases were returnees from other areas, especially high risk zones. According to sources from the Health Department, as per the recent cases, people coming from high risk States in the country, apart from foreign returnees comprise over 60% of the cases. Moreover, a number of cases are asymptomatic. Increase in clusters “By the end of May, the number of clusters in the district were 35. By June 8, the number of clusters had increased to 52 with 26 very active ones. In just one week from June 8 to 14, the clusters have gone up to 83 with 36 very active ones,” said P.V. Sudhakar, COVID Special Officer and Principal, Andhra Medical College. Shivajipalem, Appu Ghar, Seethammadhara (Balayya Sastry layout), Arilova (Kanakadurga Nagar), Madhurawada (Sai Ram Colony), Jalaripeta and a few other areas from Zone I, Aganampudi, Sheela Nagar, Duvvada, Pleasant Valley, Dayal Nagar and a few others in Zone II saw an increase in cases, post relaxation. Whereas from the district police limits, Anakapalle Town and Rural limits has been the worst hit so far with more than 40 cases during the same period. Officials said that once an area is declared as a containment zone, massive survey is being conducted in the zone. Hundreds of tests are conducted to all symptomatic persons apart from their primary and secondary contacts.
16 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 centres with 1,890 beds to be ready soon in E.Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday said that two COVID Care Centres (CCC) with 1,890 beds would be ready within a week to provide better care for the patients in the district. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Muralidhar said: “Two centres, one with 1,350 beds at Bommuru and another with 540 beds at Samalkota are being readied. The centres will run 24x7 and have all facilities.” The district authorities would be admitting the patients initially to the CCCs, and in case of emergencies, they would then be shifted to the designated COVID hospital. Mr. Muralidhar asked all the private hospitals to set up an isolation ward, with bed capacity ranging from 5 to 50, without affecting the treatment of other patients. The Collector has also stated that the hospitals would soon be given permission to conduct the tests.
16 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for kidnapping four-month-old in East Godavari||Seven persons, including two women, were arrested on Monday for reportedly kidnapping a four-month-old baby girl under Ramachandrapuram mandal police limits in East Godavari district. Superintendent of Police P Adnan Nayeem Asmi told mediapersons that a woman, Mokani Thulupalamma, had hired a gang of six to kidnap the baby. Recently, Ms. Thulupalamma had resorted to the kidnap of the baby after her proposal to buy the baby was rejected by the baby’s mother, Illa Chinnari. On June 14 midnight, Ms. Thulupulamma and the six persons reportedly kidnapped the baby when her mother was asleep from a house near the Lord Bheemeswara Swamy temple at Draksharamam. The incident had occurred when Rajamahendravaram-based Ms.Chinnari, a rag-picker, had gone to her sister’s house at Draksharamam. The six accused have been identified as D. Kiran, K. Ravi Teja, V. Veera Babu, V. Rama Krishna, B. Ambedkar and B. Lakshmi, all of them relatives of Ms. Thulupulamma.  Mr. Nayeem Asmi handed over the rescued baby to her mother.
16 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two test positive for second time in Kurnool||Two persons turned positive for the second time in Kurnool on Monday, sending jitters across the district administration. At a review meeting with officials on Monday, District Collector G. Veerapandian stressed on the need for increasing the number of COVID tests per day by effectively collecting samples. Oxygen plant The protocols must be followed in all the places despite the relaxations in the lockdown, said Mr. Veerapandian. He asked the engineers of the A.P. Medical Services & Infrastructure Development Corporation(APMSIDC) to immediately execute the liquid oxygen plant on the GGH premises to meet the demand. The capacity would be increased from the 11.5 kilo litres per day to 20 kl. Of the 1,842 tests that were done in the district on Monday, 63 persons tested positive including two repeat positive cases. The cumulative tally in the district stands at 1,365, including Mumbai returnees. The number of discharges stand at 853, including 24 persons who were discharged on Monday. Among those discharged included a two-month-old child.
16 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh cases continue to mount in Nellore, Prakasam districts||There has been no respite from coronavirus for the people in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the wake of influx of people from other cities including Chennai and Hyderabad. In all, 35 persons – 19 in Prakasam district and 16 in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the disease on Monday. A sub-inspector who was in the forefront of the COVID-19 containment duty was among those infected in Nellore. With this, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 457 in SPSR Nellore district and 133 in Prakasam district. The number of positive cases went up by 10 in Nellore city, which saw an increase in the incidence of the disease coinciding with Unlock-1. Farflung places like Aluru, T.P.Gudur, Kavali, Venkatachalam and Venkatagiri reported fresh cases, a report compiled by the Medical and Health department said. Containment measures The health authorities stepped up cluster containment activities in, among other areas in the city, Satyanarayanapuram, Podalakur Road, Muthukur, Dargamita, Vedayapalam, Moolapeta, Beevinagar and Mulumudi bus stand centre in the wake of the spurt in cases. The number of active cases in Ongole went up to 64. Four of the newly-infected persons had returned from Chennai and six others from Hyderabad. One of the infected persons had visited a COVID-19 hotspot in Nellore. The health authorities in Prakasam district were perplexed over the disease spreading to remote villages of Raviguntapalli, Kattkindhapalli, Bodlagudur, C.H. Padu, Kanduluru, Jayanthipeta, Yedanapudi, Gollapalem and Mocherla in Prakasam district. Purandeswari reacts Meanwhile, BJP women’s wing national in charge D. Puraneswari attributed the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases crossing the 6,400 mark on Monday to the indifferent attitude of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government.
16 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers’ co-op union mulls market intervention||The Andhra Pradesh Tobacco Growers’ Cooperative Union plans to intervene in the market to shore up the prices of the low grade variety of tobacco which has faced high rejection from the traders. Union chairman V. Basivi Reddy told the media after interacting with a group of growers here that they had drawn the attention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu to the plight of the growers, who were struggling to market their produce following the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus. “A decision in this regard will be taken soon,” he said. Previous experience “The union had intervened in the market in the past when the farmers faced a distress situation, sold the produce abroad and repaid the amount advanced to it to the State government,” a group farmers said, and demanded purchase of at least 20 million kg of low grade varieties from the market. The prices for various grades of tobacco, especially low and medium grades, had gone southwards, the farmers said, adding that if the government could allocate Rs. 50 crore, the union would be able to purchase the produce from them and repay the government after exporting it to other countries. While the exporters kept away from the market on the pretext of lack of confirmed orders, the domestic cigarette manufacturers drove down the prices, especially the low grade varieties.
16 June 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||New members elected for Adivasi JAC||New members have been elected for the posts of chairman, vice-chairman and general of the Joint Action Committee(JAC) for Adivasi Acts, Rights Protection of Andhra Pradesh. While Chanda Elia of Visakhapatnam and Sunnam Venkataramana of East Godavari Agency area have been elected as the chairman and State general respectively, Mudiyam Srinivas (West Godavari), Tellam Shekar (East Godavari), Mottadam Raju Babu (Visakhapatnam) and Biddika Damayanti Nayudu (of Srikakulam) have been elected as vice-chairmen of the JAC. Seven members- Kangu Chinni, Giddi Varalakshmi, Savara Priyadarshini, Chandrakala, Vanjangi Suvarna Kumari, Vijaya Bharati and Madakam Prameela were elected for women secretaries wing of the JAC. S. Chalam and J.V. Chalam have been elected for the cultural wing of the committee.
16 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help migrated workers: Srikakulam new SP||Srikakulam new Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar instructed police personnel to respect and help migrated labourers and others returning to their native places from different parts of the country. A 2014 batch IPS officer, Mr. Amit has taken over the charge of SP of Srikakulam district from R.N. Ammi Reddy, who has been transferred as Guntur Urban SP. Mr. Amit had previously worked as an Officer on Special Duty(OSD) in Paderu and a commandant of III battalion in Kakinada of East Godavari district. After taking the charge, he conducted a review meeting with senior police officials to know the situation of COVID-19 in the district. Later speaking to media, Mr. Amit said COVID-19 protocol would be implemented in letter and spirit to combat the pandemic and sought cooperation from people for the same.
16 June 2020||TADIPATRI (ANANTAPUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh: YSRCP foisting cases on leaders not agreeing to join party||Accusing Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of resorting to ‘vindictive politics’, TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Monday alleged that the YSRCP government was foisting cases on the leaders belonging to lead opposition party on the pretext of exposing corruption. “The YSRCP has unleashed a rule of terror. Cases are being foisted against TDP leaders if they do not agree to join the ruling party,” Mr. Lokesh said after meeting former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy here. Mr. Lokesh came by road from Hyderabad to Tadipatri and discussed with Mr. Diwakar Reddy and his son Pavan Reddy the BS-III lorry trailer case in which former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son J. Ashmit Reddy were arrested and lodged in Kadapa Central Prison. ‘Next target’ Alleging that Mr. Prabhakar Reddy was wrongfully arrested, Mr. Lokesh claimed that the former Tadipatri MLA had not signed in any of the papers related to the registration of BS-III vehicles. “The TDP will soon go to people and bring awareness among them about the YSRCP misrule,” he said. “I could be the next target of the YSRCP government as announced by a Minister in the fibergrid case. Being the IT Minister during the TDP tenure at office, the file never came to me,” claimed Mr. Lokesh. The TDP leader also alleged that the YSRCP was also targeting the leaders from the backward classes and weaker sections. Terming the arrest of former Minister K. Atchannaidu as ‘inhuman’, Mr. Lokesh alleged, “Mr. Atchannaidu was offered Rs. 50 crore for joining the YSRCP. The ESI case was foisted on him after he said to the offer of the ruling party. Even as the ESI case is being claimed to be a Rs. 150-crore scam, the police remand document mentioned the alleged misappropriation as Rs. 3 crore.” He demanded that the government must show what was written in the ‘green note’ of the ESI file. BS-III vehicle case Referring to the BS-III lorry trailer case, Mr. Diwakar Reddy claimed that they had lodged a complaint five months ago against the Ashok Leyland to Nagaland government, but no action was initiated. Asked if the Jatadhara Industries would lodge a complaint against the Ashok Leyland or the middleman Muthu, the former MP said it was the government’s responsibility.
16 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 discharged in Tirupati||Six patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19, including three women, were discharged from the SVR Ruia Government General Hospital here on Monday, after they tested negative following the isolation period. Three of them belong to Nagari and one each from Tirupati, Chittoor rural and KVB Puram mandals. Ruia Superintendent K. Bharati, COVID nodal officers Subba Rao, K. Vasudeva Naidu were present. Six more persons were discharged from the State COVID hospital on the SVIMS campus, where 73 patients were undergoing treatment as of Monday. Five of the discharged hail from Kadapa district and one from Chittoor district. Four of the six discharged patients were women. Meanwhile, five positive cases emerged in Chittoor district on Monday, two of them from Karvetinagaram and one each from Chittoor rural, Gurramkonda and Srikalahasti mandals.
16 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikalahasti temple opened on trial basis||The Srikahalastheeswara Swamy temple in Srikalahasti town opened to devotees on a trial basis, ending the long phase of lockdown. Though the temple was scheduled to open a couple of days back, it remained closed as a temple priest had tested positive. On Monday, the staff were allowed to have darshan in the experimental phase to test the hygiene measures set up at the shrine. A devotee will be allowed inside only after getting one’s body temperature checked. Local legislator B. Madhusudhan Reddy and the temple Executive Officer Chandrasekhar Reddy checked the newly-established system. The MLA called it a happy moment to reopen the temple after over two months, adding that every effort would be taken to ensure hygiene. Devotees will be allowed from Tuesday afternoon, said the EO.
16 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV holds first virtual alumni meet||Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) conducted its first ever international alumni meet in the virtual mode, which was attended by its students from across the world. The alumni of different departments from the United States, United Kingdom and United Arab Emirates got connected and shared their experiences of the past. On the occasion, SPMVV entered into an MoU with the music academies, along with TANA, Dallas, to expand the music and dance courses offered in the USA. While appreciating the university for building confidence, positive attitude and expertise in them, they volunteered to help promote the institution’s image and offered suggestions for launching new courses of high job potential. SPMVV Dean (International Relations) P. Vijayalakshmi said the meeting was aimed at creating an alumni database and use the network to scale up the varsity’s activities at the global level. Dean (Social Sciences, Humanities and Management) K. Murugaiah informed the participants that the varsity had grown manifold in the recent past. Reviews Associate Dean T. Tripura Sundari requested students to post their referrals and reviews on the varsity’s website and other higher-education review sites as a gesture of payback to their institution.
16 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD staffer’s kin test negative||Following an employee working at the Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple testing positive to COVID-19, the TTD management conducted tests to all his family members and the employees working with him at that time. All of them tested negative in the test conducted in the presence of Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar and Additional Health Officer Sunil. Thirty-two persons were tested at the centre in Alipiri.
16 June 2020||V. Raghavendra,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC opposes draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill||The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) is understood to have opposed various provisions of the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 (EAB), especially the sub-licensing of power distribution and creation of an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) at the national level. Besides, the APERC raised an objection against making the Central government’s consultation with States before formulating the National Renewable Energy Policy discretionary rather than a mandatory requirement. Sub-licensing As far as sub-licensing is concerned, the APERC has expressed apprehensions that the sub-licensees may procure power independently to the exclusion of power contracted by distribution licensees and it will add to the licensees’ cost of recovery through higher tariffs. The APERC has insisted that consultation with the States on renewable energy should be mandatory, else there will be a chance of the Centre making an arbitrary prescription that a minimum percentage of purchase of electricity should be made from renewable and hydro sources of energy. Concurrent List It has also been observed that the subject of electricity is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and the blanket power with Central government to prescribe renewable power purchase obligation will affect the autonomy and independence of ERCs. The APERC has further stressed the need for leaving the decisions on intra-State transmission to the State Load Dispatch Centres instead of vesting that power with the proposed National Load Dispatch Centre. It has maintained that the new Bill seeks to take away the ERCs’ adjudicatory functions such as fixing tariffs, approving power purchase agreements (PPAs) and settling disputes in connection therewith. The APERC has also conveyed the above objections to the draft EAB in the form of comments to the Ministry of Power (MoP) suggesting that the Centre should rethink before making such amendments to the Electricity Act (EA), 2003. Earlier, The MoP noted that the 2003 Act brought in huge direct investments, public-private partnerships, market development, transparent tariff mechanism and etc., but the sector was seized with some critical issues that weakened the commercial and investment activities, hence the need to amend the EA, 2003.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sentinel surveillance launched to gather high quality data||In an attempt to gather high quality data on the COVID-19 outbreak, the government has launched a sentinel surveillance exercise as part of which people from several walks of life will undergo tests in a random manner. In a tweet, the Health Department said that the exercise was undertaken to understand the prevalence of COVID-19 infection within communities. Modalities As part of the surveillance, 330 people from each district will be tested daily. The 330 persons will include 100 fever patients, 25 persons having respiratory issues, and 20 persons each of categories including migrants who have come to their native villages bypassing the entry points, persons aged above 60 years, persons with co-morbidity, persons travelled by trains, people gathered at shopping malls and religious places. Further, 10 persons each of categories including persons working in wholesale markets, apart from shopkeepers, construction and agricultural workers, vegetable and fruit market vendors, industrial and healthcare workers or officials on COVID duty and those nearby positive patients’ residences will undergo testing. Five more among market yard workers will be tested.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Piled-up coal faces deterioration, power cost likely to go up||The storage of nearly five lakh metric tonne of coal at Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) for more than two and a half months due to the temporary closure of seven units (six units of 210 MW capacity and one 500 MW unit) resulted in a steady fall in the Gross Calorific Value (GCV) of the fuel. If the storage continues for a longer duration, the GCV will deteriorate further and the specific coal consumption goes up. Ultimately, the variable cost will rise by about 47 paise per unit. In order to avoid this situation, permission should be given to resume generation at the units, NTTPS Chief Engineer (Operations and Maintenance) requested the AP-Genco management through a letter, a copy of which is available with The Hindu.  Huge stock The CE stated that approximately 6,35,120 metric tonne of coal was procured over a period of time and stored at the stock yard by the end of April. The steep fall in demand from bulk consumers because of the lockdown necessitated hand-tripping (keeping on standby) of seven units. The 500-MW unit was synchronised to the grid in May and the other six units remain on standby. If all the units were in service, around 30,000 metric tonne of coal would have been consumed on a daily basis. Storage of coal for long durations causes its GCV to drop due to oxidation and internal spontaneous combustion. As the carbon and hydrogen content decreases, the ignition temperature (of coal) increases so does the activation energy. The AP-Genco should, therefore, allow taking six units into service at the earliest if the variable cost is to be kept under check, the CE appealed.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State achieves per capita growth of 12.14%||The per capita income of the State has gone up to Rs. 1,69,519 from Rs. 1,51,173 in 2018-19 fiscal year, registering a growth of 12.14%, according to socioeconomic survey for the 2019-20 financial year, which was released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday. The per capita income of the country for 2019-20 fiscal stands at Rs. 1,34,432. The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) at current prices has been estimated to be Rs. 9,72,782 lakh crore, when compared to Rs. 8,62,957 crore in the 2018-19 financial year. This amounts to a growth of 12.73% when compared to the national growth of 5%. The agriculture sector accounted Rs. 3,20,218 crore, while the same for industry sector was Rs. 1,91,857 crore and Rs. 3,67,747 crore for service sector. “Due to favorable seasonal conditions, the agriculture’ sector has registered a growth (gross value added) of 18.96% followed by horticulture sector (11.67% ) and livestock (4.53%), the economic survey said. The industry sector is expected to register a growth of 5.67% in 2019-20 fiscal and the services sector is indicating a growth rate of 9.11% in 2019-20 financial year.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: Governor to address both Houses through video link||For the first time in the history of Andhra Pradesh, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will address the joint session of the Assembly and the Council through video link at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The Governor will address both Houses from the Darbar Hall in Raj Bhavan. Arrangements are being made keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic. Also, the budget for the financial year 2020-21 will be presented. Budget session Though it is not confirmed, the budget session is likely to be a short affair. Unconfirmed reports say that the budget session will be conducted for just two days. The Business Advisory Committee (BAC), which is scheduled to meet after the Governor’s address, will decide on the number of working days, sources say. The Council of Ministers’ meeting will be held at 9 a.m. to consider the budget. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy will present the budget in the Assembly in the afternoon session. The government could not present the full budget in March in view of the coronavirus pandemic. It issued an ordinance for vote on account for a three-month period ending June 30. On the second day, Wednesday (June 17), debate on the thanksgiving motion for the Governor’s address will be taken up followed by passing of the Appropriation Bill. The election for four vacant Rajya Sabha seats will be held on June 19.  COVID protocol Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam on Monday said that every seat in the Assembly and the Council would be sanitised. Seating arrangements were changed to maintain social distancing in the Assembly and the Council. No visitors allowed Also, arrangements were in place to conduct medical tests to every member. The media would be allowed to cover the session only from the press gallery. For this session, no visitors would be allowed, he said.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRAF distributes essentials to poor families in villages||Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), an NGO working for children welfare and their rights in the State, has distributed groceries to more than 1,500 families in the villages in Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts. The aim of distributing essential commodities during the lockdown period is to supply protein-rich diet to children and prevent malnutrition. Material worth about Rs. 12 lakh has been distributed so far, said CRAF programme director P. Francis Thambi, who participated in the distribution programme in West Godavari district on Monday.. “Global health emergency has shown its impact severely on children, particularly in poor families in villages. Due to poor diet, children are suffering from various diseases and their growth is affected,” Mr. Francis Thambi said. Essential commodities such as dal, ravva, sugar, jaggery, groundnut, wheat flour, tamarind and red chilli powder have been distributed to poor families. Kits were distributed in Madhepalli, Dubacherla, Kothuru, Sriparru and other villages in West Godavari district. In Guntur district, CRAF, in association with officials of various government departments, supplied kits and sanitizers to people in Ananthavaram, Nidumukkala, Kantheru, Vaddamanu and other villages. “As children are vulnerable to diseases, CRAF provided gloves, masks, hand wash and sanitizers to them. In Vijayawada, sanitiser kits have been distributed to the frontline staff,” the director said.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sreenivasulu assumes charge as city police chief||Bathini Sreenivasulu, a 1998 batch IPS officer, on Monday took over as new commissioner of Vijayawada Police Commissionerate from Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, who has been transferred. Mr. Sreenivasulu, who was working as an Additional Commissioner, has been elevated to the post of Commissioner. Mr. Sreenivasulu had served as the Commissioner of the city earlier too. Speaking on the occasion, the new city police chief said he would focus on minimizing the response time and basic policing to control the anti-social elements. Responding to a query on cyber crimes, the police commissioner said there was a rise in online fraud cases and stressed the need for creating more awareness among public on activities and modus operandi of the fraudsters. “I will strive to be available to public and do justice to the needy. As I worked in the city earlier, I have a fair idea on the issues here,” Mr. Sreenivasulu said. ‘Will solve traffic issues’ Steps will be taken to check rowdy activities in the Commissionerate and also to solve traffic problems in Vijayawada, he added. Later, Mr. Srinivasulu held a meeting with Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs), Addl. DCPs, Assistant Commissioners of Police and reviewed the situation in the city. Meanwhile, 1989 batch IPS officer Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao took charge as the Director General of Police (DGP-Railways) here on Monday.
16 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel ‘108’ ambulance contract with Aurobindo Pharma, Kanna tells govt.||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana, in a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, has demanded immediate scrapping of the contact with Aurobindo Pharma Foundation (APF) as the 108 ambulance service provider, alleging that it was charging exorbitantly. He said the APF was charging Rs. 1,78,072 for a new ambulance and Rs. 2,21,257 for an old one per month excluding GST. Appointment of the APF as the service provider has been made after cancelling the existing agreement with Bharat Vikas Group, which entailed an expenditure of Rs. 1.31 lakh per vehicle per month. He the said government owed an assurance that there was no nepotism in the contract in the context of V. Vijayasai Reddy’s relationship with Aurobindo Pharma Limited Chairman P.V. Ram Prasad Reddy, whose son is the YSRCP MP’s son-in-law.  ‘Burden on exchequer’ The government should cancel the contract in view of the burden on the exchequer, he said.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All COVID protocols will be followed at SSC examination centres’||Minister for Human Resources Development A. Suresh has asked the officials to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols are strictly adhered to at SSC examination centres. “The government will conduct the examinations from July 10 to July 15 by taking all precautionary measures,” said Mr. Suresh, during a review meeting with the education officials, on Monday. “Each examination hall should be occupied by not more than 10 to 12 students. Sanitisers and thermal scanners should be provided to each examination centre,” a release quoted Mr. Suresh as saying. The Minister also interacted with the parents’ committee members, Mandal Education Officers, representatives of teachers’ associations and others.  Bus services Free bus services would be provided to students living in containment zones to reach the examination centres. The Intermediate supplementary examinations would be conducted from July 11 to July 18 in the State, he added. Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar, School Education Commissioner V. Chinaveerabhadhrudu., Directorate of Government Examinations director A. Subba Reddy and others took part in the meeting.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HCL to set up isolation units in district||IT company HCL Technologies is going to enhance the COVID isolation bed capacity in the district by offering 100 beds in two locations of the districts. In a release, it was stated that HCL, in collaboration with the district administration and Doctors for You (HCL Foundation’s NGO partner), is going to set up two 50-bed isolation and treatment units in the district hospital in Machilipatnam and area hospital in Gudivada. The two units will be equipped with L-1 and L-2 beds along with one ventilator each to treat critical cases. Further, PPE kits to health care workerswould be provided, according to the release. The NGO will identify symptomatic cases in slums and among migrant workers through community awareness programmes through their Mobile Medical Units (MMUs).
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bail plea filed for Atchannaidu||A group of advocates on Monday filed a bail application in the ACB court on behalf of former Minister and TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu who arrested for their alleged involvement in the ESI scam. The bail application was filed under the Section 437 and 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Mr. Naidu’s advocates claimed that the government had implicated him in the scam and that no preliminary inquiry was conducted before registration of the crime. They insisted that Mr. Atchannaidu needed immediate medical attention. They argued that the former Minister was booked under the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 as part of ‘vengeful politics’.
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘ESIC not connected to scam’||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation functioning under the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India, on Monday said that it was not connected in any way in the alleged irregularities in the Directorate of Insurance and Medical Services (DIMS), Andhra Pradesh. “The Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) have begun the probe into the the alleged irregularities in the purchase of surgical equipment, furniture, computers, drugs and other material in DIMS, and the ESIC is not related to the irregularities,” a release issued by the ESIC said. The ESIC officials urged the media houses not to publish the photographs of its regional office at Gunadala .
16 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. approves Ramayapatnam port DPR||The State government has approved the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of a greenfield non-major port proposed at Ramayapatnam in Prakasam district. “The DPR prepared by the RITES Limited for the development of Ramayapatnam port by Ramayapatnam Port Development Corporation has been approved. The government has accorded administrative sanctions for the Phase-I works with an outlay of Rs. 3,737 crore,” said a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven on Monday. Rs. 2,079-crore debt According to the G.O., the proposed port would be developed under the supervision of Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board, which has been permitted to raise a debt of Rs. 2,079 crore with the government support. The government gave approval in principle to the project in 2018. The Director of Ports was asked to obtain the necessary clearances, get the required studies done . The RITES Limited was entrusted with the preparation of the DPR .
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 20 new coronavirus cases, the district crosses 300-mark||The district crossed the 300-mark with 20 new COVID-19 cases being recorded on Monday. With the new cases, the total number of cases have gone up to 303, with 166 active cases, discharges 136 and one death that occurred earlier. The very active clusters have gone up from 36 to 41 and the active clusters stand at 19, said COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Of the 20 cases, five were from Anakapalle, five were air travellers who were in quarantine, one patient from KGH and the rest were from Madhurawada, Atchutapuram, V. Madugula and a returnee from Odisha. Meanwhile taking stock of the situation, District Collector V. Vinay Chand asked the health team to take up extensive COVID-19 tests. He also emphasised upon them to enforce the guidelines in both containment and non-containment zones. Discussing the action plan here on Monday with the frontline officials, he urged them to take all steps to break the spread of the virus. He asked them to identify high risk individuals, elderly persons who have co-morbidity and pregnant women and conduct tests and complete the circuit by month-end. Meanwhile, the Forensic Department and the mortuary at King George Hospital (KGH) were closed on Monday, when an associate professor and two assistant professors tested positive. It is said that one of the doctors had gone to Guntur recently and came in contact with a positive patient. A PG student tested positive and all the PGs were sent for quarantine. A patient in Unit-1 of the Surgery Ward tested positive and all the house surgeons were sent for quarantine, according to G. Arjuna, Superintendent, KGH. He also said that 45, including 15 paramedic staff and 30 doctors and PG students, tested negative and were sent to one week home quarantine.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) hails SC decision in gas leak issue||The CPI(M) city committee welcomed the decision of the Supreme Court turning down the appeal of the LG Polymers management seeking a stay on the order of the High Court directing seizure of the company and the passports of its directors. The Supreme Court also directed the High Power Committee to complete its investigation in a week. Party city secretary B. Ganga Rao recalled that the company management had also received a drubbing in the past when it filed a review petition in the Supreme Court challenging the authority of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to take the styrene monomer vapour leak case suo motu. He said that the NGT had directed the State government to utilise the Rs. 50 crore deposited by the company management to compensate the victims and to undertake pollution mitigation measures in the areas affected by the styrene monomer vapour leak. He alleged that the State government has not taken any action so far, though 15 days have passed after the NGT gave its order. He also found fault with the State government for failing to arrest the company management though nearly 40 days have passed since the tragedy occurred. He demanded immediate arrest of the management and shifting of the company.  Attack on MLA Mr. Ganga Rao condemned the attack on MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu by YSR Congress Party activists and said it was unfortunate that the attack took place in the presence of the police. He demanded immediate arrest of the accused.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP mocks letter written by Naidu to gas leak victims||YSR Congress Party spokesman and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Monday rubbished the letter written by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu to the families of those who died in the LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leakage incident on May 7, saying the Opposition leader was now shedding crocodile tears for the victims to gain political mileage. Speaking to the media, he said Mr. Naidu did not bother to visit Visakhapatnam to call on the relatives of the deceased and the survivors immediately after the incident and was now resorting to cheap tactics by saying that the government cancelled the flight on the day he booked the ticket almost two months after the fatal incident. Finding fault with his offer of Rs. 50,000 on behalf of his party to each victim’s family, he said during his tenure as Chief Minister for nine years before and five years after bifurcation, Mr. Naidu did not offer ‘decent’ ex gratia to any of the victims of tragedies like Godavari Pushkaram stampede and ONGC gas pipeline leakage. Stating that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given Rs. 1 crore to the families of each deceased person of LG Polymers incident, Mr. Amarnath said in none of the incidents Mr Naidu had paid a single rupee of compensation from the TDP in the past. He justified the arrest of Telugu Desam Party leaders K. Atchannaidu and J.C. Prabhakar Reddy on corruption charges. He also found fault with attempts by Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh for politicising the denial of permission to meet both Mr. Atchannaidu and Mr. Prabhakar Reddy when they were under remand. He said the government was firm in exposing the corrupt deals resorted to during the TDP regime and punish all the accused as per law.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLA allegedly ‘attacked’ by YSRCP activists||A tense situation prevailed at Ramakrishnapuram in Visakhapatnam East Assembly constituency, following an altercation between YSR Congress Party and Telugu Desam Party activists, on Monday. MLA and TDP leader Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, accompanied by TDP leaders and workers, went to Ramakrishnapuram to lay the foundation stone for construction of a road. He was stopped by some YRSCP leaders and workers and an altercation ensued. The YSRCP activists reportedly pelted stones and threw chappals and coconut shells at the MLA. Meanwhile, police reached the place and sent the YSRCP activists away. Mr. Ramakrishna Babu staged a protest demanding arrest of those who were responsible for the attack. He gave up his protest after the police assured him that those responsible for the stone throwing would be arrested.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on containment of virus, says new SP||The focus will be on keeping a check on the Maoists and containing the spread of COVID-19 in the district, said B. Krishna Rao, who took over as Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, on Monday. He replaces Attada Babujee, who has been transferred as SP SIB. A 2014 batch IPS officer, Mr. Krishna Rao served as Commandant AP SP 6th Battalion before taking charge as SP- Visakhapatnam. He had earlier served as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) of Narsipatnam. He also served as ASP at Tulluru.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead as painting tin explodes in Autonagar||In a freak mishap, a worker died and another person sustained serious burns when one of the used painting tins exploded while burning it at a fabrication unit here on Monday evening. Sources in Visakha Autonagar Industries’ Welfare Association (VASSIWA) said the incident occurred at a company located at Autonagar when the workers tried to empty the tin for selling it in the scrap market. The injured was rushed to hospital immediately. A case was registered and investigation is on.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Afghan women return after completing master’s degree in GITAM||Ten women from Afghanistan, returned to their homeland, after successfully completing their master’s degree in GITAM Deemed to be University here on Monday. GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivarama Krishna said that the university would extend all support to them.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APFERWAS donates Rs. 4 lakh to CM Relief Fund||Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS), Visakhapatnam, has donated Rs. 4 lakh to the AP Chief Minister Relief Fund towards COVID-19 relief activities. A cheque for the amount was handed over to GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana by APFERWAS president Uday Shirname, along with other members, on Monday.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU SDE exam application submission last date||School of Distance Education, Andhra University, has set July 10 as the last date for submission of filled-in examination application forms for BA, B.Com; and B.Sc; without fine. The application forms have to be downloaded fromwww.andhrauniversity.edu.in. SDE director P. Hari Prakash said the forms have to be sent only through registered post.
16 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTPC Simhadri CGM promoted||NTPC Simhadri Super Thermal Power Plant Chief General Manager V. Sudharshan Babu has been promoted as Executive Director. He is credited with taking unique initiatives to enhance the capability of the project multi-fold like nano concrete building, LED illumination of plant for energy efficiency and spearheading the visual enhancement of premises.
16 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only Modi govt. can take firm decisions on key issues: BJYM||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) National Executive member Kethineni Surendra on Monday said that only Narendra Modi government would be able to develop the country and take firm decisions on issues like Kashmir and Rama Janmabhoomi. Along with BJP senior leaders, Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju and Reddi Pavani, he formally launched Jana Sampark programme to highlight the achievements of the Union government. The leaders formally took up door-to-door campaign and distributed pamphlets to residents in various colonies located on the Ring Road. Speaking to the media, Mr. Surendra said that the programme would continue from June 22 in all the booths. Party leaders Kusumanchi Subbarao, Bhavireddy Shivaprasad Reddy, Baggam Rajesh Kumar and others participated in the programme while following social distancing norms.
16 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||e-learning amid pandemic adds to financial burden of parents||The significant change in education system in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic is adding financial burden to the parents as many of them are forced to buy laptops, desktops and smartphones so that their children can attend digital classes. Laptops are available in the range of Rs. 35000 and Rs. 80,000 depending on the brand, configuration and features. A basic smartphones suitable for digital classes costs at least Rs. 11,000. Computers and cellphones have become the essential gadgets for the students preparing of competitive examinations such as EAMCET, Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination (NEET). “Apart from buying gadgets, we are paying huge fees to teachers and experts conducting special classes on digital platforms. The education has turned into a costly affair, beyond the reach of common people,” said B. Srinivasa Rao whose daughter is preparing for the NEET. Meanwhile, laptop prices are also going up steadily with the huge gap between the supply and the demand. “The laptop sell figure of shops which was around 120 laptops a day before the COVID-19, has gone up to 400 per day. I think the demand will be even more as online education is getting popular in rural areas too,” Chandan Musaddi of Neelam Computer Bazaar in Visakhapatnam told The Hindu over phone. According to former Vice Chancellor of Ambedkar University Hanumanthu Lajapathirai the e-learning concept will gain more importance in the coming days. “I hope that the government would come up with a new education policy in the backdrop of the pandemic,” said Mr. Lajapathirai. Additional classrooms “The strength of each class is around 80 now. Considering the guidelines on social distancing norms, not more than 40 students can be accommodated in a classroom which means additional classrooms have to be built. It will not be viable for many colleges and schools which are already in deep financial crisis,” said G. Swami Naidu, chairman of Gurajada Educational Society, Srikakulam.
16 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bhogapuram airport will spur growth in North Andhra region’||The greenfield international airport proposed in Bhogapuram will spur economic activity and growth in the north Andhra region and, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts stand to gain the maximum benefits, the business chamber and air travellers’ associations have said. The GMR Group signed a concession agreement with the State government for the construction of the Bhogapuram international airport on Saturday and the government has reportedly asked the GMR Group to complete all formalities and take up the works at the eraliest. Bhogapuram is 17 km away from Vizianagaram district headquarters. It is 18 km from the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone and 62 km from the Srikakulam district headquarters.  Road connectivity “The development of infrastructure in and around Bhogapuram airport will give a boost to commercial activity in Vizianagaram, a hub for textile and essential commodities business,” says Kapuganti Prakash, president elect of Viziangaram A.P. Chamber of Commerce. With the construction of the six lane highway on the Visakhaptnam-Srikakulam stretch, the travel time will be reduced to just one hour. Further, the Vizianagaram administration has already planned to improve the road connectivity on the Ring Road-Chintalavalasa- Aainada-Bhogapuram stretch. The project which was shelved owing to lack of funds is expected to be on track again. “Pharmaceuticals, fish products, agri products including cashew can be exported easily from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts from new international airport,” says Mr. Prakash. Cargo handling The GMR Group also anticipates a good cargo handling from Bhogapuram airport. Currently, 4,400 tonnes of cargo is being handled every year by Visakhaptnam airport which is under the control of Indian Navy. With little expansion opportunity, the airport is unable to handle huge cargo. Passenger traffic which is currently 2.78 million may go up in the future. “The passenger traffic will go up as the government has decided to go ahead with the metro rail project on the Anakapalle-Bhogapuram route and improve road connectivity,” says D. Varada Reddy, president of Air Travellers’ Association of India. Srikakulam Air Travellers’ Association president Natukula Mohan feels that more people would opt for air travel from the Bhogapuram airport. “Many people from Itchapuram and neighbouring Odisha areas are now forced to go Visakhapatnam a day in advance to catch the early morning flights. They can have hassle-free journey from Bhogapuram,” he added.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. throwing its weight behind LG Polymers: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday wrote letters to the gas leak victims at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. “I had planned to personally meet you and hand over Rs. 50,000 as financial assistance, but the government is not giving me permission to visit Visakhapatnam,” he said in the letters. The TDP chief alleged that the YSCRP government had thrown all of its weight behind the LG Polymers management. “Whether or not in the power, the TDP will continue to be on the side of the people. The party will fight to ensure that justice is meted out to to the gas leak victims,” said Mr. Naidu. In his letters, the TDP chief recalled how one whole flight was cancelled when he was planned to visit Visakhapatnam. “The TDP leaders will visit each of the bereaved families and the assistance are being deposited in their bank accounts,” said Mr. Naidu. Mr. Naidu urged the victims should move forward with courage and promised all support from the TDP.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGenco saves Rs. 190 cr. in coal transportation||The AP-Genco has saved around Rs. 190 crore in coal transportation in the recent months through the ‘reverse tendering system. The expenditure incurred on the transportation of washed and raw coal has come down by almost half, an official release said. The cost of transportation of coal to Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant has been brought down to Rs. 1,027 per metric ton (MT) in 2019-20 fiscal against Rs. 1824 per MT in 2014-15 financial year. The cost with respect to Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station in 2019-20 stands at Rs. 1,010 when compared to Rs. 1,922 per MT in 2014-15. Meanwhile, coal stocks from December 2019 have increased due to continuous efforts by the AP-Genco. The stocks at power plants as on June 8 are as follows: NTTPS- 4,63,110 MT; RTPP- 4,68,620 MT; SDSTPS- 6,28,030 MT (total 4.70 lakh MT of washed coal plus 1.58 lakh MT of imported coal). Out of the subsidy arrears of Rs. 13,391 crore that was pending as on March 31, 2019, the government released Rs. 8655 crore in 2019- 20 and Rs. 9,249 crore towards subsidy announced in 2019-20.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extra careful||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caring and sharing||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Track work||
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Indian Oil dealers of Visakhapatnam on Monday donated Rs. 4 lakh pooled up by them to District Collector V. Vinay Chand for prevention of COVID-19 in the presence of Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana.
16 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||North-South economic activity low||The significantly less than normal vehicular traffic on the NH-44 passing through Adilabad district, the major link between north and south from central India, indicates that economic activity has not been fully restored yet despite easing of lockdown restrictions. The movement of vehicular traffic is only at 75-80% than what was recorded before restrictions were imposed in the country on March 22 owing to COVID-19 outbreak. According to Project Director of Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Nirmal Project Implementation Unit (PIU), A. Tarun Kumar, none of the six toll plazas between the Telangana-Maharashtra border at Dollara village in Jainad mandal of Adilabad district and Hyderabad has recorded normal traffic flow in the month of May. The figures quoted by him had all these toll plazas under the Nirmal PIU recording not more than 85% of the usual traffic, the highest being in the case of the Pipparwada toll plaza, the first one to be passed through after crossing the inter-State border into Telangana or the last one in the reverse direction. The highest traffic recorded at this toll plaza was 4,665 vehicles of all descriptions on May 14. This was over 84% of the 5,485 vehicles which had crossed  the toll gate every day on an average in the week prior to lockdown in the month of March. The traffic recorded at the Rollmamda and Gamjal toll plazas in Adilabad and Nirmal districts, respectively, was almost similar in terms of percentage but the number of vehicles that crossed the plazas was higher than those at Pipparwada. Apparently, other traffic from Nirmal joins the one coming from central India on NH-44. One of the reasons for the lower vehicular traffic is the continuing restrictions on inter-State passenger flow in several States. The number of cars which had crossed the Penganga river bridge into Telangana and out of it in the week before the lockdown in March was 7,371 while it was reduced to 4,916 in the first week of June. It is, nevertheless, the heavy vehicular traffic that is the backbone of economic activity between the two sections of the country as most of the goods, be it perishables or machinery, get transported by lorries of all descriptions. As against the 31,683 lorries and other goods vehicles that crossed the inter-State borders in the week prior to lockdown, only 27, 412 such vehicles moved in or out in first week of June.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police foil BJP protest against ‘inflated’ electricity bills||For the second time in the last three days, Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party leaders were stopped by the police from undertaking any protest programme, this time it was the planned dharna in front of ‘Vidyut Soudha’ and related offices at Mint Compound in Khairatabad to highlight the 'exorbitant' power bills, on Monday. Party president Bandi Sanjay, former president K. Laxman, city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao, general secretary Ch. Sambamurthy, P. Sudhakar Reddy and others were either 'house arrested' or stopped at the party office in Nampally or at various electricity offices across the city. Mr. Sanjay charged the power distribution companies of putting an “enormous burden” on the common man already hit hard by COVID-19 related economic hardships in the name of different slabs. Mr. Laxman told the media, even as he was being whisked away by the police, that the government should come to the rescue of the people during these times and pointed out that ‘inflated’ power bills issue has led to the ouster of many a regime in the past. “The government and the power distribution companies should absorb the costs and provide succour to people already reeling under salary cuts and loss of livelihoods,” he said. “We want to protest following due protocols of COVID-19, including social distancing, but this government is resorting to anti-democratic acts of house or party office arrests," said Mr. Rao. Both the police and BJP leaders were restrained in their respective actions as there was not much pushing or shoving as the latter allowed themselves to be arrested without much ado in tune with the prevailing virus control measures. Party's chief spokesperson K. Krishna Saagar Rao strongly condemned the ‘pre-emptive’ arrests and said that as a responsible opposition party, "it is our duty to voice the concerns of common people being fleeced by TRS government with unprecedented electricity bills. These compounded electricity bills are both faulty and bloated. It is atrocious that this is being done in the midst of a serious health and economic crisis.” Mr. Rao demanded waiver of the last three months electricity bills, especially to the poor and middle class rather than use "police force to undermine constitutional rights” of the Opposition parties.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM instructs officials to credit Rythu Bandhu assistance||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed his happiness over farmers in the State agreeing to follow the regulated crop cultivation system as suggested by the government. The government brought in regulated crop cultivation to promote crops that have market demand and thereby make agriculture profitable to the farmers and it got good support from the entire farming community, he said. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao directed the officials to extend Rythu Bandhu assistance immediately as farmers were ready to comply with the government’s policy. The agricultural operations have already started and farmers should not face any problems for investment amount. The Rythu Bandhu investment assistance should be credited to the accounts of farmers within one week to 10 days, he said and called upon the farmers to speed up agricultural activities by utilising the amount. Chief Minister has directed the officials to prepare an agricultural plan for yasangi season too just like the way they prepared the plan for vaanakalam in a review meeting held on implementation of regulated crop cultivation and Rythu Bandhu schemes here on Monday with Agriculture Minister, officials and CMO officials.  Cultivation pattern He reviewed the district-wise cultivation patten and examined the reports sent by the district agricultural officers and expressed satisfaction that the cultivation was going as per the directions of the government. Officials informed him that so far sowing of seeds was done in 11 lakh acres for various crops as suggested by the government. Farmers purchased seeds accordingly, said officers of the Seed Corporation. Overall regulated crop cultivation was being followed in over 1.25 crore acres by farmers and of this paddy was being raised in 41,76,778 acres, red gram in 12,31,284 acres, soyabean in 4,68,216 acres, cotton in 60,16,079 acres, jowar in 1.53 lakh acres, green gram in 1.88 lakh acres, blackgram in 54,121 acres, castor in 92,994 acres, ground nut in 41,667 acres, sugarcane in 67,438 acres, and other crops in 54,353 acres, officers told the Chief Minister. Though the State was facing financial crisis, government decided to give Rythu Bandhu amount of Rs. 5,000 per acre for vaanakalam season requiring Rs. 7,000 crore. Government already transferred Rs. 5,500 crore to the Agriculture department and the Finance department was directed to credit another Rs. 1,500 crore within a week, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said. Last yasangi, crops were raised in 53.5 lakh acres and this year, because of more irrigation projects providing water, additional 10 lakh to 12 lakh acres could be cultivated. The crops that were not advised for vaanakalam crop season should be be raised in the yasangi season like maize in about seven lakh acres apart from paddy in 45 lakh acres, bengal gram in 4 lakh acres, ground nut in 5 lakh acres, vegetables in 1.5 lakh acres.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus cases in TS cross 5,000-mark||The State recorded 219 new cases by Monday evening, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases beyond the 5,000-mark. It now stands at 5,193. Monday was the third consecutive day that saw over 200 cases being recorded. Two more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 187. This is the lowest number of deaths recorded in a day this month. The highest was 14 on June 7. The 219 new cases include 189 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 13 from Rangareddy, four from Warangal Urban, three from Warangal Rural and two each from Medchal and Sangareddy. Of the total 5,193 cases, 2,240 are active while 2,766 have been discharged so far. The last 1,000 cases have been recorded in just five days. Telangana had gone from 3,000 cases to the 4,000-mark in seven days. In this month so far, 2,495 cases have been reported.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Need for rational COVID testing policy for Telangana stressed||A rational testing policy be evolved for the State, based on local conditions rather than strictly adhering to the broad guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The only strategy that can be adopted is ‘ test, trace and treat’ as lockdown is not an affordable option for a prolonged period and testing should be based on epidemiological spread based testing. These are some of the suggestions given by experts in a video conference held by the Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on evolving a discreet, proactive and concrete strategy in combating COVID-19 here on Monday. The video conference was attended by CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra, Former Health secretary, GoI, Sujatha Rao, former DIG of AP H J Dora, Apollo Hospitals President Hari Prasad, IMA, Telangana President Vijender Reddy, secialist in COVID and nphrologist Swaminathan and first patient treated with plasma therapy Vamsimohan. It was also suggested that death cases which had symptoms of COVID may be tested to facilitate isolation of family members and to know the epidemiological spread of disease. The testing should be ramped up to conduct tests to all asymptomatic cases in the identified red zones and hot spots. Some of the other suggestions are starting antibody tests to understand community spread, pool testing in hotspots, deployment of more mobile and drive-through testing laboratories and proactive and aggressive conduct of RTPCR. The meeting emphasised safeguarding frontline warriors such as doctors, paramedical staff, media persons, police, persons doing social service, sanitary workers, and all of them must be tested periodically. Help and protect the periphery and tertiary-level doctors who are taking care of most of the non-COVID patients. It was agreed to prepare a standard protocol for treatment of non-COVID patients and prepare different protocols of treatment of COVID patients depending on severity of illness, plan for plasma therapy. The meeting agreed for forging public, private and people participation backed by technology and unburden the government set-ups, take private hospitals into the fold, allow them to test and treat duly capping on prices for testing and treatment. Hospital facilities for treating COVID patients need to be increased and one should be prepared for any eventuality. Adequate doctors, nurses needed to be recruited and appointed in all public health facilities and make them functional. It was also suggested to include COVID-19 in the list of diseases covered under AArogyasri.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Try to rope in corporate sector to run old-age homes’||Shocked over the plight of inmates of some old-age homes run by NGOs, Telangana High Court on Monday directed the State government to file a detailed report on all homes accommodating senior citizens and the funds being released by government for them. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy also wanted to know how frequently government officials are inspecting these homes. If the homes are not inspected on monthly basis, the government should explain why it is ignoring the hapless senior citizens living there, the bench said in its order. Passing the direction in a PIL plea, the bench said it was shocked over the revelations made in the report presented by lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj appointed as amicus curiae in the case. The report revealed that the “fundamental rights of the elderly inmates are being violated, both by the managers who are supposed to run the homes and certainly by the government”, the bench observed. The government is legally bound to register, maintain, inspect, fund and look after the rights of the senior citizens, it said. The High Court sought to know how many homes are registered in Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Rangareddy. The bench directed the government to explore the possibility of roping in corporate sector to manage old-age homes as part of corporate social responsibility. The companies can take over the homes or they can provide best infrastructure for the senior citizens as per their physical and mental needs, the bench said. The government should also think of bringing old-age homes, orphanage children homes, shelter homes and other homes under one umbrella. By placing children under the guidance of elderly persons, a symbiotic relationship can be developed. While senior citizens get a chance to mentor the children, the latter would benefit from the experiences of the elderly, the bench said. The government was directed to file report by June 23. The plea will be heard again on June 24.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Megha Engineering to make defence equipment||Infrastructure developer Megha Engineering and Infrastructures (MEIL) on Monday said it is foraying into manufacture of weapons and equipment for the defence sector and plans to establish a Rs. 500 crore production facility near Hyderabad. It has applied for permission to produce weapons, vehicles, ancillaries and arms under the Defence Procurement Policy 2020, a part of the Make in India initiative. After examination of the capabilities under various government stipulations, the Government of India issued the approvals, a MEIL release said. On the manufacturing unit, it said the Union Ministry of Home and the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry have given approvals to establish a manufacturing facility at Jeedimetla. The capital outlay on the facility will be Rs. 500 crore. MEIL president Srinivas Bommareddy said “with the necessary approvals in place, Megha group is setting up most modern manufacturing facilities to produce various cutting-edge defence equipment indigenously at our upcoming new facility at Hyderabad. I am happy that the group is fulfilling Prime Minister’s vision and dream of Make in India initiative.” The unit will produce ancillaries for combat vehicles, light combat vehicles, armoured engineer recovery vehicles, armoured recovery vehicles. It will also produce soldiers carrying vehicles (APC), infantry combat vehicles (ICV), armed multi-purpose vehicles, mine-laying vehicles, bridge laying vehicle, all-terrain light combat vehicle (ACTV). Manufacture of missiles, multi-barrel rocket launcher, machine guns, rockets, cannons and equipment to missiles are also proposed. Beginning its journey with construction and infrastructure sector, MEIL has spread wings to oil and gas, power, solar power, aviation sectors. The release said group company IComm Tele is already contributing to the national defence institutions in science and technology fields. Apart from defence electronics and communications, IComm is engaged in power distribution and transmission and solar power sector. It is into development and supply of advanced communication radios, jammers, EW shelters, antennas, electronic warfare containers, wind profiles and radars. As an infrastructure developer, MEIL has completed several projects, including the Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi lift irrigation project in Andhra Pradesh. It has completed the critical works of the multi-stage lift irrigation project Kaleshwaram.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘WFH helps IT workforce strengthen family bondings’||Every cloud has a silver lining and so does lockdown-induced work from home for employees of the IT industry. The WFH is helping IT professionals strengthen their family bonding as they are spending more time at home. Earlier, work apart, commuting itself would take two to three hours more, according to a survey done by Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA). The survey which covered 500 respondents in 150 projects over a month also said about 57% of the employees were not keen on onsite opportunity at this point due to COVID fear. According to the 14-point questionnaire, administered personally and also online, about 82% of the respondents said they would like it if the WFH facility was further extended. TITA Global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala said the survey aimed at understanding how the WFH was being implemented , their views about extending it and other aspects. The WFH has helped many people strengthen their family relationships. The IT sector, according to NIMHANS, was among those that were seeing a high rate of divorce and discord. Working from home had given time to iron out many such issues, he said adding that about 89% of those surveyed reported enhanced relationships with spouses and other family members. Issues with internet connectivity, mission team work and occasional power outages remained the key challenges while working from home. About 62% said they had no work pressure while WFH . The survey, however, said that about 48% were putting in 8 to 10 hours work and about 29% said they were putting in 10 to 12 hours of work at home. A majority of the companies did not give any incentive for WFH. The survey said about 45% used their bedroom as workplace and about 24% had a dedicated work pod while about 22% used the main hall to work, Makthala said.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Intermediate results likely tomorrow||Intermediate results are likely to be released on June 17 as the process of results is in the final stages. Officials said the final testing of the results will be completed by Tuesday morning and the file will be moved to Education Minister, P. Sabita Indra Reddy immediately. \She is likely to inform Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the Collectors meeting on Tuesday and take his nod for the release. Unless the Chief Minister raises some specific queries and wants to have a detailed discussion, the results will be ready to be declared by June 17, a senior official said. Meanwhile, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has released the dates for the Advanced Supplementary examinations, which will be held from July 11 to 18. First-year papers will be held from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and the second-year papers will be held from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. on the same day. Practical exams will be held from July 1 to 4 in two sessions.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t block COVID beds unnecessarily: health official||Bracing for a spike in cases as testing is ramped up, the State government has decided against admitting asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic COVID-19 patients in hospitals to keep beds free for those requiring critical care. Senior officials from the State government said that they will instruct private hospitals not to admit patients just because they test positive. Special Chief Secretary of Health and Family Welfare department A. Santhi Kumari said around 80-90 patients out of 100 do not have symptoms, and they might only have fever or cold. She added there might be a bed scarcity for COVID patients if everyone who tests positive is admitted to hospital. “In other countries too, those with mild or no symptoms are not advised hospitalisation. Those in moderate or critical condition are admitted,” she said. Drawing attention of hospital establishments toward guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the top official said that asymptomatic and mild symptoms cases are either recommended home isolation or must be sent to COVID care centres if they don’t have space to self-isolate at home. ‘Display occupancy’ In some States, people wasted crucial time to find out if beds are available for admission when their family members were in dire need of treatment. Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that private hospitals have been directed to declare how many beds are occupied and vacant for COVID-19 treatment.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sample collection at doorstep for Rs. 2,800||Telangana government on Monday issued orders announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals and labs for COVID-19 treatment and tests. The charges for treatment range from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 9,000 depending on the ward and necessity of ventilator support. The maximum charges for RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus conducted at private labs have been set at Rs. 2,200. The government order indicates that permission has been granted for collection of samples at home which could cost Rs. 2,800. Special Chief Secretary of the State Health and Family Welfare department A. Santhi Kumari directed the private facilities to display the charges at prominent places of their premises. However, the overall charges could shoot up beyond the stipulated tariff — the government order states that the maximum rates exclude charges for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, high-end investigations such as CT-Scan, MRI, and charges for COVID-19 testing. Some of the services included in the maximum rates are monitoring and investigations such as bed charges, consultations, serum creatinine, ECG, 2D Echo, consultation, Hbs Ag, and procedures such as Rylestube insertion and urinary tract catheterisation. Ms. Santhi Kumari has also directed the private establishments to send COVID-19 patients for home isolation or isolation at COVID care centres if the patient is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms. The private hospitals and laboratories have to inform the State Health authorities when a positive case is detected as well as the case details so that contact tracing can be taken up when a patient is admitted to hospital. She added that non-compliance to the orders shall attract action as per provisions of law.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. call to test all in containment zones||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has welcomed the State government’s decision to allow private hospitals and labs to test and treat COVID-19 patients but has remarked that it is a response “too little and too late” in containing the spread of coronavirus in the State. Speaking to mediapersons here on Monday, treasurer of TPCC Gudur Narayana Reddy said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had delayed the decision to allow private hospitals and labs to conduct COVID-19 tests by about 1.5 months although the Indian Council for Medical Research had authorised 18 private hospitals and laboratories in addition to nine government hospitals and institutions to conduct the tests. He reminded that on April 6, he had appealed to the Chief Minister to issue guidelines to permit private labs to conduct coronavirus tests. “There were only 334 positive cases and 11 deaths on April 6. It took 69 days for KCR to wake up when the tally stands at 5,000 positive cases and 185 deaths,” he noted. Massive testing to trace the COVID-19 patients would have helped in their early treatment and would also have prevented the spread of coronavirus. He said the infection to three TRS MLAs and staff of Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Finance Minister Harish Rao, GHMC Mayor B. Rammohan and others was the result of community transmission. Intervention sought The TPCC COVID-19 task force has requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct the government to scale up the management of the virus by increasing number of tests and improving treatment facilities in public health sector. In an open letter addressed to the Governor on Monday, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Congress Legislature Party Leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and task force chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy have drawn the former’s attention to the lacunae in the COVID response system of the State government. They also suggested that the government explore a tie-up to have the testing facilities shown on Google Maps to facilitate easy access for people to approach.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR seeks govt. nod to utilise Central Hospital for COVID treatment||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya has requested Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to allow its Central Hospital at Lallaguda and other health units to treat railway officers and staff testing positive for COVID-19. The urgency has emerged following the ordeal of a high ranking official who ‘could not be admitted’ into the railway hospital since the government was yet to give its nod to treat coronavirus patients in hospitals other than those mandated by it, disclosed senior officials, pleading anonymity, on Monday. The official had faced a harrowing time when the waiting period at Gandhi Hospital for admission stretched beyond seven hours and was forced to get into a corporate hospital on a ‘package’ last week. With a few more positive cases turning up in both Hyderabad and Secunderabad divisions, it set alarm bells ringing among the officials and staff working from lockdown time for movement of essential commodities, Shramik Specials and passenger trains on select routes. Employee associations represented to Mr. Mallya urging him to seek approval of Telangana government to allow railway hospitals to provide treatment, set up isolation wards or start negotiating with the referral hospitals to admit railway officers and staff, if they test positive, considering the inadequate infrastructure at Gandhi Hospital. This is necessary to “boost the morale of the railway officials and staff”, they reminded, in their communication. Andhra Pradesh government had already permitted use of railway health facilities in Vijayawada, it was pointed out. A member of the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen wrote to Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav urging him to make use of railway healthcare facilities and roping in CGHS empanelled corporate hospitals as “ordinary employees” cannot afford to spend on their own for taking COVID-19 related treatment from private hospitals. SCR had earlier claimed that its five major hospitals and 44 health units in Andhra and Telangana are “ready” to swing into action to render medical assistance with doctors and para-medical staff trained about protocol procedure for treating COVID-19 patients through video conferencing by Union Ministry of Health in coordination with Railway Board. About 862 quarantine beds/isolation wards — 142 in Secunderabad, 129 in Vijayawada, 147 in Hyderabad, 234 in Guntakal, 125 in Guntur and 85 in Nanded — are kept ready for the same. “Our hospital is willing to take up the treatment, but we are waiting for a nod from the Telangana Health department,” said senior officials.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||50,000 tests in 10 days to mostly cover vulnerable sections||The announcement of 50,000 COVID-19 tests in 30 Assembly constituencies of Telangana over the next 10 days has caught the attention of people who had been venting ire at the State government for low testing. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has said that the tests would be conducted on those in containment zones, contacts of positive patients, those in the frontline of COVID-19 management such as healthcare professionals, police, municipal workers, who are willing to get tested, those walking in to testing centres and also on people who need to undergo a medical procedure at hospitals. Pregnant women from containment zones who get admitted at hospitals for deliveries will be tested too.  The procedure was initiated on Monday and it would be streamlined on Tuesday. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that RT-PCR method will be used rather than rapid antibody tests which has some issues. 30 constituencies Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday announced that the tests would be conducted in 30 Assembly constituencies located in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, Vikarabad and Sangareddy. A decision on conducting more tests will be taken based on results of the 50,000 tests. Citing various surveillance reports which indicated low prevalence of the novel coronavirus in the State, the Chief Secretary pointed out that the testing is being ramped up in order to gain public confidence. Mr Rajender gave another reason for ramping up the tests. He said since the number of cases increased in and around Hyderabad, the Chief Minister advised more tests to know the exact extent of the infection. Fever survey The Health department will soon take up fever survey to find out the spread of the virus.. Mr Rajender said that the CM has granted permission to recruit additional Auxiliary Nursing Midwives and Accredited Social Health Activists on temporary basis to conduct the survey. These surveys are currently conducted in areas where a positive case is detected. People are asked if they are suffering from fever, cold, cough or other health issues. Tests to cross 1 lakh From March 2 to June 14, over 42,000 coronavirus tests were conducted in Telangana. Of those, 4,974 samples tested positive for coronavirus. But after coming under sharp criticism for low testing, government officials said that they will exceed 1 lakh tests in 10 days. This might be actualised as an additional 50,000 tests are slated to be conducted in 7-10 days. Besides, private laboratories too are have been given the green signal to conduct tests which will add to the number. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said they have the capacity to test 7,500 samples a day. In addition to the usual 4,000 tests, he said a machine is being procured which can test an additional 3,500 samples a day.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub to handhold South Korean start-ups||Technology start-up incubator T-Hub, that has emerged as a key entity in the innovation ecosystem, on Monday said it has entered into a partnership with Korea SMEs and Startups Agency (KOSME) to provide early-stage South Korean start-ups with business opportunities, market understanding and access to customers. Their partnership would also enable soft landing for the start-ups to explore the Indian market. Ten South Korean start-ups have been shortlisted for the first accelerator programme. A release from the incubator said T-Hub will virtually onboard the selected start-ups in the acceleration programme. Owing to COVID-19, the partnership was formalised virtually. T-Hub CEO Ravi Narayan and KOSME Chief Representative (India) Jung Hwan Moon signed the MoU. KOSME is an initiative of the Ministry of SMEs and Startup of the government of South Korea. According to Mr. Narayan, South Korea has built a very strong start-up base over time and Seoul houses over 60% of Korean start-ups. Seoul is actively working towards creating a larger start-up ecosystem. “Our partnership with the South Korean government will create ample opportunities for innovative start-ups to scale up in the Indian markets. T-Hub's collaboration with KOSME will provide international market-access to the most disruptive and deserving South Korean start-ups and fuel connections with key stakeholders,” he said. Mr. Moon said KOSME, as part of ‘Korean Startups Go Global’ agenda, aggressively looks forward to help Korean start-ups foray into in the growing Indian market. As part of the two month acceleration programme, the start-ups will get tailored business and investor connects in the Indian market; helped to gain market access and be ready for the Indian market; and empowered with knowledge and assistance to improve their product market fit and business model.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inspector suspended for polygamy||The Rachakonda Central Crime Station (Malkajgiri) inspector Lavodi Balu Chowhan was suspended on Monday after a case was registered against him by Saroornagar police for allegedly harassing his second wife. Officials said that Chowhan entered into a second marriage without having annulled the first. “He has exhibited reprehensible misconduct by harassing his second wife physically and mentally. He also threatened her with dire consequences and married her while his first wife was alive by cheating on her,” the officials said. Moreover, the accused officer suppressed the matter of his second marriage to the police department. Chowhan rendered himself in a criminal case and thereby violated Conduct Rules-1964. “On establishment of his paternity in DNA test, he has been placed under suspension and departmental enquiry is ordered by the Commissioner,” they said.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HRF seeks govt’s help in release of people’s activists||Human Rights Forum (HRF) has demanded that the Telangana government support activists arrested from people’s organisations in securing bails and wriggling out of illegal cases slapped against them. In the context of NIA arresting Telangana Praja Front (TPF) State secretary Nalamas Krishna from a hospital in Khammam, where he was getting treatment for serious ailments on Sunday, the HRF released a statement on Monday seeking his immediate release, and demanding that people’s activists not be thwarted from working within the legal framework. Ministers and people’s representatives should help the activists in getting bails and in clearing out of the cases, it said. While the Telangana police had slapped six cases against Mr.Krishna, he could secure bail in all the six, as per the information shared by his wife. The TPF representatives have informed that 11 activists belonging to various people’s organisations are already arrested, while three of them got bail. Besides, the State police are getting ready to slap cases against 78 others, they alleged, as informed to the HRF. The statement alleged vengeful attitude by the Telangana government against those with alternative political opinions, which are not appealing to the government, and demanded democratic atmosphere to work without fear.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two chain snatchers held||The Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (Central zone) apprehended two chain snatchers and recovered a gold chain weighing three tola and a bike from their possession. The accused are Shakti Mayur (21) from Basheerbagh and Kala Vikas (23) of Puranapool. “A week ago they committed a chain snatching offence in Musheerabad,” police said. After analysing the video footage of the surveillance cameras in the area, the police identified and apprehended the accused.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for bid to rape minor||Two people who attempted to sexually assault a minor girl were roughed up by locals at Bachupally, before they were handed over to the police here on Monday. The accused -- Janaki Ravi, and Gajjela Sai Kumar, both aged 25, are residents of Ameenpur village of Sangareddy district. Bachupally police registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. They said that the 16-year-old victim along with another woman was engaged in rag-picking near a garbage dump, when the duo approached her on a bike and abused her. “When she got angry and resisted, the accused forcefully took her to an isolated place on their bike, where they tried to rape her,” the police said.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ACB DSP dies of cardiac arrest||Sokkam Pratap, a DSP with Anti Corruption Bureau, died of cardiac arrest at his residence in Green Park Colony, Bowenpally, on Monday morning. The 1995-batch officer was working in the Central Investigation Unit of the ACB and was recently placed under suspension. Sources close to the 53-year-old Mr. Pratap said that around 7 a.m. he collapsed in the bathroom. His wife with the help of tenants rushed him to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Mr. Pratap was posted in the traffic wing of Hyderabad city police for around five years, before he got promoted as Deputy Superintendent of Police last year. Before he was transferred to ACB, Hyderabad, the officer served as Warangal Range DSP for the bureau. He is survived by wife and a school-going son. Officials in the ACB said that Mr. Pratap was suspended for not conducting an enquiry ‘properly’. “He was asked to conduct an enquiry on the alleged disproportionate assets of an officer. During the process of investigation, he called the officer in question to the office and asked him about his assets and submitted a report stating that the latter has no illegal property in his name. Later, when the same enquiry was assigned to another officer, Pratap's investigation was proved false,” a top police officer said. Mr. Pratap leaked the information about the enquiry by asking the officer in question to come to the ACB headquarters, he said.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus-positive MLA sent for quarantine at home||TRS MLA from Jangaon constituency Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy, who drew criticism for getting admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad after testing positive for coronavirus, was sent for home quarantine after doctors reviewed his condition. Incidentally, officials on Monday stressed the need for keeping COVID-19 patients under home quarantine if they are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms which keeps hospitals beds free for patients in need of critical care. Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office also reiterated the same, citing Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.  Besides Mr Reddy, Telangana’s COVID Expert Committee member Gangadhar, who tested positive on Sunday, is under home quarantine. He is a professor in Nephrology department at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences.
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No community transmission in the State so far’||There were allegations about community transmission of COVID-19 having begun in Telangana. However, Health Minister Eatala Rajender and senior officials have denied it. Mr Rajender cited two-phased surveillance study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research in May, to support his statement. “It is not us who declared it. Based on the reports, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said that there is no community spread in Telangana,” Mr Rajender said.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crime brief:||A 32-year-old man was arrested by the Rajendra Nagar police on Monday in connection with the murder of a section officer in University of Hyderabad. The accused, Mohammed Azeem, from Darga Kaliz Khan in the area, killed B. Sathyanarayana (56) of Hydershakote village on June 6.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mir Chowk inspector attached to CAR Hqrs.||Mir Chowk inspector V. Anand Kishore was attached to City Armed Reserve headquarters on administrative ground. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar asked South Zone Additional DCP to relieve the inspector with instructions to report before the Additional Commissioner of Police CAR headquarters.
16 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crime Brief: Nutritious diet distributed to pregnant woman||Rachakonda police along with Ramakrishna Mission’s Swami Bodhamayanand distributed nutritious food material to pregnant women on Monday. They also distributed groceries to ANMs, gram panchayat staff at Addagudur. CP Mahesh M Bhagwat advised the women to take precautions during the present COVID-19 outbreak.
16 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Masks distributed to TSRTC employees||Sri Venkatesh Granites (SVG) distributed 2,000 reusable cloth masks to RTC employees here on Monday in memory of philanthropist and businessman Kesarimal Karwa, whose son Bhagwan Karwa and grandson Krishna Karwa distributed the masks to RTC regional manager Jeevan Prasad at RTC Karimnagar-1 depot.
16 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Video song on police personnel an instant hit||The town-based lensman Chava Sampath Kumar’s video song portraying the relentless services of police personnel in the collective battle against coronavirus pandemic became an instant hit, earning him wide acclaim. Titled ‘Sincere salute to self-sacrificing soldiers’, the five-minute video song encapsulates the untiring services of the police as part of vigorous efforts to stem the spread of COVID-19. The music video CD was released by Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseer Iqbal a few days ago. The song was composed by D Narendar Reddy, sung by K Swaroopa Reddy and produced by Chava Roshini. It received overwhelming response from not only policemen across the old undivided Khammam district, but also became popular on various social media platforms almost instantly. The aerial view of police vehicles moving around the main streets of the fort town enforcing night curfew was shot using drone cameras in the video, says Mr Sampath, who had won several State and national awards for his stunning photos on an array of themes including tribal lifestyle, wildlife and religious fairs in the past. The opening phrase of the song Rakshakuda Jayam Jayam – Sevakuda Shubam Shubam aptly encapsulates the heroic role of the COVID-19 warriors in these turbulent times.
16 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TPF leader implicated in false case, says wife||Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president Nalamasa Krishna’s wife Sandhya alleged that her ailing husband was implicated in a “draconian case” on “false charges of having links with Maoists.” In a statement, she flayed the arrest of her husband by National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths from a private hospital here on Sunday evening. He is suffering from chronic bronchitis and spinal disk problems and needs constant medical care as well as regular physiotherapy, she said.
16 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Third MLA of TRS tests positive for COVID-19||Ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi legislator from Nizamabad Urban Bigala Ganesh Gupta tested positive for COVID-19 and has been advised home quarantine by doctors in Hyderabad on Monday. He is the second legislator from the district to get the virus after Nizamabad Rural MLA Bajireddy Govardhan was found to be positive on Sunday. Nizamabad Rural MLA who had spent some time with Janagoan MLA Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy, the first ruling party MLA to have contracted the disease, got himself tested on Saturday and the result was intimated to him on Sunday. Mr. Bajireddy immediately drove down to Hyderabad and was admitted to a private hospital. Home-quarantined As Mr. Gupta has not shown the symptoms of the disease he was advised by the doctors to quarantine himself at home, according to sources close to him. The urban MLA could not be reached for his comments.
16 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Kavitha helps gulf victim return home||Former MP and Telangana Jagruthi founder-president Kalvakuntla Kavitha came to the rescue of a migrant worker in Saudi Arabia and ensured his safe evacuation to his native village Chepur in Armoor mandal. The hapless worker Ankamolla Ravi had gone to Saudi Arabia as a construction labourer six years ago. However, his Arab employer started harassing him to avoid payment of salary and provision of facilities all these years. On being approached by Ravi’s family members, the Gulf Victims’ Welfare Association president Kotapati Narsimha Naidu took up the matter to the notice of the former MP. Ravi himself had also posted his plight with a photograph of bleeding injuries on his face in Twitter. Ms. Kavitha, in turn, tweeted the same to External Affairs Minister S. Jaisankar requesting for his intervention. Telangana Jagruthi members in Saudi Arabia went to the workplace of Ravi and liberated him with the help of local authorities.
16 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||NREGS helps sustain the lockdown-hit||The National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) came in handy for the district administration in addressing the demand from wage seekers during April and May, the peak lockdown period of coronavirus. Sangareddy district stood second in the State in providing employment under the scheme. Exodus of migrants Owing to the virus and the subsequent lockdown, thousands of workers migrated to native places, unable to get income in the towns. This increased demand for work. The district administration has issued more than 12,000 new job cards for those who demanded the cards. The highest number of job cards were issued at Nagalgidda (1,136) followed by Sirgapur (902), Kalher (836) and Gummadidala (791), Kangti (787) and Naryanakhed (784). While the target of providing 84 lakh mandays in the year was entrusted to officials of the District Rural Development Office (DRDO), they were able to create more than half – 44.77 lakh mandays — in the first two months of the financial year — April and May. In both these months, the officials paid as much as Rs. 71.16 crore to the labour excluding holidays between April and June first week. This comes to about Rs. 1.2 crore per day that was paid to the labourers in the district working under NREGS. For the first time in the district, NERGS works were taken up in eight villages of Gummdidala mandal after a long gap as a result of the lockdown. Here, a majority of workers were engaged in industries and as the units were closed down, they switched to NREGS works. “We are able to improve the rural economy by pumping in more than Rs. 71 crore during the lockdown by providing works under NREGS. We have crossed more than half of the annual target,” Ch. Srinivas Rao told the general body meeting of the Zilla Parishat held here on Wednesday.
16 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sangareddy sees spike in cases after brief lull||Notwithstanding tall claims of the district administration about putting in place all measures to arrest the spread of coronavirus, Sangareddy, situated close to red zone Hyderabad, seems to be the new hot spot for COVID-19 cases. Officials, however, are not willing to reveal the exact number of cases. It was among the first districts to report cases following the return of a group of people from the Tablighi Jamaat meetings in New Delhi. Six cases were reported from then on, and though it was slow for some time, the number of cases spiked. As many as 75 cases, including three deaths, were reported from the district so far. However, officials claim there were only two deaths as the third death took place in Ramachandrapuram mandal limits which falls under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. Freshly, on Sunday, four cases were reported from Revenue Colony of the district headquarters. A police personnel working as gun man to a VIP was reportedly infected with the virus and three of his family members tested positive. The previous day, 19 of 22 persons who attended a funeral procession tested positive. A few days earlier, nine persons from Aroor and Patancheru area were diagnosed with the virus. Sources said there are 52 active cases in the district while 24 persons have been discharged. Worried over rising cases, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao said, “The number of cases in Sangareddy district is increasing and we need to be on alert. Movements between Hyderabad and Sangareddy district is high and this is resulting in surge in cases. People are advised to not come out unless it is an emergency.”
16 June 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Woman drowns two children in ‘suicide pact’||eA woman allegedly drowned her two children in the mini tank bund here in the intervening hours of Sunday and Monday, in what was portrayed to be a failed suicide pact, but police suspect the incident may be a plain case of murder. According to locals and walkers at Saddula Cheruvu, who alerted the police, Nagamani was seen crying on the bund at around 6 a.m., while her son Harshavardhan, 6, dead and face down floated there. When the police arrived, she reportedly said she had pushed her another child, Jyothi Madhavi, 9, into the tank, and in the last moment she dropped the idea of ending her life, out of remorse. The police after a long search retrieved the body of Jyothi Madhavi. Nagamani, married Prashant Kumar, a scrap metal worker in 2006. Late on Sunday night, Nagamani left the house with her children after a prolonged argument , and on Monday early hours she told locals that the extreme step was out of frustration with her husband. Nagamani was booked for murder of her children.
16 June 2020||Bhopal,||10 days on, M.P. police yet to arrest accused||A government doctor who was beaten up by a patient and his relatives for asking them to maintain social distancing fears returning to work in Raisen district, even as the police are yet to arrest any of the accused 10 days after the incident and government to heed his requests for a transfer. Raja Wasim Bakshi, a Medical Officer at the Community Health Centre in Badi, has alleged that local BJP leader Jodha Singh Atwal had instigated the attack on June 5. “I have received numerous threats from his sons on the phone. And it is not safe for me to return to work,” said Dr. Bakshi from Bhopal, his hometown where he had got back to be treated for an elbow fracture he suffered during the assault. On Monday, even as the accused patient Satvindar Singh, his brother Talvinder and other four-five unidentified persons mentioned in the FIR are yet to be arrested, the doctor was asked to rejoin duty. “How can I go back to work at a place where there is a threat to my life? They have been pressing me to withdraw the case,” said Dr. Bakshi, 34. Raisen Chief Medical and Health Officer Shashi Thakur said the police after the incident had assured her the accused would be arrested immediately. However, Badi police station in-charge Satya Prakash Saxena on Monday said, “No arrests have been made so far,” although BJP leader and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has expressed gratitude towards health workers on numerous counts, describing them as “corona warriors”. “This incident is real. There are no two opinions about it,” said Mr. Saxena. But curiously, he said, “we are yet to get medical reports and are collecting evidence,” despite as many as 10 days since the incident. The case was registered under Sections 3 and 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Doctors’ Protection Act, 2008, which prohibits assault on medical service persons during the discharge of their duties within a medical institution. The offence, cognisable and non-bailable, can invite an imprisonment or fine or both. ‘Helping victim’ When asked if pressure from Mr. Atwal preventing the police from making arrests, Mr. Saxena said, “They tried with full force to register a counter case. But we didn’t register it. This way we are helping the victim.” Whereas, Mr. Atwal told The Hindu, “I don’t know anything about the incident. We have no relation with that family [the patient’s]”.
16 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Review ordinances on farming sector, Amarinder urges PM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the ordinances issued by the Central government related to the farming sector. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has also demanded revocation of what he termed “anti-farmer ordinances”. Capt. Amarinder, in a letter to the Prime Minister, has sought reconsideration of the three ordinances — for permitting trade in agricultural produce outside the physical boundaries of the set-up of the agricultural market under APMC Act, easing of restrictions under the Essential Commodities Act and facilitating contract farming. Referring to the specific ordinances, the Chief Minister said the Agriculture Produce Marketing System in Punjab had stood the test of time and served the State and the country well over the last 60 years. However, the changes as per the ordinance dated June 5, 2020, in the agricultural marketing system, had led to widespread apprehension among the farmers of the State that the Union government was planning to withdraw from the assured procurement of food grains produced by them.  ‘Market for traders’ He said that there was also another apprehension that the proposed barrier-free nation-wide markets for farmers would really come to mean a nation-wide market for traders, possibly to the detriment of the already debt-ridden and beleaguered farmers of the State, the Chief Minister said. On the easing of regulation of food grains under the Essential Commodities Act, Capt. Amarinder said it allows exporters, processors or traders to hold large stocks of farm produce without limits, except in certain grave situations like war, natural calamity, famine and extraordinary price rise. The amendment would allow the private players to buy the produce in harvest season, when prices are generally lower, and release it later when prices firm up. He stated that in the absence of any regulation, States would also have no information about the availability of stocks of commodities within the State.
16 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||127 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 127 new COVID-19 cases on June 15 and reported four more deaths, taking the toll to 71, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 3,267 in the State. The patients who died were from Amritsar district. The major chunk of new cases, 33 and 23 were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 753 and 2,443 patients have so far recovered.
16 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Reinstate Haryana school instructors, says Surjewala||Congress leader and media in-charge of the party Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday urged Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal to reinstate the retrenched Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) by issuing an ordinance and ratifying it through a Bill passed by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. The Supreme Court had last month upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing the appointment of 1,983 PTIs in schools in 2010. Mr. Surjewala said he has written a letter to the Chief Minister, in which he has also suggested a “draft Bill” for providing security of service to the PTIs. “I urge upon you [Chief Minister] to take immediate steps to ensure that these 1,983 PTI teachers and their families are not abandoned to the vagaries of unemployment for an irregularity, if any, on the part of the recruiting authority”, he wrote.  ‘Don’t punish them’ Mr. Surjewala said if there has been an irregularity in selection, it is solely the remit of the recruiting authority and its brunt cannot be borne by innocent individuals and their families, who are being retrenched from their jobs after long years of service.
16 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Scientists asked to study tremors around blowout well in Assam||The North East Institute of Science and Technology (NEIST) under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research has been entrusted to study the reported tremors in eastern Assam’s Baghjan area where a natural gas well caught fire after a blowout on May 27. This followed a meeting between Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and senior scientists of NEIST as well as Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati in Guwahati on Monday. The locals of Natungaon, Natun Rangagora and other villages around the affected well claimed they have been experiencing tremors erratically ever since the June 9 inferno that is yet to be doused. The walls and pillars of some houses reportedly developed cracks due to the shock waves. Oil India Limited (OIL), which had outsourced the operation of the Baghjan well in Tinsukia district to a Gujarat-based firm, said NEIST has been asked to measure seismicity, if any, due to the blowout and fire. A blowout is an uncontrolled escape of natural gas or crude oil. The spewing is akin to a volcanic eruption. “NEIST and OIL scientists surveyed site on Sunday to identify locations for installing the broadband seismographs at various radial distances from the well. Five of these seismographs will be deployed by NEIST for data to be recorded tentatively for 7-10 days,” an OIL spokesperson said on Monday. He added that a team from The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) was likely to visit the site on Tuesday to measure and monitor noise and air quality. The Baghjan well adjoins the Maguri-Motapung wetland and is about 1 km from the ecologically fragile Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. While locals said the blowout destroyed the wetland and killed a few floral and faunal species, two firefighters of OIL lost their lives on June 9 while battling the flames.  Separate probes The Central and Assam governments besides the OIL have already ordered separate probes into the incident. More than 7,000 people from around 1,500 families, affected by the incident, were still lodged at various relief camps. When Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan visited Baghjan on Sunday, some local organisations had demanded payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation to each affected family.
16 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Students’ body threatens lockdown||The apex students’ body of Arunachal Pradesh has threatened to impose total lockdown “anytime, anywhere” if the number of COVID-19 positive cases increase and the government machinery is unable to check its community spread. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) has taken the decision after a front-line worker tested positive on Sunday. The union also factored in Mizoram’s return to total lockdown for two weeks from June 9 and a similar move mulled by Assam. “We are not against the government. We are only fighting for the indigenous people after consulting health experts who have advised necessary steps if there is a chance of community spread of the infection,” AAPSU vice-president Meje Taku said. The infection of the frontline worker, he said, was a signal that there was a potential threat of contagion at the community level.
16 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Probe ordered into ‘custodial death’ in Assam||The administration in Assam’s Jorhat district on Monday ordered a magisterial inquiry into the alleged custodial death of a 30-year-old man. People of the district’s Kakodonga Habigaon Block 5 village staged demonstration after Jayanta Bora, suspected to be a member of the outlawed ULFA(I), died soon after he was caught during a search operation on Sunday. Bora, caught during the search operation, complained of uneasiness while he was being brought to Borholla police station under which the village falls. He died at a Jorhat hospital.
16 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan offers testing facility to other States||Having registered a phenomenal increase in its COVID-19 testing capacity to 15,000 per day, Rajasthan has offered to provide the test facility to the neighbouring States. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here that the State government could conduct up to 5,000 tests per day for six neighbouring States. Mr. Gehlot said his government’s highest priority was to save lives and it was willing to support Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Gujarat with the testing facility. “Rajasthan is committed to providing all possible help to the neighbouring States during the present crisis,” he said. Mr. Gehlot said the testing capacity of Rajasthan, which was zero when the COVID-19 pandemic had started, had now reached 15,000 per day. Delhi and Gujarat have been reporting delays in providing test results because of insufficient equipment. The Chief Minister reviewed the status of COVID-19 cases at a high-level meeting here, while affirming that the virus infection was under control in the State as a result of strengthening of health care infrastructure, regular monitoring and aggressive screening during house-to-house surveys. The recovery rate in the State was also better than the national average, Mr. Gehlot said.  ‘Norms not followed’ He expressed concern over people not complying with the health protocol during the ‘unlock-1’ phase and directed that those violating the rules be strictly dealt with. A special campaign would be launched in the State from June 21 to 30 to create awareness about COVID-19, he said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 1,600 new cases; no plans for another lockdown, says CM||The Capital reported 1,647 new COVID-19 cases and 73 deaths on Monday, taking the total to 42,829. The health bulletin issued by the Delhi government revised the total number of deaths from 1,327 to 1,400. It added that 604 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 16,427. There are currently 25,002 active cases in the Capital with 242 containment zones. The total number of tests conducted on Monday was 6,105. The government plans to scale up testing to over 10,000 a day. No plan for lockdown Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that there is no plan for another lockdown in Delhi, quelling rumors that started doing the rounds after there was a spurt in cases, prompting the Central and State governments to work together. “Many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi is being planned. There are no such plans,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. Increase in testing Meanwhile, all labs in Delhi, both public and private, were told to ramp up their testing capacity for COVID-19 and work at their full potential to meet an increased demand for processing of samples, in an order issued by the Delhi government on Monday. Home Minister Amit Shah, following a meeting with Delhi government representative, had said that testing would increase two-fold in the next two days and three-fold after six days. In line with this, the order issued by the Delhi government states that it has been decided to scale-up lab testing immediately. Instructions issued for sample collection teams state that there will be no upper limit to send samples to private labs provided they undertake the process withing the stipulated timeframe of 24 hours, preferably, to a maximum of 48 hours. In this context, while testing for COVID-19 at labs of the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) had been put on hold as a large backlog of samples had not been processed, in a separate order on Sunday, submission of samples by government and municipal hospitals was re-allowed at these labs given that samples from the Delhi government were no longer pending. In collection samples, teams have been instructed to strictly adhere to the “testing strategy” issued by the ICMR, private labs will have to send their teams to pick up samples from districts or hospitals as per requests made, the order stated. Payment for the labs are to be made from funds available under the National Health Mission, it added. Order on nursing homes After the meeting between Mr. Shah and Delhi government representatives, State Health Minister Satyendar Jain said a slew of measures were taken to ramp up testing in the city, especially in containment zones and to carry door-to-door surveys in these areas. “The Central government is extending to us the facilities of the testing labs that are under its jurisdiction,” Mr. Jain added. Regarding a decision to earmark about 10-49 beds at nursing homes as COVID beds, Mr. Jain said that given “the season of other ailments like dengue and malaria is also approaching... this decision was revoked so that these nursing homes can be preserved for those treatments”. He added that preparations were being made for the monsoon on a war footing such as “cementing and other preparations”. Apart from this, trains, banquet halls and other properties which have been earmarked for use as COVID-19 facilities, will be used for treatment of less serious patients, while more serious cases will be treated at hospitals, the Minister said. “We have around 45% of beds available even today. More than the cases, the real question is how many beds do we need for the treatment of the patients,” he added. Community spread On the question of whether there is a community spread in Delhi, Mr. Jain said, “We should not go in addressing the technical term of ‘community spread’. There is a outbreak in Delhi, and this virus spreads in big cities where there are close community areas.”
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Amit Shah pays surprise visit at Lok Nayak||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday paid a surprise visit to Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi government’s main COVID-19 dedicated hospital. Mr. Shah enquired about the overall death rate at the city hospital. Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, briefed Mr. Shah about the situation. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and other State government officials were also present. A small part of the interaction was uploaded on the official YouTube channel of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Two minutes after Dr. Kumar started the presentation describing the legacy of the 90-year-old hospital, Mr. Shah interjected to know the percentage of patients who recovered and those who died of the infection. Dr. Kumar informed Mr. Shah that Lok Nayak Hospital had started treating COVID-19 patients since March 17 and had admitted 5,000 patients in the last three months. He said that more than 100 babies of COVID-19-positive women were born at the hospital so far, adding that it was the highest in North India. To this, Mr. Shah asked the percentage of patients who recovered and succumbed. Dr. Kumar said that the death rate was 2-3% and 97% patients had recovered. Dr. Kumar said they received patients from the entire North India and those who came complained of respiratory or kidney failure. He said the patients came from Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. Mr. Shah followed this with a query on the number of dead patients from Delhi and others. Dr. Kumar said that 455 patients who died were from Delhi and only 14 from other States and around “20-25% of total patients” were from outside Delhi. The Home Minister posed another question on the number of patients who were presently admitted in the hospital. Dr. Kumar said so far, they had treated 3,300 COVID-19 patients and on Monday, 768 patients were admitted of which 500 were confirmed positive and remaining were suspected patients with symptoms. In the last 24 hours, the hospital reported 20 deaths, including 11 COVID-19 cases. Earlier, an order issued by the AAP-led Delhi government offering State government hospitals only to COVID-19 patients from Delhi was reversed by L-G Anil Baijal. Mr. Shah has held at least three meetings with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in the past three days to discuss a strategy as number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi has crossed 41,000 and the number of deaths rose to around 1,300. Mr. Shah also met Mr. Baijal on Sunday and it was decided to provide 500 railway coaches for COVID-19 patients. CCTVs in wards A statement by the Home Ministry said that Mr. Shah had directed Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to “instal CCTV cameras in COVID-19 wards of hospitals so that there is proper monitoring and problems of patients can also be resolved”. An order to this effect was passed later in the day. He asked the Chief Secretary that back-ups for canteens supplying food should also be established so that in case there is an infection in one canteen, patients can continue to get food without disruption. The Union Minister directed that psycho-social counselling of doctors and nurses engaged in service to humanity through the treatment of COVID-19 patients should also be done, the statement said. None of the Delhi government Ministers were present during the interaction.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress makes 11 suggestions to fight outbreak||After attending an all-party meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the Central and State governments had finally woken up to the threat that COVID-19 posed in Delhi. The two governments, Mr. Kumar said, finally admitted that there was a surge in the number of cases in the city due to inadequate testing and contact tracing and wondered why the meeting was not held 84 days ago, on March 23, when the lockdown was imposed. The Delhi Congress, he said, will be holding dharnas on Tuesday at over 1,000 locations across the city to protest against the failures of both governments in power for letting the situation spiral out of control. He said that Congress workers will sit on protest, wearing black bands, outside the door of their homes encourage people to hold the government accountable. “It is due to the incompetence and failure of both governments that the COVID-19 pandemic has made a fast surge in the Capital. There is less testing and a severe shortage of beds for patients leading to panic among the people of Delhi. Precious time was wasted during the lockdown when preparations could have been made,” Mr. Kumar said. The Delhi Congress gave 11 suggestions at the all-party meeting that included converting school and college hostels into isolation centres and throwing open three Delhi government hospitals which are nearing completion and have a combined strength of 2,609 beds. The party objected to the use of train coaches to lodge quarantine patients as it would not be comfortable for patients to be put up in non-AC, cramped train coaches in this hot weather. Mr. Kumar said that he reiterated his demand of an immediate relief of Rs. 10,000 for all COVID-19 patient and their families living in the containment zones. Also, among the suggestions made were compensation to the COVID-19 warriors in Delhi, including health workers and police personnel, who died on duty and that final year MBBS, Nursing and B. Pharma students be deployed to fight the pandemic.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Issues of testing, tracing, treatment of virus tabled at all-party meeting||Issues of testing, tracing and treatment of COVID-19 patients and doubling the number of tests of those infected by the virus in the Capital were discussed at the all-party meeting convened by Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Monday. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the BJP delegation asked Mr. Shah to reduce testing charges by 50% which, according to Mr. Gupta, the Home Minister assured to implement. Apart from Mr. Gupta, the delegation also included BJP State organization general secretary Siddharthan and Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. “We have also demanded to reduce the fees of private hospitals regarding which Dr. Paul Committee has been formed, which will submit its report tomorrow. After this, the cost of COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals will be fixed,” Mr. Gupta said. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said data related to the Delhi government’s tackling of the situation was also submitted at the meeting. Delhi statistics “At 15,000 tests per million, the number of tests in Delhi are more than double the State conducting the second highest number of tests in the country which is Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Singh said. “We have been told about a test that will give results in 15 minutes. It costs Rs. 450 and will be used soon for mass testing. Senior IAS officers are being appointed to coordinate between the State government and the Centre”, Mr. Singh said. “Regarding the way forward, increasing 1,900 beds at Delhi government hospitals, 2,000 beds at Central government hospitals, 4,000 beds at hotels, 1,178 beds at private hospitals...we also discussed door-to-door marking in containment zones,” he also said. Mr. Gupta said that every house in containment zones will be mapped for tracing. The Deputy Commissioner of the Delhi government’s Revenue Department has been appointed the nodal officer to monitor mappin. Officers, he said, have also been appointed to monitor the app issued by the Delhi government so it provides correct information with updates about the availability of beds in hospitals. “At the meeting, all the parties kept their political agenda aside and expressed their opinion to save Delhi from the pandemic,” Mr. Gupta said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt.’s reply on green crematorium plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the city government to respond to a plea by an NGO, which operates green crematoriums in Delhi, offering its facilities to cremate the bodies of those who have died of COVID-19. The NGO, ‘Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti’, said in its plea that it has installed 16 green crematoriums in Delhi out of which six are at the Nigam Bodh Ghat and they can handle 24 cremations per day. The High Court also gave the city government time till June 29 to submit an updated status report in the case initiated by the court on its own after coming across news reports about the lack of facilities to cremate those who have died of COVID-19. Apart from the NGO’s plea, the High Court also took up another petition filed by a lawyer, seeking contempt action against the Delhi government and medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital for not adhering to the undertaking given to the High Court on handling of bodies of COVID-19 patients. The High Court adjourned that matter after Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and additional Delhi government standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the Health Department, said the issue of disposal of COVID-19 bodies has been taken up suo motu (on its own) by the Supreme Court where they have to file a reply. The contempt plea was moved by advocate Avadh Kaushik, who alleged that the bodies were lying in the same wards and corridors of the Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi, where COVID-19 patients are being admitted and kept.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Zomato to deliver Safal fruits, vegetables in Capital||Mother Dairy’s fruits and vegetables arm, Safal, has started home delivery of its fresh produce through food delivery company Zomato in parts of the Delhi-NCR. In the first phase, delivery has started from 11 booths in Saket, Vasant Kunj, Dwarka, Janakpuri and Panchsheel Enclave, as well as Sector 29 and Sector 50 in Noida. Each Safal outlet will cater to a radius of 10 km around them and consumers can use the regular Zomato mobile app to place orders, said a statement from Mother Dairy on Monday. The partnership will be expanded to cover the whole of the Delhi-NCR. There are over 300 Safal booths across the city selling an average of 270 tonnes of fresh produce daily, apart from other grocery staples such as flour, pulses and edible oils. As Safal outlets remained open during the lockdown, they ensured uninterrupted supply chain of products even in containment zones, said the statement.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. told to reply on plea by Ganga Ram||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the city government to reply on a plea by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) seeking quashing of an FIR lodged by Delhi Police against it for allegedly violating COVID-19 norms. Justice C. Hari Shankar listed the case for further hearing on August 11. The hospital has sought quashing of the FIR lodged on June 5 at Rajinder Nagar police station under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and the proceedings initiated thereafter. The hospital also sought to set aside the Delhi government’s June 3 order, prohibiting RT/PCR sampling for COVID-19 suspect/contact cases with immediate effect. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of a senior official of the Delhi Health Department who alleged that the hospital was not using RT-PCR app while collecting COVID-19 samples. It said that as per the guidelines, it is “mandatory” for labs to collect samples through RT-PCR app. The official has also alleged “violation” on part of the hospital in not adhering to COVID-19 norms, as specified under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “The CDMO-cum-mission director central has mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till June 3, which is a clear violation of directions issued under the Epidemic Disease COVID-19 Regulation 2020 Act,” the FIR stated. The petition claimed that the FIR was vague.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Waive fines imposed on essential workers: plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea by Delhi Medical Association (Dwarka), seeking waiving of the e-challans issued against “all COVID-19 warriors” during the first two phases of lockdown. The court asked the association to make a representation to the traffic police for formulation of guidelines on display of speed limit signboards and immediate intimation of violation to the violator. The plea stated that during the first two phases of lockdown, all traffic signals were not functioning or were on auto blinking mode and consequently, “the alleged traffic violations are without any justified ground and reason”. The association stated that e-challans were issued based on electronic surveillance alone. “The traffic police targeted essential service providers by penalising them during the lockdown,” it said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||DDMA meeting on capping charges postponed||A crucial meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to discuss capping private hospital and ambulance charges amidst allegations of exorbitant cost of COVID-19 treatment has been postponed, officials said on Monday. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDMA chairman, had called the meeting on Tuesday (June 16) to discuss several important issues such as setting up of large makeshift hospitals, capping hospital prices, and reducing testing charges.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Food path||
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||State to reconcile COVID-19 data, detect glitches in reporting||The Maharastra government is carrying out a large-scale data reconciliation exercise to remove glitches in the State’s COVID-19 figures. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, while admitting to “discrepancies” in the manual loading of data to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website, said there was no deliberate suppression of figures. Mr. Mehta said on Monday that in several cases, the cause of death may have been shown as COVID-19, while the actual reason may have been cardiac arrest or renal failure. “There is no question of suppression of facts and figures, even as there are political allegations we [State government] have buried data. We will probe any instance where the mismatch has been deliberate. However, mostly these have been inadvertent errors, if any, during the manual phase of data uploading,” Mr. Mehta told The Hindu . The State government is likely to release the final tally of the corrected figures on Tuesday, he said. The State government had first started testing and screening for COVID-19 cases in January. The very first case in Maharashtra was detected on March 9, and while the testing facilities were limited to two labs at the time, currently 98 laboratories are conducting RtPCR tests to detect the virus. In the earlier phase of data collection, laboratories were informing swab results over email or phone to the Public Health Department, followed by a hard copy. Subsequently, the Union Ministry of Health provided direct access to ICMR portal, to which all ICMR-approved laboratories are entering data in real time, Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary (health), said. In a letter to all district and municipal bodies, he wrote, “Now Chief Secretary has directed a data reconciliation drive be completed at the earliest by June 15. In this, each district and municipal corporation should inform number of cases discharged, number of deaths and active cases, until midnight of June 6. Any data mismatch brought to notice after this would be viewed very seriously.” The exercise is also necessary, officials said, to know the exact load of active cases and for better planning to utilise the health infrastructure. Government offices have also been asked to carry out data cleaning of all records directly sent to districts collectors and municipal commissioners. The opposition parties have alleged the government’s COVID-19 data collection has been poor. “I visited my constituency ward office today to demand data on patients admitted and funds the government may have used on quarantine facilities and treatment. But in 80% of these cases, the local ward could not provide me any data,” said former BJP minister and suburban legislator Yogesh Sagar. Mr. Mehta said the final report would be compiled in the next two to three days and all “discrepancies” would be addressed immediately. “There is no confusion from our end. We are just reconciling data by cleaning it from how it was stored manually earlier.”
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Mumbai may see a second peak after unlocking’||It has been 100 days since SARS CoV-2 hit Maharashtra on March 9, when a Dubai-returned couple first tested positive in Pune. The State has now clocked 1,10,744 cases and 4,128 deaths, the highest in the country. A task force of senior doctors formed in mid-April has been the guiding force to tackle the deluge of infections. The Hindu speaks to Dr. Shashank Joshi, member of the COVID-19 task force, on the current scenario:  Three months down the line, what have been the crucial learnings about the disease? The virus is predictably unpredictable and its transmission route is not just droplet but can be airborne and gastrointestinal, therefore masking becomes mandatory. Most treatments are supportive, and for asymptomatic or pre-symtomatic, home-based care is possible if a person has a room and toilet to quarantine and has digital connectivity with a doctor. Most people with COVID-19 recover and do well except the vulnerable groups. Obesity, diabetes, hypertension and chronic illnesses are the main co-morbidities for COVID-19. We also learnt that patients can be discharged from the hospital if they are asymptomatic for three days and they don’t need to do a test later as the virus becomes non-replicative in about 10 days. You had been vocal about Mumbai being at its peak at the end of May. Why does the city continue to see an average of 1,300 cases every day if we are past the peak? Mumbai was past the peak from May 14 to May 31. Many deaths now are of that time who got infection then. A second peak may come after unlocking. It’s now for people to cooperate, as the government and doctors have done their bit. One of the key tasks of the task force was to bring down the mortality rate. However, the average deaths have gone up rapidly in Maharashtra as well as Mumbai. What are the reasons? No, they have not gone up. In fact, if you notice, a lot of old records have been streamlined and the numbers are of the last three months and during the peak. The mortality rate, which was around 10%, dropped to 3% by some strategic interventions. The task force’s mandate to drop the mortality rate was ensured by aggressive treatment and judicious use of oxygen therapy, which emerged as the key intervention. A clear myth buster was ventilators don’t save lives but high flow nasal oxygen and prone position do. The task force ensured that vulnerable populations from slums like Dharavi were checked for oxygen saturation and were taken to COVID care facilities if the saturation was below 92%. This helped save lives. Also, lifesaving medicines used in right time made all the difference like antivirals, IL6 blockers, and plasma therapy. Are deaths being under-reported in Mumbai? Deaths in Mumbai are under stringent audit and scrutiny. In fact some may be even over-reported. COVID-19 possibly and sadly shortened lives of some terminally ill patients like those suffering from cancer, chronic kidney disease, and chronic liver disease. What have been the key contributions of the task force so far? The task force has focused on screening oxygen protocols, field hospitals protocols as well as mortality and standard of care protocols, which are adaptive to locoregional needs. Our primary aim is to save lives. Has the task force started focussing on areas outside Mumbai which have a high mortality rate? For example, Jalgaon, Malegaon, Dhule and so on. In Maharashtra hotspots, through regular videoconferences, the task force helps make the best of the currently available resources and the government has focused on ensuring they have the right medicine and equipment. The task force has a live document which is constantly updated on what’s published globally and what’s possible locally. What is your prediction of the disease here on? Clearly, we have to live with SARS CoV-2. We will get better treatment and vaccines in the next two years. We will mindfully gradually unlock and start fresh again.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Smooth ride on locals after 84 days, but confusion prevails||After a gap of 84 days, Mumbai’s lifeline — it’s local trains — was back on the tracks on Monday, though partially, with 362 suburban services resuming across the network to ferry essential staff. The response on the first day was muted as many did not know of the decision to run trains which was taken late on Sunday night after a series of discussions between officials of the Railways and the State government. Commuters were allowed entry into the station area only after their ID cards were checked. There was a second round of checking at the ticketing counter with tickets being issued only after ID cards were checked. Railways officials said the State government, through the Mumbai Police, was working on a QR code-based e-pass system for commuters. Sainath Rajadhyaksha, executive president of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Engineers’ Union, said not many turned up on Monday because few knew about services running. Some ambiguity There was also some ambiguity over “essential services staff”. Many bank employees turned up at the stations. Chetan Pandya, who lives in Kalbadevi and works in a cooperative bank in Vile Parle said, “The officials at the station were very helpful and supportive in the morning, and told me that trains were operating as per fast locals with few stops. I took a train from Mumbai Central and got down at Andheri. However, when I reached Andheri station to go back home in the evening, I was told that bank employees were not allowed. If they are starting after such a long time, they should think about everyone and resume services properly,” he said. It was only by the end of the day that some clarity came that staff of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and other municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Mumbai Police, those working at Mantralaya and other central government institutions, as well as medical workers at government and private hospitals would be allowed to travel on trains. Western Railway (WR) earned Rs. 6 lakh during the morning peak time by issuing 3,521 tickets and 1,466 season passes. The Railways had allowed season pass holders to extend the validity of their passes to compensate for the days lost on the current passes due to the lockdown. On WR, 190 persons availed this facility. CR and WR ferried around 30,000 people each through the day. Services on both CR and WR started around 5 a.m. Ashok Tiwari was steering a train after nearly three months, when he reported for duty for the 5.30 a.m. local from Virar to Churchgate. “We had been doing daily revision sessions and keeping ourselves up to date with the signal placements and other technical aspects. Initially, there was little anxiety. After I made the first halt at Nallasopara, the confidence came back,” he said. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking also ran 2,557 buses through the day which included buses to areas in the larger Metropolitan Region. “We still need to cater to people who are not allowed on local trains and hence will continue to run the buses,” Manoj Varade, BEST spokesperson said.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 situation in State a ‘tragedy of errors’: experts||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 crisis is the result of many factors — failure of collective action between the Centre and the State, lack of Mumbai-specific approach to fight against the virus, and a blanket implementation of lockdown without a plan to utilise the time effectively and prepare the health system. These are some of the observations of health experts and activists who have closely analysed the turn of events over the last 100 days, since Maharashtra recorded its first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus on March 9. The State is now a red zone, accounting for nearly 32% of India’s cases and 41% of the deaths. While the healthcare system continues to crumble under the pressure, a new wave of cases is anticipated as the State begins to unlock in phases. Tragedy of errors Virologist Dr. T Jacob John termed Maharashtra’s situation as a tragedy of errors. He said responding to such large-scale epidemics is the Centre’s job, as per India’s constitutional norms. “I don’t think Maharashtra was properly advised, warned, and given a blueprint by the Centre to follow. So, when the epidemic hit, Maharashtra was under-prepared,” Dr. Jacob John said, adding the Indian government was too slow to react and it should have acted before the virus came into the country in January. “Our parliament was adjourned only on March 23. What message does this send to all States? That everything is normal.” According to Dr. Jacob John, Kerala managed to take independent decisions while most other States did not. “Maharashtra should have activated its think-tank as Kerala did.” He said that the lockdown gave a false impression of supreme confidence but the reality was that it was not going to work in extremely congested places like Mumbai. “Mumbai is the economic engine and the city had to be protected with extra care. But a Mumbai-specific approach was never taken,” he said. Long-term repercussions Experts highlighted how the governments — the State as well as the Centre — had a casual approach about the upcoming threat. “We knew about the possible threat since December end. Yet, at the airports, most people got a safe passage even as they were asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Why did not we implement compulsory quarantining of passengers?” questioned Soumitra Ghosh, a professor from the School of Health System Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. He said there continues to be a rise in cases because the epidemic could not be arrested in time. “In Wuhan, they managed to mobilise manpower of 43,000 in two weeks. How many doctors, intensivists have been brought to Mumbai from other parts? There is an absolute lack of collective action between the Centre and the State even as Maharashtra dabbles with the surge,” Mr. Ghosh said, warning that the mishandling of the situation has caused great disruptions and the long-term repercussions, especially in patients requiring non-COVID-19 treatment, would be worrisome. A crude instrument Public health expert Dr. Abhay Shukla said the generalised lockdown had a dampening effect than a precise outcome. “Take the examples of South Korea or Kerala, where the entire focus was on intensive outreach, testing, contact tracing, isolation, and containment or micro containment,” Dr. Shukla said, adding that with such strategies, the need for a blanket lockdown would have been less.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||BMC ramps up contact tracing; home quarantine shows results||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ramped up contact tracing, especially in slums, and municipal wards with the most number of home-quarantined cases are showing fewer patients, besides a relatively small doubling rate. The BMC has traced 10.69 lakh contacts of 56,740 COVID-19-positive cases. Of these, 7.97 lakh are low-risk contacts while 2.71 lakh are high-risk contacts. The corporation started contact tracing after the first few cases were reported in Mumbai in March. Despite that, cases spiralled in April and May. Municipal commissioner I.S. Chahal had ordered officers to push the contact tracing ratio from 1:3 to 1:10. Many wards managed to ramp up their contact tracing and certain wards like F South (Parel), M West (Chembur) have placed the maximum number of high-risk contacts under home quarantine. They have a ratio of 1:8 or more in the high-risk category. F South has 3,070 cases so far, of which 1,610 are active. M West has 2,115 cases so far, of which 1,128 are active. F South has a case doubling rate of 26 days while M West has a rate of 21 days. In comparison, R North ward (Dahisar) has the poorest doubling rate of 11 days., with cases growing at 6.4%, the fastest so far. E ward (Byculla) and K West (Andheri West) have also fared poorly. So far, 7.69 lakh people have completed quarantine in Mumbai, 1.07 lakh of whom were in institutional quarantine. There are now 24,315 people in institutional quarantine. The contact tracing ratio is 1:16 for slums as on date, Manish Walunj, assistant municipal commissioner of L Ward, said. “Every day, our staff makes calls to those in home quarantine and checks on them. Those in institutional quarantine are under careful observation.” Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner who is also in charge of contact tracing, said it cannot be said with certainty that wards with the highest contact tracing record are showing fewer cases as the demographic of each ward is different. “But in the slums, we are trying to maintain a ratio of 1:15. Sometimes, people here resist being moved to a facility but our staff has to convince them that it is for the best. It has been seen that 25% to 30% cases in Mumbai are detected from among close contacts. When these people are moved to our facility, we prevent further infection,” Ms. Bhide said. Generally, high-risk contacts for every patient is much higher in the slums due to congested living conditions.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Postmaster General lends staff, families a helping hand||The office of the Postmaster General, Mumbai, has thrown its weight behind employees who have tested positive for COVID-19 and their families. The postal department has lost four people to the pandemic, while nearly 40 employees and their family members have tested positive across Mumbai. India Post Mumbai has put together Supporting Officials with Friendship and Treatment (SOFT) teams that are tasked with providing immediate support to infected officials by getting them admitted to hospitals, taking care of their families and supplying groceries, vegetables and medicines while they are quarantined. A special focus is on the men and women who have worked tirelessly during the past few months delivering medical equipment, personal protective equipment kits and agricultural commodities across the city and suburbs, along with ensuring food packets reached migrant workers when they needed it the most. “We started doing this about two months ago on realising this had come to our doorstep as well,” said Swati Pandey, Postmaster General, Mumbai.  Liaison with corporators The department’s teams liaison with ward officers, local corporators and members of Parliament to get things moving in terms of testing and hospital admission, she said. “We have ensured that all our symptomatic staff have not had to struggle with identifying hospitals and available beds.”While one team member looks after the hospitalisation, another takes charge of the patient’s family’s needs. “We ensure that there is proper handholding. Both the patient and his family’s mental health and well being are kept in mind,” said Ms. Pandey, who, along with other officers, speaks to them directly. Of the nearly 40 employees who tested positive, 29 are from the Mumbai circle while the others are part of airmail sorting and other units. 7 deaths in State Across the State, 74 employees have tested positive, seven of whom have died. All of these employees have been on the frontline during the lockdown, delivering essential supplies. Families of the deceased will receive Rs. 10 lakh each under a government of India scheme. “They need to feel emboldened. Even after they are back home, we help them with their needs,” said Ms. Pandey. The help was not a form of charity, which can become a habit, she said. “Most of those who have recovered have returned the money that was spent.” As Unlock 1 is opening up the city, the Postmaster General, Mumbai, has also made a request that postmen be allowed to use the local trains as they too are essential service personnel. Though not on the State government list, the department is hopeful its demand will be met and a backlog of letters and parcels can be delivered.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||City sees over 1,000 new cases, 68 deaths||Mumbai recorded 1,067 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the city’s tally to 59,293. The city also recorded 68 more fatalities, pushing the death toll to 2,250. Of the latest victims, nearly 39 had co-morbid conditions. Health officials said obesity, diabetes, hypertension, kidney diseases and cancer, are among the main co-morbid conditions that make recovery from COVID-19 difficult. 979 patients critical As of Monday, 979 patients in the city were in a critical condition, while 1,187 of the 1,197 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city remained occupied by COVID-19 patients. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has been adding more ICU beds every day, by getting private healthcare providers to open their beds for COVID-19 patients, however, shortages persist. A civic official said the easing of the lockdown could lead to a surge in cases and many more ICU beds are required to deal with this. At least 3,936 tests were carried out on Monday, taking the total number of tests to 2.61 lakh. The number of recoveries rose to 30,125, with 3,139 more patients being discharged.  Ward watch Dharavi reported 25 new cases, taking its tally to 2,068. The area reported 77 deaths so far. G North, in which Dharavi lies, has reported 3,834 cases so far (second highest), of which 1,333 are active cases. K East ward (Andheri East) crossed the 4,000-mark on Monday, the highest in Mumbai. It now has 4,076 cases of which 2,206 are active. The city now has nine wards with over 3,000 cases each. S (Bhandup, Powai) and N (Ghatkopar) wards were the latest to join this group. The city’s average daily case growth rate now stands at 2.65% while its doubling rate is 27 days. F North ward has a doubling rate of 55 days while M East has a doubling rate of 53 days. There are four other wards in the city with a doubling rate of over 40 days each.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bank staff denied access to local trains||The resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai has caused a major controversy, with bank staff being denied access as they are not included in the list of essential services by the State government. When the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March by the Centre, banking was part of the permitted essential services. Bank unions have written to the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), asking it to take up the matter with relevant authorities so that bank employees can also avail the train services to reach work. “On one side, the government expects banks to extend uninterrupted service even during the lockdown since it is essential, but when it comes to extending life cover or local train facilities, they are not considered as essential, which is disturbing,” the Union Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) — the umbrella body of nine bank unions — said in a letter to the IBA. “This has led to anger and anguish among the employees and for these obvious reasons, it is likely to affect attendance and banking services. In view of this, we request you to please intervene in the matter by representing to the appropriate authorities to include banking in essential services to extend local railway travel facility to bank employees,” the letter, addressed to the chief executive of the IBA, said. Local trains for essential service workers such as health, civic and police personnel started on Monday morning. Ticket windows were opened for commuters, but passes were issued only to those who furnished a government identity card. Earlier, the bank unions had demanded transport facility and implementation of safety measures to bank staff as at least 11 employees lost their lives due to the deadly virus in Mumbai and surrounding areas. State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender, has temporarily shut three branches — two in Mumbai and one in Thane — after eight staff members tested positive for COVID-19.
16 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC wants NOC of Delhi Public School cancelled after fee collection complaints||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has requested the State Education Department to cancel the no objection certificate (NOC) granted to Delhi Public School, Nerul. A letter in this regard was sent on June 11 by deputy municipal commissioner Nitin Kale, after many parents approached the civic body with complaints against the school. Mr. Kale said the government had issued a notification that schools should not levy fees during the lockdown period or coax parents to pay the fees. “Following complaints by parents that the school was charging the fees, we sent a notice to the school administration. Since there was no reply to the notice, the administrator and the extension officer from the NMMC visited the school. The school, however, did not cooperate with the officers during their enquiries and the officers submitted a negative report of the school. Hence, we wrote to the State government urging it to cancel the NOC,” he said. Sunil Choudhary, a parent whose children are in Classes VI and IX, along with 200 other parents, had been writing to the corporation, complaining against the school. “On May 20, the school sent us a notice that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the classes would be conducted online and they would provide the students quality education. Everything in the notice was as per the government guidelines, except that they were asking for the fees. They had also charged us for library, transportation, computer, and digital classroom, which were not being utilised by our children,” Mr. Choudhary said. The corporation then issued a notice to the school and sought a reply by June 10, he said. “There are many parents who paid the fees as none want to take up a fight with the school fearing that it might affect their children’s career. But someone has to take the initiative so we decided to take it up,” Mr. Choudhary said. Despite several attempts, the principal of the school, J. Mohanty, could not be reached for comment.
16 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC nears 4,000-mark; death toll 121||Ninety-five new COVID-19 cases were reported in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Monday, taking its case tally to 3,998. With three more people succumbing to COVID-19, NMMC’s death toll is now 121. On the other hand, 66 more people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,306. The NMMC has tested over 15,000 people till date.  NMMC’s recovery rate, which had reached 60%, has fallen by two percentage points to 58% over the last three days due to a surge in new cases. However, the case mortality rate, which had earlier touched 4%, has now come down to 3%. Meanwhile, the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 44 new cases, taking its total tally to 1,016. It also saw three more succumb to the virus, taking the death toll to 45.
16 June 2020||Pune,||Over 150 new cases in Pune; death toll now 501||In a bid to increase the detection of COVID-19 cases, the sample testing capacity across Pune district would be doubled from 3,000 to 6,000, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Monday. “The present testing capacity across all facilities in the district is around 3,000 samples. I have already spoken with the director of the National Institute of Virology (NIV) last week and they will increase their capacity by 60-70%, while the testing at facilities like the National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) as well as the B.J. Medical College would be increased threefold, thus doubling the testing number to around 6,000 samples,” Dr. Mhaisekar told The Hindu . He said the increase in testing capacity was expected to start by the end of this week. “A few technical procedural changes have yet to be completed in which validation from the NIV is required. Once that is over, we can double the testing by June 22,” Dr. Mhaisekar said. Recovery rate is 62.73% Meanwhile, the district’s death toll crossed the 500-mark to reach 501 on Monday, while more than 220 new cases took the total case tally to 12,147. However, Dr. Mhaisekar said of the total cases, only 4,027 were active while over 7,700 people had been discharged across the district, which has a recovery rate of 62.73% He said that along with Pune’s total fatalities, the total death toll in Pune division has now risen to 702. Pune division’s total case tally stood at 15,563 of whom only 5,083 were active cases while 9,778 people in these five districts had been discharged thus far. “A total of 272 people in the division are ‘critical’. This total is concentrated in Pune, which has 255 critical patients and Solapur, which has 17. Of Pune’s critical cases, 64 are on ventilator,” Dr. Mhaisekar said. After Pune, Solapur is the worst-afflicted, reporting nine COVID-19 related deaths on Sunday, taking its death toll to 155, while 63 new cases saw its total case tally rise to 1,722. However, only 659 of these are active.  No permission for dindis He said that district collectors and police authorities in Pune, Satara and Solapur had been instructed not to give permission to various dindis or processions of warkaris (devotees) on foot to make their way to the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur on occasion of the Ashadhi Wari . The administration, after much deliberation, had earlier scrapped the pilgrimage on foot made by lakhs of warkaris carrying palkhis (palanquins) bearing the padukas (footprints) of saints Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram to Pandharpur in wake of mounting COVID-19 cases. “However, in case some warkaris to decide to take out a dindi. Authorities have been instructed to restrain them as cases have emerged near Vithal Rukmini Temple in Pandharpur. There is also a containment zone in the area near the temple premises,” said Dr. Mhaisekar.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Schools can open doors in areas with no cases||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday sanctioned the start of academic year 2020-21 for schools amid the lockdown. While schools in areas with COVID-19 cases will have to use online and digital platforms for lessons, those in rural areas with no cases in the last one month can open for students while following safety guidelines. Lessons for Class IX, X and XII will start from July, for Class VI to VIII from August, and for Class III to V from September. The decision to start lessons for Class I and II will be taken by school management committees. The date for Class XI courses will be declared after Class X results are announced. Mr. Thackeray, in a meeting with School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad and department officials, said teaching must begin irrespective of whether schools open or not. The government has said online lessons should not be used for Class I and II students, who must instead be shown or made to hear educational programmes on television and radio. For students of Class III to V and Class VI to VIII, online sessions should be capped at one and two hours a day, respectively. For Class IX to XII, the time limit will be three hours per day. School management committees will have to ensure safety of students through measures like operating schools in two shifts of maximum three hours each, arranging classes on odd and even days, making sure there is only one student on a bench and only 20 to 30 students in a classroom, and preventing crowding while students are dropped off and picked up. In rural areas where the government has allowed schools to open, the gram panchayat will be responsible for sanitisation of premises. Teachers, if coming from outside, will have to undergo medical check-ups, and students will be provided masks, sanitiser and soap. Parents have been advised not to send their children to school if they are unwell.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Okay to occupy middle seat if DGCA order is followed: HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday said the safety and health of the passengers on board is taken care of even if the middle seats of aircraft are not kept vacant owing to passenger load. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade was hearing a petition filed by Air India pilot Deven Kanani, who had complained that the national carrier had violated physical distancing norms while getting back stranded Indians on special Vande Bharat flights. He had sought enforcement of a clause of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) circular dated March 23 to ensure the middle seat is kept empty. Air India and its subsidiary had previously informed the court that the circular does not apply to Vande Bharat flights (non-scheduled international fights) and applied only to scheduled domestic fights. They also told the court that all precautions are taken to prevent spread of COVID-19, while lifting these stranded passengers from abroad and bringing them to India. An expert committee was formed to look into the matter. The committee said said if the person sitting between two people wears protective gear, the same effect as keeping the seat vacant can be achieved. On May 31, DGCA issued fresh directives that airlines will provide all passengers safety kits, including a three-layered surgical mask, a face shield, and sanitiser, and keep the middle seat vacant. If the middle seat is occupied due to passenger load, the airline must provide additional protective equipment like a ‘wrap-around gown’ to the individual occupying the seat. The All India Cabin Crew Association told the court it supported the May 31 DGCA order and not the petitioner’s contention. The court, on hearing the arguments, said the petitioner had failed to appreciate that even if the middle seat is kept vacant, the passenger at the window seat is likely to come in contact with the person in the aisle seat when they go to the lavatory. The court said, “We are of the prima facie view that the safety and health of passengers on board the aircraft is adequately taken care of even if the middle seat of the aircraft is not kept vacant on account of passenger load and seat capacity. However, flight operators shall ... strictly follow and implement the DGCA order passed on May 31.”
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Multiple choices for Class X, XII students||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations informed the Bombay High Court on Monday that students of Class X and XII can either appear for final exams scheduled in July or opt for marks based on internal assessments. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the Council, said there were several options for Class X as well as Class XII examinees. An examinee who is not willing to write the examination physically can go with marks obtained in the pre-Board examination or internal assessment. Marks awarded to examinees in papers they have already written will also be taken into consideration, said Mr. Khambata. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the father of a Class X child. The PIL said the exams, scheduled for March 18, were rescheduled between March 19 and 30 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The dates were later revised to July 2-12 for Class X and July 1-14 for Class XII. “The decision prima facie appears to be fair and reasonable,” said the court, directing it to be forwarded to all school principals affiliated with the Council, with an instruction to share it with parents. The court also said a gist of the decision should be published in a Marathi, English and Hindi daily on Tuesday.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||State signs 12 MoUs in Magnetic Maharastra 2.0||Kick-starting the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 initiative to draw investments to the State, 12 MoUs worth Rs. 16,000 crore were signed on Monday in presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Mr. Thackeray, who was in attendance via videoconference, said the government will fulfil its commitment and business houses will face no hurdles to set up industrial units. “We are thankful to investors for choosing Maharashtra as their preferred destination. Today, we are signing MoUs worth Rs. 16000 crore. Projects worth Rs. 60,000 are in the pipeline and will be a reality soon,” he said. Global companies in the field of engineering, car and spare parts manufacturing, information technology, logistics, chemicals, and food processing signed the MoUs. Arvind Goel, chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry, Maharashtra State Council, and MD & CEO of Tata Autocomp Systems Pvt Ltd, said, “ The kick-start of Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 truly conveys government’s readiness for a post-pandemic world. The signing of investment intentions with 12 global business houses from the U.S., China, South Korea, Singapore and India, reiterates Maharashtra’s leadership in the country as an investment destination.”
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Now, 100 flights a day at Mumbai airport||Three weeks after domestic flights resumed, the government on Monday permitted the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to cater to 100 domestic commercial flights from Tuesday. In a statement, the GVK-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said it had been permitted to cater to 50 departures and arrivals each. “The move will also see an increase in the sectors that we are currently handling,” an airport spokesperson said. Officials of all airlines were redrawing flight plans for Tuesday onwards with unserved sectors like Chennai and Goa likely to find flights. Airlines have worked on ensuring that passengers are told that air travel is the safest mode of . Less than 1% of the people who flew since May 25 have been detected to have COVID-19. A Vistara spokesperson said it would be adding a few flights to and from Mumbai for the next couple of days. “We are awaiting necessary government approvals. Further additions to the network will firm up over the course of the week.” CSMIA has been catering to just about 10% of flight operations as against 33% at Delhi and Bengaluru airports.  CSMIA has till date catered to 1,056 domestic commercial passenger flight movements, which include 531 departures and 525 arrivals. From May 25 until Monday, the airport has catered to 1,30,385 passengers, which include 91,593 passengers at departures and 38,792 at arrivals.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav’s father-in-law no more||Madhav Patankar, the father-in-law of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, died at a private hospital here on Monday, an official from the medical facility said. A senior Shiv Sena leader confirmed the news of the 76-year-old’s death after prolonged illness. His daughter, Rashmi Thackeray, is the editor of Sena mouthpiece Saamana .
16 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NDMA team to visit Raigad district tomorrow||A six-member team from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will visit Raigad district on Wednesday to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Nisarga. The team, headed by IAS officer Ramesh Kumar Ganta, will reach the district around 10 a.m. “We have faced damage to the forest, houses, shops, farms and electrical infrastructure. We have planned a route for them along places in Alibaug, Shrivardhan and Murud,” Raigad resident deputy collector Padmashri Bainade said. Electricity supply to 1,100 of the 1,976 villages (more than 55%) in Raigad has now been restored, District Collector and District Magistrate Nidhi Choudhari told The Hindu. “Supply to all tehsil headquarters, except in Shrivardhan, has been restored. We hope to restore the supply to the Shrivardhan tehsil headquarters by Tuesday. The panchnama of all damaged houses has been done, while that of farms, shops, fisheries is under way. Electricity supply to 4.25 lakh of 6.02 lakh consumers has been restored,” she said. Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary (energy), and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. (MSEDCL) officers visited the district on Monday to assess the work being done to restore supply. Anil Kamble, chief public relations officer of MSEDCL, said, “Electricity supply to 6.38 lakh consumers from Pen, Alibaug, Panvel rural, Roha, Murud, Pali, Mangaon, Tala, Poladpur, Mahad, Goregaon, Shrivardhan, Mhasla, Karjat, Khopoli and Khalapur, was affected due to the cyclone that hit on June 3.”
16 June 2020||Pune,||Chavan seeks cash refund for air tickets||Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Monday said not refunding the cost of air tickets for flights cancelled during the lockdown was tantamount to an abuse of consumer rights. The Karad South MLA said in a tweet, “I have written to [Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri] to direct the airline operators to provide cash refunds for air tickets cancelled during lockdown in a specific time frame.” In his letter, the former chief minister said an estimated 4.5 million flights had been cancelled across the world during the pandemic. “Indian fliers, who were compelled to cancel air tickets following the nationwide lockdown announcement, are therefore entitled to cash refunds. According to the Consumer Protection Act, the contract between a consumer and an airline gives a right to the former to get a cash refund,” he said. Mr. Chavan said a number of airlines, including Air India, were not honouring this contract and compelling passengers to accept vouchers. “Not all consumers are willing to accept a voucher for future travel. In some cases, airlines are misinforming them on refund policies,” he alleged. He said consumer rights organisation Mumbai Grahak Panchayat had recently sought the intervention of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) by drawing its attention to the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection. “On June 4 this month, the UNCTAD called upon governments of member states (India being among them) to adequately protect consumers by ‘enforcing protection laws against abusive business practices such as penalties and breach of refund rights’,” Mr. Chavan said. He has urged Mr. Puri to issue a clarification on refund policies and direct airline operators to prevent abuse of consumer rights.
16 June 2020||Brussels,||Europe reopens border, while China carries out mass testing||A raft of EU nations reopened their borders to fellow Europeans on Monday after months of coronavirus curbs, but China was battling a new outbreak that has stoked fears of a second wave. As caseloads have declined in recent weeks across many parts of Europe, governments have been keen to ease painful lockdowns that have saved lives but devastated economies and wearied confined populations. Belgium, France, Germany, Greece and Ukraine were among those lifting border restrictions on Monday, while shops and outdoor attractions in England were set to welcome their first customers since March and in Paris cafes and restaurants were allowed to fully reopen. “We’re desperate about tourists, we need them and we want them. If we don’t have the people, how will we survive,” says Michalis Drosos, who works in a souvenir shop in Fira, capital of the Greek island of Santorini. However, the pandemic is gathering pace in Latin America, and Iran and India have reported worrying increases in deaths and infections — adding to concern over challenges the world will face in the long fight against COVID-19. China, where the virus emerged late last year, was the first country to implement extreme restrictions on movement early this year, forcing local transmission down to near-zero as the crisis hammered the rest of the world. But health officials on Monday reported 75 cases of the respiratory illness in Beijing where the fresh cluster has been linked to a wholesale food market. Streams of people queued in a Beijing stadium as mass testing was carried out, and a strict lockdown was extended across 21 Beijing neighbourhoods. Lowest daily toll More than 4,30,000 people worldwide have died from COVID-19, nearly halfway through a year in which countless lives have been upended and the global economy ravaged by the crisis. The U.S. — by far the hardest-hit country with more than 1,15,700 recorded fatalities — on Sunday reported its lowest 24-hour death toll since its infection rate peaked in mid-April. President Donald Trump’s administration has noted that some States have seen new flare-ups, but insists there will be no shutdown of the economy even if a new wave arises. But stock markets tumbled again on Monday on fears that an upsurge of infections could put the brakes on the easing of lockdowns and dash hopes of economic recovery. West Asia’s worst-hit country, Iran, reported an uptick on Sunday, recording more than 100 new virus deaths in a single day for the first time in two months. There have also been two new outbreaks in Rome, with 109 infections including five deaths diagnosed at a hospital and 15 cases detected at a building inhabited by squatters. “It means the virus hasn’t lost its infectiousness, it isn't weakening... we shouldn’t let down our guard,” World Health Organization deputy director Ranieri Guerra told journalists. “Such micro-outbreaks were inevitable, but they are limited in time and space. And today we have the tools to intercept them and confine them.” Despite fears over fresh clusters, many countries are making moves towards semi-normality. In Paris, restaurant and cafe owners were cheering after the government said they could once again open their dining rooms, three months after being shut to blunt the COVID-19 outbreak. Until now, restaurants in and around the capital could only serve clients on outdoor terraces. In England, thousands of non-essential retailers such as bookshops and electronics outlets will be welcoming their first customers since halting in-store business in late March.
16 June 2020||London,||Johnson announces review into inequality||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday announced a government review into “all aspects of inequality” following a wave of anti-racism protests in Britain, but was accused of using it to delay real action. Mr. Johnson said there had been “huge progress” in tackling racism “but there is much more that we need to do, and we will”. “It is time for a cross-governmental commission to look at all aspects of inequality — in employment, in health outcomes, in academic and all other walks of life,” he wrote in the Daily Telegraph newspaper. Britain has been rocked by protests against racial discrimination, some of them violent, following the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, as he was arrested by police in the United States. Changing the narrative In a broadcast interview, Mr. Johnson said he wanted to “change the narrative so we stop the sense of victimisation and discrimination”. “We stop the discrimination, we stamp out racism, and we start to have a real sense of expectation of success.” But David Lammy, justice spokesman for the main Opposition Labour party, said the lack of detail about the new review suggested it “was written on the back of a fag (cigarette) packet yesterday to assuage the Black Lives Matter protest”. He said the government should focus on implementing the recommendations of numerous reviews already completed, including one by Mr. Lammy himself about discrimination in criminal justice. “Get on with the action, legislate, move!” he urged Mr. Johnson in an interview with BBC radio. “Black people aren’t playing victims, as Boris indicates, they are protesting precisely because the time for review is over and the time for action is now.”
16 June 2020||Moscow,||U.S. gripped by deep internal crisis, says Vladimir Putin||President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Sunday described the United States as a country gripped by a “deep internal crisis” and attributed it to what he said was a refusal by opponents of President Donald Trump to accept his “obvious” 2016 election victory and his legitimacy as leader. Speaking in his first interview since the COVID-19 pandemic hit Russia hard three months ago and forced him to take shelter at his country residence, Mr. Putin also pointed to the racial tensions that have put cities across the United States on edge. ‘Radical nationalism’ Russia and before that the Soviet Union, he said, always had “lots of sympathy for the fight of African Americans for their natural rights.” But, Mr. Putin said, when protests “turn into mayhem and pogroms, I see nothing good for the country.” He described the pulling down of statues as “undoubtedly a destructive phenomenon” and claimed that protests had at times been infected by “radical nationalism and extremism.” While insisting that he wanted to be “very careful” in his comments on events in the U.S., Mr. Putin has often been accused of trying to sow American division, and appeared to be using the interview to do so again, taking a swipe at America’s handling of the COVID-19 under Mr. Trump. Mr. Putin, too, has come under pointed criticism over his response to the pandemic. With his approval ratings at their lowest level since he came to power 20 years ago, he has been eager to declare victory over COVID-19 so that health concerns don’t again disrupt nationwide military parades, now scheduled for June 24, and a referendum, postponed until July 1, on constitutional changes that would allow him to stay in office until 2036. Interference allegations Mr. Putin also used the interview to take aim at opponents of Mr. Trump who have accused the Kremlin of tilting the 2016 election in his favour, something Moscow has repeatedly denied doing. America’s “long-standing” problem with racism, Mr. Putin said, had aggravated a deep crisis of legitimacy that “we have been observing for a long time.” Instead of accepting that Mr. Trump “obviously won in an absolutely democratic way,” supporters of Hillary Clinton “came up with all sorts of fables to cast doubt on his legitimacy,” he said. Mr. Putin’s comments were broadcast on Sunday evening on state television after a weekly television news digest that gave a picture of relentless mayhem on American streets. The host, Dmitri Kiselyov, suggested that the United States today resembles the Soviet Union as it stumbled toward collapse at the end of 1991. The idea that the United States faces an existential crisis with echoes of the crisis-plagued Soviet empire has become a popular theme in Kremlin-controlled news media outlets in recent days, particularly on television. “This is their perestroika,” said Vladimir Solovyov, the host of a Sunday night talk show, referring to the chaotic process of reform that Mikhail S. Gorbachev began in the mid-1980s. His goal was to revive the Soviet Union, but it ultimately led to its destruction. Contrasting Russia’s response to the pandemic with that of the United States, Mr. Putin said, “We are exiting the coronavirus situation steadily, with minimal losses, God willing, but in the States it isn’t happening like this.” Russia’s handling of COVID-19, he said, has proved the importance of having a “single team” in control of the country instead of a fragmented system, as in the United States. There, he said, Governors are free to tell the President to “get lost,” and “partisan interests are put above the interests of the whole society and the interests of the people.”NY Times
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump’s niece to publish book with ‘harrowing’ revelations||A niece of President Donald Trump will divulge a series of “harrowing and salacious” stories about him in an upcoming book. It would be the first time that the President could be forced to grapple with damaging revelations by a member of his own family. The niece, Mary Trump, will release the book, Too Much And Never Enough , on August 11, less than three weeks before Mr. Trump accepts the Republican nomination for a second term,The Daily Beastreported on Sunday. Source for reports The report said that in the book, Mary Trump, 55, will say she was a primary source for The New York Times ’s coverage of Mr. Trump’s finances and provided the newspaper with confidential tax documents. Three journalists from The Times received the Pulitzer Prize for explanatory reporting last year for their work providing an unprecedented look at the Trump family’s finances and contradicting Mr. Trump’s image of a self-made billionaire. Mary Trump is the daughter of Fred Trump Jr., the President’s older brother, who died in 1981. Several former White House aides and Trump administration members have written books that have been problematic for the president. One of the most glaring examples is a memoir written by Mr. Trump’s former National Security Adviser, John Bolton, which Mr. Trump has sought to prevent from being published. The White House is expected to give Mr. Bolton a redacted version of his manuscript by June 19, which would be four days before the book’s current publication date.NY Times
16 June 2020||Vienna,||IAEA begins meet over Iran’s n-programme||The UN nuclear watchdog’s governing body began meeting on Monday as a row brews over Iran’s refusal to allow access to two sites where nuclear activity may have occurred in the past. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) expressed “serious concern” in a report earlier this month that Iran has been blocking inspections at the sites. The Board of Governors, one of the agency’s policy-making bodies, is expected to discuss the report during its meeting. If they pass a resolution critical of Iran, it would be the first of its kind since 2012. Even though the two sites are not thought to be key to Iran’s current activities, the agency says it needs to know if past activities going back almost two decades have been properly declared and all materials accounted for.  Iran told the agency the report was a source of “deep regret and disappointment” and hinted the queries were based on “fabricated information” from “intelligence services”. In a statement to the Board of Governors opening this week’s meeting, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi called on Iran “to cooperate immediately and fully with the Agency, including by providing prompt access to the locations specified by us”. The latest row over access comes as a landmark deal between Iran and world powers in 2015 continues to unravel.
16 June 2020||Paris,||Watchdog hails White House scribes||A watchdog has hailed the White House press corps as “information heroes” alongside 30 journalists, whistleblowers and media outlets struggling against the odds to get the truth out about the COVID-19 pandemic. Reporters Without Frontiers praised the correspondents for their persistence in grilling U.S. President Donald Trump in a roll of honour that included Li Wenliang, the doctor from Wuhan Central Hospital who was questioned by police for “spreading false rumours” and who later died from COVID-19 infection. The Paris-based organisation picked out Weijia Jiang and Paula Reid of CBS, Peter Alexander of NBC and Kristin Fisher of Fox News for particular praise for their “integrity and competence” faced with sarcasm, scorn and insults from Mr. Trump and his aides.
16 June 2020||Sydney,||Australian PM concerned over China verdict||Australia’s Prime Minister expressed concern on Monday for an Australian man sentenced to death in China in a case that could further inflame tensions between Beijing and Canberra. A Chinese court revealed on Saturday that Karm Gilespie, who used to work in Sydney as an actor and then an investment coach, had been condemned to death on drug-smuggling charges. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Australian authorities had been in touch with their Chinese counterparts on multiple occasions over his case. “I and the government are very sad and concerned that an Australian citizen, Mr. Karm Gilespie has been sentenced to death in China,” he said.
16 June 2020||Paris,||Paris, June 15, 2020 (AFP) -||President Emmanuel Macron vowed on Sunday that France would not seek to erase elements of its history or take down statues of controversial public figures, despite growing global scrutiny of former colonial powers in the wake of protests.AFP
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Remaining non-aligned is good advice||For weeks, the India-China stand-off dominated newspaper headlines, warning about the possibility of a major conflict along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. With both India and China agreeing to step back marginally from positions adopted at the beginning of May, and “reaching an agreement”, the newspapers and most other believe that tensions have abated. The reality is, however, very different.  Behind the statements Confirmed facts about incursions during May are that Chinese forces came in sizeable numbers and crossed the undemarcated LAC at quite a few points in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. These were in the vicinity of Pangong Tso (Lake), the Galwan Valley, the Hot Springs-Gogra area (all in Ladakh), and at Naku La in the Sikkim sector. Talks at the level of military commanders, from lieutenant generals to brigadiers and lower formations, have produced, to repeat the official jargon, a “partial disengagement”. Both sides have also agreed, according to the same set of officials, to handle the situation “in line with the agreement” that had been reached.  The blandness of the statements conceals many a truth. This time, it would appear, the Chinese are here to stay in places such as the Galwan Valley. It is also unclear, as of now, whether the Chinese would withdraw from Pangong Tso, any time soon. Restoration of the status quo ante which existed in mid-April is thus nowhere on the horizon. Another bone of contention also seems unlikely to be resolved for quite some time, viz. , China’s insistence that India stop road construction in the border area on the ground that it is taking place in Chinese territory, which India contests, insisting that it is taking place within Indian territory.  Public attention has been deflected from China’s sizeable military presence along the LAC, (comprising armoured vehicles, artillery units and infantry combat vehicles in far larger numbers than at any time in recent years), and the partial disengagement may provide many in India an opportunity to claim that China “blinked” while India showed “steely resolve”. This is not, however, the time for political grandstanding. There is a great deal at stake. More weightier reasons India needs to undertake a detailed analysis of recent events to find proper answers to many vexed questions. To merely affirm that India’s decision to strengthen its border infrastructure was the main trigger for the recent show of strength by China, would be simplistic. Both India and China have been strengthening their border infrastructure in recent years, and while the strengthening of the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road may have angered the Chinese, to ascribe China’s recent show of strength to this would be misplaced.  Admittedly, Chinese President Xi Jinping disdains Deng Xiaoping’s aphorism, “to keep your head low and bide your time”, but Mr. Xi is not known to act irresponsibly. A demonstration of military strength, merely because India was improving its border infrastructure, would fall into this category. Nor does this action fit in with western assertions that such steps demonstrate China’s newly assertive post-pandemic foreign policy.  There have to be far weightier reasons for China’s actions, and India needs to do a deep dive to discern whether there is a method behind China’s actions, viz. , as for instance, the existence of certain geopolitical factors, an increase in bilateral tensions between India and China, economic pressures, apart from China’s internal dynamics. China’s action clearly belies the code of conduct drawn up at the Wuhan (China) and Mamallapuram (Tamil Nadu) summits by the leaders of India and China, and the recent incursions do convey the imprimatur of the top Chinese leadership.  The American orbit If we were to examine geopolitical factors, it is no secret that while India professes to be non-aligned, it is increasingly perceived as having shifted towards the American orbit of influence. India’s United States tilt is perhaps most pronounced in the domain of U.S.-China relations. Quite a few instances could be highlighted to confirm the perception that India tends to side with the U.S. and against China whenever there is a conflict of interest between the two. An evident degree of geopolitical convergence also exists between the U.S. and India in the Indo-Pacific, again directed against China. India is today a member of the Quad (the U.S., Japan, Australia and India) which has a definite anti-China connotation. U.S. President Donald Trump’s latest ploy of redesigning the G-7, including in it countries such as India (India has conveyed its acceptance), but excluding China, provides China yet another instance of India and China being in opposite camps. A recent editorial in China’s Global Times confirms how seriously China views the growing proximity between Delhi and Washington.  Coming next to bilateral relations, and notwithstanding the public bonhomie at the level of Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, relations between the two countries have been steadily deteriorating. India is almost the last holdout in Asia against China’s Belt Road Initiative (BRI). India also loses no opportunity to declaim against the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). China further views India’s assertions regarding Gilgit-Baltistan, as an implicit attack on the CPEC, China’s flagship programme. More recently, India was one of the earliest countries to put curbs and restrictions on Chinese foreign direct investment. Adding to this, is the rising crescendo of anti-China propaganda within India. The Global Times has implied in one of its editorial pieces recently, that China’s friendly policy towards India should be reciprocated, and that India “should not be fooled by Washington”. On the eve of the recent high-level border talks between top military leaders, China again made an elliptical reference to the need for India to maintain equidistance between the U.S. and China.  Such sentiments do impact border matters. Almost all India-China border agreements are premised on the presumed neutrality of both countries. As the Special Representative for Border Talks with China (2005 to 2010), this sentiment was an ever present reality during all border discussions. The document, “Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on the Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for the Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question” (2005), one of the very few documents relating to the China-India border, reflects this reality.  China’s internal dynamics One should also not ignore the impact of internal pressures that have been generated within China — in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in part due to other factors. Mr. Xi has, no doubt, accumulated more power than any other Chinese Communist leader since Mao, but there are reports of growing opposition within party ranks to some of his policies, including the BRI.  As the full impact of the most serious health crisis that China has faced since the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949 becomes evident, and alongside this the Chinese economic miracle is also beginning to lose steam, the current Chinese leadership is faced with an unique crisis. The coupling of political and economic tensions have greatly aggravated pressures on Mr. Xi, and the situation could become still more fragile, given the rising tide of anti-China sentiment the world over. How the present crop of Chinese leaders led by Mr. Xi would react to this situation, remains to be seen.  History and the present These are dangerous times, more so for countries in China’s vicinity, and specially India. India is being increasingly projected as an alternative model to China, and being co-opted into a wider anti-China alliance which China clearly perceives as provocation. We cannot ignore or forget the circumstances that led to the unfortunate India-China war of 1962. Faced with the disaster of the Great Leap Forward, and increasing isolation globally (with even Soviet leaders like Nikita Khrushchev trading barbs), Mao chose to strike at India rather than confront Russia or the West.  A single misstep could lead to a wider conflagration, which both sides must avoid. This is not the time for India to be seen as the front end of a belligerent coalition of forces seeking to put China in its place — even the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO, now seems to be joining the anti-China bandwagon under prodding from the U.S. India has consistently followed a different policy in the past, and it is advisable that it remains truly non-aligned and not become part of any coalition that would not be in India’s long-term interest. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons for Yogi from Gandhi and Lee||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is determined to bring all migrant workers back to his State. He says he does not want U.P.’s citizens to migrate in future. He has a vision of providing homes and jobs to all of them — in a State which has not yet been able to provide for the larger multitudes who stayed behind. Moreover, he will be competing with neighbouring States (Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, etc.) and also States further away, which will also be working harder to grow jobs. He needs a good plan. He would do well to take some lessons from Lee Kuan Yew, the founding father of modern Singapore, and from Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the Indian nation. Developing Singapore Lee declared that Singapore would become the first ‘developed’ country in Asia, when it was founded in 1965. His measure of development was the per capita incomes of Singaporeans which would rise to the same levels as citizens in more advanced economies. Singapore did not have any natural resources, like oil or minerals, which it could sell to the West to bring in money for its citizens. All that it could offer large Western companies to use was its strategic location on shipping routes between the East and West, and its people. Lee invited companies from the U.S., Europe, and Japan to set up manufacturing facilities in Singapore and use Singapore labour. The companies were attracted by the large pools of low-cost labour in ASEAN countries. Amongst these countries, Singapore was the most attractive for its location. They welcomed his invitation. But Lee had a condition they were not prepared for. He did not want them to merely set up labour-intensive assembly factories. Lee wanted wages to rise in Singapore, so that per capita incomes would rise. Therefore, he wanted the companies to train Singaporeans to do higher-value work. Global supply chains were forming then: MNCs were on the lookout for lower-cost sources. MNCs could ‘plug and play’ in larger labour markets. If wages rose in Singapore, which Lee wanted, he feared they would move their assembly operations to the neighbouring countries. Lee promised the companies world-class infrastructure, an efficient administration, and low taxes. In return, he wanted the companies to help the government by investing in continuous upgradation of their employees’ skills, so that Singaporeans would earn more and Singapore would become fully ‘developed’. The companies were not willing to make such long-term investments in Singapore’s people. Lee turned to J.R.D. Tata to set up a training centre and a precision tool room in partnership with the Singapore government, and help build foundations for Singapore’s industrial growth. Thus, the Tatas were pioneers in Singapore in the 1970s; other, much larger companies then came along. The rules of globalisation have made life easy for migrant capital, not for migrant labour. They make it easy for migrant capital to come into a country, make profits, and leave when it wishes to. It has been hard for migrant labour to join the global party. They have died in hundreds while crossing the seas to Europe, and walls are shutting them out from the U.S. Tragically, even when they leave India’s globalising cities to go back to their villages, after being used and discarded, they are dying on the way out too. Governments must listen to and care for their citizens and workers more than to investors. They must encourage only those investors who care as much for citizens and workers where they invest as for their own investors back home. Economists who advise governments must be clear that humans are not tools to produce returns for investors; rather, money is a tool to produce benefits for humans. Gandhian economics U.P. is more complex than Singapore. Singapore is a city state with about 6 million citizens, while U.P., with a population of more than 200 million, has dozens of towns and thousands of villages. Migrants are returning from India’s cities to villages in U.P. and other States. They are returning to a world Gandhi knew well. Gandhi said that unless people in India’s villages have economic and social freedom, India cannot be a free country. This was his vision of ‘poorna swaraj’. For him, political freedom from the British was a step on the way. Gandhi is often dismissed as an impractical romantic. However, Gandhi and his economic advisers understood the economic and social problems in India’s villages better than the economists in India’s Planning Commission did. Gandhi also knew the potential of India’s poorest people, who were merely statistics for the economists. Above all, he believed that the economy must serve human needs, rather than human beings becoming fodder for the GDP. This was a vision that Lee Kuan Yew had too: for him, the ultimate measure of Singapore becoming fully developed was not the size of its GDP, but the incomes of its citizens. U.P. does not have a ‘migrant’ problem. It has a ‘citizen’ problem. All citizens of the State (and India too) deserve jobs, livelihoods and a good life with dignity, whether they are migrants or not. The test of public policies must be not what is good for investors and for the GDP, but what is good for the people, especially those who are the most powerless. In Lee’s, Tata’s, and Gandhi’s books, diluting the rights of workers to make life easier for investors was not done. The world has been ‘deglobalising’ since the financial crisis of 2008. Many countries have raised barriers against migrants from other countries. The World Trade Organization is very sick. COVID-19 has sharply accelerated a trend towards localisation that was already under way. Supply chains have broken up. Barriers against movement of people have gone up everywhere. ‘Gandhian’ economics, which E.F. Schumacher (author of Small is Beautiful ) and J.C. Kumarappa (sometimes referred to as Gandhi’s Planning Commission) articulated very well, is based on simple principles. One, human beings and local communities must be the means for human progress — and their well-being must be the purpose of progress too. Two, governance must be strengthened at the local level, in villages and cities. Three, wealth is good, but wealthy people must be only trustees of a community’s wealth, and not its owners. Four, the alienation of owners from workers must be reduced with the creation of new models of cooperative capitalist enterprises, where the workers, not remote capitalists, or the state, are owners of the enterprises. India had come to a fork in the road in 1947: it could run behind the West to catch up; or it could take a path less taken, using a ‘Gandhian’ approach for human development. It chose to run behind the others. Now, we are back at the crossroads. The health crisis and the economic crisis have made people everywhere consider what path we should take after this crisis. Back to the ‘normal’ economics of GDP or towards a more human and more local economics? Arun Maira is former member, Planning Commission, and author, ‘Transforming Systems: Why the World Needs a New Ethical Toolkit’
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||In pandemic crisis, bridging the gulf with West Asia||As the world continues to collaborate in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic which has shattered lives, economies and, arguably, even political and global institutions, the post-pandemic architecture may look drastically different from what we have been used to. For India and its foreign policy, the West Asia/Gulf region holds a significant court for strategic, economic and even domestic political agendas, ranging from migration to energy security. The pandemic has initiated a reverse migration of Indian blue-collar workers as projects in oil-rich States stall, and infrastructure development halts amidst a contracting global economy that some say may be worse than the Great Depression of the 1930s. The stakes in numbers India’s Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar has said that India would repatriate more than 100,000 of its citizens between May 17 and June 13 from 60 countries, a majority of whom are expected to be from the West Asia region. Between June 10 and June 16,  there were around 20 flights scheduled to bring Indian citizens back between India and Saudi Arabia alone. In neighbouring United Arab Emirates (UAE), more than 3.4 million Indians work. Overall, an estimated figure of close to nine million Indians work in West Asia, responsible for sending back more than 56% of India’s annual infusion of $80 billion in remittances. The UAE alone is responsible for $19 billion in remittances, being the third largest trade partner of India after the United States and China. Much of the impressive numbers above are now under stress, perhaps for the first time since the first Gulf War in 1991. The oil price crash, triggered by expectations of oversupply following a dispute on output caps between Saudi Arabia and Russia, exacerbated by the crash in demand due to COVID-19, will carry massive costs to the West Asian economies, and, by association, to foreign workers employed there. According to a Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry survey, more than 70% of businesses classified as small and medium-sized enterprises in Dubai, many owned by Indian nationals, may not survive over the months to come as labour critical industries such as tourism, conventions, hospitality and airlines bear the immediate brunt. To put it in perspective, according to a 2019 U.S.-U.A.E. Business Council report, the UAE’s hospitality sector itself contributes 4.6% of the country’s GDP, making nearly 600,000 jobs that are mostly fulfilled by foreign workers. Some reports suggest that up to 30% of these jobs could be lost. In Saudi Arabia, consumer spending for April 2020, compared to the same time last year, was reportedly down by 34.6%. However, beyond the immediate effects, the oil price crash is expected to have a significant blow on the reform plans initiated by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, specifically mega-projects such as the envisioned $500 billion futuristic mega-city of Neom planned on the coast of the Red Sea, and other more structural efforts to open up the Saudi economy and move the country’s financial ecosystem away from its overt dependence on petro dollars. Oil and investment India gets around 60% of its hydrocarbon requirements from West Asia. On an annualised basis, India saves up to $1.35 billion for each $1 drop in oil prices. With Brent still hovering under $40, the softening oil prices have helped cushion the impact of the national lockdown on the balance of payments. India has also taken advantage of the low prices to build up its strategic reserves and is looking at offshore storage options. The major sovereign wealth funds and other financial institutions in West Asia have been hit hard by COVID-19 as well. Some have seen their real estate and retail portfolios shrink dramatically over the last three months. India is well-placed to attract a significant amount of capital from West Asia and reports of investment by UAE’s Mubadala and Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) are a case in point. The economic reforms announced by the Finance Minister in the week of May 13 bring much needed clarity to industrial and agricultural policy. A strong, positive message to West Asian investors from New Delhi is now the need of the hour. Steps to take As a starting point, working with the government of Maharashtra to expedite land acquisition for the $50 billion mega-refinery project could be an important first step. Saudi Aramco and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company have committed to investing $25 billion in the project. Fast-track resolution of endless litigation that has bedevilled the sale of a major stake of Mumbai airport by GVK to a consortium that includes the UAE sovereign fund, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) will also send out a positive signal to the markets. Some of the UAE’s largest companies such as Etisalat, Emaar and Etihad have previously had a tough time with their investments in India. By creating a few immediate success stories, India has the opportunity to transform the landscape and attract the kind of long-term capital that the economy needs. The government has announced that it has set up an empowered group headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to take necessary steps to attract FDI into India. Hopefully, this mechanism can take up West Asia on priority. Reverse migration and jobs If the economic prophecies come true till a certain degree, India will also share the brunt with West Asia, and both are well placed to help each other in this regard. Arguably, more than the loss of trade revenue and remittances, the return of semi-skilled and skilled workers alike into an economy already struggling with jobs may become a point of worry. To mitigate the same, the government has tried to soften the blow by launching the Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support (SWADES) which attempts to capture the skills profile of returning workers and house them in a central portal that can be accessed by Indian and foreign companies. However, much more needs to be done with regard to reverse-migration and the economics attached to it, as globally, bilateral and multilateral trade-diplomacy is set to witness a tectonic shift towards the unknown. Navdeep Suri is Distinguished Fellow and Director of the Centre for New Economic Diplomacy, Observer Research Foundation (ORF) and former Indian Ambassador to the UAE and Egypt and High Commissioner to Australia. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, ORF
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping the helpers||The fact that India’s cities run on the backs of workers is known, but what is often unacknowledged is that so do many private homes. Domestic work is one of the biggest employers in India’s large informal economy, especially in urban areas. It is also one of the largest employers for women. Yet, not enough focus has been placed on working women in our discussions on COVID-19 and the lockdown — there are no special economic packages for domestic workers unlike, say, for construction workers. Soon, the rhythms of domestic life will be faster and more consistent, just like before. And like always, an entire set of activities and hours of labour will escape the purview of lawyers, economists and politicians alike. To understand how COVID-19 and the lockdown have impacted domestic workers, we conducted a rapid, telephonic survey of 500 households in Jaipur, Rajasthan, in mid-May. When the lockdown began, there were appeals to employers to not withhold salaries for domestic workers. Yet, in an informal workplace with no formal job contract, these appeals are unenforceable. In March, 51% of the respondents said they were not paid fully indicating some compliance by employers. However, 89% said they were not paid at all in April. Ground reports suggest that May was no different. This has had an immediate effect on worker households. The income of domestic workers is 50% of the total household income. It is the more regular form of income supplemented by other members who are generally daily wagers. So, what happened to these households? No savings left First, it is important to recognise that these households were vulnerable even before the COVID-19 outbreak. On the eve of March 25, the average holding of rice and wheat in each household was less than 8 kg. On an average households had operational savings worth barely 15 days with most households reporting only 10 days worth of operational savings. In the best cases women reported operational savings worth 23 days, far less than the time they had to ride out without income due to the lockdown. In the survey, 44% of women domestic workers reported having had to borrow money to ride through the lockdown period. To make matters worse, according to the participants of the survey, rents have not been forgone but deferred. Dues (rent, water, electricity) that need to be immediately attended to following the lifting of the lockdown are far more pervasive and higher in value than borrowings. The average due across 500 households was about Rs. 8,700. Close to one-third of the households had dues worth Rs. 10,000. Only about 12% reported not having any dues at all. Non-negotiable expenses such as milk, vegetables, fuel, oil and masalas cost them Rs. 100 per day. These have been largely managed from savings, borrowings and incurring debts as also with forgoing meals at large. In short, loss of income has meant that households have lost the thin layer of savings they had, and have left the lockdown with debt. Second, the related dimensions of job status and income are not very encouraging either, with 25% of the workers saying they were asked not to return to work. Another 25% were unsure if they would be called back. Job status and dues when seen together present a red flag. The average debt (excluding dues) in households where domestic workers were recently ousted from their jobs was about Rs. 6,800. It was Rs. 2,400 for those who still had their jobs. Hence, what we stare at is not just a plunge in economic condition but the withdrawal of the very means that can be a way to repair it. These workers, despite the hardships, haven’t left the cities and don’t intend to do so. The city and the state will soon rely on them to restore normalcy. But can that be achieved if they continue to battle precarity of income, job, nutrition and housing on an everyday basis? Need for health insurance With the lockdown being lifted, many workers will be quietly let off, while others will slowly return to work — poorer, saddled with debts, their little savings wiped out. Recovery without compensating for wage loss and erosion of savings in the form of cash transfers is impossible. A health insurance against COVID-19 for every domestic worker is the only way the government can formally recognise the risks involved in their job and the problem that an infection can cause to their lives. But for all this to happen, they will first have to be recognised and workers have to be enrolled in government registers. It is both a need and an opportunity to extend and strengthen the frayed and mostly absent social protection nets to those who run our cities and our homes. Meva Bharti is the convener of the Jaipur-based Rajasthan Mahila Kamgaar Union
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of the ‘what’ and ‘why’||It is now an age where Economics is ruled at one extreme by a formalism where mathematics dominates and at the other by narrow field experiments where crude empiricism reigns. But not long ago, there were economists who sought to understand how the wheels turned in the economy by carefully weighing all the evidence available. A. Vaidyanathan, teacher, researcher and policymaker, who died on June 11 at the age of 88, was one of a fading generation of economists whose body of work was built around how data answered the questions of ‘what’ and ‘why’ in the Indian economy. In the economic discourse in India of the past half century, one can identify many ideas, hypotheses and methodologies with his contributions. “Vaidy”, to his friends and students, first made his mark in the early 1960s in the Perspective Planning Division of the Planning Commission. He and his mentor, Pitambar Pant, prepared a pioneering study in 1962 of what it would require and how long it would take to achieve a basic minimum of living standards. That landmark study was a precursor to the World Bank-led global research on measuring poverty. Later, his ‘decomposition methodology’, developed with B.S. Minhas, was immensely useful in assessing output growth in agriculture. In one of the enduring policy debates on poor industrial performance after the mid-1960s, Vaidyanathan (along with K.N. Raj and Sukhamoy Chakravarty) consistently advocated the need for stepping up agricultural growth if the economy was to grow faster. Throughout his career, Vaidy maintained a passion for critically analysing economic statistics. His numerous research papers are still valuable for their insights into what the data can and cannot reveal. From the 1980s onwards, Vaidyanathan’s heart lay first in understanding India’s bovine economy and then of water use in Indian agriculture. From there flowed his interest in irrigation, pricing of water and sustainable exploitation of water resources. He headed many State and Central government committees on aspects of water use. His recommendations were not always followed up on but he had an indefatigable energy and sense of curiosity. From the mid-1970s onwards, Vaidy taught and conducted research first at the Centre for Development Studies (CDS), Trivandrum and later at the Madras Institute of Development Studies. He would have agreed that his best years were at the CDS, at the time one of the country’s premier economic research centres. We feel that it was his interaction with students at CDS that gave him the greatest satisfaction. He had time for every student, whatever her interest, whatever the perspective and whatever the difficulty. In his seminar course on Indian Economy, students learnt to appraise the received wisdom from various perspectives and examine the underlying empirical tools and statistical data sets used. His critical but always positive comments in the classroom launched many a successful doctoral thesis. Listening to all sides In a field where viewpoints could be extreme and debates acrimonious, Vaidy had the remarkable ability to listen to all sides and be open to all viewpoints. He would have his opinions but he was never closed to ideas from the ‘opposite’ side. It is perhaps this capacity that saw him interact with people across political divides. Vaidyanathan held many official positions including as member of the Planning Commission in 1989-90 and then as a member of the central board of the RBI. But nothing gave him greater pleasure than poring over economic data to tease out the most interesting patterns and stories. Vaidyanathan acknowledged the shortcomings of India’s official data system but he also recognised its strengths. He was unhappy with the deterioration in recent years of the methodology of GDP estimation and the weakening of the Central Statistics Office and the National Sample Survey. If you did not have good data how could you answer the questions ‘what’ and why’? R. Nagaraj is Professor, Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research; C. Rammanohar Reddy is Editor, ‘The India Forum’
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Building trust||The shelling and the retaliations along the Line of Control with Pakistan are a matter of consternation, because it has been allowed to go on so long as to become an everyday occurrence. The unfortunate death of Sepoy Lungabui Abonmli, and the airlifting of two other soldiers, Lienkhothien Senghon and Sepoy Tangsoik Kwianiungar, to the Command Hospital in Udhampur because of injuries due to shelling in Poonch sector are the latest grim reminders of this phenomenon. Sepoy Abonmli is the third soldier to succumb to shelling in this area. All of May the Pir Panjal range, which fronts the Kashmir Valley, has seen mortar and small arms firing. On Saturday, splinter injuries from shelling in Haji Pir in Uri, claimed the life of Akhtar Begum, a civilian. This has been a worrying trend, as when the shells reach deeper they fall in residential areas, in villages such as Churunda and Silikote. When shells begin raining, villagers panic, leave their homes and run further, to temporary shelters. This additional disruption to life in the aftermath of the dilution of Article 370 last August and the COVID-19 lockdown, is something that should be addressed with urgency. Shelling should not be allowed to be a regular occurrence. Ceasefire with Pakistan along the Line of Control is obviously not working, and the government needs to build bomb shelters for civilians until normalcy returns. Unfortunately, aspects of relations with Pakistan in other spheres are in poor repair as well. The two personnel from the Indian mission in Islamabad going suddenly missing for a while points to further breakdown in relations. It makes evident that India and Pakistan are unable even to adhere to reciprocal protocols regarding staff posted in the missions. Whether or not it is a tit-for-tat reaction for India having expelled two Pakistan High Commission officials, Abid Hussain Amid and Mohd Tahir Khan, on charges of espionage, India must take steps to ensure its diplomatic personnel are spared such harassment, which is always present and episodically on show. But with New Delhi studiously avoiding any serious engagement, is the staffing in Pakistan commensurate with the vastly shrunk bilateral relations? As the pandemic rages, with travel curbs and reduced face-to-face opportunities, it might be prudent to temporarily maintain only essential mission staff in Pakistan till India is able to obtain trust and stability in the ties.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Call for action||The results of a serological test conducted across 69 districts by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have indicated that the confirmed numbers of COVID-19 infections reported from the RT-PCR tests are likely an undercount. Serological or antibody tests are not as accurate as the PCR tests, but they are useful indicators of the spread of the novel coronavirus among people. The ICMR study found that 0.73% of the population, examined for antibodies produced specifically for SARS-CoV-2 via an ELISA test, had evidence of past exposure to the virus. In a population with a low infection rate, there is a higher possibility of “false positives” being reported. A number of respondents could have been found to have released antibodies specific to coronaviruses, but without actual exposure to SARS-CoV-2 alone. But the ICMR in its methodology note in a paper in its online publication, Indian Journal of Medical Research ,  had said that the actual results would account for the limitations of the ELISA test. If this is accepted, then the number of people found to have been exposed to the virus would be 7 lakh people or more, if the overall population of these districts is considered, much higher than the 35,000 people who had tested positive in the entire country during this period. The full paper detailing the results of the study by the ICMR is still not out in the public domain. Serological tests, despite inaccuracies, can be a useful guide of the extent of the infections among vulnerable people and within hot spots, and periodic tests of this kind are a must amid the rise of cases that have now crossed the 3.2 lakh mark. The clear takeaway from this report is not what the Director-General of the ICMR claimed that there is no evidence of “community transmission”, but that there has not been adequate testing by the more accurate RT-PCR method. While the “lockdown” strategy might have slowed down the rise in cases and fatalities in the early period of the outbreak in the country, the severe effect it had on the economy, besides its uneven implementation in urban areas where physical distancing is a difficult proposition, made it an untenable strategy to pursue over the longer term. India continues to register among the highest daily rises in COVID-19 cases and fatalities world-wide and this has now burdened the health institutions in many urban centres following the easing of the lockdown. Yet, authorities continued to test at relatively low levels with a lot of variance across States. Some States such as Maharashtra and Gujarat have tested at a higher rate (tests per million population) than many others, but have not increased the overall testing to account for the relative rise in the size of the outbreak. Telangana has still not ramped up testing numbers adequately and has been opaque in the release of testing data. Testing, tracing and treatment at a higher order across the population besides measures such as mask wearing and practising hand hygiene, as the experience of several countries that have considerably slowed down the rise in the case count shows, is the clearest way to address the outbreak.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Politics of Communalism (From an editorial)||Certain unhappy trends emerging from the frantic attempts at image-building during the Congress (R) session in New Delhi are too unmistakable to escape notice. No one expects a political party to be an altruistic do-gooder, out to establish the moral verities. Its business is of course to pursue power for its own reasons and keep out its political opponents. Nor can there be any doubt that honest and patriotic Indians are grieved over and ashamed of the ugly communal clashes that erupt from time to time. But is harping upon communalism, emotionalizing it out of perspective, the best way of eradicating it? Or fixing the guilt by subtle or even inadvertent suggestion on one community or those supposed to represent part of it the ideal way to promote that harmony which has been disturbed by past political gambles? Mrs. Indira Gandhi’s rhetorical question whether a man who killed four children, while the mother, cried, was a Hindu is unfortunate, however well meant it might have been. The same question could be asked about infanticidal maniacs of all religions. Such rhetoric can rouse raw passions among the communities, rather than assuage them, whatever the immediate advantage to one political party in chastising by implication certain other political or quasi-political groups.
16 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors speeds to Q4 loss, sales fall||Tata Motors Ltd. has revealed aggressive cost reduction and deleveraging plans after it reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 9,894.25 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, compared with a profit of Rs. 1,117 crore a year earlier. Lower vehicle sales and the impact of COVID-19 on its domestic and the Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) luxury car unit hurt the business. JLR recorded a loss of £501 million while the domestic business of Tata Motors witnessed a loss of Rs. 4,871 crore. The losses include an exceptional item of Rs. 2,500 crore related to asset writedowns in the domestic business. Revenue during the quarter declined 28% to Rs. 62,493 crore. For the year ended March 31, the company reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 12,071 crore compared with a loss of Rs. 28,826 crore in the previous year. The domestic business reported a loss of Rs. 7,290 crore for the year, compared with a net profit of Rs. 2,021 crore. The company’s consolidated revenue for the financial year declined 14% to Rs. 2,61,068 crore. During the year, JLR vehicle sales fell 12% while Tata Motor’s commercial and passenger vehicle sales declined 22% and 25%, respectively. P.B. Balaji, Group CFO, said JLR’s fourth quarter results were significantly impacted by the pandemic. Despite this, the business improved its earnings before interest and tax by 60 basis points over the previous year, he said. “Project Charge has delivered cumulative savings of £3.5 billion. [The target] has been increased to £5 billion for March 2021. We see improvement in JLR’s performance because of recovery in China, the U.S. and Europe,” Mr. Balaji said. “Steep volume decline, particularly MHCV, and resulting negative operating leverage impacted profitability and cash flows” at the domestic business, he said. The CFO said the first quarter of this fiscal too was expected to be significantly weaker for both JLR and the parent firm. He also said that the company was taking steps to significantly deleverage the Tata Motors Group, with JLR set to become ‘sustainably’ cash positive from fiscal 2022. He asserted that the company would focus on conserving cash. “The company has called out a cost savings program of Rs. 1,500 crore and a cash improvement program of Rs. 6,000 crore. As part of this, company has deferred or cancelled lower margin and non-critical investment and is targeting capex spending of Rs. 1,500 crore in FY21, substantially lower than the Rs. 5,300 crore in FY20 and FY19,” he said. With peak lockdowns in the first quarter, the company expects significantly lower sales in the quarter and negative free cash flow of about Rs. 5,000 crore n the first quarter, about Rs. 3,500 crore of which is related to one time working capital outflows, the company said.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Luxury car segment to remain muted for some time’||Potential buyers of Audi will first focus on setting up and getting their businesses back on track before buying a car in the near term. The company sees a surge in demand for pre-owned luxury cars, says Balbir Singh Dhillon , head, Audi India, in an interview. Edited excerpts:  What has been the impact of COVID-19 on the luxury car segment? The luxury car industry was impacted due to the lockdown. The strict lockdown had a negative impact on the automotive businesses. While most of our showrooms and workshops are now open, given the easing restrictions, the impact of the pandemic has been felt severely on the overall business. At Audi India, we have devised newer ways to execute our business strategy. Interacting with all stakeholders via digital mediums, managing teams online, and making business decisions from our home offices are the new ways of working. What about sales during the lockdown period? The first quarter of 2020 saw an over 30% de-growth in luxury car sales. This quarter will probably be worse, given the lockdown. We are happy to report that most of our showrooms and workshops are now open as per directives from the government. We have begun receiving test drive requests and potential customers are spending time on the website, configuring or customising their cars. On the after-sales side, service-related requests have picked up very well, as most of our customers prepare to resume their daily lives. How long do you think the economy will take to rebound? We are in a phase where there is no historic data we can refer to, to chart our course of action. Realistically, the luxury car segment will remain muted for some time before growth begins. Optimistically, we could see some spurt in demand due to the changing buying behaviour with a focus on personal mobility. In the absence of other avenues to splurge on like luxury holidays etc., consumers might look buying a luxury car. As consumers are deferring even non-essential buys, what about luxury cars? A significant number of MSME owners and business professionals are luxury car customers. We have to respect that these potential buyers will first focus on setting up and getting their businesses back on track, before buying a car in the near term. This being said, we see a surge in demand for pre-owned luxury cars. Is there a change in your sales target for FY21? Needless to say that the prolonged shutdown has made us take a re-look at our business outlook for the year. Our business is very complex, therefore, regular planning is part of our work. We are happy to share that we have not made any changes to our long-term planning but we have had to make some adjustments to our near-term projects. What about your capex plans for the year? The decision on additional capex for Audi India will depend on sales growth over medium to long term. At the moment we are well placed to cater to market demand. Your production ramp up plan? At the moment, we have the capacity as well as production schedule to cater to market demand. We have opened our plants adhering to government regulations for a safe work environment. Did you experience any cancellation of orders? Although we couldn’t deliver cars during the lockdown, our customers have not withdrawn their bookings. We are fully geared up to get back to normal business.  In the absence of other avenues to splurge on, consumers may look at buying a luxury car
16 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Stocks slide on rising infections||Equity benchmarks lost more than 1.5% each on Monday as the rising number of COVID-19 cases, both in India and worldwide, kept investors, globally and locally, on tenterhooks. Market participants are of the view that investors will continue to be jittery as there are increasing concerns relating to another lockdown and its potential impact on the already anaemic economic growth. The 30-share Sensex lost 552.09 points, or 1.63%, to close at 33,228.80. The losses came primarily on the back of heavy sell-off in financial stocks such as IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank, among others. As many as 26 of the Sensex constituents ended in the red even as the broader market breadth was slightly positive. The broader Nifty settled the day at 9,813.70, down 159.20 points, or 1.6%. Further, the India VIX index surged by more than 6% on Monday, hinting at heightened volatile sessions going ahead. “It seems that the rising concerns over the second wave of COVID-19 is haunting market participants across the globe,” said Sameet Chavan, chief analyst, technical and derivatives, Angel Broking. Leading Asian indices such as Hang Seng and Nikkei lost 2.16% and 3.47% respectively, while the benchmarks of Taiwan, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Singapore and Philippines all ended deep in the red. Back in India, provisional data showed foreign portfolio investors net sold almost Rs. 3,000 crore even as DIIs tried to stem the slide by buying shares worth Rs. 1,076 crore.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Pipeline tariff policy coming, to raise share of gas in energy basket||In a bid to raise the share of natural gas in the energy basket, India will soon have a new tariff policy that will help bring down the cost of transporting the environment-friendly fuel. Also, oil regulator PNGRB is working on a new regime for authorisation of gas pipelines that will make it more investor friendly. Speaking at the launch of India’s maiden online gas trading platform by IGX — aimed at market-driven pricing and to boost consumption by improving availability — both Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and regulator PNGRB Chairman Dinesh Kumar Sarraf spoke of a new pipeline tariff policy that will replace the existing practice of seven different pipeline operators charging separate rates and customers farther from a gas source paying more than those nearer. “PNGRB is also working on rationalisation of tariffs to make natural gas affordable in every part of the country. It will facilitate development of the gas market in eastern and north eastern parts of the country,” Mr. Pradhan said. Mr. Sarraf hinted at a single rate across pipelines so as to make the price of fuel uniform for customers across the country. A draft regulation for the new tariff policy will be issued in the next few weeks, he said. The share of natural gas in India’s energy basket is 6.2% and the Centre aims to raise this to 15% by 2030 to replace some of the polluting liquid fuel and coal with this cleaner alternative. Mr. Pradhan also said GAIL had come up with a proposal to have pipeline and gas marketing business in separate divisions. “There will be an infrastructure company for pipelines.”  (With inputs from Piyush Pandey in Mumbai)
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||SC bars sale, registration of BS IV vehicles||The Supreme Court on Monday slammed the brakes on the sale and registration of BS IV vehicles and ordered the Centre to collect details on how many of them were sold and registered after the national lockdown was lifted. “We make it clear that no registration of any BS IV vehicle will be made without our permission because our order is very clear. We request A.N.S. Nadkarni, Additional Solicitor General of India, to collect the details from all the road transport officers throughout India and furnish information that how many vehicles of BS IV category are sold and registered after the lifting of the lockdown. It is made clear that now no registration and sale of BS IV vehicles is permitted,” the order by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra read. The court said its March 27 order giving leeway for the sale of 10% of unsold BS IV stock was “misused.” The Supreme Court said it was startled by the turn of events. It further sought details of the BS IV vehicles sold up to March 31. The dates of the sales should be specified.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Most firms see need to update IT infrastructure’||Some 75% of organisations worldwide find the need to upgrade outdated infrastructure and invest in new technologies, according to a study released on Monday by technology provider Wipro Ltd. Also, 81% of enterprises are reskilling their existing workforce to increase digital penetration, signifying major changes on the horizon for IT infrastructure, Wipro said in its ‘State of IT Infrastructure 2020’ report. ‘New challenges’ “The report provides a multi-dimensional view of how the COVID-19 pandemic will impact IT infrastructure trends in the immediate future,” the Bengaluru-based company said. “With uncertainty in demand, there is a rapid shift in channel preferences, the large scale adoption of work from home brings new challenges for businesses and their suppliers,” it added. It also found that 54% organisations would be adopting containers, a trend that would make open source a more compelling choice across IT infrastructure.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Exports fall 36% in May, trade deficit narrows||Contracting for the third straight month, India’s exports fell 36.47% in May to $19.05 billion, on account of a drop in shipments at key sectors such as petroleum, textiles, engineering and gems and jewellery. Imports too plunged 51% to $22.2 billion in May, leaving a trade deficit of $3.15 billion, compared with $15.36 billion a year earlier, according to data released by the Commerce and Industry Ministry. During April-May 2020, the exports fell 47.54% to $29.41 billion, while imports shrank by 5.67% to $39.32 billion. The trade deficit stood at $9.91 billion during the two months of the current fiscal. Oil imports stood at $3.49 billion in May — 71.98% lower compared to $12.44 billion in the same month last year. Gold imports in May dipped 98.4% to $76.31 million.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘GDP contraction would endanger MSMEs’||A 5% contraction in gross domestic product (GDP) during 2020-21 may lead to a 15% fall in corporate India’s revenues and poses an “existential threat” for small businesses, ratings agency Crisil said in a research report on Monday. However, policy interventions by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the finance ministry offer little hope because they cannot revive demand, which is crucial for the small businesses, it said. The micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector will have to face a sharper decline in revenues of up to 21%, while operating profit margins will narrow to 4-5%, Crisil said. The ratings agency expects a 5% contraction in the economy because of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to almost three months of lockdown with little steps at opening up lately. The Centre and the RBI have already announced actions like collateral-free loans of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore for the segment since the onset of the crisis. “MSMEs face existential crisis, revenue to fall a fifth... a sharp decline at the operating level will also impact creditworthiness, aggravating the liquidity stretch these units have been grappling with, particularly on the working capital front,” Crisil said. It said there were gains to be made out of lower commodity prices but the weak demand in the economy would ensure that the small business segment was unable to capitalise on those.
16 June 2020||Chennai,||Chola Financial net profit dips 26%||Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Ltd.’s (CFHL) standalone net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 contracted 26% to Rs. 25.36 crore following COVID-19 and macro economic conditions.    Total income stood at Rs. 28.66 crore against Rs. 36.47 crore in the year-earlier period. CFHL said the pandemic had a consequential impact on the regular operations of the company, including its lending and collection activities.        During February, the company declared an interim dividend of 65 paise per equity share for FY20. The board has recommended the same to be confirmed as the final dividend for FY20.
16 June 2020||Mumbai,||Axis Bank’s retail head Mondal quits||Pralay Mondal, executive director and retail banking head, Axis Bank, has quit 14 months after joining the third largest private sector lender.  In a notification to the stock exchanges, Axis Bank said Mr. Mondal had informed he would like to pursue other career opportunities. Sources said he will replaced by an internal candidate. Sources also said Mr. Mondal is likely to take charge as the CEO of a smaller bank. Before joining Axis, Mr. Mondal was heading retail banking of Yes Bank. Mr. Mondal is an engineering graduate from IIT, Kharagpur and a management graduate from IIM, Calcutta.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Wholesale prices plunge to 4.5-year low; WPI deflation at 3.21% in May||Prices in the wholesale market fell to a 4.5-year low in May, recording a deflation of 3.21% following a sharp decline in fuel and power items even as food articles turned expensive. “The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI, stood at (-3.21%) (provisional) for the month of May, 2020 as compared with 2.79% during the corresponding month of the previous year,” the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement on Monday.pti
16 June 2020||Chennai,||EV maker Ampere to continue investing in people, technology, capacity||Ampere Vehicles Pvt. Ltd., a wholly owned electric mobility subsidiary of Greaves Cotton Ltd., will continue to invest in people, technology and capacity during the current fiscal. “In the new normal, people might shift from shared mobility to personal and affordable mobility,” said Nagesh Basavanhalli, MD and CEO, Greaves Cotton Ltd. “Our investments for current fiscal are on track and we will keep investing in people, technology and capacity.”
16 June 2020||Chennai,||LVB merger||The board of private sector lender Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (LVB) on Monday considered a proposal for possible capital infusion from two entities.“Today, at the board meeting, we accepted the preliminary and non-bidding LoI submitted by Clix Capital Services Pvt. Ltd. and Clix Finance India Pvt. Ltd., on June 12, 2020” said S. Sundar, managing director and CEO, Lakshmi Vilas Bank. The RBI had earlier rejected its merger proposal with Indiabulls Housing Finance.
16 June 2020||Fort Worth (Texas),||Daniel Berger has the last laugh||Daniel Berger emerged from a tightly-bunched leaderboard to win the PGA Tour’s first tournament back after a three-month COVID-19 break with a playoff victory at the Charles Schwab Challenge here on Sunday. Berger, who needed a birdie on the final hole of his regulation round to make the playoff, sealed the win on the first extra hole with a rock-solid par moments before fellow American Collin Morikawa watched his putt from in close cruelly lip out. When Berger sealed the win there was a brief handshake and hug with his caddie but no roars to be heard since Colonial Country Club was closed all week to the general public. “I grinded so hard the last two months to be in this position and I am just so thankful that all the hard work paid off,” said Berger, who had top-10 finishes in his three starts before the PGA Tour halted action in mid-March. Berger, who began the action-packed day two shots off overnight leader Xander Schauffele, carded a four-under-par 66 to reach 15 under for the week. Missing out Schauffele (69) missed the playoff by one stroke after his par putt from two feet at the 17th also lipped out. Among the others who finished one shot back of the playoff was Britain’s Justin Rose (66) and Bryson DeChambeau (66). Three-times Major champion Jordan Spieth started the final round one shot off the lead but hit just five of 14 fairways and 10 of 18 greens in regulation en route to a one-over-par 71 that left him in a tie for 10th place. World No. 1 Rory McIlroy began the day three shots off the lead but struggled over the front nine en route to a four-over-par 74 that left him nine shots adrift and in a share of 32nd place.  Final scores: 265: Daniel Berger (65-67-67-66), Collin Morikawa (64-67-67-67). Berger wins on first playoff hole; 266: Jason Kokrak (67-70-65-64), Bryson DeChambeau (65-65-70-66), Justin Rose (63-69-68-66), Xander Schauffele 65-66-66-69; 267: Bubba Watson (68-66-68-65), Patrick Reed (68-69-63-67); 268: Gary Woodland (65-67-66-70) .
16 June 2020||TIRUCHI,||It is important to remain positive, says National record-holder Siva||Pole-vaulter S. Siva is raring to return to action, what with the fitness regimen he has been following during the COVID-19 lockdown keeping him in good shape. The National record-holder (5.30m) has his eyes set on winning the first event he competes in after normalcy returns. “In these challenging times, it is hard not being able to do what you like the most. But, it is important to remain positive,” the 24-year-old Army man said. Qualifying for the Olympics tops his list of priorities. “It has always been my dream. Now that the postponement of the Olympics due to the pandemic has provided me ample time to prepare, I am quite confident of making it happen,” he added. Brother the inspiration A swimmer in his school days, Siva took up pole vault seven years ago, inspired by his elder brother S. Thamilarasan. He discussed his interest while at National College HSS with physical director R. Rangaraj. “Switching to a different sport altogether is not easy as you have to start from scratch. Nevertheless, one always has to chase his passion,” Siva said, recollecting the words of the physical director. Rangaraj, who taught the basics of pole vault to Siva, advised him to move to Chennai to train under Don Wilcox in 2013. “It was the turning point in my life. Wilcox sir shaped me into a pole-vaulter. “His guidance and encouragement have given me the grit and determination to dream big,” said the Loyola College alumnus. In four years’ time, Siva created a National record of 5.14m in the Federation Cup held at Patiala, eclipsing K.P. Bimin’s mark of 5.13m. Since then, there has been no looking back as he went on to break his own record two more times — 5.15m and 5.30m — the latter coming at the inter-Services meet at Jalahalli (Karnataka) in 2018.  Wilcox sir shaped me into a pole-vaulter. His guidance and encouragement have given me the grit and determination to dream big
16 June 2020||MELBOURNE,||From Tendulkar Drive to Dev Terrace and Kohli Crescent||A new housing estate being developed on Rockbank suburb here will have streets named after Indian cricket greats including Sachin Tendulkar, Kapil Dev and Virat Kohli. The estate, developed by Accolade Estate, is luring buyers with a Tendulkar Drive, Kohli Crescent and Dev Terrace. It has also named streets after other international cricketers such as Waugh Street, Miandad Street, Ambrose Street, Sobers Drive, Kallis Way, Hadlee Street and Akram Way. The Rockbank suburb, which falls under Melton Council, has been a popular suburb among home buyers from the Indian community.  According to Elissa Hayes of Resi venture, the developers, “the response from the Indian community has been exceptionally good and high ever since the launch of the H&L packages”. Street names are usually submitted by developers and approved by the city council if they meet Office of Geographic Names guidelines. Resi Ventures director Khurram Saeed said there were 60 names submitted to the council for approval including a street named after the great Don Bradman but the body refused it as there was already a street named after him here. “We didn’t get Kumar Sangakara, Rahul Dravid, M.S. Dhoni and a few others as council knocked them back for one reason or another,” he said. “We did get Tendulkar and Kohli over the line with council. Kohli is one of my favourite batsmen of the current era and I named the most expensive street after him, overlooking the future wetlands,” Khurram added.  Kohli is one of my favourite batsmen of the current era and I named the most expensive street after him, overlooking the future wetlands— Khurram Saeed,Resi Ventures director
16 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Inspiring youngsters is Olympian rower Bajrang Lal’s goal||Bajrang Lal Takhar, the 2010 Asian Games gold medallist in single sculls, is doing what he loves most — staying connected with the sport. Steering clear of the debate on the Union Sports Ministry recently de-recognising the Rowing Federation of India, the 2008 Olympics quarterfinalist instead focuses on his passion for the sport and the intense desire to give something back to rowing. Working up interest He has been working on getting the youth in his Maganpura village (60 km from Jaipur) interested in rowing. “There are no lakes there, but the ergometer (indoor rowing machine) is my best accomplice. “The idea is to get them hooked to rowing and dream big. I am determined to guide those who are interested in rowing,” said Barjang Lal in a chat with The Hindu from Jaipur. “Around 200 youth attended the orientation classes in my village and another 1500 attended my online coaching,” said Bajrang. “I am in constant touch and working in coordination with shooter Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. “The Athens Olympics silver medallist is very keen to give sports a major fillip in Rajasthan,” said Bajrang.  Not surprisingly, Bajrang, who retired from the Indian Army, has sent in a proposal to set up a Rowing Academy in Kota, Ajmer, Chambal or Udaipur and is targeting the under-20 age group. “It is pending with the Union Sports Ministry and I am hoping for a positive response after the lockdown,” said the champion rower who made Hussain Sagar in Hyderabad his second home. He owes a lot to chief National coach Dronacharya Ismail Baig, he said. “It is unfortunate the lockdown broke the momentum of Indian rowers preparing for the next Olympics. Online coaching can only help to a certain extent,” signed off the Arjuna and Padmasri awardee.  I am in constant touch and working in coordination with shooter Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. The Athens Olympics silver medallist is very keen to give sports a major fillip in Rajasthan
16 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Call for prudent changes to Kerala basketball||Prudent changes in planning and execution by all stakeholders to take Kerala basketball to the next level was the call of the hour during a webinar. Participants discussed the way forward with the realistic goal of the State emerging as the senior national champions in both sections by 2023, at e-Hoopathon 1.0, organised by Team Rebound on Sunday. Former India captain Unwin Antony called for increased exposure to juniors and the need to play against stronger teams more often. He also stressed the importance of fitness and injury treatment. Former India international Jayashankar Menon urged the Kerala Basketball Association (KBA) to properly plan the travel schedule of the teams participating in nationals. He also wanted KBA to adequately compensate players for their achievements. International Eudrick Pereira wanted KBA to hold position-specific camps. Former India international and coach C.V. Sunny said there was enough talent in Kerala, and the players only needed proper guidance. He urged the stakeholders to nurture the talented players. Arjuna awardee Geethu Anna Rahul felt that the Kerala players lacked big-match temperament and the glaring weakness in outside shooting was exposed by other teams. Geethu also wanted more job opportunities for women players in the State. Former State player Sheelamma Varghese was of the opinion that Kerala's gameplan was predictable in the nationals. The team's inherent weakness and lack of balance was glaring. She wanted the coaches to work on the team's shortcomings at the camp. Former State players Sunil Dutt, Jaison Peter, Dr M.M. Chacko and Leelamma spoke at the seminar. Anilkumar of Team Rebound moderated the panel discussion.
16 June 2020||KOZHiKODE,||No stopping Carlsen||The climax to even the most exciting chess tournaments could sometimes be, well, anti-climatic. It could all end with a quick, dull draw. Even a hard-earned victory in the final round — worth a point — may not be enough to stop the overnight leader. Clutch chess, however, could spice up the finale of a tournament. Magnus Carlsen of Norway and Fabiano Caurana of the United States — the World No. 1 and 2 — showed how last weekend at the Clutch Chess International, organised by the US-based Saint Louis Chess Club. And they took home considerable money, too. Carlsen won the online event that carried a prize fund of $265,000. The final was played over two days and 12 games. On Sunday, the World champion won the last game, proving that he cannot be stopped in any format. That victory gave him three points, not one, which is usually the case in chess. Interesting format Clutch chess, created by US Grandmaster Maurice Ashley, is interesting because the point for a win varies according to the stage of a match, which has 12 games. For a victory in the first four games, it is worth one point, while a draw fetches half-a-point. The same system will apply for games seven to 10 as well. But in games five and six, a win is worth two points and draw one. The last two games will see a victory giving three points and a draw 1.5. The matches are spread over two days and the last two games of each day are worth more points. It remains to be seen if this system will find favour in other tournaments, but the fact is that the first two events – there was a US tournament before the international one – provided plenty of excitement. The Carlsen-Caruana final alone produced nine decisive results, and only three draws. To reach the final, Carlsen had defeated Levon Aronian of Armenia, while Caruana had outwitted fellow-American Wesley So. Those four had knocked out Jeffrey Xiong (US), Leinier Domingeuz (US), Alexander Grischuk (Russia) and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra).
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mentoring three aspiring crack shots||World and Olympic champions Niccolo Campriani and Abhinav Bindra have overcome many challenges in their lives and fabulous sporting careers. But they are currently engaged in a task arguably more demanding than any they have faced previously: helping three refugee shooters, Mahdi, Khaoula and Luna, compete in the Tokyo Olympics.  Three-time Olympic champion Campriani started the project and Bindra opted to support the venture on hearing about it. “Seeing the resolve, determination and commitment, I volunteered to help,” said Bindra. Addressing an online media conference, Campriani and Bindra talked about the five-part video series ‘Taking Refuge: Target Tokyo 2020’, shot by the Olympic Channel and released on Monday, and the manner in which they had been preparing the three for competitions. Bindra has borrowed the rifle that he had donated to the Olympic museum for use till the Tokyo Games. Mahdi and Khaoula had the experience of training in Bengaluru with some of the best Indian shooters, and got to use the high-performance equipment at the Abhinav Bindra Centre. Mental support Campriani said that it was much more than giving the new shooters a chance to compete in the Olympics. Giving an insight into the various challenges for the selected shooters, including the exposure straightaway at international competitions, Campriani said providing mental support through experts would help them in both sport and life. “They are training well to reach a competitive level. They have one more year to train,” said Campriani. “They are the best-prepared athletes in terms of media training, as they have faced the camera so much,” said Bindra on a lighter note. ”Your last shot in the Olympics is not going to define who you are. Sport is not the only thing in life. “It is interesting to see my sport through their eyes,” summed up the Italian on the fascinating journey of becoming Olympic athletes in such a short span.
16 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Athletes resume training at Kanteerava Stadium||After a long hiatus, track and field athletes have resumed training at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium here on Monday. The stadium, managed by Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (DYES) and used intermittently recently as a COVID quarantine centre, was shut for sports training for nearly three months. Not many athletes, however, jumped at the chance to return to training. Fears surrounding the dreaded coronavirus meant that only a small number of athletes visited the stadium on Monday. Another deterrent was that only the 200m track was available for training, as other sections are being relaid and not available for use. Some coaches have advised their academy wards to avoid training until the end of the month. Athletes were advised to wear masks when not training. Security guards were tasked with checking identity cards before allowing athletes into the premises.
16 June 2020||Sydney,||Roberts to quit as CA chief||Cricket Australia (CA) is set to part ways with its chief executive Kevin Roberts, at a time when it is under severe financial stress in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Roberts’ departure would be announced later this week. The 47-year-old was contracted until the end of 2021 but has fallen out of favour with the CA Board. Roberts had taken over from James Sutherland when Australian cricket was still grappling with the aftermath of the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa in 2018. The newspaper reported that an interim replacement would be made soon. CA has been at the receiving end ever since financial issues came to light in the wake of the pandemic. It has faced stiff opposition from The Australian Players’ Association and a few State bodies over its cost-cutting and financial projections during the health crisis. CA, which stood down more than 200 staff on 20 percent pay until June-end, secured a loan of $50 million last month to cover the losses if India doesn’t tour Australia in the summer. It is also the host of the T20 World Cup in October-November but the ICC has not taken a final call on the tournament.
16 June 2020||Madrid,||Real Madrid defeats Eibar||Marcelo celebrated by taking the knee as Real Madrid returned from three months away following the coronavirus suspension by beating Eibar 3-1 on Sunday. After scoring Madrid’s third goal in the 37th minute, Marcelo dropped onto his left knee and raised his right fist into the air, apparently in support of the Black Lives Matter movement. Madrid’s win may have come at a cost as Eden Hazard and Sergio Ramos were both substituted early in the second half and were seen with ice packs strapped to them while sitting in the stands. Bayer Leverkusen moved back into the Bundesliga’s Champions League places with a 1-1 draw on Sunday at injury-hit Schalke, which set a new club record of 13 league games without a win.   The results: LaLiga: Real Madrid 3 (Kroos 4, Ramos 30, Marcelo 37) bt Eibar 1 (Bigas 60); Real Sociedad 1 (Oiarzabal 61) drew with Osasuna 1 (Adrian 29-pen).   Bundesliga: Schalke 1 (Caligiuri 51-pen) drew with Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Miranda 81-og).
16 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Yoga to women cricketers’ aid||In an attempt to keep the under-19 Bengal women players mentally and physically fit during the lockdown, the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) organised a Power Yoga webinar under the supervision of yoga instructor Suman Bhat on Monday. “It has been our continuous effort to keep the players motivated and fit. This session is part of the ongoing process,” said CAB president Avishek Dalmiya. Ms. Bhat, a Mumbai-based instructor, said, “yoga helps stretch our body which will help the girls become stronger and more flexible for the game.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Hima Das nominated for Khel Ratna||India’s top sprinter Hima Das, who had a stellar 2018, has been nominated for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna by the Assam government. Assam sports secretary Dulal Chandra Das sent the letter of recommendation to the Sports Ministry on June 5. Hima is the first track athlete to win a global title, at the U20 World Championship in Finland in 2018. She followed her U-20 world title with the 400m silver, 4x400 mixed relay gold (upgraded) and women’s 4x400m gold at the Jakarta Asian Games.
16 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Last rites performed for Sushant Singh Rajput||The last rites of Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput, who passed away on Sunday, were held at Vile Parle’s Pawan Hans crematorium in Mumbai on Monday. His father K. K. Singh and other close family members arrived from Patna late on Sunday night and Monday morning.  Among those bidding him a final farewell were actors Rajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon, director Abhishek Kapoor, and casting director and Rajput’s close friend Mukesh Chhabra. Rajput’s body was handed over to his family members in the afternoon, following a post mortem at the Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle. “A provisional post mortem report has been submitted by the doctors to the Bandra Police. A team of three doctors conducted the autopsy and gave a provisional cause of death,” Zone IX Deputy Commissioner of Police Abhishek Trimukhe said. An officer with the Bandra Police said that a final report will be sent by the Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL), and is expected within 10 days. “We have also turned over Rajput’s cell phone and other electronic devices for a forensic analysis to the FSL,” the officer said. The Bandra Police has also started recording statements from several of Rajput’s friends in connection with the investigation, as well as from his two cooks and one domestic help who were staying with him. Preliminary inquiries were made with his father, but a detailed statement will be recorded at a later date, officials said. Rajput, who turned a household name with the serial Pavitra Rishta on Zee TV, made his debut in Bollywood in 2013 with Kai Po Che! ,  and is best remembered for films like Shuddh Desi Romance , M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story and Sonchiriya .
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 08:59 IST,||Sudoku - June 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ancient Kerala in paint||Artist Manoj Mathasseril is painting curly wisps of a cloud on white paper. The sky is a deep red, a combination of burnt sienna and scarlet. The day’s class is on how to paint clouds and the sky in a traditional Kerala mural. The Kochi-based artist’s YouTube channel, Art with Manoj Mathasseril, has been garnering viewers. Launched during the lockdown, the channel is Manoj’s attempt at creating awareness on Kerala murals and helping aspiring artists learn basic techniques. “Mural is best learnt in a physical classroom. However, for artists who are just starting out, these sessions would be helpful,” says Manoj. He explains the processes and stories of the centuries-old painting style in a simplified manner and takes the viewers through basic strokes and shading. Over 21 episodes, the channel has got 1.32k subscriptions. Manoj encourages his viewers to interact with him, clear doubts and share their works. “What I am trying to do is give the historical context,” says Manoj. Of olden times Having learnt mural art from the Indian School of Art in Kochi, Manoj says, “Kerala murals have a unique charm. Most of the murals in the old temples of Kerala were done between the 15th and 19th centuries by unnamed artists,” says Manoj. “We have lost many of these works of art over time as some of the structures that held it were destroyed or worn down. Many temple authorities have undertaken restoration of old murals, too. Apart from its artistic value, the old murals also reflected the life of those times,” Manoj says. Ancient traditional murals were done using natural colours on lime-plastered walls. The murals used only five basic colours — ochre red, ochre yellow, green, black and white — which were made using natural materials such as laterite, coal, patina and leaves. The brushes were made using grass and the fine hair in calves’ ears. Over time, when synthetic paints came about, artists started doing murals in acrylic on canvas or paper. Manoj prefers water colour for his murals as he feels the effect is closest to the old-world mural. A lime-washed hard board works best as a canvas. However, for those who prefer paper, Manoj recommends smooth white paper or high quality chart paper. “Water colour is an easier medium; it does not have the sheen of acrylic and corrections are easier to make.” Over time, murals became mainstream. “Improvisations came in. Even the colour blue is being used now, which is traditionally not done,” says Manoj. He reiterates that murals cannot be mastered online; and that it takes years of practice and learning. “My tutorials are just a guide to mural lovers and beginners,” Manoj says. The artist also does live sessions with Q and A. “There is so much to talk about murals, there is enough material to run a thousand episodes,” he signs off. Manoj’s YouTube Channel is https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCoownihC4m9Cb2IKygc3G_A
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Reconciling with self||An incomplete portrait, which trails off beyond a point, leaving a faint mark where once was the mouth; short, translucent foot prints, climb up the figure’s neck. Chennai-based artist Rohini Mani’s self portrait hints at her preoccupation with the concept of the rediscovery of self. Her more recent Dark is Beautiful series is a subset of the same, and specifically deals with the more topical theme of colourism. Nearing 40, Rohini, has always been exposed to portraits and still life during her formative years as an artist, at Chennai’s Government College of Fine Arts and Hyderabad Central University. This explains her expertise in the genre — her interest, however, comes from the fact that portraiture as a medium, helps her delve deep into her subject matter. The genre has set her on a journey to rediscover herself. Her series of 50-odd works, titled ‘Dark is Beautiful’, therefore, comprises self portraits, line drawings and abstract representations of an inward reflection — of a person who has been discriminated against, on the basis of her skin colour from a very young age. “Even as a school kid, I have been asked to step back multiple times. But back then, I didn’t know why this was happening. However, the questions remained strong in my mind,” reminisces Rohini, who also does illustrations. The artist has illustrated TM Krishna’s latest book, Sebastian and Sons , and has designed the book cover for Perumal Murugan’s Amma . “People seem to have a mental block about those with dark complexion. Their achievements or accolades almost become invalid,” she continues. Media’s representation of people with a dark complexion, is another aspect that Rohini tries to address. “I have never seen a woman who looks like myself, in any of the big hoardings that are seen while one travels. This has left a question mark in my mind since long,” says Rohini. More than the output, what she holds dear in her self portraits is the opportunity it provides to reconcile with herself. While reflecting on her own portraits, Rohini discovers the beauty in her own self, which changes at every glance. “It’s almost like enjoying a landscape,” says the artist who likes to experiment with the medium of charcoal. The dichotomy of black and white is something that interests her. “Black and white are two extremes, and I love to play within the grade.”  To get in touch with the artist regarding the Dark is Beautiful series, visit her website, www.rohinimanicharcoal. com
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘In OTT, I am your prisoner’||Filmmaker Ram Madhvani is audibly frazzled over the phone. “We have a show to put on, music to give and we have been doing dubbing in the last three months during the lockdown,” he sighs. As the pandemic continues and lockdown takes on a concomitant nature, the advertising veteran has busy at work with the post-production of Aarya , an upcoming original series starring Sushmita Sen. When we speak, it’s barely a couple of weeks to the release. “Don’t remind me, I’m going to have a panic attack,” he says. “I have to meet my deadline or it will be the most embarrassing moment of my life.” Nine years since its inception, Madhvani is close to the finish line, and won’t let a pandemic come in his way. Almost a decade ago, he had watched the Dutch drama series, Penoza , with his wife, Amita, and wanted to adapt it into a Hindi film, but it never materialised. “I was emotional and cried, and now I realised that God had a plan,” he shares. Aarya is  the first project under his newly launched production house, Ram Madhvani Films. Under the new banner, he plans to continue producing and directing feature films for theatrical release as well as content for streaming services. Cultural context  Aarya chronicles the story of a mother compelled to pick up a gun to save her family. Adapting Penoza into a web series was relatively simpler as compared to rooting it in an Indian cultural context. Madhvani had a brainwave while working on a song for Aamir Khan’s television show, Satyamev Jayate . He was travelling on a train in Rajasthan, where he inquired about the flowers growing alongside the railway tracks. “It turned out to be poppy flowers, and that gave me an idea,” he recalls. Gleaning from the show’s trailer, Chandrachur Singh's character meddles with illicit substances derived from the flowers. “This is part of our culture. I have relatives who are Marwari and I know this urban milieu,” explains the director. Madhvani insists that the nine-episode series is not a crime thriller but a relationship drama. “Like Neerja wasn’t a hijack film but a mother-daughter story,” he shares. The Sonam Kapoor-starrer and his new project an obvious commonality of a titular female protagonist in trouble. But Madhvani insists he doesn’t want to be stereotyped. “So the next one will be a male-centric comedy,” he reveals. “Although, I have been surrounded by strong women and I owe a lot to them.”  Back onscreen Sen is one such woman who has impacted the director. Away from Hindi films for a decade, Aarya is her much-hyped return. “I worked with her on an ad film before, so I’ve known her and she’s the definition of a true star because when she enters a room, the energy shifts,” observes Madhvani. The series also marks Singh’s return from a hiatus. “It’s wrong when people call him a 90s actor and I feel so bad,” continues the director. “I wanted to cast people who looked like they had nothing to do with any crime.” Even though Neerja was a commercial hit, Madhvani is happy that ticket sales won’t determine his success this time. “With OTT, you know it’s done well when they commission a second season,” he laughs. From advertising – famously known for his Happydent commercial – to feature films and now a webseries; it’s been a natural but slow progression for Madhvani that spans over two decades. After Let’s Talk, his debut feature film in 2002, Neerja arrived after a gap of 14 years. And now four years later, Madhvani presents Aarya. “The audience for these mediums are the same. In theatre, I kept you captive and you were my prisoner. But in OTT, I am your prisoner, and you can ask me to leave with a remote,” he concludes. Aarya will première on Disney+ Hotstar on June 19
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: chargesheet filed in dealer murder case||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Monday filed a chargesheet in connection with the killing of a 48-year-old property dealer, who was trying to pacify the mob involving two communities during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The victim identified as Parvez, was a resident of north Ghonda, Shahdara, a police officer said. A chargesheet has been filed before the duty magistrate at Karkardooma court and 16 people have been arrested. All of them have been sent to judicial custody, the officer said. Gunshot injuries According to the police, on February 25 evening, Parvez was found lying injured inJafarabad area. He had received gunshot injuries on his right chest and was rushed to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, a senior police officer said. A case was registered in this regard at Jafarabad police station, he said. During investigation, the police found that he had a .32 bore licenced revolver which had 25 rounds. However, only 13 cartridges were recovered. His revolver is still missing, the police added. He was trying to intercede between the two communities when he was attacked, the officer said. Among the 16 people arrested, one of them was the man who shot him while others were part of the mob, he said. The arrests were made based on CCTV footages and call detail records, among other evidences. The weapon of crime used to kill him and Parvez’s revolver have not been recovered, the police added.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Endless misery: man loses pregnant wife||A 26-year-old carpenter’s sufferings seem endless. He went out of work after the communal riots in February, and then he lost his eight-month pregnant wife and unborn child in June due to negligence at medical healthcare facilities. Amir* didn’t wish to reveal his name as his wife Arifa’s* family has been blaming him for her untimely death at Lady Hardinge Medical College. However, he blames the three hospitals he visited where his wife was not given the attention she needed. Recalling the day, Amir, a resident of north-east Delhi’s Mustafabad where he stays in a rented accommodation, said that after a gap of over three and a half months, he had started going out to look for work. “Arifa was absolutely fine. I fed her breakfast and tea. My younger brother was at home when I left and told her I’ll be back soon,” he said. Arifa called him again around 1 p.m. asking him if he had eaten. That was the last conversation between the two. Around 3 p.m., he received a call from his brother that Arifa had fallen unconscious. “I called my cousin who lives nearby to take Arifa to a hospital till I reach,” said Amir. Inadequate facilities At a private hospital in Mustafabad, the doctors allegedly denied her admission saying they did not have adequate facilities. “We then took her to a hospital in Shastri Park where again they denied to attend her and told us that they don’t have oxygen facility,” he said, adding that they were then asked to take Arifa to Lady Hardinge Medical College. Amir said that they reached the hospital around 6 p.m. and faced a tough time getting Arifa admitted. “They initially denied admission. Later, they said that a doctor’s permission was needed. I literally cried in front of the staff, begging them to take my wife. She was lying unconscious on a stretcher for over an hour,” he said. Subsequently, Arifa was admitted. Half an hour later, the family was informed that she and the unborn child were dead. Amir was numb. He asked the staffer a reason for her death. “I am an illiterate. I just asked the staffer what had happened to my wife and child. What will I tell my family?” he said. He believes that if the hospital had acted in time, she might have been saved. Amir claimed that the staff told him that if he kept the body in the hospital to know the cause of death, the hospital will conduct a post-mortem which Amir was apprehensive about. “I didn’t know how long it would have taken for us to get the body after the formalities, so I just held her in my arms from the stretcher and walked out,” he said. The ‘admission receipt’ given to him was taken back, he said. Will enquire When contacted, Lady Hardinge’s medical director N.N. Mathur said that he would enquire into the matter. “During the lockdown, I told her we should also go back to our village in Aligarh, but she said that we should stay here because hospitals and doctors are accessible here. But that’s what took her life,” he said. For Amir, life took a turn on February 23 when riots broke out and he was subsequently out of work. Owing to the lockdown, absence of work continued and he took loans from family and friends to survive . Amir said he wished he had informed the police about what had happened at Lady Hardinge. “But then, what will happen? I have lost both my wife and my child”.  During the lockdown, I told Arifa that we should also go back to our village in Aligarh, but she said that we should stay here because hospitals and doctors are accessible here. But that’s what took her life Amir Carpenter
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||5 days after trader’s death, police nab minor hired by victim himself||Five days after a debt-ridden businessman was found dead on a tree with his hands tied, the police said he had hired a minor to kill him to ensure his family gets insurance money. Three more arrested DCP (Outer) A. Koan said the minor has been apprehended and his three associates — Suraj, Manoj and Sumit — have been arrested for allegedly killing Gaurav Bansal, a resident of Patparganj. On June 10, Bansal’s body was found on a tree in Outer Delhi’s Baprola Vihar after which a murder case was registered. During probe, it was found that Bansal, who ran a ration shop, was under financial stress and had taken a personal loan in February due to which he was under immense stress. Missing report His family had lodged a missing report in Anand Vihar police station. “On the basis of intelligence, a suspected accused — Suraj — was apprehended. During sustained interrogation, Suraj admitted to the crime and disclosed that he along with Manoj and Sumit were roped in to commit the crime by a juvenile. On the instance of Suraj, the others were nabbed,” Mr. Koan said. During interrogation, it was revealed that Bansal had contacted the minor through social media.  “Bansal told the juvenile that he would pay him to murder him so that his family can get the insurance amount after his death. The two agreed for a sum of around Rs. 60,000 for the crime,” the officer said, adding that the deceased’s mobile phone records also showed that he was in touch with the minor. Bansal also shared his picture with the accused and reached the spot after which the four accused allegedly killed him as per instructions.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt.’s reply over suspension of legal consultation of prisoners||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the AAP government on a plea challenging a circular suspending legal consultation of the inmates with their advocates in prison due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Delhi government on the petition which sought allowing of legal interview or consultation and drafting of cases of the jail inmates with the advocates of their choices. The court, conducting the hearing through videoconferencing, listed the matter for further hearing on June 29. Petitioner Ajit P. Singh said the Delhi Prison has suspended the legal interview or consultation of the inmates with their advocates of their choice in jails here due to the pandemic from March 25 till date. The prison has made it compulsory to take legal advice and drafting of the cases by jail visiting advocates through Delhi Legal Services Authority only, he said.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 100 academicians, activists, artists express solidarity with Mander||Nearly 160 activists, academics and artists from across India issued a statement in solidarity with social activist Harsh Mander, condemning what it called a “motivated, compromised investigation and vilification of a person with commitment to a just society”. Delhi riots They took an issue with attempts to “concoct a ‘chronology’ and create a false narrative” by the inclusion of his and other activists’ names in a chargesheet filed by the police in connection with the Delhi riots. The statement was signed by Jean Dreze, Jayati Ghosh, Kannan Gopinathan Medha Patkar, Mallika Sarabhai Naseeruddin Shah, Prabhat Patnaik, Ratna Pathak Shah, Romila Thapar, Ramachandra Guha, Shabnam Hashmi, Yogendra Yadav among others. It argued that the chargesheet filed by the police continues a “false narrative” about a speech given by Mr. Mander at Jamia Milia Islamia on December 16, where he is said to have “instigated protestors to not have faith in the Supreme Court and to fight their battle on road to get justice. He, however, used a façade of peace in a part of his speech” it quoted from the chargesheet. “There cannot be anything more ridiculous than saying Harsh Mander used a “façade of peace.” He has devoted his entire life to the cause of peace and harmony in society,” it asserted. The statement quoted from Mr. Mander’s speech, which it argues, “can go down in history as an elaboration of Gandhian principles in contemporary times.” To use this speech to present Mr. Mander as someone instigating violence is “utterly deplorable,” it said, calling it “a deliberate and motivated attempt to implicate an outstanding peace-loving, Gandhi follower, an activist par excellence, who is walking the path of non-violence. This is an attempt to target him, perhaps pull him into the police dragnet of false cases, and silence powerful and effective citizen’s voices against hate, divisiveness and for unity and compassion.”
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Zafarul told to join probe over controversial post||The Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Monday has sent notice to Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan to join the probe in connection with the sedition case registered against him for his social media post last month, said officials. Following the direction of Delhi High Court, the police have sent a notice to Mr. Khan. “On the court’s directive, we have sent a notice to him to join the probe in next two days,” a senior officer said. Meanwhile, Mr. Khan confirmed that he has received a notice from the Special Cell. “I have received a notice from the Special Cell to join the probe. I have been asked to give some details with regard to the investigation. I will be joining the probe at their Janakpuri office tomorrow [Tuesday],” he said. FIR against DMC chief An FIR was registered against Mr. Khan on April 30 under Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth) of the Indian Penal Code after police received a complaint from a resident of Vasant Kunj. This is the second notice sent to Mr. Khan. Earlier in May, a notice under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was sent to him by the Special Cell to handover his device used for making the “controversial” social media post. In the FIR, the complainant alleged that Mr. Khan’s post was provocative and seditious and intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in the society, the police said, adding that the case was being investigated by the Cyber Cell of the Special Cell. However, later, Mr. Khan also sought an apology while the BJP demanded his removal from the commission. He had said that his tweet on April 28, thanking Kuwait for taking note of the “persecution” of Indian Muslims in the context of the north-east Delhi violence, has “pained” some people which was never his intention.
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Act against garbage dumping, NGT tells Haryana||Following a plea seeking remedial action against unscientific dumping of garbage, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana government to take appropriate steps and fix accountability. The green panel pulled up the local body after it said that compliance could not be possible due to the pandemic. Referring to a May 4 report filed by authorities, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “As already noted, the matter has been hanging fire for the last 20 years while the COVID-19 situation has emerged only now.” “Moreover, the statutory timelines have expired and earlier binding orders have attained finality. Nothing tangible is shown to have been done,” the Bench said. The directions came when the panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Jagdish Kumar seeking restoration of a site in Sonipat, where garbage was allegedly dumped unscientifically. The Bench said, “Let [Chief Secretary] take further steps for ensuring compliance of directives and for coercive measures for failure of the officers concerned and furnish a report.”
16 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case filed after stones found at Dwarka mosque||The Delhi Police registered a case after stones were found inside a mosque in Dwarka Sector-11 in the early hours of Monday. A senior police officer said that a call was received around 1.30 a.m. regarding stones being found inside the mosque. When police reached the spot, they were informed that the staff suspects that stones were thrown at the mosque. “No window was broken. Two stones were found inside the mosque,” the officer said. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under Section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are obtaining and scanning CCTV footage to ascertain the sequence of events,” the officer said. Stones were hurled at the mosque in February as well, the police confirmed, adding that a case was registered at that time too.
16 June 2020||June 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The new normal||
16 June 2020||New DELHI,||2 held for stealing valuables from cars||A couple has been arrested for their alleged involvement in stealing valuables from parked cars after breaking windows of the vehicles in posh areas of the city, the police said on Monday. The accused — Rakesh (23) and his wife Vajayinti (22) —, both from south Delhi's Madangir, have stolen laptops and other valuables from parked cars, they said. The matter came to light on May 23 after police were reported about an incident on Ashoka Road, wherein the backside window glass of a parked car was broken and one laptop, hard disk and other documents were stolen from inside it.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the couple were identified with the help of CCTV footage when they were coming from Vijay Chowk on Rajpath on a scooty. The duo was nabbed at that time on Saturday. They were chased by the patrolling team which then apprehended them from near Dhyan Chand Stadium, he said. The police recovered the scooty and raids are being conducted to recover the stolen properties, he added.
16 June 2020||New Delhi,||Shalimar Bagh RWA urges administration to revoke order declaring a block containment zone||The resident welfare association of Block C, Shalimar Bagh, in north Delhi on Monday wrote to the district administration to review an order declaring the entire locality with a population of 2,400 people a containment zone after it reported COVID-19 cases. It asked the administration to review the order on the ground that “the number of cases is too small compared to the large population”.
16 June 2020||Noida,||Nine injured in clash at Gr Noida village, 20 held||A dispute over the flow of a drain into a farmland led to violent clashes between two groups here on Monday in which nine people, including women, were injured, the police said. They claim to have arrested 20 people involved in the violence.
