16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||New law for contract farming||Making long-pending agricultural marketing reforms the centrepiece of the third tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic stimulus package, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced plans to enact a central law to permit barrier-free inter-State trade of farm commodities and ensure a legal framework to facilitate contract farming. The third tranche also included plans to invest Rs. 1.5 lakh crore to build farm-gate infrastructure and support logistics needs for fishworkers, livestock farmers, vegetable growers, beekeepers and related activities, although this includes some previously budgeted money and extensions of existing schemes. The Centre will deregulate the sale of six types of agricultural produce, including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potatoes, by amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Ms. Sitharaman said. Several agricultural economists and farm activists welcomed the reform and investment announcements, but questioned the lack of immediate support to help farmers survive the current crisis. The Essential Commodities Act was enacted at a time of food scarcity, and needs to reflect current concerns, the Finance Minister said. “Now what is happening is that farmers are producing. There is an abundance of crops, and this sometimes leads to issues because they would want to export, and we don’t permit that. Because of a flip-flop sometimes, farmers don’t get the benefit. Some other times, the consumers suffer. So there is a need to amend the Act,” she said. No stock limit Stock limits will not be imposed on these commodities except in case of national calamity or famine or an extraordinary surge in prices, the Minister said, adding that even these stock limits would not apply to processors and exporters. The Centre has been attempting to reform agricultural marketing through a model Act which it encourages States to adopt. However, it now intends to enact a central law to allow farmers to sell produce at attractive prices beyond the current mandi system, facilitating barrier-free inter-State trade and e-trading. Asked how the Centre could enact a law on agricultural marketing, which remains on the State list, the Minister pointed out that inter-State trade falls in the central list. She added that plans were underway to bring in a facilitative legal framework to oversee contract farming, which would provide farmers with assured sale prices and quantities even before the crop is sown and also allow private players to invest in inputs and technology in the agricultural sector. Agricultural economist and ICRIER professor Ashok Gulati, who has been advocating these reforms for many years, was elated by the announcement. “These are big, bold steps in the right direction which will benefit both farmers and consumers. This is long overdue and should have been done in Modi’s first term, but certainly the government deserves compliments for converting a crisis into an opportunity,” he said, noting that some of these reforms have been under discussion for two decades.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,||No let-up in COVID cases||The surge in the number of COVID cases continued on Friday with 40 more persons testing positive for the virus in the State. Total positive cases is nearing the 1,500 mark, with the number of cases touching 1,454. However, there were no deaths during the day and the number of people succumbing stood at 34. The number of people discharged from hospitals after being treated/cured was 959. The number of active cases stood at 461. The government however has expressed concern that the rise in the number of cases in the GHMC limits was confined to a few zones and this in turn was resulting in continuance of containment zones in the city as well as delaying the conversion of red zones into orange and green zones in spite of significant reduction in the number of virus cases. L.B. Nagar, Malakpet, Karwan and Charminar zones reported COVID-19 positive cases while there was no incidence of the virus in other zones of the GHMC. The surge in number of COVID cases in Hyderabad was partly due to the return of migrant workers. Seven migrants were tested positive for the virus on Friday taking the total number of migrant workers affected by the virus to 44. Three districts - Yadadri-Bhongir, Warangal Rural and Wanaparthy - continued to be with no COVID cases while another 26 districts reported zero positive cases since the past 14 days. This in turn indicates that only four districts in the State including Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal are continuing to report coronavirus cases.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Automobile, AC shops to open today||Air-conditioner showrooms, automobile and spare part shops across Telangana will reopen on Saturday with the State government relaxing lockdown restrictions on them. They will be in addition to the registration and road transport organisation offices which were already permitted by the government. The remaining lockdown measures will continue as it is, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced after a high-level meeting convened by him to discuss implementation of the lockdown. Flights back On the occasion, he asked officials to send people from elsewhere in the country landing in Hyderabad by flights back to their States by buses straight from the airport. The migrant workers who arrived here by trains from other States should undergo tests. Quoting him, a release later said the State government will revise its strategy after examining the new guidelines likely to be issued by the Centre on its own ongoing phase of lockdown which will end on Sunday. Review later The State government will review the situation in the light of Centre’s guidelines and formulate a strategy for implementation. “The government had no option but to implement a strategy to live with coronavirus as it is not known how long it will continue.” Mr. Rao noted that coronavirus cases were not active anywhere in the State except four containment zones of Hyderabad -- L.B. Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar and Karwan. There were 1,442 families in these zones. Districts free of virus The districts of Yadadri, Jangaon and Mancherial were also free of the virus though some migrant workers from there tested positive on return. Therefore, the three districts were not considered as affected. The lockdown was strictly implemented in the four zones of Hyderabad where people with symptoms were shifted for investigation and given treatment. There was no need to nurse fears about the virus as the number of people who recovered were large. The mortality rate of virus in the State was only 2.38 as against the national average of 3.5%. Mr. Rao also asked the officials to continue the steps taken to check spread of coronavirus while launching a preventive drive against seasonal diseases that were identified with the onset of monsoon. He counselled caution against people coming to the State by air from abroad and elsewhere in the country by trains. They should be tested and referred to hospitals if they were found to be affected. Otherwise, they should be confined to home quarantine. The meeting was attended by Ministers, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and senior officials.  The government had no option but to implement a strategy to live with coronavirus as it is not known how long it will continue.  K. Chandrasekhar Rao Chief Minister
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown likely to be extended till May 30||The lockdown is likely to be extended till May 30 with considerable relaxations in the green and orange zones. An announcement to this effect is likely to be made on Saturday, officials told The Hindu . An official said lockdown 4.0 would be more about implementing its “spirit” than imposing restrictions. The current third phase of the lockdown, which was imposed first on March 24 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, ends on May 17. Metro rail services in cities would continue to remain suspended as most routes fall in the containment zones, which would continue to be under “curfew-like” conditions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sought suggestions from the State governments and they were asked to convey their views by 5 p.m. on Friday. “The suggestions from most States have been received and they have advocated an extension of the lockdown. Every official is concerned that if the lockdown is lifted in one go, the number of COVID-19 cases could spike. The medical infrastructure cannot deal with that kind of pressure,” said the official. Guidelines today The guidelines to be followed during lockdown 4.0 would be finalised by the Prime Minister and released by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday. The Union government was in favour of opening select routes for air travel but several States were opposed to the idea. “Ultimately, the States receiving and sending the passenger will have to decide. They are still reluctant but there are many cases where people are genuinely stuck and have to take the journey. Maybe, airline seats will come at a premium, as social distancing, such as keeping middle seats vacant, will have to be followed”, said the official. Buses would not be allowed in red zones. Autorickshaws and cab aggregators are likely to be allowed in all zones with maximum two passengers. Malls would continue to remain shut. “Trains will continue to operate on the current model, only allowed on special routes. It will not be a free for all,” said the official. “The issue of migrants walking on the road is a big issue. The States have been asked to utilise around Rs. 11,092 crore released to them under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for their welfare,” the official noted. The green zones are districts with either zero confirmed cases till date, or no confirmed case in the last 21 days.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India surpasses China’s COVID-19 tally||India’s COVID-19 case tally shot past China, with a total of 85,761 cases, including 53,219 active ones, according to data from the State Health Departments. The death toll nationwide stood at 2,674.  The country has registered over 3,600 cases and over 100 deaths on average everyday since May 8. According to the health ministry, India registered 3,967 more COVID-19 cases and 100 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 81,970 and the nationwide toll to 2,649.   Stressing the need to focus on high load areas and case fatality management, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said while worldwide the total number of cases stood at 42,48,389 with 2,94,046 deaths and the fatality rate pegged at 6.92%, India had managed to keep its fatality rate at 3.23%. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat reported the highest number of cases, with the capital cities of Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad accounting for the most patients. With 933 persons testing positive, the number of cases in Mumbai rose to 17,512 and the death toll increased to 655 with 34 more deaths, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. With 261 new cases, Ahmedabad’s tally rose to 7,171 while the death toll reached 479 with 14 more patients succumbing to the infection, officials said. In a release issued by the Ministry, Mr. Vardhan said, “So far, a total of 27,920 people have been cured. And in the last 24 hours, 1,685 patients were cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 34.06%.” It added that the impact of the lockdown was seen on the doubling rate, which improved from 3.4 days in the pre-lockdown week to 12.9 days last week.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riot affected from north-east Delhi now join COVID-19 fight||Residents of street no. 29 in north-east Delhi’s Khajoori Khas and the cleric of the Fatima Masjid situated there donated PPE kits, masks and gloves to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital on Thursday. The street, and the mosque, witnessed some of the most gruesome violence during communal riots which broke out in the fourth week of February this year— while several houses belonging to Muslims were targeted by rioters, Fatima Masjid was vandalised and burnt. Mohammed Munazir, a resident of the area, said he, along with the mosque’s imam Mohammed Akram and a few others, decided to pool resources towards a modest contribution for the front-line workers as a mark of solidarity. The group donated 100 PPE kits, 200 masks and 200 gloves in all. “We didn’t have enough money earlier after the riots broke out. The monetary situation is slightly better for people now. The doctors, nurses, and police are out on the streets saving people. We wanted to tell them that we are with them in this fight,” he said.  Another reason for the locals was to express gratitude to the doctors of GTB Hospital who took care of the scores of persons injured in the riots. “I still remember how many people from this street and many others got injured in the riots and doctors treated them. They helped us a lot,” said Mr. Munazir. The group intends to donate more in the coming weeks if they are able to marshal more resources, he said.
16 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Azan ban in three U.P. districts overturned||The Allahabad High Court on Friday allowed azan in three districts of Uttar Pradesh — Ghazipur, Hathras and Farrukhabad — where it had been stopped by the district administration citing the Home Ministry’s lockdown rules. In an order passed 10 days after the Bench of Shashi Kant Gupta and Ajit Kumar reserved judgment after hearing arguments of the petitioners and State counsel via videoconferencing, the judges said, “Azan can be recited by a muezzin from minarets of the mosques by human voice without using any amplifying device and such recitation cannot be hindered with under the pretext of violation of the guidelines issued by the state, to contain the pandemic — COVID-19.” The Bench gave its ruling on a bunch of pleas, including those of former Union Law Minister Salman Khurshid and Lok Sabha member from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, among others. Hathras District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar said he would comply with the High Court order. ‘Act against DMs’ Former Aligarh MLA Zamirullah, who petitioned on behalf of the residents of Hathras, said had the Uttar Pradesh government wanted, it would have banned azan across the State. “It was the decision of a few District Magistrates who had let down the State government and action should be taken against them. The HC judgment has vindicated our faith in the judiciary and the Ganga-Jamuni tradition of the country,” he said. Whether loudspeakers will be allowed inside mosques or not is still open to interpretation. The court held that azan may be an integral and essential part of Islam but its recitation through loudspeakers or other sound-amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of religion, warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution. “Thus, under no circumstances sound amplifying devices can be permitted to be used between 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. by the district administrations,” stated the order. The judges noted the petitioners didn’t plead for use of such devices for azan and went on to say that “until and unless there is a licence/permission from the authorities concerned under the Noise Pollution Rules, under no circumstances azan can be recited through sound amplifying devices.” Sound amplifiers Safdar Ali Kazmi, counsel for Mr. Ansari, the petitioner and Ghazipur MP, said it was a “positive” order. “We didn’t bring up the issue of sound-amplifying devices in the petition because the district administration had put a blanket ban on azan in the garb of lockdown rules. The judgment, however, clarified both the points. One, the lockdown rules could not be used to prevent azan and those mosques which have permission to use sound-amplifying devices would continue to do so,” he said. Mr. Kazmi said there could be some mosques which have loudspeaker permission for five times while there could be others that have permission for only four as fajr falls in the early hours that come in the silent zone of 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. as per Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. The order, however, bars loudspeakers, even if allowed, between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. “Under no circumstances, loudspeakers or any sound amplifier could be used between 12 midnight and 6 a.m,” stated the order.
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||16 new cases in State, 13 of them imported||Kerala reported 16 more COVID-19 cases on Friday, 13 of which were imported and three that of local transmission. Of the 16 new cases, seven were people who had returned from abroad and six were Keralites from other States. Three persons had contracted the disease through contact with known/unknown sources of infection. Five in Wayanad Five cases are in Wayanad, four in Malappuram, two each in Alappuzha and Kozhikode, and one each is in Kasaragod, Kollam, and Palakkad. The State has a total of 576 cases so far. However, only 80 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals, the maximum number being in Wayanad, which has 19 patients. Of the 576 cases, 311 are imported cases of infection brought in by people who had returned from abroad and another 70 are Non-Resident Keralites from other States. Eight cases were that of foreigners. Local transmission resulted in 187 cases in various districts. The State has put 48,825 people under surveillance, of whom, 538 have been isolated in hospitals while the rest are in home quarantine. As it becomes more evident that Kerala as a society will have to learn to live with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, mindful of all safety precautions and the essential need for social distancing, it does not make any sense to discriminate against anyone coming into the State from outside, for fear that it will alter the disease transmission dynamics within the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in his daily briefing. The public should understand the reality that the engagement with COVID-19 is going to be a prolonged affair. Rather than live in constant fear, society should wholeheartedly go along with universal safety precautions and the new normals such as wearing masks in public places and maintaining social distancing, so that none is put at risk. The government will, hence, never take a stance that non-resident Keralites are not welcome to the State for fear that the COVID-19 situation here will worsen, Mr. Vijayan said. Primacy for quarantine However, those returning home should also cooperate with the authorities and maintain home quarantine strictly so that the disease transmission within the State does not spin out of control, he said. In fact, it was the stringent manner in which the State implemented home quarantine, with the help of local self-government bodies, that ensured that disease transmission levels were kept low in the State, Mr. Vijayan said.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC suspends CRDA notification for 4 weeks||The High Court has suspended the gazette notification through which the government had proposed an amendment to CRDA master plan for creating a new residential zone (R-5), for four weeks, and posted the matter for further hearing on June 17. The new zone is meant for the construction of houses for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) and about 1,000 acres has been earmarked for it in Krishnayapalem, Venkatapalem, Nidamarru, Kuragallu, Mandadam and Inavolu villages. The beneficiaries are from Duggirala, Mangalagiri, Pedakakani and Tadepalli mandals in Guntur district and also Vijayawada and Guntur cities.  Zoning regulations As per CRDA zoning regulations, Amaravati Capital City has four zones — Village Planning Zone (R-1), Low Density Zone (R-2), Medium to High Density Zone (R-3) and High Density Zone (R-4). Justices D.V.V.S. Somayajulu and K. Lalitha Kumari ordered that the notification should be suspended upon concurring with the petitioners’ argument that a public hearing is to be compulsorily held as per Section 41 of the AP-CRDA Act before making alterations to the master plan. The judges have stressed the need for addressing the concerns raised by farmers who gave their land under the Land Pooling Scheme.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Key conspirator in naval espionage case held||An alleged key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam naval espionage case, Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala, 49, was arrested in Mumbai by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday. The case relates to an international espionage racket involving individuals based in Pakistan and at different locations in India. According to an NIA release, Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information on Indian naval ships, submarines and other defence establishments. Investigation has revealed that a few naval personnel, some based in Visakhapatnam, had come in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms and were allegedly involved in sharing classified information for monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan. 14 arrested so far Fourteen accused have been arrested in the case so far, including 11 Navy personnel and one Pakistan-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser. Investigation revealed that the arrested Lakdawala had visited Karachi, Pakistan, on a number of occasions to meet his handlers under the guise of conducting cross-border trade. During his visits, he came in contact with two Pakistani spies — Akbar alias Ali, and Rizwan — who directed him to deposit money into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel at regular intervals through different means. During searches at the house of Lakdawala, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by the NIA. Earlier, investigation had revealed that some Navy personnel were honey-trapped through social media. Lakdawala was produced in a local court in Mumbai and was being brought to Vijayawada on a transit warrant.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon will arrive on June 5: IMD; Skymet says it will come earlier||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a delay in the arrival of the monsoon over Kerala while Skymet, a private forecaster, expects it to arrive earlier. The difference in the arrival dates by both agencies is as much as a week. The normal date of onset for the State is June 1. In a statement on Friday, the IMD set a date of June 5 whereas Skymet, on its website, has forecast May 28. The time of the monsoon’s arrival in Kerala does not influence its overall progress, distribution or quantum of rain over the ensuing monsoon months of June-September. The discrepancy appears largely on the agencies’ interpretation of the influence of a developing cyclone in the Bay of Bengal as well as the prevailing summer temperatures in north India. This storm, which is a normal feature during May, is likely to burgeon into a cyclone by the weekend, and aid the advent of the monsoon into the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Hereon, the monsoon typically takes 10-11 days to reach the Kerala coast. G.P. Sharma, vice president, meteorology, Skymet, said the cyclone will not hamper this routine progress and that the early onset of monsoon in the A&N Islands will therefore bring the monsoon early over Kerala. Last year, the monsoon came over a week late on June 8, two days after the IMD’s forecast of June 6. The last time the IMD’s forecast was out of its model’s error window was in 2015, when the IMD had said the monsoon would arrive on May 30 but it actually arrived on June 5.
16 May 2020||Tiruppur,||Two arrested for attempt to transport migrant workers to Bihar||The Uthukuli police have arrested two persons on charges of attempting to illegally transport 75 migrant workers working in various parts of Tiruppur district to Bihar. The police said the container truck with the workers was intercepted at the check post in Pallagoundenpalayam near Uthukuli. Truck driver Mohammed Varis (23) and cleaner Mohammad Ali (22) confessed that they organised the workers and attempted to transport them to Bihar illegally. The driver and the cleaner were arrested, and remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. The workers were sent back to their locations at Kangeyam, Vellakoil, Muthur and Padiyur, the police said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N.’s COVID-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases breached the 10,000-mark on Friday with 434 persons testing positive for the disease. The total number of cases in the State now stands at 10,108*. Chennai reported 309 cases, taking its tally to 5,946. Among the 434 cases were 49 persons who had returned to Tamil Nadu from other States and abroad. In fact, the day also saw the total number of samples tested surpass the three lakh-mark. Five persons, including two men in their 30s, died in Chennai and Thoothukudi. A total of 359 persons walked out of hospitals across the State. A total of 2,599 persons have been discharged so far.  A 32-year-old man, a resident of Chennai, suffering from chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 12. He died on Thursday due to acute pulmonary edema with metabolic acidosis and respiratory failure. A 34-year-old man, who had systemic hypertension, was admitted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital and died on Friday due to ascending polyneuritis and respiratory failure. A 53-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted to RGGGH on May 5. She was suffering from coronary heart disease, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. She died on Thursday due to chronic kidney disease and respiratory failure. A 57-year-old resident of Chennai died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on Friday due to acute respiratory distress and bilateral pneumonia/respiratory failure, while a 61-year-old man with diabetes, coronary heart disease and systemic hypertension died at Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Friday due to metabolic encephalopathy. With this, the State has a total of 71 deaths of persons who tested positive for COVID-19. The number of active cases stood at 7,435, while 4,598 individuals with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards. Among the new patients were three one-month-old babies in Chennai. A total of 28 children aged 0 to 12 and 38 persons aged above 60 have tested positive. Apart from Chennai, the new cases were reported in 12 districts. The cases continued to increase in Chennai’s neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. With 21 new cases, the total case count in Tiruvallur climbed to 516, while it was 450 in Chengalpattu that reported 20 new cases. There were 11 cases in Kancheepuram, six each in Madurai and Theni, three each in Cuddalore and Tiruvannamalai, two in Perambalur and one each in Dindigul, Tenkasi, Thanjavur and Virudhunagar. A total of 40 persons, who returned to various parts of the State from Maharashtra, have tested positive. This included 22 persons in Tirunelveli, 10 in Thoothukudi, five in Madurai, and one each in Dindigul, Tenkasi and Tiruvannamalai. Two persons who returned from Gujarat have tested positive in Ranipet, while one person, who returned from Karnataka, has tested positive in Virudhunagar. Apart from them, six persons who returned from Maldives tested positive in Kanniyakumari, Chennai and Pudukottai. A total of 1,461 persons had reached Chennai and Tiruchi airports in repatriation flights. Of them, 1,275 were screened for COVID-19. Apart from the previous nine positive cases, no other passenger has tested positive for the infection till now. A total of 186 samples are under process. With 11,672 samples tested, the total number of samples tested in the State increased to 3,03,104. Testing of 951 samples was under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s revenue loss estimated at Rs. 1,25,657 cr.||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) has pegged the State’s potential loss of revenue this fiscal at Rs. 1,25,657 crore. The Budget had forecast the State’s income would touch Rs. 1,14,636. However, it seemed the treasury would get only Rs. 81,180 crore. The GIFT pegged the predicted shortfall in revenue at Rs. 35,455 crore. Rise in expenditure The State’s social and health sector expenditure had increased exponentially. Kerala’s revenue and fiscal deficits were bound to skyrocket, Mr. Vijayan said here on Friday. Mr. Vijayan slammed the Centre for depicting its mandatory allocation to the National Disaster Response Fund as a special grant for States to combat COVID-19. He said Kerala had received Rs. 157 crore for tackling the pandemic. It was just a part of the Rs. 357 crore owed by the Centre. Demand ignored The Centre has repeatedly ignored Kerala’s demand to sanction individual grants by including the outlay in the report of the 15th Finance Commission. It has also pointedly disallowed the State to raise its credit limit from the current 3% to 5%. The Centre had raised its credit limit to 5%. However, it refused to give the same freedom to the States. The unhelpful stance of the Central government ran against the grain of federalism, Mr. Vijayan said. The government would conduct a survey to assess the economic and social fallout of the pandemic, he said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. backs Chief Secy., slams DMK||The State government on Friday came out in support of Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, who was accused by the DMK of humiliating a delegation of its members of Parliament. Asked for response to the DMK’s complaint to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla against the official, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar told reporters that the episode had revealed that the DMK, which could not stomach the “efficient functioning” of the government in handling the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, had sought to deflect the public attention and make “political gains”. The Minister went on to describe the Chief Secretary as an “honest and straightforward officer,” and said “throughout his career, he has been conducting himself in an impartial manner. Did you ever come across any adverse report about Mr. Shanmugam?” The DMK could have submitted the petitions that it received [from those affected by the COVID-19 lockdown] either to District Collectors concerned or at the Chief Minister’s Cell, the Minister added. ‘Very unfortunate’ Meanwhile in a statement, M.G.Devesahayam, social activist and former civil servant, termed as “very unfortunate” that former Union Ministers T.R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran had initiated privilege motion in the Lok Sabha against the Chief Secretary. “This is taking things to extremes. This is not the time and place to settle political animosities or score brownie points through civil servants. The DMK leadership would do well to ponder over and repair the damage done to the administrative morale of the State government servants at this hour of grave crisis.” Mr. Shanmugam did not show any “disrespect” to the members of Parliament and “by entertaining such voluminous bunch of papers during a disaster situation, he has given extra respect to the people’s representatives”, Mr Devesahayam added.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI/New Delhi,||Liquor shops to open after SC clears way||Liquor shops will reopen across Tamil Nadu — except in Chennai, Tiruvallur and COVID-19 containment zones — on Saturday, following a Supreme Court stay on a Madras High Court order directing closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown. Colour-coded tokens will be issued to customers on each day of the week. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S.K. Kaul and B.R. Gavai, which issued notices to the respondents, on Friday stayed the May 8 High Court order after counsel for Tamil Nadu argued that the closure order was arbitrary and unreasonable and that the judiciary had encroached upon State policy. “It is the decision of the State how and what to sell... Why should the High Court get into it? Why should a person need Aadhaar to buy liquor? Plus, we cannot trust anybody to carry liquor. There will be riots. T.N. is not like Delhi,” senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said. In the wake of the SC stay order, the government announced that liquor shops would function between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Customers should mandatorily wear a mask while coming to the shops. According to Tasmac sources, around 3,600 shops will be open. Each outlet will be given 500 tokens a day. “We have asked those in charge of the outlets to issue only 60 tokens per hour to avoid crowding. Each person gets one token,” an official said. To avoid manipulation of tokens, Tasmac has printed them in different colours. “Each colour represents a particular day and the time at which they can buy liquor will be written on the token,” another source said. “If the shops are opening at 10 a.m., we will start giving out the tokens at 9 a.m. The second round of tokens will be issued only after the first batch moves out,” he explained. Customers need not bring Aadhaar cards like the last time around. The High Court had ordered closure of liquor outlets within two days of permitting them to open after widespread crowding and violation of guidelines laid down by it created a scare about possible spread of COVID-19. Earlier, Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan submitted in the apex court via video-conferencing that the State had already imposed restrictions and was enforcing and monitoring physical distancing norms. Conditions imposed by the High Court — a person cannot purchase more than two bottles of alcohol of any one type and must give Aadhaar details at the time of purchase — were both illogical and unworkable, he argued. Mr. Rohatgi pointed out that home delivery of liquor would expose it to adulteration and cause social and domestic problems. He and Mr. Srinivasan said indefinite closure of liquor shops would lead to ‘grave’ revenue and commercial losses. Mr. Srinivasan pointed out that the High Court’s ban order was passed the very same day that the Supreme Court dismissed an identical call to close liquor shops across the country. Further, the Supreme Court had clarified on May 8 that a decision on online sales and home delivery of liquor would be left entirely to the discretion of the States. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981 did not provide for online sales. The State would also have to amend the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules of 2003. The High Court could not dictate liquor sale policy to the government, it was argued.
16 May 2020||Chennai,||Stimulus mere cosmetic measure: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday slammed the Central government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements over the last two days, terming them as “cosmetic measures” to fool the people. “This is no real stimulus. These are cosmetic measures that are announced in an attempt to fool the people. Instead of making such ostentatious announcements for political gains, they should step down from their high seats and see the real picture on the ground,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said when parties like the DMK and the Congress had asked the Centre to provide a relief of Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 7,500 to the people, to tide over the COVID-19 lockdown crisis, the Finance Minister was announcing ‘credit card loans’ for farmers. “They are offering Rs. 10,000 as loans to roadside vendors. When people are suffering from poverty at the moment, these loans will be brought into effect after one month,” he said. Mr. Stalin said providing monetary assistance was like providing first aid. “Already hundreds of farmers are committing suicide as they are unable to repay their loans. Now you are placing another large rock on their heads saying you will offer them one more loan,” Mr. Stalin charged. Loan waiver He asked Ms. Sitharaman why she could not waive off these loans in one-go like the way former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and the UPA waived off Rs. 7,000 crore and Rs. 60,000 crore loans respectively.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Space jam||
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon will arrive on June 5, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a delay in the arrival of the monsoon over Kerala while Skymet, a private forecaster, expects it to arrive earlier. The difference in the arrival dates by both agencies is as much a week. The normal date of onset for the State is June 1. In a statement on Friday, the IMD set a date of June 5 whereas Skymet, on its website, has forecast May 28. The discrepancy appears largely on the agencies’ interpretation of the influence of a developing cyclone in the Bay of Bengal as well as the prevailing summer temperatures in north India. This storm is likely to burgeon into a cyclone by the weekend, and aid the advent of the monsoon into the Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka crosses 1,000 mark with 69 new cases||Just over two months and a week since its first COVID-19 case, Karnataka crossed the 1,000 mark on Friday, even as it recorded the highest spike on a single day with 69 cases. The total tally now stands at 1,056. Toll One more death has also been reported, taking the toll to 36. A 52-year-old male resident of Chitaguppa town in Bidar, with a travel history to Hyderabad and with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), died on May 12 at a designated hospital in Bidar. His samples were sent for tests and they returned positive on Friday. No cases in Mysuru Mysuru district, which had become a cluster hotspot and was in the red zone, has now become COVID-19-free with all patients having recovered and discharged, with no mortality. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that Mysuru district was an example of how the virus can be defeated if people strictly follow the guidelines. Of the 69 new cases reported on Friday, 20 are expatriates who returned to the State from Dubai as part of the first phase of Vande Bharat mission, and 23 are those with a travel history to Mumbai. Among the 20 Dubai returnees, 15 are from Dakshina Kannada [this includes one person from Uttara Kannada being treated in Mangaluru], and five from Udupi. Of the remaining cases, 13 each have been reported from Bengaluru Urban and Mandya, seven each have been reported from Bidar and Hassan, three from Kalaburagi, two from Chitradurga, and one each from Shivamogga, Bagalkot, Uttara Kannada, and Kolar. The 13 patients in Mandya, seven in Hassan and one each from Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Shivamogga have a travel history to Mumbai. Meanwhile, the Health Department has asked a team of doctors from the Centre for Public Health at NIMHANS, headed by Pradeep B., to take up a rapid appraisal of district-level preparedness and performance of the health system regarding the management of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka. In a circular, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said this is primarily intended to support and strengthen the district administration and district health system to efficiently manage the COVID-19 outbreak. “Following a meeting with public health experts, it was decided to plan, implement, coordinate and compile the findings of a quick appraisal of the district health system. Dr. Pradeep has been asked to carry out the activities and submit a report and make recommendations on strengthening the district-level COVID-19 control activities,” the circular stated.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State registers 102 new cases||Coronavirus is spreading in the State with 102 new cases confirmed in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. The new cases include 57 persons who contracted the virus locally and through the Koyambedu market in Chennai and 45 are migrant workers (34 from Maharashtra and 11 from Rajasthan) who returned to the State recently. With these, the total number of positive cases was 2,307, which included 150 cases of migrant returnees. The number of persons who were discharged stood at 1,252 and the death toll was 48. The Health Department bulletin has been showing the migrant cases under ‘out of State’ tally for the last two days. Of the 57 cases, Chittoor and Nellore registered 14 each; Krishna 9; Kurnool 8; Anantapur 4; Vizianagaram 3; Kadapa and Visakhapatnam 2 each; and one from EG.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Cross-country ride||
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Special Branch DSP found dead in house||Deputy Superintendent of Police (Special Branch), Srikakulam, P.V. Krishna Varma, died under suspicious circumstances at his residence under MVP Police Station limits here on Friday. The police said that the officer was standing on a stool and tying a rope to hang clothes in the balcony, when he accidentally slipped and fell on the floor. The incident occurred during the absence of his family members. The police said Krishna Varma had been undergoing treatment for a lung ailment. A case of suspicious death was registered following a complaint lodged by the family members. There were no marks on the body, the police said. Asked whether there was any suicide angle, inspector Ch. Shanmukha Rao said it was too early to comment. Police shifted the body for autopsy.
16 May 2020||Srinagar,||Aarogya Setu app must for Srinagar govt. staff||Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chowdhary has directed Drawing and Disbursing Officers to obtain a certificate that they had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app before the release of salary to staff.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Plea in Delhi HC challenges ‘corona fee’ on liquor||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the AAP government on a plea challenging the levying of 70% “special corona fee” on all liquor brands in the Capital. The government has to reply by May 29.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||City sees 425 new cases; revised death toll 123||The Capital on Friday recorded 425 new COVID-19 cases and no deaths, taking the total number of cases to 8,895. The government, however, revised the cumulative death toll from 115 to 123.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,||15-May-Page-1-Nearby-1||The National Institute of Nutrition in association with the Telangana government has initiated house-to-house survey in 30 villages across Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda districts, as part of the community based sero-surveillance, said NIN director R. Hemalatha on Friday.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,||15-May-Page-1-Nearby-2||A colourful shamiana, water tankers, a few toilets, food, drinking water and regular supply of edibles that Good Samaritans keep distributing have turned the ORR junction near Kandlakoya into a halting station for migrating workers.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 1 lakh crore farm infra fund to be financed by NABARD: FM||With supply chain disruptions during COVID-19 revealing critical gaps in agricultural infrastructure and logistics systems, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced plans for a Rs. 1 lakh crore farm infrastructure fund as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package on Friday. The third tranche of the stimulus package also included plans to strengthen infrastructure in food processing, fisheries, animal husbandry, horticulture, herbal cultivation and beekeeping with a total funding of Rs. 50,000 crore, including funds allocated earlier in the budget. The Rs. 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund will be financed and managed by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), the Finance Minister said. Financing will be provided to primary agriculture cooperative societies, farmer producer organisations, agriculture entrepreneurs and start-ups to develop cold chain storage and other post-harvest management infrastructure at the farm gate and aggregation points. “These are good measures, but everything is in the future tense. In the present crisis, farmers are facing huge losses. What is desperately needed now is some immediate compensation rather than funds which will only have future impact,” said Ramandeep Singh Mann, a farmer and activist based in the Punjab-Haryana area. “The government talks about supply chain disruptions and promises improvements. But they could have just taken over transport and storage facilities during the COVID-19 crisis to help farmers,” said S. Kannaiyan, a Tamil Nadu-based farmer and activist who was forced to throw away a portion of his cabbage crop and sell the rest at a loss due to the lockdown. The focus hitherto has been on short term crop loans while investment in long term agriculture infrastructure has often not been enough, said Ms. Sitharaman. “The underlying principle is to empower the people, give them resources so that they can produce for themselves and have livelihoods for themselves rather than going for entitlements,” she added. This rationale drives the plan for a Rs. 10,000 crore scheme to support two lakh micro-food processing enterprises, providing technical support to reach FSSAI health and safety standards, build brands and marketing. The National Medicinal Plants Board will spend Rs. 4,000 crore on herbal cultivation over 10 lakh hectares with a special focus on an 800 hectare corridor of medicinal plants on the banks of the Ganga.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC relief for firms unable to pay full wages during lockdown||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government not to resort to any coercive action against private companies who had not paid their workers full wages during the lockdown in accordance with a government order in March. A three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao indicated that payment of full wages, as directed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in an order on March 29, may not be viable for small and private enterprises, which are tottering on the brink of insolvency due to the lockdown. The court remarked that the March 29 order was an omnibus one and there were several issues involved that required careful reconsideration from the government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time to file a detailed response. The court scheduled a hearing for next week. The hearing was based on a batch of petitions filed by several companies challenging the constitutional validity of the March 29 order which mandates that industry, shops and commercial establishments, without exception, pay their workers without any deductions in the name of COVID-19. The petitions said a blanket direction from the government to private establishments to pay full salaries against no work was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 (Right to Equality) of the Constitution. “It is implicit in the fundamental right of an employer to trade or business that there is an obligation to pay when work is actually done and there is no obligation if no work is done. An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee. The employer has a right to not pay if no work is done,” petitions filed by private firms like Nagreeka Exports Limited and Ficus Pax Pvt. Ltd. said. Nagreeka, engaged in manufacture and export of cotton yarns, fabric and textiles, said stoppage of operations had led to losses to the tune of Rs. 1.50 crore. Separate petitions have also been filed by MSMEs, saying that they are forced into insolvency.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre, States spar over trains||The ‘Shramik Special’ trains started by the Indian Railways to ferry stranded migrant workers are turning out to be the flashpoint between the BJP-led Union Government and Opposition-run State governments. On Friday, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal accused the State governments of showing reluctance to requisition the trains, naming only the Opposition-ruled States. “The Railways is ready to run 300 ‘Shramik Special’ trains daily to help workers reach their homes, but I am sad that governments of some States like West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, are not giving permissions to run these trains due to which workers have to suffer away from home,” he tweeted. Till Friday morning, the Railways had run 1,000 such special trains. All the four States immediately countered Mr. Goyal’s statement. Responding to Mr. Goyal, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said there was no permission pending for any train with the government of Rajasthan and he had been a strong votary for running trains to allow the workers to commute. “But I am not surprised to see the statement by the Railways Minister, they are skilled in passing their failure on to the State government,” he tweeted. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren also rejected Mr. Goyal’s claim, saying his government has given NOC for running 110 trains whereas only 50 trains, carrying around 60,000 migrant workers had arrived in the State. Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the State had asked for 30 trains but had, so far, only got 14 trains. He also pointed out that the State had already paid Rs. 1.17 crore for the approved trains and that no other proposal was pending. Mr. Baghel called the Railway Minister’s statement “baseless and factually incorrect”. He said once the 30 trains carrying the migrant workers reach, Chattisgarh will take stock of how many more persons from the State are stranded and will then ask for more trains.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coast Guard ship count hits 150||A ship and two interceptor boats (IB) were commissioned into the Coast Guard in Goa via videoconference from the national capital by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. This marks a landmark for the force: it now has 150 ships and boats and 62 aircraft. “The ships, on joining the fleet, will be deployed extensively for Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) surveillance, coastal security and other duties as enshrined in the Coast Guard charter of duties, to safeguard the maritime interests of the nation,” the Coast Guard said. Ship ICGS Sachet is the first in a series of five offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) being built by the Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL). The IBs, C-450 and C-451, are designed & built by the Larsen & Toubro Shipyard, Hazira. The 30-metre long boats are capable of achieving speeds in excess of 45 knots and designed for high-speed interception, close patrol and low intensity operations. The 105-metre long ICGS Sachet displaces approximately 2,350 tons and is propelled by two 9,100 KW diesel engines designed to attain a maximum speed of 26 knots, with an endurance of 6,000 nautical miles. It is designed to carry a twin-engine helicopter and four high-speed boats and one inflatable boat for swift boarding and search and rescue operations. More ships “The ship is also capable of carrying limited pollution response equipment to undertake oil spill pollution response at sea,” the statement said. Further, 40 ships were in various stages of construction at different Indian shipyards and 16 Advanced Light Helicopters under production at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. They would provide the added strength to the surveillance capabilities of the Coast Guard to deal with the ever-dynamic maritime challenges. Separately, the Navy formally inducted landing craft utility (LCU) L57 into service at Port Blair. This is the seventh LCU in the series of the MK-IV class.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. envoy calls out COVID-19-related rhetoric in India||The U.S. envoy for ‘International Religious Freedom’ , Sam Brownback, called out COVID-19 related rhetoric and harassment in India — especially against Muslims, while also praising Prime Minister Modi’s messages for unity. “In India, we’ve seen reports of unfortunate COVID-related rhetoric and harassment, particularly against the Muslim community. This has been exacerbated by fake news reports, misinformation being shared via social media. There have also been instances of Muslims being attacked for allegedly spreading the coronavirus,” Mr. Brownback said to reporters on Thursday during a telephone briefing about COVID-19’s impact on religious minorities.“Now, I’ve been encouraged and we’ve been encouraged by statements from senior Indian officials really urging a unity, and noting the Prime Minister stated even that COVID does not see religion, language, or borders, which is certainly true,” he said. USCIRF classification Mr. Brownback’s comments come weeks after the U.S. International Commission for Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an independent bipartisan commission set up by the U.S. Congress, downgraded India’s religious freedom rating to the lowest grade. Taking note of India’s Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register for Citizens, USCIRF had recommended to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that India be classified as a “country of particular concern.” Asked if he believed the Indian leadership’s language calling for unity was a reaction to the USCIRF designation, Mr. Brownback, on Thursday, said he did not know. “I don’t have anything particular that I’m attributing the language to, I just noted that it’s positive and that’s good. And I don’t want to always just point to everything negative,” he said. “ …the fact that the leadership would say this, great. USCIRF did put them out, as you noted, in that light and that got a lot of interest both here and in India, as you might guess. We will be putting our report out —– Secretary [Pompeo] will put out the report from State Department fairly soon, and then we’ll — that’ll start the time clock on the Secretary’s ultimate determinations on Countries of Particular Concern or watch list countries, and the USCIRF recommendation will be noted and has been noted as well. But I don’t know why they did that, but I’m glad they did,” Mr. Brownback said. Call for release Significantly, the USCIRF also called for the release of those protesting the CAA, on Thursday. “During #COVID19 crisis, there are reports #India govt is arresting Muslim activists protesting the #CAA, including Safoora Zargar who is pregnant,” the Commission tweeted on May14. “ At this time, #India should be releasing prisoners of conscience, not targeting those practicing their democratic right to protest.” While there was no specific India reference in this context — the briefing discussed a number of countries and minorities — Mr. Brownback’s remarks on Thursday began by saying that a number of countries had released prisoners of conscience, and that “some people’s lives were possibly saved by this”.  Mr. Brownback also said Sikhs in Afghanistan are seeking to immigrate to safer countries, including India, in response to a question on Sikhs in Afghanistan seeking asylum in the U.S. Appeal for asylum Following a May 25 attack on a gurudwara in Kabul, there have been calls, including from Indian American Congressman Ro Khanna, to grant Afghan Sikhs and Hindus asylum in the U.S. Sikh and Hindu groups in Afghanistan have also appealed to the Trump administration for asylum, The Wall Street Journal had reported in April. Following a March 25 attack on a gurudwara in Kabul, there have been calls for granting Afghan Sikhs and Hindus asylum in the U.S., including from Indian American Congressman Ro Khanna of California.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Universal screening began on March 4||Universal screening for all international passengers at 30 airports across India started on March 4. Over 15.24 lakh passengers were screened for Covid-19 symptoms between January 15 and March 23, according to an RTI reply from the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). On March 15, the Prime Minister’s Office had said in a tweet: “We started screening entry into India from mid-January itself, while also gradually increasing restrictions on travel. The step-by-step approach has helped avoid panic: PM @narendramodi #SAARCfightsCorona.” Air travel in India was suspended on March 23, two days before the first phase of lockdown started in the country. Initially, scheduled international commercial passenger aircraft were not allowed to land in India from March 22, for one week. The DGHS reply to RTI activist Saket Gokhale stated that no outbound international passengers were screened during the period, adding that it had no information on the total number of international passengers who arrived at all Indian airports from January 15 to March 18. The application has been forwarded to the Ministry of Civil Aviation for providing details to the applicant. The RTI reply said that on January 17, the screening of passengers coming from China and Hong Kong had started at the airports in Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata, while January 21 onwards, it was done at four more airports in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Cochin.
16 May 2020||Srinagar,||J&K COVID-19 tally crosses 1,000 with 30 fresh cases||Thirty new COVID-19 cases, nine from the Jammu division and 21 from the Kashmir division, were reported on Friday. The total number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir has gone up to 1,013. An official said Srinagar topped the list with 153 cases, followed by Anantnag with 145 cases. In the Chenab Valley’s Kishtwar, only one case has been detected so far. Of the 1,013 cases, 489 are active cases and 513 have recovered and 11 have died, officials said. Clashes over prayers Another official said the administration had evacuated 49,218 people through Lakhanpur and brought back 7,264 persons by special trains at Jammu and Udhampur till May 15. A clash broke out between locals and security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama against the ban on Friday prayers during the lockdown. Eyewitnesses said a group of youth clashed with the forces manning the streets in the Rohimoo area after an attempt to offer prayers at the mosque was foiled. The locals, according to the eyewitnesses, were demanding that they be allowed to offer congregation prayers at mosques. All mosques, including the popular Jamia Masjid and Hazratbal Shrine, remained closed in the Valley.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Cash transfers may not be adequate’||The cash transfers and food benefits given to the poor as COVID-19 relief so far “may not be adequate”, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman conceded on Friday. Facing criticism that the credit-heavy stimulus package does not provide sufficient cash support to people, the Minister noted that the first response of the government under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was to give cash, food and cooking gas to vulnerable people. “This may not be adequate, I grant that. Nothing can be adequate at this time... when people don't have their money earned given to them,” the Minister said, during the third in her series of press conferences on the Centre’s Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package. The Finance Minister side-stepped queries on exactly how much of the stimulus package was actual expenditure from the government as opposed to liquidity financing measures, asking journalists to wait till the remainder of the package was announced. Ms. Sitharaman and officials also countered rising criticism that the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is too heavy on credit and low on actual budgetary expenditure. “The important thing to understand is that liquidity is also helping the stressed sector in trying to come out of that stress,” said Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj. “What is the objective of doing that? One way could be to give the money from the budget, the other is to do it through a process that is different. So the objective also needs to be kept in mind.”
16 May 2020||SITAPUR,||Back home in Uttar Pradesh, migrant workers find meagre solace in shovels||“ Chaya wala admi dhoop mein aa jaye to dikkat to hoti hai [a man used to working in the shade will feel uncomfortable under the sun],” says Nizamuddin. Till mid-March, Mr. Nizamuddin earned his living as a tailor in Delhi's Seelampur. Depending on contracts, he could muster anything between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000 a month. However, the lockdown forced his employer to shut business, consequently leading him back home, Muda Kala village in Sitapur. After serving the mandatory quarantine period, Mr. Nizamuddin, skilled in the art of scissors and fine measurements, is now out with a shovel under the May sun, digging to build a pucca road. He is one of the many desperate migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh, who have taken to labour work under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) scheme since returning home. ‘Must toil’ “When there is no work, one must learn to toil as a labourer. What will I eat otherwise?” he responded, when asked if the new job was proving tough for a tailor. With the aim of providing employment in rural areas during the lockdown, the U.P. government is engaging labourers at a fast pace. Among these are migrant workers who have lost their livelihoods and made the perilous journey back home. Mukesh Kumar of Jamuniya has also made the shift from packing bags in a company in Rudrapur, Uttarakhand, to digging a pond in his native village. In Uttarakhand, he took home a fixed monthly salary of Rs. 9,000 but the lockdown forced the unit to shut. His employer stopped paying him but offered to provide him ration, but it proved too cumbersome amid restrictions so he decided to head back home, and work with a shovel, something which the Intermediate-pass Mr. Mukesh was not accustomed to. As per government sources, the State has so far engaged 27.68 lakh unskilled labourers under the MGNREGA in 46,823 gram panchayats since April 21. Of these, just 2.35 lakh persons are migrants who have recently returned to their home State. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has set officials a target of 50 lakh jobs under the MGNREGA. As the low percentage of migrants engaged in MGNREGA show, they have not really jumped into the work as of now. Officials say this is because many are still under quarantine or perhaps too exhausted from the journey to start any gruelling physical work right away. In Neri village, Mevalal and 90 others were busy digging a pond near an uneven patch of land surrounded by mango trees. After months without work, Mr. Mevalal, a landless Dalit who has never left his village, is relieved to be employed again. “I can at least run my house with these earnings,” he said. Slow pace However, no migrant worker in Neri has yet joined the MGNREGA scheme. Panchayat Mitr Sunil Sharma says he is yet to receive demand for work from them. “They are not interested in working. They have just returned and probably want to rest at home with their kids,” he said. Deputy Commissioner, MGNREGA Sitapur, S.K Srivastava said many migrants who were “skilled” and had been employed in shops and factories in other cities were not turning up. “Many people don’t want to pick up the shovel,” he said. Though at a slow pace, desperation and financial uncertainty is forcing young workers to enlist under the MGNREGA. In Kaitha Bhari village, mostly populated with members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) and Dalits, MGNREGA work has kicked off. Though not a single migrant has joined work, many have started applying for job cards. Among them is Pradeep Pal, 19, who used to work as a painter in Lucknow and Prayagraj, earning Rs. 300-Rs. 400 a day. Under the MGNREGA, he will receive only Rs. 201. In his village, most young and middle-aged men are idle or doing farm work after having returned from other cities. “When the situation is drastic, something must be done. Besides, there is a lot of work in the village. You just need to be willing,” said Mr. Pal. Many workers feel that they would eventually have to return to the cities as farm and rural labour might not be sustainable. But some like Jai Prakash Singh, who worked as a tailor in Gurugram and is serving his quarantine period at a school in Chadra, don’t want to return. “I was already working hard in Gurugram. Now I will do labour work here. What difference does it make?” he asked.
16 May 2020||Pune,||Cases in Maharashtra cross the 29,000-mark||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to pile up in Maharashtra with the State reporting another massive surge of 1,576 new cases on Friday to take its total tally to 29,100, while 49 new fatalities have taken the death toll to 1,068. Of the total cases, 21,467 were active, said State health officials. State Health Department officials said that as many as 505 persons were discharged today, taking the cumulative number of discharged persons till date to 6,564. As per figures, 34 of the fatalities were reported from Mumbai city to take the city’s death toll to 655 till date, while six deaths were reported from Pune district to take its death toll to 181. However, district authorities said that the figure had risen to 185. Two deaths each were reported from Akola city, Dhule and Kalyan-Dombivli to take their respective death toll figures to 14, 10 and 16, respectively. High-risk cases One death each was reported from Panvel, Jalgaon and Aurangabad city. “65% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said Dr. Pradeep Awate, State Surveillance Officer. Of the new cases, Mumbai city reported 933 new cases as the city’s cumulative tally crossed the 17,000-case mark to touch 17,671. Pune district’s case tally, as per State health department figures, has risen to 3,482, with the district reporting more than 130 new cases today. Besides Mumbai and Pune, the other sharp spike in cases came from parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with Thane reporting 110 new cases to touch 1,491, while Navi Mumbai reported 64 new cases to reach a total 1,177. Malegaon in Nashik district, the major virus hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported 14 new cases as the city’s total tally reached 663 cases. Akola reported a rise in 18 new cases to take its tally to 226. Till date, 2,50,436 samples have been tested in Maharashtra, of which 2,21,336 (more than 90%) have returned negative, while 29,100 have tested positive. “There are 1,473 active containment zones in the State currently. Presently, 3,29,302 people across the State were in home quarantine and 16,306 persons were in institutional quarantine facilities,” said Dr. Awate.
16 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Notice against helping migrants sparks row||Police in Bulandhshar triggered a row after a notice issued by a police officer threatened legal action against those offering food and water to migrant workers walking back home. After drawing flak on social media for the notice, which was widely circulated, the district police on Friday said that while the notice was authentic, it was issued specifically to Bhagwan Sharma alias Guddu Pandit. The former Samajwadi Party MLA had repeatedly violated lockdown norms, said the police. In the “notice” issued on May 11, the officer in-charge of the Bulandhshar City Circle outpost warned of legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act if water and food was provided to migrants walking on the road. No specific person was mentioned in the notice. The notice also accused unnamed persons of stopping the migrants outside their home and inviting them in with the “ lalach ” (lure) of food and water. “This violates the COVID-19 norms,” said the notice. SSP Bulandshahr Santosh Kumar Singh later clarified that the notice was issued to Mr. Sharma for repeatedly “violating lockdown and disturbing social distancing”. The notice was taken out of context, he said, adding it was issued because the former legislator was gathering people at his house with the lure of food and water.  “The notice was being circulated without the name of the person in order to tarnish the image of the district police,” he said. The district police have always welcomed efforts of social workers towards providing relief to people and offered them support, he added. The Twitter handle of the district police said four cases had been lodged against Mr. Sharma in one month for violating lockdown norms. However, the police said action was taken against the officer in-charge because he did not mention the name of the person on the notice, “due to which certain people misused it”. The officer has since been shifted to the police lines.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. insensitive to farmers, says Congress||Accusing the Modi government of being “insensitive” towards farmers, the Congress on Friday demanded an apology from the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for giving a raw deal in the COVID-19 economic package. While former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, on twitter, claimed that Friday’s tranche of announcements had zero allocation, former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh said the latest announcements were a “repackaging and remarketing” exercise of what was announced in the Union Budget earlier. “In our estimate, the fiscal stimulus part of the 2nd tranche of announcements was Rs. 5,000 crore. Most analysts agree. In today’s tranche it is close to zero. Even the FM declined to answer how many of the amounts mentioned today were already part of the Expenditure Budget and how many are additional sums of money,” Mr. Chidambaram said. “Madam Finance Minister, One simple question. What is the ADDITIONAL cash you are putting into the system over the next 6 months? The announcements you made today are mostly contained in your budget presented on Feb 1. Another case of repackaging and remarketing,” Mr. Ramesh tweeted. “Will FM please shed light on basics of ‘atmanirbhar arthashastra’? On Feb 1 2020 she projected Centre’s expenditure at Rs. 30.42 lakh crore for year 2020/21. Now with ‘atmanirbhar bharat’ package what is the REVISED expenditure figure for 2020/21? Everything else is dramabaazi,” he added. ‘Empty promise’ Addressing an online press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Rs. 20-lakh crore package had proved to be a jumla [empty rhetoric] package and reflected the ‘voodoo economics’ followed by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. Mr. Surjewala claimed that farmers lost Rs. 21,000 crore through distress sale of wheat far below the minimum support price (MSP) and an equal amount through other crops like chana, mustard and lentils, while another Rs. 10,000 crore was lost through distress sale of vegetables and fruits. “Neither farmers nor farm labourers will benefit from these jumla announcements of the Finance Minister. Today, farmers and farm workers are frustrated and disappointed,” he said. “One thing is absolutely clear that the so-called Rs. 20-lakh crore economic package has proved to be a jumla package. It reflects the ‘voodoo’ economics being followed by the PM and the FM,”he said.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees 425 fresh cases, no new deaths||The national capital on Friday recorded 425 new COVID-19 cases and no deaths, taking the total number of cases to 8,895. The government, however, revised the cumulative death toll from 115 to 123, after adding cases in which the primary cause of death was found to be the virus, according to the reports of the Death Audit Committee, based on case sheets received from hospitals. The government added that a total of 463 patients have recovered from the virus so far, leaving 5,254 active cases in the city, out of which 1,643 patients are in home isolation. Speaking after a meeting on the COVID-19 situation in Delhi, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the government was making all efforts to fight the outbreak but it was now time to restart economic activities. Balanced approach “The Delhi government believes there should be a balance between the fight against COVID-19 and economic activities. When the first lockdown was imposed, we were unprepared to fight this pandemic but now we have prepared ourselves to fight this virus,” the Minister said. Mr. Jain added that based on feedback received from Delhiites, the government has written to the Centre regarding relaxation of lockdown restrictions. Key suggestions The key suggestions from the people are that every person should wear a mask at public places, social distancing should be maintained at all times, and that public transportation should start with limited capacity, he added. “In the last two months we have learned many lessons. If we wear a mask, maintain social distancing and wash hands regularly then people will be 90%-95% safer,” the Minister said. Commenting on the impact of the change of season on the virus, Mr. Jain said: “There was a time when we all thought that this pandemic will be over by May due to summer. But now we have seen that in the Latin American countries, the pandemic is increasing. The temperature in these countries rises very high. This shows that we have to learn to live with COVID-19.”
16 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||We have sought extension of lockdown by 2 weeks: Sonowal||The Assam government has sought extension of the lockdown by two more weeks, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday. The government has also decided to mark areas where cases are detected as containment and buffer zones while continuing to regard the districts concerned as green zones. So far, 86 persons have tested positive, with 41 having recovered and two having died. One has migrated to Bihar. “We have conveyed our stand on the need to extend the lockdown to the Centre, which had sought feedback from all the States by Friday,” he told journalists. He said the government’s intention was to make the State’s 3.3 crore people mentally prepared and independent while dealing with a crisis in future. “We will utilise the special economic package announced by the Prime Minister judiciously to ensure everyone benefits from it,” he said. The State had provided financial support to 2.87 lakh construction workers and free rice to 44 lakh people without ration cards, he said. Mr. Sonowal said 6.5 lakh people studying, living or working outside the State had expressed their willingness to return to Assam. He said migrant workers returning to Assam would be considered a skilled force and treated as assets, not liabilities, for absorption in various sectors. The government allowed trucks carrying livestock into the State while maintaining physical distancing. Transport of pigs remained banned because of the African swine fever that has so far killed almost 15,000 domestic pigs. A notification said the containment zones had been kept out of the purview of the permission for trucks carrying livestock.
16 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam’s maligned district gives humane touch to lockdown||The COVID-19 lockdown has revealed the humane face of western Assam’s Dhubri, a much-maligned district because of its large population of Bengali-speaking Muslims. On Friday, Dev Kumar heaved a sigh of relief when he saw off 13 Muslim toymakers on a bus to Bihar. From Khagaria and Saharsa districts of Bihar, these 13 had been his guests since the lockdown began past March 24 midnight. “They got permission to travel after spending all these days with us. We tried our best to make them comfortable, but they were longing to return to their families especially with the Ramzan month on. I wish they reach home safely,” Mr. Kumar, 55, told The Hindu from Dhubri town. Mr. Kumar’s great-grandfather had settled in the Nuniyapara area of Dhubri town from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh. He has continued with the pottery business passed down the generations, sustaining his family of eight, including three brothers. The Muslim toymakers come to Dhubri every year around March and stay temporarily to sell their wares at fairs across the district. Mr. Kumar provides them with raw materials such as bamboo and pottery items. “We would have had a tough time fending for ourselves had Devji not let us stay at his house and provided us with food as well as facilitated our Ramzan prayers and Iftar,” Md. Ajmal, one of the toymakers from Khagaria district, said after the bus with 19 people left for Bihar. The other six with a different skill set stayed with another Hindu family. A few days ago, 25 Muslim men had performed the last rites of Shanti Choudhury, a 75-year-old widow of Panbari village. There are three Hindu families in the Muslim-dominated village 20 km from Dhubri town. “Members of her family were stranded outside Assam and could not come because of the lockdown. As neighbours, it was our responsibility to call a Hindu priest and carry her body for the ritualistic cremation,” said Dilower Hussain, a local member of the All Assam Minority Students’ Union.
16 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Anticipatory bail for Siddharth Varadarajan||The Allahabad High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Founding Editor of news portal The Wire Siddharth Varadarajan in the case of allegedly misattributing a quote to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the Ram Navami festival controversy. Uttar Pradesh Police had in April lodged two FIRs against the senior journalist in Ayodhya district. The cases were lodged under Sections 188 (disobedience to order) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. One of the FIRs also curiously invokes Section 66D of the IT Act, which deals with “punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource”. While granting anticipatory bail to Mr. Vardarajan, Justice Chandra Dhari Singh found no merit in the State's arguments, among them that the journalist could flee India as he held an American passport. Additional Advocate General U.P. raised objection that Mr. Varadarajan held an American passport and therefore there was a chance of him fleeing India. The government also argued that the chargesheet was filed by the police after completion of investigation and cognisance was taken on the said chargesheet by the court concerned. So, there was reasonable apprehension of arrest of the journalist in the case. “I do not find any merit in the argument advanced by learned Additional Advocate General, as the law discussed above in several judgments clarify the situation,” the court said. Mr. Varadarajan's counsel submitted that he was willing to cooperate with the investigation as well as the entire proceeding of the trial in the instant case.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays decision on Chudasama’s election||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed a decision of the Gujarat High Court which nullified the 2017 election of law and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on grounds of malpractice and manipulation. The High Court had held that the Returning Officer “illegally rejected” 429 postal ballots during the counting of votes, while the victory margin was only 327. Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod had challenged his Bharatiya Janata Party rival’s victory from Dholka constituency by a margin of mere 327 votes in the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls. A Bench of Justices M. Shantanagoudar and R. Subhas Reddy, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, issued notice on Mr. Chudasama’s plea and sought response from Mr. Rathod and other parties in the case. Seeking a stay order, Mr. Chudasama had said the High Court committed an error. The Minister had submitted that the High Court had not appreciated that Mr. Rathod did not have any reliable and cogent evidence to prove any of the issues. Therefore, Mr. Rathod was not entitled to be declared as duly elected candidate from “58- Dholakia Constituency” for the Gujarat State Assembly Elections on December 14, 2017. The High Court had found that the procedure adopted for counting of votes was “against the orders of the Election Commission of India (EC)” and illegal. It concluded that Mr. Chudasama indulged in “corrupt practice” under the Representation of the People Act, 1951.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India surpasses China’s COVID-19 tally||The 15th meeting of the high level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 was held at Nirman Bhawan on Friday and the group was informed that there are 30 municipal areas which account for 79% of India’s case load. It was also informed that domestic manufacturers has reached the production capacity of nearly 3 lakh PPEs per day and about 3 lakh N-95 masks per day, which is sufficient to meet the requirement of the country in the near future. “In addition, manufacturing of ventilators by domestic manufacturers has also started and orders have been placed,” the release said. Meanwhile, amid rising cases of COVID-19 and as countries in WHO South-East Asia Region ease lockdowns in a graded manner, World Health Organisation (South East Asia region) on Friday said careful assessment of local epidemiology should guide future actions to combat the virus. “Countries in the region must continue to take evidence-informed action and conduct careful risk assessments while winding back public health and social measures. The focus should be on local epidemiology of COVID-19, to identify hot-spots and clusters, and the capacity of systems and responders to find, isolate and care for cases, and quarantine contacts,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon will arrive on June 5, says IMD||Hereon, the monsoon typically takes 10-11 days to reach the Kerala coast. G.P. Sharma, vice president, meteorology, Skymet, said the cyclone will not hamper this routine progress and that the early onset of monsoon in the A&N Islands will therefore bring the monsoon early over Kerala. The IMD too expects the monsoon to reach the islands by the weekend. Below-normal summer temperatures in north India and prevailing rainfall from Western Disturbances will delay the monsoon’s further progress to Kerala. WD are rainbearing systems that originate in the Mediterranean regions and bring rain to north India. “In the last two months, WD activity has been heightened. This has lowered temperatures and isn’t helping the monsoon to establish,” D.S. Pai, Head, Climate Services, National Climate Centre, IMD Pune, told The Hindu . “The developing storm will further pull some of the monsoon winds into the Andamans but it will take more time for conditions to develop enough for it to gain strength and move into Kerala.” Both agencies use different models to predict the forecast date and have different error margins. The IMD’s model has an error margin of four days, while Skymet has a two day error margin. That means, were the monsoon to arrive on June 1, it would still be “accurate” by the IMD’s definition, said Mr. Sharma. The monsoon is considered to have arrived over Kerala only if it meets several criteria, the most important being 14 meteorological stations in Kerala and Karnataka receiving a certain minimum amount of rainfall over two consecutive days.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown likely to be extended till May 30||Malls would continue to remain shut. “Trains will continue to operate on the current model, only allowed on special routes. It will not be a free for all,” said the official. “The issue of migrants walking on the road is a big issue. The States have been asked to utilise around Rs. 11,092 crore released to them under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for their welfare,” the official noted. The green zones are districts with either zero confirmed cases till date, or no confirmed case in the last 21 days. The red zones are defined as per the total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts. The districts, which are neither defined as red nor green, shall be classified as orange zones. Presently, irrespective of zones, all forms of public transport- air, rail, metro and inter-State movement by road are suspended except those allowed in select cases. Currently, private offices can open with 33% workforce and masks and social distancing are compulsory.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||New law to push contract-farming||Asked how the Centre could enact a law on agricultural marketing, which remains on the State list, the Minister pointed out that inter-State trade falls in the central list. She added that plans were underway to bring in a facilitative legal framework to oversee contract farming, which would provide farmers with assured sale prices and quantities even before the crop is sown and also allow private players to invest in inputs and technology in the agricultural sector. Agricultural economist and ICRIER professor Ashok Gulati, who has been advocating these reforms for many years, was elated by the announcement. “These are big, bold steps in the right direction which will benefit both farmers and consumers. This is long overdue and should have been done in Modi’s first term, but certainly the government deserves compliments for converting a crisis into an opportunity,” he said, noting that some of these reforms have been under discussion for two decades. “It is very smart to push these through at this time. At present, no one can say anything in a crisis,” he added, pointing out that mandi  closures during the lockdown had highlighted the urgent need for multiple channels to sell produce. ‘Need-based relief’ Fellow agricultural economist Sudha Narayanan, who teaches at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, was however, more sceptical of the government’s reform push. “This is the time for relief, which should have been prioritised over reform. Yes, reforms are important and we can learn lessons about them during the crisis, but they should not take the attention away from the impact of the crisis. There is an urgent need to map farmers’ current needs and provide relief,” she said.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unions to protest against changes to labour laws||Ten central trade unions said on Friday that it would stage a nationwide protest on May 22 against the changes in labour laws in several States. In a joint statement, the unions said they would also send a representation to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on the “violations being committed by the Government of India in regard to all the international commitments to labour standards and human rights”. “Taking shelter under the umbrella of the COVID-19 pandemic, every day the government is taking one or the other decision to attack the working class and the common people..., who are already in deep distress and miseries in the midst of the lockdown...,” it said. The suspension of a number of labour laws for three years by Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh’s decision to allow companies to “hire and fire” workers at will marked the second stage of anti-worker steps after Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab increased the daily working hours from eight to 12, they said. The unions are the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the All India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Can’t stop migrants from walking home, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said it could not be expected to stop migrants from taking the hard and, for many, life-threatening option of trekking thousands of miles to their villages amid the lockdown. The court said the onus was on the government to draw migrants away from the long walk home and wait for government-arranged inter-State transport. “There are people walking and not stopping. How can we stop it,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, asked at a hearing through video conference. The hearing was based on a petition by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, who referred to recent incidents of migrants journeying home on their own getting killed on highways. He also referred to the incident where 16 migrants, sleeping on a railway track, were mowed down by a train. The court said it could not pass orders on applications based on news reports; the States ought to act. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said transport would be provided to all so that they can reach their homes.
16 May 2020||Srinagar,||Aarogya Setu app must for Srinagar govt. staff||Deputy Commissioner-Srinagar Dr. Shahid Iqbal Chowdhary has directed Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) to obtain a certificate that they had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app before the release of salary to all employees, with the effect that all government employees working under his administrative control have installed the app on their mobile phones. “It is impressed upon all the district and sectoral officers of Srinagar to ensure that all those working in their respective department shall download the Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones immediately and get themselves registered accordingly,” the order read. The order further says “for the safety of the government officers, downloading of Aarogya [Setu app], has been made mandatory” and that it is “aimed to break the chain of transmission of novel coronavirus”. The application recently came under criticism for reasons of data security. Several employees have raised a red flag over being forced to download the application. “The curve is already flattening in Srinagar. The detection of COVID-19 cases is showing a downward trend because of the efforts of the disaster management team. Forcing employees to download the app is a violation of privacy rights. There are genuine fears that the app can access mobile data too,” a senior employee said. J&K Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam had on April 14 issued guidelines for all red zones in the Union Territory and called for their mapping, including on the size of habitations, geographic distribution of COVID-19 cases, proximity to other habitations, accessibility, geographical barriers and mobility He also called for “intelligent demarcation of the boundaries of red zones”. “There will be a 100% survey and screening of all persons in the red zone. The results of survey shall be integrated with ‘Aarogya Setu’ as much as possible. A detailed health screening of the contacts and the survey results would be geo-mapped,” the order read.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No contradiction over new Lipulekh Pass road’||There is no “contradiction at all” in the new road constructed through the Lipulekh Pass up to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to shorten travel time for the Kailash-Mansarovar pilgrimage, and Nepal may have raised the issue “at the behest of someone else,” Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said on Friday, without naming any country. Nepal has protested against the road and called on India to “refrain from carrying out any activity inside the territory of Nepal”. “In fact, the Nepalese Ambassador has mentioned that the area east of the Kali river belongs to them. There is no dispute in that whatsoever. The road which we have made is, in fact, to the west of the river. So I don’t know what they are actually agitating about. There are little issues as we go ahead as to exactly where the tri-junction [India-China-Nepal] should be. There has never been any problem on this score in the past,” Gen. Naravane said in response to a question at a webinar organised by a Defence Ministry think tank. “There is a reason to believe that they might have raised the issue at the behest of someone else, and that is very much a possibility,” he said. Gen. Naravane said these incidents and face-offs that occurred at two-three places last week in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim were not related at the domestic or international levels. He said there was a lot of dynamics in a face-off, and the Army was dealing with it on a case-to-case basis. “We are not seeing any concerted design in these face-offs.” The 80 km road built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh, just 5 km short of the LAC, was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh last week. The road was made under the directions of the China Study Group and is funded under the India-China Border Roads. Budgetary constraints Admitting that there would be some budgetary cuts for the armed forces in the post-COVID-19 scenario, Gen. Naravane said they “will not be at the cost of operations efficiency and preparedness”. He said a few areas had been identified, and they could be deferred or re-prioritised for next year. One area was the number of movements by units and the other was the major exercises held in Rajasthan for which units moved from far-off places. “Normally there are 250-300 moves per year. And each move costs Rs. 1 crore,” he said. Units involved in high-altitude postings and counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism had to move but some peace-time movements could be avoided, he said. “We have identified 100 such moves that can be deferred.” He said for major exercises, troops and formations moved to Rajasthan, which could also be avoided for a year without affecting operational performance.
16 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan moves to deal with huge migrant influx||Fearing a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases with the influx of thousands of migrants into rural areas, the Rajasthan government has decided to adopt effective quarantine management as a strategy to deal with the threat. Among the migrants who have returned from States such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh, 313 persons have so far tested positive. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Friday that a 14-day quarantine had been made mandatory for everyone coming from outside under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, promulgated earlier this month. In addition to home quarantine, arrangements have been made for institutional quarantine facilities for the migrants. Mr. Gehlot said “best practices” would be applied for migrant workers staying at the quarantine centres. Those travelling from one district to another, except from hotpots and curfew-bound areas, will not be sent to the quarantine facilities. Among these people, only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness will be quarantined. “Effective quarantine was a major factor which helped contain the spread of novel coronavirus in Bhilwara, Jhunjhunu and other districts,” Mr. Gehlot said. Quarantine management committees have since been appointed from the State to the village panchayat levels. Additional Chief Secretary, Public Works Department, Veenu Gupta, who heads the State-level committee, said most of the inmates in the quarantine centres in Nagaur district were getting food from their homes. About 19.84 lakh migrants in the State have registered for inter-State movement, and 11.14 lakh will be returning to Rajasthan. As many as 3.62 lakh migrants have returned home, posing a big challenge of screening, sampling and enforcing quarantine. The administration has deployed additional police and healthcare teams to ensure timely screening amid the detection of fresh COVID-19 positive cases in the districts which were either free of the virus or were on way to recovery. The highest number of 63 infected migrants have been found in Jalore, followed by 37 in Pali and 28 in Rajsamand.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Resumption of medicine supply a solace for many||Many senior citizens from the State, who had gone abroad on short visits to be with their children, were put in a spot by the lockdown and flight bans, post the COVID-19 outbreak, as they were unable to come back as scheduled. The situation was even worse for those on medication for pre-existing conditions, as their medicine stock began depleting and it was an expensive proposition to buy the same overseas. Seattle-based Shilpa Chandran Arunvijay was one of the many expatriates who were looking at ways to ship essential medicines for her parents, both in their seventies. With their stay getting extended, they were about to be out of medication. Her father had survived a major heart attack last year and was on heart medication. CM’s intervention “This is when my sister-in-law’s father decided to send an email to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, pointing out the plight of those stuck outside. The Chief Minister mentioned this issue in the next day’s press conference. A week later, he announced that his office has decided to immediately restart the courier services and fast-track the shipment of medicines to NRI seniors. Next day, my sister-in-law’s father got a call from NoRKA Roots, asking him to immediately contact the local DHL office. The medicines reached my parents a week later. Many of my friends’ parents who have been facing a similar situation have also got medicines couriered now,” says Ms. Shilpa. Many enquiries According to NoRKA Roots CEO K. Harikrishnan Namboothiri, a lot of enquiries have come from expatriates regarding shipping of medicines. “In the initial days, shipments were through cargo, for which the applicant has to get an NOC from customs, as well as clearance at the airport. Later, DHL courier service came forward and proposed a plan, providing 25% discount on shipments. We connected all those who applied with the couriering company. They need to provide a prescription, medical bills and copy of Aadhaar. Collection of medicines were a major challenge in the initial period, as they could not pick up from red zones,” says Mr. Harikrishnan. According to a DHL official, ever since medicine shipments began three weeks ago, the highest volume has gone to the Gulf countries. Up by 60% “Medicine shipments have gone up by 60% than usual, as a lot of senior citizens are stuck abroad. Now, we have 1,000-1,200 shipments from Kerala daily. In the initial days, shipments used to take 10 days, as we had only three flights. Now, we can deliver in 4-5 days as there are daily flights,” says the official.  Chief Minister allows fast-track shipment of medicines to NRI seniors
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s nod to defence test facilities||Defence Minsiter Rajnath Singh on Friday approved the launch of Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme (DTIS) with an outlay of Rs. 400 crore for creating state-of-the-art testing infrastructure for domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing sector. “The Scheme would run for the duration of five years and envisages to set up six to eight new test facilities in partnership with private industry. This will facilitate indigenous defence production, consequently reduce imports of military equipment,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The projects under the scheme will be provided with up to 75% government funding in the form of ‘Grant-in-Aid’.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighis to be released from quarantine||The Delhi government on Friday informed the Delhi High Court that it has decided to release Tablighi Jamaat members who have completed the mandatory quarantine and show no symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The submission was in response to a petition for the release of nearly 3,300 Tablighi Jamaat members who had been kept at quarantine centres for nearly 40 days and not been released even after they tested negative for the virus. Following the submission, counsel for the petitioner decided to withdraw the plea. The court allowed petitioner Sabiha Quadri, a social worker, to do so.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||IPI condemns ‘intimidation’ of journalists||The International Press Institute (IPI) has condemned the recent turn of events in India, expressing “grave concern over the misuse of the law by authorities... to intimidate journalists and curtail press freedom”. The statement comes in the backdrop of sedition charges filed by the Gujarat government against Dhaval Patel for writing an article about the possibility of a leadership change in the State owing to the increase in COVID-19 cases. In Delhi, Mahender Singh Manral, a correspondent of The Indian Express , was summoned for questioning by the police for a report on the police investigation into the possibility that an audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalwi had been doctored. In Himachal Pradesh, 10 cases have been registered against 6 journalists for reporting on the misery caused by the lockdown. ‘Stifling freedom’ “The Indian government has resorted to various tactics to prevent independent media from criticising the government and reporting about the pandemic. In a blatant attempt to stifle press freedom, on March 31 the government unsuccessfully petitioned the country’s Supreme Court to bar the media from publishing information about COVID-19 that had not been cleared by the government,” the IPI said. The Press Club of India has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda in some of these cases. The club said an example was sought to be made of Mr. Patel. Other newspapers in Ahmedabad that followed up on the same news had not been threatened.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘A self-reliant India will not be isolationist’||A self-reliant India will automatically be a more “internationalist” India as it does not seek self-centred or “isolationist” arrangements, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Friday. His comments came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched to make India self-reliant by sustained focus on making the nation’s economy globally competitive. In an address at the National Defence College, Mr. Shringla said all crises alter geo-politics, and there will be significant changes too after COVID-19 blows over, such as re-balancing of hard and soft power, emergence of new multilateral conversations and change in strength of “players”. “As we remain engaged globally, we also need to become ‘Atma Nirbhar’ or self-reliant, to recover from the crisis,” he said, adding, “We do not, however, seek self-centred or isolationist arrangements when we speak of self-reliance. A self-reliant India will automatically be a more internationalist India.”
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court cuts summer vacation short||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to cut short its summer vacation and work till June 19 for now. Further plans on whether to continue functioning or go for a short break would be taken after June 19. “Usually, summer vacation is the time when judges can go to their native places and spend time with their family. However, they have decided to work and clear pendency this time,” a source said. The decision came on the last working day of the court — May 15. Sources said it was taken by consensus among judges through circulation. They would continue to function through video conferencing and have staggered timings for the Benches to ease the load on the available facilities.
16 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||20 deaths in Gujarat, 340 new cases||Gujarat’s death toll crossed 600 with 20 deaths on Friday, increasing the toll to 606, while the number of COVID-19 cases in the State neared 10,000. With 340 new cases, the State’s tally has gone up to 9,932. Gujarat’s trend of an unabated spike in cases continues with around 10% of samples testing positive. On Friday, a total 3,150 samples were tested, out of which 340 were positive. The State has so far tested 1,27,859 samples. Meanwhile, Health Department figures show that there are 43 critically ill patients on ventilator support, while 5,248 are stable and under treatment. On Friday, Ahmedabad crossed the 7,000 mark in the number of cases, with 261 new cases. Now, its total number of cases is 7,171, while with 14 new deaths, the total death count has risen to 479.
16 May 2020||Kolkata,||Ten deaths, 84 new cases in West Bengal||Ten more deaths due to COVID-19 infections and 84 new cases were reported from West Bengal in the past 24 hours. The total number of people who have died after being infected by the contagious virus increased to 225, of which 151 deaths were from Kolkata alone. Of the total number of deaths, 72 were due to “co-morbidities”, where COVID-19 was the “incidental finding”. Of the ten deaths reported in the past 24 hours, five were from Kolkata, three from North 24 Parganas and two from Howrah. The total number of confirmed cases remains at 2,461 and active cases at 1,407. The State’s Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim said that while the number of cases was decreasing, more cases are coming from high-rise buildings of the city.
16 May 2020||Mumbai,||Migrant dies on way to railway station||A 45-year-old migrant worker from Rajasthan, identified as Harish Chander Shankarlal, who walked 30 km to catch a Shramik Special train, collapsed and died near the Vasai Road railway station in Maharashtra, an official said on Friday. Shankarlal had to walk across the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway as he had no money to hire a vehicle. After he collapsed on the way, the police took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead before admission. An accidental death case has been registered by the police.
16 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram man clears loans of four strangers||A Mizoram man seeking the satisfaction of helping others has cleared the loans of four strangers who were struggling to repay because of the COVID-19 lockdown. The man, said to have undergone the “pangs of bankruptcy once upon a time”, wanted no publicity for transferring Rs. 9,96,365 to the State Bank of India’s Aizawl branch for closing the loan accounts of the beneficiaries. “He came a few days ago and told us to select a few genuine loanees who had mortgaged their property for any business to be self-reliant. He said he wanted to help such people and had a budget of Rs. 10 lakh,” Sheryl Vanchhong, the branch’s assistant general manager, said.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Obstacle course||
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents in congested hotspots to be relocated||The Greater Chennai Corporation will adopt a new strategy to reduce COVID-19 spread in high-intensity areas such as Royapuram, Kodambakkam and Valasaravakkam. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Chennai Corporation Special Nodal Officer J. Radhakrishnan said the strategy includes roping in residents through NGOs for active participation in promoting the habit of wearing masks, handwashing, social distancing, disinfection of homes and nutritious food. “Chennai Corporation has planned to evacuate residents from congested neighbourhoods where intensity of COVID-19 spread continues to remain high. For example, Royapuram zone residents from ten congested areas, where around 20 to 80 cases have been reported, will be shifted to community halls. Their houses located in narrow streets will be disinfected. They will be given nutritious food. The Chief Minister has ordered the supply of nutritious food including fruits and egg for such residents,” he said. Pointing to the decline of cases in seven zones of the city, he said zones such as Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Teynampet and Tondiarpet have stabilised. New cases stopped popping up in V.R. Pillai Street for the past eight days. Civic officials have been directed to replicate the success of V.R. Pillai Street to other areas, he said. “As many as 2,000 areas are vulnerable. We are conducting fever camps in such areas. On Friday, 120 containment zones will be free as cases have not been reported for 14 days,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. As many as 70,000 Chennai residents have been tested, which constitutes 1% of the population and this was the highest in the country. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the civic body has sent 22,000 stranded persons and labourers to their homes.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. taking steps to woo foreign investment, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami said the State government had formed a team to attract investments from countries that want to shift their business to India. Addressing a session on ‘Reviving Tamil Nadu's Economy, Strengthening Investments, Reforms and Stimulus’ at a webinar organised by the Chennai International Centre, the Chief Minister said, “Due to the present situation worldwide, some countries have shown interest to shift their business to countries, including India. To attract these companies, Tamil Nadu has formed a team consisting of government officials, associates from Singapore, Japan, Korea, America and Taiwan.” He pointed out that over 1,500 firms in the State were involved in manufacturing products for COVID-19 treatment and care, and special incentives were being given to them. Mr. Palaniswami said that the government would provide any kind of support to push industrial growth in the State. Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company, said that more infrastructure facilities must be created. Townships must be created in places such as Coimbatore and between Tiruchi and Madurai to attract more companies, he said. B. Santhanam, chairman and managing director, Saint-Gobain India, said reviving MSMEs in Tamil Nadu should be the top priority. Tamil Nadu had always welcomed people from other States and they had contributed to the State’s growth, he pointed out. K. Hari Thiagarajan, executive director, Thiagarajar Mills Pvt Ltd., suggested that the State must create a comprehensive database of migrant workers, especially in the textile sector. Mr. Thiagarajan asked for more allocation for skilling workers. Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said proper precautions had been taken in firms which commenced operations. "We have ensured that production is streamlined with proper social distancing," he said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMC readies 400-bed facility in Ranipet for COVID-19 patients||To expand the capacity for management of COVID-19, the Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore is readying a facility to accommodate up to 400 patients on its new campus in Kannigapuram in Ranipet district. The move is based on a request from the Ranipet Collector to create additional capacity. “It is a new district with limited in-patient beds in the government sector and a minimal presence of private hospitals. In the first phase, we have readied two general ward floors. In the second phase, we are getting two more floors with 170-180 beds ready. The district administration has asked for an ICU facility that will be ready in two months,” said J.V. Peter, director of CMC. On its main campus in Vellore district, CMC has allocated 210 beds, including 36 ICU beds, for patients presenting with Influenza Like Illness or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. The institution began its preparation for the COVID-19 pandemic early January. The Hospital Infection Control Committee brought out protocols for screening, triaging, quarantine, testing and treatment based on available evidence, he said. The number of COVID-19 cases is low in the now trifurcated Vellore district — Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. “Despite the actual numbers, Tamil Nadu has done very well with a phenomenal number of tests. Countries like Singapore and South Korea have demonstrated that when you do a lot of testing, we can isolate the cluster and manage them,” he said. Preparing for COVID-19 was a challenging task considering the huge inflow of patients. CMC put in place certain policies. It made use of masks mandatory for both public and healthcare professionals. Next was physical distancing. “This was challenging due to the number of patients. But we have staggered OPD timings. For handwashing, we have installed wash stations with soap solutions at different points. No spitting is allowed on campus. We have also taken up screening of patients at the entrances,” Dr. Peter said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dayanidhi Maran under fire for his remarks||DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran has come under attack for his remarks, which are deemed inappropriate in the societal context. On Wednesday, Mr. Maran, addressing journalists after DMK MPs met Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, alleged that the latter had humiliated the members of the delegation. “Are we third rate citizens? Oppressed,” he asked using the Tamil term thazthapatavaragala to denote the “oppressed.” In the political context, the term is widely used to refer to the Scheduled Castes in Tamil Nadu, triggering disapproval from allies and other parties alike.  Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan expressed “shock” over the remarks saying “though it is not motivated, it hurts the sentiments of the sons of the soil.” Mr. Maran expressed regret for his remarks if they had hurt anyone. On Friday, State BJP president L. Murugan demanded that the police file a case against Mr. Maran and ensure that he is punished through the judicial process. “His speech not only insulted the SC/ST community, but also the citizens. This is a crime under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” he said. MNM slams remarks The Makkal Needhi Maiam’s Adi Dravidar Welfare wing secretary Poovai Jagadish Kumar too condemned Mr. Maran’s remarks. He said, “It is condemnable that a leader belonging to a party, which claims the legacy of social justice that Periyar stood for, has made such comments.”   Though it is not motivated, it hurts the sentiments of the sons of the soil Thol. Thirumavalavan VCK leader
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stranded workers urge govt. to arrange travel||Sixty-one workers from various districts of Tamil Nadu, who had gone for a temporary inspection and maintenance work in an oil refinery near Abu Dhabi and were stranded there owing to COVID-19, have made a fervent appeal to the State government and the Union government to bring them back. They said that their despair deepened following the news that Karthik Sivashanmugam, a co-worker from Tiruchi, who was hospitalised in Abu Dhabi more than two weeks due to COVID-19, died on Wednesday. His body was likely to be buried there by the local authorities, they said. While most others have not been in contact with the deceased person and none have shown symptoms, all of them are being tested now. “No one has tested positive yet,” a source from the company that engaged the workers said on anonymity. Vinothkumar Kandasamy, who hails from Papparapatti in Dharmapuri district, said that they went earlier this year to Al-Ruwais, an industrial town around 240 km away from Abu Dhabi, on a 90-day visa, through a multinational company specialising in inspection and certification. “Most of us are mechanical engineers or diploma holders with certifications from the American Petroleum Institute. We are engaged on short-term basis by companies for work in oil refineries,” he said. Since the lockdown began in Abu Dhabi, the workers have been confined to a camp where they have been accommodated by the company. “Our visas have expired,” said Sampath Manavalan, another worker. While all of them have registered with the Indian embassy there for returning home, there has been no clear communication on when they can travel. P. Karthikeyan, a worker, said that 15 of them received a communication that they were selected to travel in a flight that left for Chennai on May 8. “When we contacted the embassy, we were asked to wait for further communication. But the flight left without us,” he said. He said that as per the schedule put out under the Vande Bharat Mission, no more flights from UAE to Tamil Nadu have been planned for now. A source in the company, speaking on anonymity, said that the firm was doing everything it could to send the workers back.  When we contacted the embassy, we were asked to wait for communication. But the flight left without us P. Karthikeyan Worker
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No sealing of pvt. hospitals with COVID-19 cases||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, in a meeting with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Tamil Nadu State branch, on Friday, is believed to have assured that the government would not seal private hospitals if a patient tested positive for COVID-19. C.N. Raja, State president of IMA-Tamil Nadu, said, “The Minister has asked all private hospitals to open. The government has assured that if a patient tests positive for COVID-19 in a private hospital, the establishment will not be shut or sealed. The premises will be sanitised and opened immediately. They have asked us to treat patients with co-morbidities.” “With Tamil Nadu having the maximum number of testing facilities, the government has told us that persons covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme can avail COVID-19 testing for Rs. 2,500. A committee is also revising the scheme package rates,” he added. Members of IMA were asked to report any instances of PPE being sold at high rates in the market. “Committees with representatives from public and private sectors have been formed for every co-morbid condition such as hypertension, cardiac diseases, diabetes, kidney disease and malignancies. The mortality rate is high among those with co-morbid conditions. These committees will monitor and ensure that persons with such conditions get additional care,” Dr. Raja said. Among others, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh and Additional Secretary S. Nagarajan were present at the meeting.
16 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||PUCL condemns States’ decision to dilute labour laws||The People’s Union Of Civil Liberties (PUCL) on Friday expressed concern about the “swiftness” with which many States were dismantling the protection afforded to workers under labour laws. It condemned the governments of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh for extending the workday to 12 hours per day, for the next three months, with no increase in the number of rest intervals. In a statement, the organisation said that this raises fear that these moves would force a large proportion of our population to inhuman servitude and destitution. The purpose for India’s industrialisation and development cannot be to ensure profit for international companies, at the cost of the dignity, well-being and liberty of India’s working class people. “Labour laws are essential for ensuring fundamental rights for our workers. PUCL believes that withdrawing these protections from the working population in an effort to entice new businesses, is an unconstitutional, immoral and unethical attempt to revive an economy at the expense of its weakest citizens,” it said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. collects over Rs. 13 lakh in penalties||Small enterprises in the city have been fined Rs. 10,000 each by the Chennai Corporation as staff were found not wearing masks and gloves. Entrepreneurs have started sharing receipts of the fine amount for their failure to get their staff to wear masks and gloves. They requested the civic body to not fine them, as the lockdown had already eaten into their earnings. Former Chennai Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said the Corporation should create awareness about wearing masks without collecting fines. “The Corporation officials could have warned them and issued notice without fine. The officials can go after one week and check if the enterprises are asking their workers to wear mask,” he said. “More than 90% of the enterprises, particularly in North Chennai, are affected. They should supply masks and gloves free of cost to such industries,” he said. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanath Reddy said they have collected Rs. 13.65 lakh in fines from commercial enterprises during the lockdown.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 lakh solatium||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh for the family of a gram panchayat official who was engaged in COVID-19 duty and was killed in a road accident.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport to usher in ‘touch-free’ era||Chennai airport plans to bring in a ‘touch-free’ flying experience for passengers in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. From staff to passengers, Airports Authority of India (AAI) has been making arrangements to ensure most procedures in the terminals are touch-free. As soon as passengers reach a terminal, they no longer need to hand over their ticket copies and identity proofs to the Central Industrial Security Force staff. Henceforth, they would be seated in a glass booth and with camera and LED screen outside the terminal gates. The passengers have to show the documents to the camera and once the staff inside approve, they can enter the terminal, sources said. Officials of Airports of Authority of India (AAI) said all check-in counters have been wrapped with glass panels with a small window at its front, so airline staff don’t directly come in contact with passengers. Usually, airline staff issue boarding passes to passengers who come to the counter, but this may change too. AAI has planned to use alternative check-in counters to maintain physical distancing. An airline staff would inspect the ticket copy and identity proof from behind a glass pane. A machine issuing boarding passes would be in the next counter. After the details are keyed into the system, passengers could collect the pass from the machine. In addition to this, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security announced that stamping of boarding passes can be dispensed with. “We want to try and keep passengers and staff as safe as possible. We are discussing some more plans, as well as protective measures, that will be put in place in the coming weeks,” an official said.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK plea to PM||DMK president M.K. Stalin has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately advise the Ministry of Health to provide Tamil Nadu 27% of seats in postgraduate medical admissions from the All-India quota and provide 50% reservation in seats that are pooled from Tamil Nadu to the Backward Classes and set right the “injustices” meted out to them in the past three years.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exam centres in containment zones for residents: Minister||Following concerns raised about how students living in areas earmarked as containment zones would appear for Class 10 public exams, Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan, in a tweet, said such students will be allotted exam centres within their containment areas. He additionally said a decision would be taken about distribution of hall tickets for students after May 18. The State government announced earlier this week that the Class 10 public exams would begin from June 1. A senior official said the possibility of students writing exams in their own schools instead of a different exam centre was under discussion and a decision would be taken in the next few days.
16 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police prohibit all assemblies, processions, fasts and demonstrations for 15 days||Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan promulgated Section 41 of the Tamil Nadu City Police Act prohibiting protests, gatherings, assemblies, human chains and demonstrations within city limits for 15 days.
16 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco move to construct sub-station runs into rough weather||The proposal of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to construct a sub-station on the premises of Anna University, Coimbatore, has run into rough weather because of the plot allocated for the project. According to a Tangedco official, one acre was identified initially for the project on the University premises and an alternative land was later provided as the area first identified was said to be on the proposed Western Bypass alignment. The Tangedco paid for the land three years ago and the contract was awarded one-and-a-half years ago. However, the official claims, for some reason, saplings were planted in the same area where the sub-station is to come up. Not all the saplings have grown into trees and these have to be removed to go forward with the construction work. “We will not be able to change to another area now as it will take longer time and lead to escalation of project cost,” the official says. On Thursday, about 150 trees were cut to commence the construction work. Sources in the voluntary organisation that has taken up sapling planting on the premises, says nearly 80,000 saplings were planted on Anna University premises to develop ‘Kalam Vanam’ and the first set was planted nearly five years ago. On the plot where the sub-station is proposed, the saplings have grown into trees. The entire project has changed the environment in and around the university. The work should be taken up without bringing down the trees. The Tangedco official said revenue officials visited the site on Friday morning and asked if the Corporation will be able to remove the saplings from the land where the sub-station is proposed and replant them on another site. “We have said we will be able to do so,” the official said. A district administration official said the issue is expected to be resolved in a couple of days.
16 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers continue to throng govt. offices||With 14 of the 18 special trains so far transporting almost 18,000 migrant workers from Coimbatore district to their home towns, more workers here throng the local government offices every day, demanding more train services. The district is estimated to have nearly one lakh migrant workers and the district administration is facilitating about 20,000 of them return home through the special trains. However, every day, there are reports of workers in different parts of the districts walking to the railway station or to the government offices nearby demanding train services for them to go back home. “The district administration or the Railways should come forward to announce if there are plans for more trains, how the workers can register, etc. The migrant workers now do not want to come to work as they want to go home. They should have a clear information whether more train services are available,” said G. Arulmozhi, general secretary of Open end Spinning Mills Association. District Collector K. Rajamani urged the workers not to approach the VAO office or the police stations. “The district administration has the list of workers, place-wise, who want to return to their hometowns. They will be informed through the respective tahsildars well in advance about the train timing. Transport arrangements will be made to help them reach the railway station. The fare is borne by the State Government,” he said. Another official said there are at least 40 instances in the last few days in the district where the workers started walking in groups to the railway station and the police or tahsildar stopped them, spoke to them and sent them back to their accommodations. “The workers want to go home and they do not want to stay back. In some cases they are even coming here from other districts. If they need to go by buses, the procedure is elaborate and the cost of travel is high. The industry owners should talk to the workers and encourage them to stay back. The workers also need to wait for train services,” the official said.
16 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. exploring alternative locations for makeshift vegetable markets||Coimbatore Corporation officials are looking at alternative venues to house the makeshift vegetable markets that are functioning from various bus stands in the city. At present, the markets are functioning at the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand, Ukkadam Bus Stand, Singanallur Bus Stand, Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand and a government school premises on Alagesan Road. The Corporation threw open the bus stands for markets during the COVID-19 lockdown to ensure easy availability of vegetables to the public and adherence to personal distancing norms. Now with the State Government signalling resumption of bus service and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation getting ready to operate the buses, the Corporation was forced to look for alternative locations for the markets, sources said. The Corporation was looking at the exhibition ground on Dr. Nanjappa Road as the alternative to the makeshift market at the Town Bus Stand and Lorry Pet as the alternative for the market at the Ukkadam Bus Stand. Likewise, the Corporation was looking at the Government College of Technology ground as the alternative site for the Dr. M.G.R. Wholesale Vegetable Market, which functioned out of the bus stand on Mettupalayam Road, said the sources. The market that functioned out of the school ground on Alagesan Road would continue to remain there. The Corporation that had shifted the Singanallur farmers’ market (Uzhavar Sandhai) to the Singanallur Bus Stand was looking at two possible venue to house the farmers, the sources said. After finalising the venues, the Corporation would inform the public.
16 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two daughters drown in Aliyar||A woman and her two daughters drowned while bathing in River Aliyar at Anamalai on Friday. Police said that Kannammal (40), who was working at the Kottampatti Government Higher Secondary School, and her daughters Sandhya (18) and Sathya (15) went to the river on Friday afternoon to bathe. According to police, Sathya went to the deepest part of the river. Her mother and sister attempted to rescue her, but all three drowned. Anamalai police have registered a case. The bodies were sent to Pollachi Government Hospital for autopsy.
16 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stimulus package will ‘teach people how to fish’: S.R. Sekar||The Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package will “teach people how to fish” by enabling the migrant workers earn more than the amount that could be credited into their bank accounts, said BJP State Treasurer S.R. Sekhar here on Friday. Mr. Sekar said this in response to the criticism by the opposition parties that the stimulus package does not ensure transfer of money to the bank accounts of the migrant workers who are unable to return to their hometowns amid the COVID-19 lockdown. The stimulus package will enable the workers to earn more per month as opposed to a one-time cash transfer, he said at a press meet here. In the last 50 days, the BJP has distributed over 4 lakh food packets and nearly 65,000 masks in Coimbatore district as part of its COVID-19 relief measures, he said. Mr. Sekhar said that the party would support a full prohibition in the State and urged that the State government must not reopen the Tasmac outlets. He also condemned the State government for the case filed against State BJP President L. Murugan for alleged violation of lockdown orders by visiting the house of the 14-year-old girl who was allegedly set ablaze by two AIADMK functionaries. “We will not be intimidated by this,” Mr. Sekhar said.
16 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary arrested||Coimbatore City Police on Friday arrested a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) functionary on charges of posting defamatory content against Minister S.P. Velumani on social media. Based on a complaint lodged by AIADMK functionary Riyas Khan (21), police arrested Ramamoorthi and remanded him in judicial custody. The accused was booked under 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505(1)(b) (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of the Information Technology Act. Singanallur MLA N. Karthik condemned the arrest in a statement on Friday.
16 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Film director dies in road accident||A Tamil film director, whose debut movie is yet to be released, died in a road accident in Sirumugai on Friday. The police said that A.V. Arun Prasath aka Venkat Pakkar, 37, was riding his two-wheeler near Jadayampalayam when a speeding truck hit him, leading to his death on the spot around 9.30 a.m on Friday. He was working under director Shankar. It is learnt that Arun had been directing his debut film ‘4G’ with actor/music director G.V. Prakash Kumar in the lead and that he returned to his hometown Annur from Chennai following the announcement of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Shankar and Mr. Kumar expressed their condolences on social media on Friday. Meanwhile, Sirumugai police arrested the truck driver V. Jeyaraj, 52, and registered a case under section 304A (Causing death by negligence) and 279 (Rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.
16 May 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Colleges will open after T.N. is rid of cases’||Colleges will be reopened only after the State is completely rid of COVID-19 cases, said Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan in Dharmapuri on Friday. Amid looming uncertainty over the start of the next academic year, the Minister said that colleges would be reopened only after the State was rid of the last of its COVID-19 cases. Most college campuses had been handed over to the Health Department and isolation facilities had been set up on those campuses. Only after the State was free of all COVID-19 cases, and only after the campuses were thoroughly disinfected, would the government be in a position to reopen colleges, Mr. Anbalagan said. He was speaking on the sidelines of inaugurating desilting works in two lakes.
16 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers complain of irregularities||Complaining that the PWD engineers, who were entrusted with the task of executing the kudimaramathu work, had allegedly indulged in negligence and malpractice, the support wall, constructed along the tank here, collapsed, said farmers in Reddiyarchatram Union on Thursday. Submitting a petition to the Collector M Vijayalakshmi, the farmers said that in Reddiyarchatram union, there is a huge temple tank measuring 100 acres belonging to the Kadir Narasinga Perumal Temple. About 300 acres of cultivable land in the block gets benefitted through the water conservation in the tank. After several pleas, the government included the tank in kudimaramathu scheme a year ago. An estimated Rs. 21 lakh was spent by the PWD engineers. However, the quality of the construction had come in for severe criticism that the support wall on the southern side of the tank collapsed after the area witnessed showers in the last two or three days. Similarly, the absence of sluice had resulted in damage to the tank shutter, which was in a bad shape. Speaking to reporters, village vice-chairman and farmer M.V. Rengasami said poor quality exposed the work with just a shower. The non-plastering of the sluice portion with concrete had given way and collapsed. Similarly, another farmer P Balasubramani said that when government spent so much of public money, there has to be accountability. He demanded a probe and urged to punish the erring engineers and blacklist the contractor.
16 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for hunting rabbit||Two youth were arrested and levied a fine of Rs. 12,500 each for hunting rabbit at Chennimalai forest area here on Thursday. Based on a tip-off, Erode Forest Range officers inspected Palapalayam area and found two persons involved in hunting using dogs. They were identified as V. Anburaj (23) and M. Kapil Dev (25), both natives of Madurai. A case was registered and they were arrested and levied fine.      Members of Lions Clubs International District 324 B2 in association with Lions Clubs International Foundation donated 450 Personal Protective Equipment kits worth Rs. 3.05 lakh to the district headquarters hospital here on Tuesday. A release said that the kits were handed over by MLA K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) in the presence of Lions District governor Elect T. Elangovan, Second Vice-District Governor Elect K.R. Muthiah, District Executive Officer L.M. Ramakrishnan, and Lions District officials. Mr. Elangovan said that 800 kits would be distributed to hospitals in Salem, Namakkal and Krishnagiri districts.
16 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||39 migrant workers forced out of granite quarry, rescued after Collector intervenes||Thirty-nine migrant workers forced out of a granite quarry in Kelamangalam walked to the Hosur Railway Station only to be chased away by the police on Friday evening. However, at the Krishnagiri Collector’s intervention, the workers were rescued later. A group of migrant workers, including 10 women, from Bastar in Chattisgarh employed in ‘7 Hills’ quarry in Kelamagalam were forced out of the quarry by the owner. According to the workers, the owner had told them that the trains were running. He had asked the workers to go to Kelamangalam police station. Kelamangalam police in turn had directed them to go to the railway station. The workers having walked some 25 km, reached the station with all their belongings only to realise that there were no trains. The workers had halted at the station, before the police descended on the spot and chased the workers away. On being alerted, Collector S. Prabhakar intervened and instructed the police and revenue to provide care immediately. “I have instructed the RDO to initiate action against the company,” Mr. Prabhakar told The Hindu . Hosur has been witnessing scenes of migrant workers from across the State finding any and every means of transport available to find their way back home crossing the inter-state border here into Karnataka. On Friday, 76 migrant workers were stuffed into three tractors with two trailers each from Tiruvannamalai enroute to Maharashtra. The tractors were sent from Maharashtra by their relatives to Tiruvannamalai, where the workers were picked up and driven back. The migrant workers families had arranged for the tractors out of their money. Earlier in the day, a truck carrying 71 migrant workers, 69 from Uttar Pradesh and two from Gujarat, met with an accident near Shoolagiri. The workers, however, escaped with minor injuries. They were rescued by the authorities and upon Collector’s intervention, they were accommodated at the government arts college here. The workers had paid for a truck to travel without e-passes and had hoped to cross into Karnataka via Hosur. e-passes Collector ordered for the workers to be taken care, and also assured them that arrangements would be made to provide e-passes. In the interim, the workers were also monitored for symptoms of COVID-19.
16 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water crisis in Aruppukottai||No release of water from Vaigai dam for the Chithirai festival has led to shortage of drinking water in Aruppukottai Municipality. The urban local body used to get 36 lakh litres of water per day (LPD) through an infiltration well sunk on the riverbed at Tiruppuvana but it is only getting only around 4 lakh LPD. “As the river failed to get wetting during the summer as part of the festival, the riverbed has dried up and the well has lost its yield,” said municipal engineer Sermakani. The town, with a population of 90,000 people, used to get a supply of around 80 lakh LPD with the help of 48 lakh LPD from the Tamirabharani combined drinking water scheme. However, this scheme has been yielding only around 30 lakh LPD these days. Water that used to be supplied once in three days is being supplied once in 13 days. The town does not have adequate groundwater yield. Hundreds of hand-pumps are facing lower yield. Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji recently said the issue has been taken up with the State government for early release of water from the Vaigai dam down the river. River wetting will help the municipality to tide over the drinking water problem to a large extent for the next three months. A total of 150 mcft of water in the Vaigai dam is reserved for the grand event of of Lord Kallazhagar entering the Vaigai. The festival indirectly recharges hundreds of infiltration wells that cater to drinking water needs of several rural and urban areas in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts. However, a Public Works Department official said that the storage in Vaigai dam was fast depleting with heavy evaporation. “Water from Periyar dam cannot be brought to the Vaigai dam. With a useful storage of only 900 mcft in Vaigai dam and an uncertainty over the monsoon setting in early June, water in the reservoir needs to be stored for the drinking water requirement of Madurai city and Theni district,” he said.
16 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||11 test positive in Madurai||Eleven people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday and of them five had come from Maharashtra. The total number of positive cases till date is 143 and there are currently 54 active cases in the district. Three of those who returned from Maharashtra were from Sedapatti and two from Elumalai. A majority of the positive cases were women. Another 32-year-old woman from Virattipathu who arrived from Chennai also tested positive. Within Madurai district, those who tested positive were from Oomachikulam, Villangudi and Mahatma Gandhi Nagar.
16 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Action against violators of safety norms: Minister||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani said that stern action would be taken against traders if they violated safety norms. Mr. Thangamani along with Minister for Social Welfare V.Saroja reviewed COVID-19 containment measures and other activities in the district. Mr.Thangamani said the district did not report any COVID-19 cases for the past few days and officials had been advised to take measures to retain the status. Traders had been advised to strictly follow safety guidelines issued by the government to prevent spread of COVID-19 disease, failing which action would be taken against them. Kudimaramathu works Mr.Thangamani said that Kudimaramathu works would resume in the district from Saturday and 13 works at Rs. 8.44 crore had been taken in the district. He said officials from Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board and the district administration had been advised to ensure proper water supply to all parts of the district and arrange water trucks to areas where there were supply issues. Mr.Thangamani said the State government was taking the necessary relief measures and the public representatives were also contributing to the relief activities. But Opposition leader M.K. Stalin was trying to politicise them.
16 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two held under POCSO Act||The All Women Police Station in Namakkal on Friday arrested two elderly persons for sexually misbehaving with school-going students here. Police said that the accused, both daily wagers from Mohanur, sexually harassed two students, aged 11 and 12. Based on the complaint of victims’ parents, police registered a case against the accused under the POCSO Act and arrested them on Friday.
16 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Special loan for rural women in Puducherry||Nearly 37,000 women living in rural areas will benefit from the Puducherry government’s offer to provide special bank loan of Rs. 10,000 each to every member of 2,803 self-help groups (SHGs). Under the State Rural Livelihood Mission, the District Rural Development Agency will facilitate loans to SHG members as a measure to alleviate their suffering because of lockdown. With 2,020 SHGs having 26,218 members, Puducherry will get Rs. 26.22 crore and Karaikal district, with 784 SHGs with 10,785 members, will get Rs. 10.78 crore. The government will bear 3% of the 7% interest component for the loan availed. The scheme was announced by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy days after the Centre announced the lockdown from March 25 Mr. Narayanasamy on Friday held a meeting with representatives of various banks to assess disbursement of loans.
16 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No active cases of COVID-19 in Salem||With the discharge of two persons from the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Friday, there are no active cases of COVID-19 as on date in the district, District Collector S. A. Raman said. The discharged include a 35-year-old man from Thedavur and 26-year-old man from Omalur. They were admitted to the hospital on May 4 and 5 respectively. Along with them, a 36-year-old man from Dharmapuri, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital, was also discharged on Friday. They were given hand sanitisers, masks, vegetable kits and neem saplings. “Thirty-five positive cases were reported so far in Salem and the last two cases were discharged on Friday. With this, the district has no active cases on date,” Mr. Raman said. The Collector said that persons coming from other States, especially Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi, were being monitored. “We are creating awareness through public announcement systems and village committees have been formed to monitor and inform us if persons from other places visit the village. Persons coming from other districts, especially from hotspots are quarantined, their samples are taken and further action is taken based on the results”, he said. Four containment zones are now active in the district and they would be lifted in the next few days, the Collector said. According to officials, a 7-year-old boy, who had come from Chennai, is undergoing treatment at the hospital. Deputy Director of Health Services J. Nirmalson said that a group of Indonesian nationals and their Chennai guide were the first cases to be reported in the district.
16 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform details on inter-State travel’||The district administration on Friday held a meeting with members of various lorry owners organisations here and told them to inform officials regarding movement of their trucks. District Collector S.A.Raman advised the lorry owners to inform revenue and transport officials about freight movement, origin of journey, expected date of arrival in the district, details regarding lorry driver and their mobile phone numbers. These details were necessary to conduct medical tests on lorry drivers and take precautionary measures. ‘Reduce tax on diesel’ Later, members of Salem district united sand lorry owners association petitioned the Collector and requested officials to reopen sand mines as their livelihood had been affected due to lockdown. The members also requested the State government to reduce tax on diesel.
16 May 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Teachers distribute groceries||Teachers of a panchayat union school near here on Friday distributed groceries and masks to their students as a measure to mitigate the hardship faced by their parents due to lockdown. Five teachers, led by their headmaster, G. Srinivasan, pooled in their contributions to buy rice, dal, biscuit packets, salt and masala packets for the 170 students of Panchayat Union Elementary School at Pudupatti. “We should have done this long back. But, we failed to plan it properly. We know the parents had suffered a lot,” said Mr. Srinivasan.
16 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Inspection team trespassing into houses’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Pattukottai union, has alleged trespassing of civic body officials into individual’s residences under the guise of checking for illegal use of motors. In a memorandum forwarded to Collector M.Govinda Rao, CPI(M) Pattukottai union secretary S. Kandasamy said the municipal staff often barged into houses in Pattukottai to check whether the drinking water was drawn in excess from the piped water supply network using motors.They did not even heed to the plea from the womenfolk in the houses asking the inspection team members to conduct the check while the menfolk was available in the house. Further, they also seized motors which were not connected to the supply network. Resenting the authoritarian attitude of the inspection team, Mr.Kandasamy said such raids could be conducted after the COVID-19 virus scare subsided. Stating that the attempts to contact the Municipal Commissioner or other senior officials in the civic body had turned futile, he said if such raids were to continue, the party would mobilise people and stage a demonstration in front of the civic body office. Meanwhile, enquiries with the civic body revealed that around 77 lakh litres of water was being supplied to around 5500 households in the town. During summer, the civic body started receiving complaints of short supply or lack of supply in certain areas where the residents have alleged that motors were being used to draw excess water. So a special team was formed to conduct surprise checks. Some of the residents tried to prevent the team from entering the house, claiming their menfolk were not at home. More than 10 motors were seized during the surprise inspection conducted in the last two days.
16 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman reunites with her family after more than a month||A woman, who left home during the lockdown, was reunited with her family members on May 14. The 32-year-old woman was moved along with 120 others, on April 7, to a special camp set up at Government College in Thanjavur for destitute persons wandering in the town following the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown. The camp was maintained by a non-governmental organisation, Renewal Foundation, with assistance from Thanjavur Corporation. Three days ago, the woman pleaded with the officials and NGO representatives to let her go back to her home at Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district as she wanted to be with her son and daughter. When her family details were cross-checked, it came to light that she had left her home in a fit of rage and was spotted by the Corporation officials on the streets of Thanjavur on April 7. She was taken to Needamangalam and handed over to her husband and children.
16 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Maharashtra farmers want to go back||Eighty four farmers, all from Maharashtra, who have been camping in a private building staged a demonstration on Friday urging officials to send them back. Officials said that prior to the lockdown, the farmers, including women and children, had come here to work in a sugar mill. They were engaged in cutting sugarcane on a contract basis. They were paid Rs. 750 for every tonne of sugarcane cut. Even as they were about to leave home, the lockdown forced them to stay back. The mill management made arrangements while the district administration intervened and checked their health. Screening was done periodically to ensure that they were normal due to the prevailing situation. However, the farmers were keen on going back to their hometowns. They were taken to sugar mill premises after a lot of persuasion where officials promised to work out modalities for their return soon.
16 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient dies||A lorry driver, who was admitted to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital with neural complications on Tuesday evening and later found to have contracted COVID-19, died on Friday. The 34-year-old youth from Kadaladi in Ramanathapuram district returned from Chennai to his native place in a lorry going to Thoothukudi as bus service remained suspended. As he got down from the lorry at Kurukkusalai, 16 km from Thoothukudi on the Madurai highway, he developed fits and was admitted to a private hospital in Thoothukudi by his relative, who was waiting for him at Kurukkusalai. When his condition worsened, the patient’s relative shifted him to the Government Medical College Hospital’s intensive care unit on Tuesday evening without informing the doctors there that the lorry driver had come from Chennai. Even as the doctors were treating him for the neural complication, the lorry driver developed COVID-19 symptoms and the doctors’ worst fear was confirmed on Wednesday when he tested positive. Subsequently, he was shifted to the COVID-19 treatment ward where his condition deteriorated further and was put on ventilator. However, he died on Friday. As the COVID-19 positive patient died, the body, as per the protocol, was packed in polythene bag and buried in a 15-feet-deep pit in the Corporation burial ground opposite VOC College after filling the pit with disinfectant and sand layers for every two feet with police protection. Meanwhile, the doctors, nurses, conservancy workers and other patients of intensive care unit of medical college hospital, the doctors, nurses and other staff of the private hospital where he was admitted first have been isolated and put in quarantine. “In all, 70 persons have been quarantined and disinfection is going on in the ICU,” said the sources in the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital.
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Parents yearn for a seat in ‘forbidden’ school||Over the years, parents from Porayar, Tranquebar and other rural parts of Nagapattinam district keep seeking admission for their wards in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Kottucherry in neighbouring Karaikal, ignorant of the fact that the school run by the Ministry of Human Resource Development is meant only for students belonging to economically weak families in the particular district. The reason for eagerness of parents is not far to seek. It is not just about availing quality education free of cost - the co-educational residential institution provides free boarding and lodging, free school uniforms, textbooks, stationery, and to and fro rail and bus fare. As many as 966 out of 4,451 students from various JNVs came out with flying colours in Joint Engineering Entrance (Advanced)-2019, for admission into Indian Institutes of Technology. The performance of JNV students in National Eligibility Entrance Test for admission in MBBS and BDS courses is far more impressive, with 12,654 out of 14,500 students cracking the exam. Entry to Navodaya Vidyalaya is made in Class-VI with lateral entry in Classes IX and XI. The JNVs have enabled students from rural areas to compete with their urban counterparts on an equal footing. The significance of the system lies in the selection of talented rural children as the target group and the attempt to provide them quality education comparable to the best in a residential school system. “Applications we get from parents from the Tamil Nadu side get rejected automatically. Admission to Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas is primarily for children from rural areas from within the district, with provision of at least 75% seats for rural children,” P. Helen Mary, Principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Karaikal, said. The same happens with parents in Coimbatore district when they apply for admission to the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in neighbouring Palakkad in Kerala State, she said. Parents in other districts of Tamil Nadu are equally disappointed with the government for not letting the MHRD to start Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya by citing its apprehension over imposition of Hindi, an educationist in Tiruchi said. The State government has been persisting with its stand, despite the fact that the medium of instruction is in mother-tongue/regional language upto VII or VIII Class. Thereafter the common medium would be Hindi/English in all Navodaya Vidyalayas. All Navodaya Vidyalayas follow the three language formula: Regional language, English and Hindi. But the students have a choice to opt for either regional language or Hindi in level X, Ms. Helen Mary pointed out, seeking to explain that apprehension about imposition of Hindi had no basis.  Applications we get from parents from the Tamil Nadu side get rejected automatically P. Helen MaryPrincipal, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Karaikal
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||38 recover; four more test positive in central region||Thirty-eight patients were discharged from various COVID-19 designated hospitals while four new cases tested positive for the virus in the central region on Friday. Among the discharged patients, 37 belonged to Ariyalur district, while one was discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. They were given a warm send-off by hospital staff. In Ariyalur district, patients who were undergoing treatment at Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital and at the various COVID-19 centres were discharged. So far, 317 of the 348 patients who tested positive have recovered and returned home. As on Friday, there are 31 patients who are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Of them, 22 have been admitted to Ariyalur GH, five are at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and four, all pregnant women, are undergoing treatment at a COVID-19 care centre. One patient was discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Friday after recovering from the viral infection. The patient, hailing from Papanasam, has been asked to self-quarantine and stay indoors for 4 days. So far 55 patients have undergone treatment at TMCH and have recovered and returned home. Meanwhile, two more persons tested positive in Perambalur district on Friday, besides one each from Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts. The patient who tested positive in Pudukottai was a 24-year-old man who returned from the Maldives. The patient returned on a rescue flight from the island via Kochi and Kanniyakumari. The patient is asymptomatic and has been admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai. In Perambalur district, two men aged 53 and 25 tested positive after returning to their native places from Koyambedu in Chennai, where they had been working. The 25-year-old has been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital while the 53-year-old has been sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Officials here said that of the 117 patients who arrived from Koyambedu market, 97 have tested positive so far. The sole patient who tested positive in Thanjavur on Friday is a 55-year-old male. The patient has been admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruchi, all the 178 quarantined passengers who arrived from Malaysia on an Air India Express special flight were sent home. Swab samples were lifted from all passengers on arrival after which they were allowed to choose whether they preferred to be quarantined in a facility set up by the government or at hotels in the city. While 117 chose the facility, 60 were quarantined in various hotels. Following another test taken on Friday, they were sent home. Earlier in the day, Minister for Tourism Vellamandi N. Natarajan and Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare S. Valarmathi chaired a meeting to review the COVID 19 situation in Tiruchi. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Natarajan said 7,871 people have tested for the virus in the district so far. Of them, 67 tested positive but only eight were active cases and they were undergoing treatment.
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh seek help to go home||Migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh petitioned the Collector on Friday seeking his help to return to their home towns. They are asking for permission to travel to Chennai from where they can board the Sharmik special trains. Saddam Afroz and 13 others hailing from Lucknow and other villages in UP had been doing embroidery work on clothes to earn a living in Tiruchi. After the lockdown, they were unable to eat, and have been seeking help to return to their home towns. “We have sustained ourselves so far with the money we made. Now all the money has been spent and we want to go home,” Mr. Afroz said. The workers are requesting transport to Chennai at the very least, from where they can get on the special train to Delhi. “We are not asking for a train to Lucknow or Bihar. We just want to be dropped off in Chennai, from where we will take the special trains going anywhere near our place,” he said. The workers petitioned the Collector on Friday morning and got no response, they said. “We were told the Collector is in a meeting. The officers, who met us, however, asked us to visit a taluk office from where we can get groceries to sustain for a while longer, Mr. Afroz said. To add to their difficulties, six of the 13 men are keeping fast for the month of Ramzan. “Usually we pray and have some food to eat when we break our day’s fast. However, this time, we are unable to get any food, because of which some of them are not keeping the fast,” Mr. Afroz said. Officials of the district administration provided all 13 members with rice, wheat and a few other essentials and said that their petition would be forwarded to officials in Chennai.
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s package to agriculture sector inadequate, say farmers||The sops announced for the agriculture sector by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic stimulus package in response to COVID-19 has drawn a mixed response from farmer leaders here. The move to strengthen the farm gate infrastructure with an Rs. 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund was largely welcomed by the farmers organisations but many were unimpressed by the Centre’s move to step up credit saying that it would only push farmers into a deeper cesspool of debt. P.R. Pandian, general secretary, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, saw long-term vision in the move to strengthen agriculture infrastructure and also appreciated the proposed amendments to the Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers and the move to provide a legal framework for farmers to sell produce at an attractive rate. “These are initiatives of historic importance. However, the Centre should not encourage online trading, which, if allowed, will benefit multi-national companies,” he said. But farmers were unable to repay loans, he said and demanded a waiver of crop loans and sanction of fresh loans and sanction of compensation for crops that perished during the lockdown. Piecemeal approach Arupathy Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Delta Districts, felt that such piecemeal approach would not be of much use. “There should be a holistic approach and we need a mega scheme to rejuvenate five lakh villages in the country. All the initiatives announced now should be dovetailed to promote ICT enabled self-sufficient green villages,” Mr. Kalyanam said. Farmers and Farmers Producers Organisations should be encouraged to take up cottage and tiny industrial ventures. The concept of ‘make in villages’ should be promoted to achieve the Prime Minister’s call for going local with a global reach, he said. Mr. Kalyanam also cautioned that the proposed amendment to the Essential Commodities Act to remove stock limits could prove to be a double-edged sword and needs to be carefully handled. “It may give room for misuse by traders and corporates, who may resort to hoarding,” he cautioned. Not worthwhile Expressing disappointment over the package, P. Ayyakkannu, president, Desiya Thenindia Nadigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, said it would not bring any worthwhile relief to farmers. Lakhs of farmers who had taken loans to raise banana, sugarcane, vegetables, fruits and flowers have lost their investment as they could not sell their produce in time due to the lockdown. “We were expecting a substantial financial relief for farmers,” he said. The government’s offer to step up credit would only push farmers into a deeper debt trap. “What we need is waiver of loans,” he added. The general secretary of Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Cauvery Dhanapalan, observed that the Centre had failed give the agriculture sector its due and the initiatives would not benefit small and marginal farmers. “It is unfortunate that more sops are being offered to the industrial sector than agriculture,” he regretted. “Farmers have lost the capacity to repay loans. What is the point in extending them more credit? We were expecting interest waivers and contribution from the Centre in repaying farmers loans,” he said and urged the Centre to ensure a minimum support price for their produce.  As farmers have lost the capacity to repay loans, what is the point in extending them more credit? Cauvery Dhanapalan  General secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers clueless on preparing students so soon||Teachers of government and private schools are clueless about how students could be prepared for the SSLC public examinations from June 1 to 12, after a lockdown period for containment of COVID 19 virus. Government school teachers, in particular, sounded uncertain about the readiness of students belonging to remote rural parts to revise the portions for all the subjects within the next fortnight, after losing touch entirely with the subjects for about two months. Even teachers of private schools say the students would have lost touch with the portions during the lockdown period and that they require at least 15 days for preparation. “Monitoring a student’s preparedness online is easier said than done. Leave alone the connectivity problem, the students face difficulty in extricating themselves from the holiday mood,” a teacher of a private school said. According to government school teachers, there are uncertainties about ensuring presence of students residing in welfare hostels due to travel restrictions. Unlike in the case of private institutions, the problem concerning accommodation of students belonging to far-off places cannot be addressed by government schools, a worried headmaster says. It may not be difficult to make arrangements to conduct the exam in conformity with the social distancing norms. The question is the practicality of bringing students living in containment zones to the exam halls. There is bound to be apprehension about the spread of the virus. Appreciating the University Grants Commission for coming out with an alternative academic calendar for 2020-21 due to the extraordinary compulsion caused by the pandemic, a functionary of a school management said the anguish of the teachers, parents and students could be mitigated to a large extent if the government demonstrates flexibility in altering the academic calendar for Plus One, rather than getting boxed into the inevitability of conducting the exam in time.
16 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T chosen as coordinator on MOOC platform||Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has chosen National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi as the National MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) Coordinator to offer engineering courses at UG and PG levels, bestowing on it the recognition of being the first engineering institute, next only to NPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning), for executing the task. Through the recognition, MHRD has recognised NIT-T's top-ranking position among engineering institutions in the country for the third time in a week, coming as it does after the sanction of supercomputing facility and Prime Minister's Research Fellowship.  Attributing NIT-T's emergence as one among the top 10 engineering institutions and 24th overall in the NIRF rankings to the hard work of faculty members, students, staff and alumni, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said that the institute will produce videos of international quality. The national recognition was significant at a time when teaching-learning activities were moving to digital platforms, she said. Courses delivered through SWAYAM are available free of cost to the learners. The UGC and AICTE have advised universities to identify courses where credits can be transferred to the academic records of students for courses done on SWAYAM platform developed by the MHRD by roping in NPTEL, IIT Madras, Google Inc. and Persistent Systems.
16 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s stimulus brings hope for sick industries||The Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan package for MSMEs envisaging self-reliance to tide over economic crisis triggered by COVID 19 pandemic has infused hope for revival of sick fabrication units that had faced a downslide over the years due to a drastic fall in orders for BHEL. While welcoming the package, Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) and BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) have urged the Centre to consider some more measures that would provide immediate succour to the units. The main expectations of the small and medium industries - interest subsidy on existing loans, waiver of interest during lockdown period, and a one-time grant to pay salary of employees during lockdown - ought to have been considered in the package, TIDITSSIA president R. Ilango said. BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar said that the package was a major relief for standard, stressed and NPA (non-performing asset) units, referring to the allotment of Rs. 3 lakh crore of additional funds for growth of MSME sector; Rs. 20,000 crore for units stressed due to lockdown; allotment of Rs. 50,000 crore for the first time to take care of (non-performing asset units; and allotment of Rs. 10,000 crore as ‘Funds of Funds.’ Mr. Rajkumar urged the government to prevail over banks to withhold legal action under SARFAESI (Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest) Act for a further period of one year or till finalisation of the rehabilitation programme. Stressed units must be permitted to pay GST, EPF, ESI dues in instalments of 12 to 24 months along with current payment. Penalty must not be levied for delayed payments as it would be a strain under present circumstances. The MSME sector would be benefited substantially if its expertise and huge investments were utilised through attracting businesses from other countries, he said.
16 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Overhead electrification work on||The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) has started overhead electrification project on the 10-km Nagapattinam –Velankanni section. Foundation works for establishing overhead electric masts has started a few days ago. Labourers deployed at different locations follow personal distancing norm as a precautionary measure in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. A CORE official told The Hindu that 20 to 22 masts would be erected for every km and portals set up at Velankanni yard. Overhead electrification work had been completed in Tiruvarur-Karaikal section where final adjustments were under way and would be completed by this month-end after which the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, would be invited to carry out inspection. Once the statutory clearance was obtained, electric locomotive-hauled passenger and freight trains would be operated up to Karaikal. Works were under way simultaneously for establishing a traction substation at Karaikal. The CORE was entrusted with the task of electrifying the Tiruchi-Karaikal broad gauge section via Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. The organisation had already energised the double line section from Tiruchi to Thanjavur and the single line stretch from Thanjavur to Tiruvarur . A traction sub-station constructed at Thanjavur had been commissioned, the official said.
16 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New cases in districts||Southern districts recorded 37 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, all returnees from Maharashtra and Maldives. While, Tirunelveli recorded the highest number of 22 cases, Thoothukudi got 10 cases and Tenkasi one case. All these 33 cases are from Maharashtra. All four cases of Kanniyakumari district are from Maldives. Of this, 14 persons, who reached the Gangaikondan check-post from Mumbai’s Dharavi on Thursday night, were found to be COVID – 19 positive patients when 370 returnees were tested at this point. Eight more cases were identified on Friday at Thirukkurunkudi and Ukkirankottai – each 4 cases - to take the day’s tally to 22. “It proves that most of those who are returning to Tirunelveli district from other places have contracted the viral infection,” said a doctor attached to the Department of Public Health. With this, the total number of COVID – 19 positive cases in the district is 136 and 72 are under treatment now in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The Kovilpatti revenue division of Thoothukudi district alone has recorded 18 COVID -19 positive patients so far, mainly due to the returnees from Mumbai, Gujarat and Chennai. Of them, 10 persons, all returnees from Mumbai, tested positive for the viral infection as they were stopped at Thottilovanpatti check-post on Friday. All of them were taken to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, now has 20 positive patients against the total cases of 48. Those who test negative for the viral infection after being stopped at this check-post are being taken to the isolation ward in the Kovilpatti Government Hospital if the returnees are from the places around Kovilpatti. The lone case of Tenkasi is also a Mumbai returnee to take the total number of cases in the district to 56 and 22 are under treatment now. All four cases reported in Kanniyakumari district are from Maldives. After they got stranded in the island nation, they were rescued and brought to Kochi in one of the two Indian Navy Ships pressed into the mission. On arriving at Kaliyakkavilai on Kanniyakumari district – Kerala border, they were tested and taken to four places to be kept in isolation. On getting the results, the four positive patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam and the total number of infections so far in the district stands at 35. Now, the hospital has 18 cases under treatment. Virudhunagar Two more persons — a police recruit and a woman returned from Bengaluru — in Virudhunagar district were tested positive on Friday. This took up the number of Coronavirus infected persons to 46 in the district. However, the number of active cases in the district was 14. The 24-year-old police recruit is among the 400 candidates who are undergoing training at 11th Battalion of Tamil Nadu Special Police in Rajapalayam. Meanwhile, a 51-year-old woman, who had come from Bengaluru to Sivakasi to attend a marriage, has been tested positive.  Theni Six more fresh COVID-19 positive cases from Theni district were reported on Friday. According to a press release, examination of patients revealed that they had travel history and had contacts with those from other districts and States. Already, Odaipatti was identified as a containment zone two days ago. A person from this locality had tested positive. Today, Muthalapuram was declared as a containment zone. His close contacts and relatives had tested positive.  Dindigul While one case pertained to a man having returned from Maharashtra, the other case was from Chinnalapatti. Three persons were discharged on Friday, doctors at Karur Government Medical College Hospital said. Meanwhile, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts had no positive cases reported for the day.
16 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Alarm over return of people from other States||In the last 24 hours alone, the number of people returning from other districts and States, particularly from Maharashtra, here has steeply increased, according to officials at the Gangaikondan check-post. Health teams monitoring the arrivals said that majority of them hailed from Maharashtra’s Dharavi. Except a few, who could afford to travel by private cabs, most of the returnees were seen coming on buses and vans. After managing to cross all check-posts en route during the arduous journey, they are being stopped only at Gangaikondan check-post on the district’s northern border on the Tirunelveli – Madurai four-lane national highway for medical examination. After collecting samples from them, they are being settled at the empty administrative block of the Gangaikondan Special Economic Zone where they have to wait until the examination results are out. With positive case reported, five of the 15 streets of South Kallikulam were subsequently declared as a ‘containment zone’ where disinfection was being carried out since Friday noon.
16 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Loan beneficiaries identified in Tiruvarur||One third of the 6,400 women self-help groups in Tiruvarur district will receive loans through a special credit scheme to help revive their economic activities that were affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A survey conducted by officials revealed that the economic activities of 2,130 women SHGs were affected in view of the nation-wide lockdown. A sum of Rs. 65.90 lakh would be distributed to 100 groups in the first phase. Collector T. Anand handed over loan disbursement documents to four SHGs envisaging a total credit of Rs. 3.60 lakh at a meeting held at the Collectorate on Friday.
16 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Realtor held in Tiruvarur||The District Crime Branch police have arrested a realtor based on complaints of cheating from people who have bought residential plots from him. According to police, Superintendent of Police M. Durai received complaints that N.R.N. Needhimohan of Tiruvarur had failed to honour his commitment to register residential plots in the buyers’ names even after payment of all instalments. Enquiries revealed that Needhimohan who had moved from Thiruthangal in Virudhunagar district to Tiruvarur in 2008 floated more than 25 real estate companies by taking 22 of his friends as partners. He realised a huge amount by conducting house-plot chits schemes with Rs. 500, Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 as chit amount. While he ensured the registration of plots in the name of the subscribers initially, he started avoiding or postponing the registration of plots in their name subsequently. He had also sold unapproved plots to some of the customers. He was arrested by the DCB personnel on Thursday when he tried to escape from the clutches of law, police said.
16 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||During lockdown, wildlife crimes in the Nilgiris spike||The number of people hunting wild animals in the Nilgiris forest division has seen a marked increase since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown. According to forest officials, Rs. 1.15 lakh in fines have been collected from 12 persons, all of whom were caught red-handed while trying to hunt wildlife in the division or with the meat of wild animals. Forest officials said that the majority of cases involved people trying to hunt jungle fowl, wild boar, black-naped hare and in some rare instances, sambar deer and barking deer. The incidents have all been recorded in settlements away from human habitations, where it is very difficult for forest staff to maintain a constant vigil. “Since April 8, seven different instances have been recorded where people have been found hunting wildlife. While none of those who were caught were arrested, strict fines have been levied, in the hopes of discouraging people from hunting,” said a top district forest official. District forest officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy said that in many instances, snares are used when attempting to trap wild animals for meat. He said that most people are laying these traps to capture wild boar, jungle fowl or black-naped hare, but these traps can pose a serious risk to a wide variety of wildlife. “Large herbivores like sambar deer, barking deer, gaur, and even carnivores like leopards and tigers, can get trapped in these snares and killed. We have seen such instances of wildlife being killed in these snares in the recent past,” said Mr. Guruswamy. To step up patrolling The forest department is to step up patrolling in the coming days near to settlements bordering reserve forests. Officials said that strict fines and even arrests would be considered against offenders.
16 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Meat sellers want slaughterhouse renovation expedited||Meat has been hard to come by for residents of Coonoor since the nationwide lockdown, primarily due to the slaughterhouse in Coonoor being closed for over 40 days. “The main reason for meat not being available is because the slaughterhouse has been closed down for renovation so that there was better sanitation and cleanliness at the facility,” said M. Padmanapan, a former ward councillor in Coonoor. “The lockdown has severely impact the livelihoods of merchants in the market, especially meat sellers. It should be a matter of priority for the municipality to get the slaughterhouse ready and functional as soon as possible,” he said. Meat sellers at the market have called on the municipality to expedite work on the facility, as only after the slaughterhouse becomes functional certain types of meat would be allowed to be sold in the market, they said. Merchants in the Coonoor Municipal Market also met the Coonoor Municipal Commissioner on Thursday to voice their protest against the municipality officials who initiated action against a few merchants who had opened their shops in order to clean them on Thursday. The merchants said that as the shops had been closed for extended periods of time, their wares were being destroyed by mice and other factors. After discussions, officials allowed the merchants to open their stalls once a week for cleaning and maintenance. Municipality officials said that discussions would be held with merchants and a decision would be taken on how the Coonoor Municipal Market would be reopened safely. They also said that the slaughterhouse renovation work would resume soon.
16 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers return from Maharashtra||K. Veeralakshmi, 25, of Melavalavu, who got married five months ago, went to Mumbai with her husband with a dream of new life. With her husband Kandasamy driving a call taxi, she began selling garments at Matunga and the couple made a good beginning. “It was the first time I had been to Mumbai. With mostly Tamil-speaking people living in our area, I did not face much of a language problem,” she said. The young couple were making a maximum of Rs. 1,000 a day. Just as things were looking good for them, the COVID-19 lockdown came as a jolt to their livelihood. “My husband could not drive the taxi, nor could I sell garments. Our earnings came to a standstill,” she said. However, with modest savings they had, the couple managed 48 days of lockdown. With the neighbouring Dharavi reporting more number of infections, she was concerned about their safety. Meanwhile, a few groups of Tamils from southern districts, especially from Virudhunagar, approached officials in Thane seeking permission for them to return home. “We visited the local police station every day seeking permission. But the police kept telling us that we did not get the necessary permission from the Tamil Nadu government,” said one of the group leaders, S. Subburaj, 46, of Pandalgudi. Out of the 30 persons working under him, 15 of them had left before the lockdown. “The rest of us thought that the lockdown was meant for a day and stayed back but it unexpectedly went on for 50 days,” he added. With no work and no earnings, the team was languishing in two small rooms. However, Mr. Subburaj managed to get money from home and fed his team mates. “We cooked our food and thus managed. But with the extended lockdown, we were all tired,” he said. Family members back home kept asking them to return as they feared about their safety. “Children started crying over the phone and we badly wanted to go back home,” he added. Later, the workers called their elected representatives – Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, MLAs, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, and Thangam Thennarasu. “They helped us get the e-pass with the consent of Tamil Nadu government,” said Mr. Subburaj. The Congress MP also got help from his partymen in Mumbai to foot part of their travel bill. For Ms. Veeralakshmi, by then her savings had drained. “We got money from our home [in Madurai] for our travel expenses,” said Ms. Veeralakshmi. All of them arrived in Virudhunagar on Thursday and have been kept in a quarantine facility. Only after landing in Tamil Nadu, have the workers heaved a sigh of relief.
16 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Use solar-powered electric fencing, farmers told||The district administration has invited applications from farmers seeking to set up solar-powered electric fencing for their farm lands. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said the solar power fencing could protect farm and crop from intruders like animals, hunters and others. Though the fencing would give a brief yet sharp voltage of power that would serve as a deterrent for intruders, it would not cause loss of lives. The fence would help farmers protect their crop and prevent damage to crops. Farmers can get the fence for 1,245 metres for a maximum of five acres with 50% subsidy or a maximum of Rs. 2.18 lakh. Stating that the State government would allocate funds based on the requirements of farmers, he said interested farmers should apply. Farmers from Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai, Kariyapatti, Tiruchuli and Narikudi blocks should approach the Assistant Executive Engineer (Agricultural Engineering) at Virudhunagar – 94865-20968. Farmers from Sattur, Sivakasi, Vembakottai, Srivilliputtur, Rajapalayam and Watrap blocks should approach the AEE in Srivilliputtur over 94980-24227.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Domestic air cargo movement expected to get a fillip||With a flight arriving at Coimbatore International Airport every day to carry domestic cargo and industrial activity resuming in the district, domestic air cargo movement is expected to pick up in the coming days. Industry and official sources said the SpiceJet flight comes to Coimbatore every day in the morning and covers a few cities. From Bengaluru or Chennai, the cargo can be sent to other metropolitan cities. The aim is to give confidence to industries in smaller cities that air cargo facility is available during lockdown period too. The flight can carry nearly 2.5 tonnes of cargo. It also brings cargo from other cities to Coimbatore, though the volume is very low now. With the lockdown, there is no domestic movement of perishables - flowers and vegetables - by flights. Currently, products related to healthcare sector and essential needs are sent from here. Industries across the region, including Tiruppur and Erode, can make use of the daily flight. Industrial activity has just commenced in Coimbatore district. Those who had finished products had taken permission during the lockdown and moved the goods. So, only the prudcts that are partially completed will be shipped in the near future. The other industries will take some more time. But, if there is better awareness among trade and industry in the region that domestic air cargo movement is possible now, the demand for the service will go up, the sources said. Some industries are using surface transport to move goods from Chennai or Bengaluru. These units can make use of the flight facility. Gold is another major commodity that is brought to Coimbatore by air by the jewellery units. These units have also just re-started work. And purchase of bullion is expected to go up in the coming days, the sources added.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BU to start PG programme in Medical Biotechnology||Bharathiar University will start a post-graduate programme in Medical Biotechnology. The Department of Biotechnology will fully fund the 10-seat M.Sc. programme, says a release. Students who clear the All-India Graduate Aptitude Test-Biotechnology will be eligible for the programme and on admission they will be eligible for fellowship, says Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj. The department has given Rs. 5 crore to create the necessary infrastructure. Using the money, the university will buy equipment and set up the lab required. The university is in the process of tying up with leading hospitals, biotechnology and biomedical companies. It has drawn faculty from the departments of Bio-Informatics, Microbial Biotechnology, Nano Technology, Statistics, Microbiology and allied departments and will rope in experts and professionals from hospitals and industry to teach allied subjects. The release says the university will train students in emerging areas like molecular diagnostics, immunotechnology, pharmacogenomics, systems biology, computational biology, advanced instrumentation among others. Mr. Kaliraj adds that the university has incorporated subjects outlined in Education 4.0 and Education 5.0. The outcome of this is that the students will study a few of the following subjects as electives - artificial intelligence, big data, augmented reality, virtual reality among others. Course coordinator R. Sathishkumar says the university will soon post online the course contents and procedure for applying for admission.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s COVID-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark||A 32-year-old man, a resident of Chennai, suffering from chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 12. He died on Thursday due to acute pulmonary edema with metabolic acidosis and respiratory failure. A 34-year-old man, who had systemic hypertension, was admitted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital and died on Friday due to ascending polyneuritis and respiratory failure. A 53-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted to RGGGH on May 5. She was suffering from coronary heart disease, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. She died on Thursday due to chronic kidney disease and respiratory failure. A 57-year-old resident of Chennai died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on Friday due to acute respiratory distress and bilateral pneumonia/respiratory failure, while a 61-year-old man with diabetes, coronary heart disease and systemic hypertension died at Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Friday due to metabolic encephalopathy. With this, the State has a total of 71 deaths of persons who tested positive for COVID-19. The number of active cases stood at 7,435, while 4,598 individuals with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards. Among the new patients were three one-month-old babies in Chennai. A total of 28 children aged 0 to 12 and 38 persons aged above 60 have tested positive. Apart from Chennai, the new cases were reported in 12 districts. The cases continued to increase in Chennai’s neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. With 21 new cases, the total case count in Tiruvallur climbed to 516, while it was 450 in Chengalpattu that reported 20 new cases. There were 11 cases in Kancheepuram, six each in Madurai and Theni, three each in Cuddalore and Tiruvannamalai, two in Perambalur and one each in Dindigul, Tenkasi, Thanjavur and Virudhunagar. A total of 40 persons, who returned to various parts of the State from Maharashtra, have tested positive. Apart from them, six persons who returned from Maldives tested positive in Kanniyakumari, Chennai and Pudukottai. A total of 1,461 persons had reached Chennai and Tiruchi airports in repatriation flights. Of them, 1,275 were screened for COVID-19. Apart from the previous nine cases, no other passenger tested positive for the infection till now. With 11,672 samples tested, the total number of samples tested in the State increased to 3,03,104.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held for illegal sale of liquor||Three persons, including a supervisor and a salesman of a Tasmac outlet, were arrested by the police on the charges of keeping liquor bottles at a petty shop and illegally selling it to customers here. The outlet is functioning at Jayagopal Street in Thirunagar Colony where Velusamy (48) of Bhavani is the supervisor while Murugesan (45) of Nerinjipettai is the salesman. The outlet was closed based on court directions. Before closing the shop on May 8, both Jayagopal and Velusamy took liquor bottles and kept it in a petty shop in the area. Later, with the help of shop owner Ganesan (58), they sold liquor at higher price and divided the money among themselves. Based on a tip-off, Karungalpalayam police inspected the shop and found liquor bottles. District Tasmac Manager Elango was alerted who along with Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police Charles, Town DSP Raju and others verified the stock at the outlet and found discrepancies. They found that liquor bottles worth Rs. 56,600 were missing. Also, footages retrieved from the outlet showed both taking away the bottles. Based on a complaint, the police registered a case and arrested the three. Later, Velusamy and Murugesan, were placed under suspension.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops to open after SC clears way||In the wake of the SC stay order, the government announced that liquor shops would function between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Customers should mandatorily wear a mask while coming to the shops. According to Tasmac sources, around 3,600 shops will be open. Each outlet will be given 500 tokens a day. "We have asked those in charge of the outlets to issue only 60 tokens per hour to avoid crowding. Each person gets one token," an official said. To avoid manipulation of tokens, Tasmac has printed them in different colours. "Each colour represents a particular day and the time at which they can buy liquor will be written on the token," another source said. "If the shops are opening at 10 a.m., we will start giving out the tokens at 9 a.m. The second round of tokens will be issued only after the first batch moves out," he explained. Customers need not bring Aadhaar cards like the last time around. The High Court had ordered closure of liquor outlets within two days of permitting them to open after widespread crowding and violation of guidelines laid down by it created a scare about possible spread of COVID-19. Earlier, Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan submitted in the apex court via video-conferencing that the State had already imposed restrictions and was enforcing and monitoring physical distancing norms. Conditions imposed by the High Court — a person cannot purchase more than two bottles of alcohol of any one type and must give Aadhaar details at the time of purchase — were both illogical and unworkable, he argued. Mr. Rohatgi pointed out that home delivery of liquor would expose it to adulteration and cause social and domestic problems. He and Mr. Srinivasan said indefinite closure of liquor shops would lead to ‘grave’ revenue and commercial losses. Mr. Srinivasan pointed out that the High Court’s ban order was passed the very same day that the Supreme Court dismissed an identical call to close liquor shops across the country. Further, the Supreme Court had clarified on May 8 that a decision on online sales and home delivery of liquor would be left entirely to the discretion of the States. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981 did not provide for online sales. The State would also have to amend the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules of 2003. The High Court could not dictate liquor sale policy to the government, it was argued.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘MLA asking for Corpn. resolutions online is with an ulterior motive’||Singanallur MLA and DMK’s Coimbatore east district in-charge N. Karthik asking the Coimbatore Corporation to post online the copies of council resolutions since July 2017 was with an ulterior motive and aimed at defaming the civic body and the State Government, said a release quoting Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath. The MLA had urged the Corporation to post online the resolutions and asked who gained by the Corporation not disclosing the 4,000-plus resolutions. The Corporation release said it did not post online the resolutions because of a case (writ petition 21554/2019 ) pending before the Madras High Court. The Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association had filed the case against disclosing their personal information. As a majority of the resolutions passed since July 2017 contained their personal details the Corporation had not posted those in public domain. The release also quoted an earlier order the contractors’ association had obtained against disclosing their details to individuals. The Corporation also cited work under way to improve its website saying it had been busy updating the site with details of property tax revision, ward delimitation with map and linking it to the website meant for urban local bodies in the State.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two die after consuming solvent||Two labourers working in a casting company at Kurumbapalayam in Pollachi died on Friday after allegedly consuming chemical solvent in a bid to get intoxicated. Police said that A. Boopathy Uthiraraj (34) and D. Suresh (30) allegedly consumed the solvent used in the company by mixing it with water on Thursday evening, as liquor outlets were shut due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Upon experiencing abdominal pain, the two were admitted at Pollachi Government Hospital and were later referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. However, they did not respond to the treatment and died at CMCH on Friday morning, according to the police. Pollachi Taluk police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Bodies of the deceased will be autopsied at CMCH and further investigations are under way, police said.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meal time||
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IT firms stick to work from home system||Information technology companies at ELCOT IT Park in Navalpattu continue to adopt work-from- home system for most of their workforce. The companies have taken individual decisions to assign work-from-home tasks to employees, an ELCOT official said. Not all employees were provided with transport facility. There were a number of employees depending on public transport. The companies were expected to take a decision on resuming work at offices after a week, the official said. There are six companies, occupying the entire built-up space of 59,960 sq. ft., together accounting for a workforce of over 1,500. Work on construction of a new building sanctioned by the government has been delayed due to the lockdown. In view of demand for built-up space, the government sanctioned Rs. 40 crore last year for construction of additional built-up space measuring one lakh sq. ft. The building designed as a six-storey structure will have a ground plus five-floor formation.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Taking no chances||
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Clubs donate umbrellas to police personnel||In an effort to hail the service of police personnel working during the lockdown, the Rotary Clubs donated 275 umbrellas to the Coimbatore City Police. According to a press release, the 39 Rotary Clubs functioning in Coimbatore were involved in this initiative. In the past week, the members of the 39 Rotary Clubs donated the umbrellas at checkposts such as Peelamedu, Vadavalli, Kuniyamuthur, Ganapathy, Ukkadam, Singanallur and Sundarapuram.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 15||Active cases: 0 No fresh cases on Friday.    House quarantined: 1,527 Active cases: 0 No fresh cases on Friday.
16 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||13 persons discharged in Belagavi||Thirteen patients were discharged from the district COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi on Friday. They included patients from Belagavi, Kudchi, Hire Bagewadi, and Sankeshwar. All of them tested negative twice before being discharged, officials said. This takes the total number of discharged cases to 54. Now there are 59 active COVID-19 cases. There has been one death and one readmission owing to relapse. Of the 114 cases that had tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, eight belong to Bagalkot. They are likely to be shifted to a hospital in Bagalkot.Officials have collected throat swabs from 6,811 persons, and 6,711 have tested negative. The results of the remaining 100 are awaited.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools brace for a new normal||The way schools function - thronging with children in classrooms and on playgrounds - will undergo a transformation when they are allowed to reopen after the State government makes a decision. Classes in shifts, no extra curricular activities or assemblies in playgrounds will be the new normal. A group of experts including officials of the Department of Public Instruction and teachers have been holding brainstorming sessions on formulating new standard operating protocol for schools. The committee submitted a draft of guidelines to the DPI on Friday. According to some of the guidelines, schools will have to conduct classes while ensuring that students maintain a physical distance from each other. The Department of Public Instruction has also suggested that schools in the State conduct classes in two shifts for the 2020-21 academic year. The first shift of classes will begin from 7.50 a.m. and end at 12.20 p.m., and the second shift will be from 12.10 p.m. to 5 p.m. The department has also suggested that schools conduct only 36 classes per week by cutting down extra curricular classes such as music, art and physical education. Some of the other draft guidelines include having only three students seated on each desk. Besides this, schools have been told that they can take over community centres or government buildings in case they are short of space. Students will also be instructed to maintain social distancing while commuting. Wearing masks and washing hands regularly will be mandatory. The department has also decided to chalk out an elaborate plan to be followed during lunch breaks. The department has suggested that the distribution of milk and midday meals also can be done in batches. S.R. Umashankar, principal secretary of the department, said that suggestions will be finalised after a meeting with the State government. “The dates for reopening schools have yet to be finalised. We are waiting for guidelines from the Ministry of Human Resource Development as well,” he said.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Authorities pick up migrants walking home to put them on trains||Bipin Kumar, 24, is one of the 75 labourers who left their jobs in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu last week to begin the long trek to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh. With at least six children, all aged under 10, the labourers took turns to carry them as they walked in the heat. But when they approached the Tamil Nadu–Karnataka border three days ago, the Karnataka police detained them and housed them at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), with the aim of ensuring that they complete the rest of their journey by train. The BIEC has been turned into a temporary shelter for migrants walking to States in north India. And it is houseful. The centre presently has nearly a thousand such migrant labourers who were detained at the Karnataka–Tamil Nadu border as well those found walking along National Highway 44 towards Hyderabad. Following reports of migrant labourers in Bengaluru embarking on foot to north India, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have directed officers to ensure that all those walking home are put on trains. This has kicked off a special drive by the police who are rounding up all migrants, including those from other States. No milk for children Mr. Kumar who works in a garment factory said that he and the others in his group did not have a choice but to leave. “The factory had provided us accommodation and food till May 4. However, with the extension of the lockdown for the third time, the factory owners stopped giving us rations and other facilities,” said Bipin Kumar. Carrying his one-and-a-half-year-old son Abhishek, Mr. Kuamr was desperately searching for milk, which is currently not available. Food and other facilities have been provided, but not milk. There are at least 30 children at the BIEC, including eight-month-old Arti from Vikarabad district of Telangana. Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, BBMP, who is in charge of facilities at the centre, said they have taken note of the issue and milk would be supplied from Saturday. Waiting to leave People housed at the BIEC are impatient to go home. Umesh Kumar, 28, who worked as a mason in Mysuru and began walking to his home in Jharkhand four days ago before he was brought to the centre by the police, said, “I have been at the BIEC for two days now and all promises of a train have proved false. We want to desperately get home. If they cannot arrange trains, let them leave us from here, we will walk home.” His sentiment is echoed by hundreds of stranded migrants. Last week, the police had similarly detained nearly 300 people walking along NH 44 and housed them in two marriage halls at Kodigehalli. Several of them have now been shifted to the BIEC. “I was detained by the police on May 7 and I am still at the BIEC waiting for a train to get back home. Many of my friends who escaped were able to hitch rides on trucks and have already reached home,” said Dileep Kumar Sahni, 28, from Uttar Pradesh, who worked as a carpenter in Bengaluru. A senior official said, “The hands of the Karnataka government are tied, as the home States of migrant labourers are rationing out permissions for trains to stagger the influx into their States. But it is increasingly becoming tough to manage them for long.” A help desk at the BIEC is helping themigrant labourers register on Seva Sindhu, an online portal for travel out of the State. “We are prioritising those at the BIEC to be sent home and we will look after them till they board trains,” said Ravi B. Channannavar, Superintendent of Police, Bengaluru Rural district. Many migrant labourers are still choosing to walk home, and were spotted on NH 44, on Friday too, though their numbers have come down from the previous weeks. Most of them continue to be detained and housed in shelters such as the BIEC.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No space for dry waste||The lockdown has had an unintentional effect on the city’s dry waste collection centres (DWCCs). Most of the centres are inundated with non-recyclable items such as low-value plastic as the cement factories where these items are usually transported, have been shut since the start of the lockdown. With no clarity on whether the cement factories will reopen next week when lockdown restrictions are expected to be lifted, managers of various DWCCs that are running out of storage space have urged the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to identify locations where non-recyclable waste can be aggregated. Rajesh Babu, co-founder, Swachha Eco Solutions, told The Hindu that there was at least 60 tonnes of dry waste, including recyclables, at each of the 11 DWCCs it manages. Another 150 tonnes of aggregated waste is lying at its processing centre. “It is hazardous to keep it stocked as it is all flammable. This is giving us sleepless nights,” he said. The representative of another organisation that manages over 50 DWCCs, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said dry waste has been piling up for the last three months. “Already most DWCCs struggle with space constraints. We have now started refusing to accept dry waste from the pourakarmikas,” they said. Waste management expert N.S. Ramakanth said with many DWCCs refusing to take in more waste and the recycling industry yet to be revived, materials like high value plastic and other recyclables are reaching landfills as mixed waste. Admitting that this is cause for concern, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said the civic body has DWCCs to aggregate waste at the waste processing units at Doddabidarakallu, Kannahalli and Subbarayanapalya. Those in-charge of the units said there were around 1,000 tonnes of RDF at three plants. “Not all dry waste is ending up at the landfill. We are exploring tying up with an individual, who has offered to transport it to cement factories for free,” said Mr. Randeep.
16 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka govt. move to defer GP elections draws flak||The Grama Panchayat Hakkottaya Andolana has taken serious exception to the State government’s move to put off elections to village panchayats and instead appoint administrators or administrative committee after the completion of their term. The government recommended to the State Election Commission to put off the elections citing COVID-19. In a release, andolana convenor Damodara Acharya alleged that there appeared to be an urgency to appoint an administrator or committee without critical deliberations or consultations about its pros and cons. “Does this not raise doubts whether the move intends to protect vested interests of certain individuals or is it linked to party politics of those in power?” he wondered. He asked why it is not possible for the government to conduct elections to village panchayats when it was possible to reopen factories in villages, besides providing essential services. Terming this as endangering democracy, Mr. Acharya said the administrators or administrative committees were likely to function in favour of those who appoint them, instead of being accountable to citizens they are meant to serve. During the COVID-19 crisis, hundreds of panchayats collaborated with local organisations and donors to respond to the trials and tribulations of their citizens, he pointed out. “In such a challenging situation, does replacement of these ‘corona warriors’ with an administrator or committee not appear to be a tactic to centralise governance,” he wondered. Pointing out that those who are likely to be appointed as administrators are presently under work pressure, he remarked: “Are they not likely to be unable to respond to the real and pressing needs of people and cause further deterioration of the already precarious situation?”
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stranded in Dhaka with no help||A group of people from Karnataka, stranded in Dhaka, have demanded that both the Union and State governments should make a coordinated effort to evacuate them. They have said that they are in distress and left high and dry by the authorities. Prasanna Srujan Reddy Chinta, who has been stranded in Dhaka since March 24, said there are around 75 to 80 people from the State stuck in the capital of Bangladesh. “I had come for business purpose and have been stuck here for over 50 days. People are in distress and no one is addressing our grievances. We are spending a huge amount of money for accommodation and food. After the lockdown was imposed, I tried to reach India through land route. However, authorities denied permission and asked me to go back. Our family members are very concerned,” Mr. Chinta said. Stranded people from the State maintain that the High Commission of India had promised to accommodate them on a flight that left to Chennai on May 14. However, the plan was dropped without giving any valid reason. “Had authorities made a coordinated effort, we could have reached Bengaluru at least by road form Chennai; unfortunately that did not happen,” said another stranded person from the State who did not wished to be named. ‘No flight to Bengaluru’ Srinivas V., who is also stranded, said, “Flights under Vande Bharat Mission were operated from Dhaka to Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Chennai, and other places. But no fights were planned to Bengaluru. Owing to COVID-19, I have lost my job and living here has become very difficult without any income source. The State government should a take up the issue with the Central authorities.” Those stranded say they have tried all types of media, including social media, to reach out to the governments and heads of various institutions, but are yet to receive a positive response from them.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some from Dubai test positive despite ‘fit to travel’ stamping||With 21 of the 179 passengers from the UAE, who landed by the first Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai to Mangaluru on Tuesday, having tested positive for COVID-19, several questions have been raised on whether the testing protocol in Dubai was in order. All the 179 passengers, including two children, had been screened and tested at the Dubai airport and given a ‘fit to travel’ stamping by the Dubai Health Authority. The 179 passengers include 40 pregnant women and none of them tested positive in the first test. ‘Protocol followed’ Members of the Dubai Anivasi Kannadigaru claimed that all required protocols were followed before the ‘fit to travel’ stamping was issued. “All those who registered to travel from Dubai to India were screened meticulously and tested using rapid testing strips. Only those who got a ‘fit to travel’ stamping were allowed to board the flight,” Naveed Magundi, president of Dubai Anivasi Kannadigaru and a team member of Kannadigas Helpline there, told The Hindu from Dubai. Stating that the results have shown 99% accuracy among those who went to Kerala from Dubai, he said, “We do not know what went wrong and if the 21 who tested positive in Karnataka contracted the infection at the airport or during transit.” Kannadigas Helpline is a team of NRIs who are coordinating to arrange for the travel of those who want to return to India from Dubai. “We are now in talks with Indian consulate, Mangaluru district administration, and other authorities to handle the situation better. We have also suggested to the Indian consulate that travellers should be tested using the RT-PCR technique before they are allowed to travel,” he said. Rapid test V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the COVID-19 expert committee that is tasked with analysing how the disease infects people, said rapid tests are not meant for diagnosis of COVID-19 infection. “They are meant for surveillance purposes only. While a positive test through rapid testing indicates exposure to the virus 14 days prior to the date of testing, a negative test does not rule out COVID-19 infection,” he said. “That is why the government has come up with guidelines that all those landing from other countries have to be mandatorily tested through RT-PCR technique and quarantined,” he added.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 has helped us understand the need to manage panic spread by fake news’||Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, spoke to The Hindu on how KSDMA has readied itself to face the COVID-19 pandemic. Excerpts... Recent experience of disaster management has been related to natural calamities like floods. What reorientation did the epidemic require? Disasters in India have essentially stemmed from natural hazards such as cyclones or floods. For the first time, a pandemic is a notified disaster in the country, necessitating the invoking of Disaster Management Act, 2005, by NDMA. COVID-19 is the first pan-India biological disaster being handled by the legal and constitutional institutions of the country. It’s management required massive inter-agency coordination in implementing lockdown measures and ensuring availability of essential items. This pandemic has made us understand the need to manage the catalytic effect of panic that is spread through fake news. The role of the community in disaster management cannot be overemphasised. What has been KSDMA’s role during the 40-day lockdown? The role of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority is the continuous process of planning, organising, coordinating, and implementing measures, which are necessary or expedient for containment of COVID-19 management. Issues like movement of migrant labourers, making available food and essential commodities, arranging food for dailywagers, and establishing relief camps are the major activities. KSDMA has prepared contingency plan as a proactive strategy, enabling preparedness for unforeseen events. It passes orders and issues guidelines pertaining for containment and lockdown, releases SDRF funds for upgrading health infrastructure, screening, quarantine and for relief works, oversees inter-department coordination and implementation. It also facilitates the State executive meetings chaired by the Chief Secretary to decide on measures for virus management and containment. It has been put in place a real-time data collection technology framework to help the Health and Family Welfare Department. The data collection templates range from registering citizens, tracing treatment at fever clinics, quarantine centres, supervised isolation centres,and COVID-19 hospitals, test results from testing centres, and tracking home quarantine cases. An ‘Unified 3 COVID-19 Portal’ has been established to consolidate information inputed by the departments of Health, Information, KSDMA, and the State war room facilitating co-ordination. Any plan of crowdsourcing information to catch initial symptoms? Real-time information on ILI and SARI is being crowdsourced across the State from 22,800 private medical establishments who log on to the portal from their mobile phones and 41,000 pharmacy stores to report the people purchasing fever, allergy, flu or cough related medicine. Thus, probable cases are proactively traced and acted upon. Given last year’s experience, any new plan to handle monsoon floods expected next month? Flood vulnerable areas are being mapped and four NDRF teams will be pre-deployed in vulnerable districts for swift response. Inter-State coordination and monitoring on release of water through dams is put in place. Capacity building and mock drills are undertaken prepare for any eventuality in the state. Districts are equipped with rescue equipment funded from SDRF.  COVID-19 is the first pan-India biological disaster being handled by the legal and constitutional institutions of the country.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Relief: Maize growers to get Rs. 5,000, ASHAs Rs. 3,000||The State government on Friday announced the third tranche of financial relief, providing Rs. 5,000 each for maize growers and one-time cash incentive of Rs. 3,000 for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs). Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who held a meeting with his Cabinet Ministers and senior officials, said there are 10 lakh maize growers in the State and the government would spend Rs. 500 crore to provide financial compensation. Nearly 30% to 40% of the maize growers sold their produce at lower prices during the lockdown period. The government would provide relief to them, irrespective of whether they sold their produce or not, Mr. Yediyurappa said. All growers, irrespective of the size of holdings, would get the money. Maize is largely grown in districts such as Davangere, Haveri, Dharwad, Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Hassan, and Belagavi. Mr. Yediyurappa announced Rs. 3,000 for each of the 40,250 ASHAs, who are among frontline workers in the effort to contain COVID-19. This would cost the State exchequer Rs. 12.5 crore. The government also decided to give compensation of Rs. 5,000 to farmers in case of accidental death of sheep. Total package In the first phase, the government had announced a Rs. 1,610-crore package. In the second phase on Thursday, the Cabinet cleared Rs. 162-crore package for growers of fruits and vegetable and powerloom workers. With the third tranche, the total size of the package touches Rs. 2,284.5 crore.  Relaxation of norms The State government said the Centre is expected to announce more relaxation in the COVID-19 lockdown norms from Monday. The third phase of lockdown is scheduled to end on Sunday. “Let us wait for May 17. The Centre is expected to relax everything from May 18,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. Except five-star hotels, the Centre is expected to relax norms for others in hotel industry, gyms, and business establishments, he said.  All growers, irrespective of the size of holdings, would get the money. B.S. Yediyurappa Chief Minister
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||House owners’ opinions divided on penalty for regularisation||The State government, on Thursday, cleared an Ordinance to regularise unauthorised houses in several Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) layouts that were constructed 12 years ago after owners pay a fine. But there are many questions that remain unanswered, say owners, who want to know what will happen if they don’t pay the penalty or if their houses are less than 12 years old. “We have A Khata and the khata extract is in our name. We have water and power connections, the betterment charges and property tax payments are up to date. We have availed a loan from a nationalised bank. Why should I pay 20% of my property value to the BDA for one certificate? What if I don’t pay?” asked Krishnaprasad P., a resident of Nandini Layout, which is a BDA layout. However, not all property owners have A Khata, like Mr. Krishnaprasad. BDA sources say that after regularisation, property owners will have clear title, be able to avail loans or sell the property. According to previous calculations of the BDA, Rs. 5,000 crore was expected to come by way of penalty for regularisation. A minister, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said the Ordinance is a revenue-generating exercise for the cash-strapped government. During the COVID-19 crisis and lockdown, the government proposed sale of corner sites and passed the Ordinance to generate much-needed revenue. The revenue generated out of this scheme will go to the State exchequer and not the BDA. The authority had earlier hoped to use revenue from regularisation to fund Peripheral Ring Road. “The priority of the government is to tide over the current crisis,” the minister said. However, Rakesh Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department, maintained that this was not a revenue-generation exercise. “The objective is to regularise the unauthorised constructions by levying a nominal fine, as BDA is not in a position to utilise that land,” he said. Meanwhile, opinion is divided with many owners convinced that it is an exercise in futility. N.S. Mukunda, founder-president of Citizens’ Action Forum, said the government was under the wrong impression that citizens will opt for the scheme. “There is no real benefit, apart from clear title. Citizens are also struggling following the lockdown. How does the government expect these citizens to pay?” he asked and added that CAF would consult legal experts. CAF has already challenged the Akrama-Sakrama scheme, which is pending in the Supreme Court. Mr. Singh, however, said citizens would be given sufficient time to pay the penalty and regularise their properties. BDA Commissioner G.C. Prakash was unavailable for comments, despite several attempts.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restrictions on large gatherings for weddings, other events to continue||Restrictions on large gatherings of guests for weddings and other events will continue even after the lockdown is eased. According to an advisory issued by the State Health Department, the maximum number of guests attending a wedding should not be more than 50. And, importantly no person from a containment zone should be allowed to attend the function. While permission for the event and travel passes should be obtained from the local authorities, the event should be conducted in a suitable public place with good natural ventilation without air-conditioning, the advisory stated. Not permitted That apart, persons aged above 65, pregnant women, and children aged below 10 are not permitted to attend weddings and other events. Sanitisers should be provided at the entry and at appropriate places, and facilities to wash hands with soap and water should be provided. Thermal screening of all persons should be conducted at the entry of the venue. The scanner should be held 3 to 15 cm away from the person’s forehead. Anyone found having fever (37.5° C or 99.5° F), cold, cough, and difficulty in breathing should not be permitted to attend the event and immediately referred to seek medical advice, the advisory stated. Wearing masks and maintaining physical distance of more than one metre is compulsory. Consumption of liquor, paan, gutkha, and tobacco is not allowed. While a nodal person should be identified for overseeing the arrangements and coordination at the venue, a list of people attending the wedding with contact details has to be maintained. All guests should have to download Aarogya Setu app, the advisory stated.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers to be informed about quarantine protocol before boarding||As Bengaluru readies itself for the influx of passenger trains from Delhi, clear and timely communication has become a priority for officials. The State government, through Karnataka Bhavan officials in Delhi, have taken various steps to inform people who have booked tickets to Bengaluru on the quarantine protocol well before they board the train. From Saturday, a train from Delhi is scheduled to arrive in Bengaluru every day carrying hundreds of stranded passengers, until further notice. Announcements In a statement, South Western Railway official said SMSs to registered mobile numbers of passengers will be sent well before the departure of the train. Announcements will be made about institutional quarantine during health screening at the stations and pamphlets in Kannada and English distributed by the staff of the Karnataka Bhavan. These measures were put in place a day after the chaos at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station on Thursday, when hundreds of train passengers who came by a train from Delhi claimed they were caught unawares by the mandatory institutional quarantine for people entering Karnataka from other States. Many claimed that they got the message only after they boarded the train. On Thursday, 19 passengers chose to return to Delhi after they refused to undergo institutional quarantine.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Baby monkey rescued||A baby bonnet macaque was rescued by citizens and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Forest Cell on Friday. The bonnet macaque is a protected species under the Schedule II (part 1) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Prasanna Kumar, wildlife warden, Bengaluru Urban, BBMP forest cell, said the baby was found near the Gutte Anjaneya Swamy Temple close to Lalbagh. “Citizens said a monkey community had come there. The mother delivered the child, but did not accept it. It probably had a health problem. The temple priest called and the baby was only two hours old. It was fed a diluted milk solution as it had not got any milk since its birth. When we gave it a doll, it held on and was looking for milk,” he said. The baby was then sent to the wildlife rehabilitation centre in Kengeri and was kept in an incubator. Mr. Kumar has urged people not to feed wildlife and call the forest cell instead. “Please do not feed wildlife food we eat. If you want it to survive, let it be. Don’t change its habits. Call us for rescue and rehabilitation instead,” he reiterated. Mr. Kumar can be reached at 99027 94711.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passenger from U.S. symptomatic||A repatriation flight of Air India from San Francisco, U.S., landed at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Friday morning. The flight had a scheduled stopover at Delhi airport before reaching Bengaluru. A total of 107 stranded people were on it. Bengaluru Rural Deputy Commissioner P.N. Ravindra told The Hindu that during the mandatory screening at the airport, one passenger was found symptomatic and he was sent to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases for further tests and treatment. There were 59 male, 49 female passengers (including a pregnant) and a child below the age of 10. “Barring one person, all have been sent to designated institutional quarantine after screening at the airport,” said the official.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Why not allow malls to open?’||The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has said that if establishments like offices and standalone shops are allowed to open, malls should be too with precautions in place. In a release, Amitabh Taneja, chairman of SCAI, said: “SCAI has been advocating the need for concerted support from government and financial Institutions towards the survival and long-term sustainability of organised retail trade-in India. The decentralised strategy to exit the lockdown is grounded in firm guidelines to help economic recovery. We are responsible for the livelihoods of 12 million.” The association has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The measures suggested for shopping malls include deployment of dedicated teams to monitor and implement air-conditioning measures, ensuring fresh air, 40% humidity/controlled temperature, regular checks of ambient air quality.
16 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seven new cases reported in Hassan district||The number of COVID-19 patients has been on the rise in Hassan with the entry of people from other States. The total number of people with the infection increased to 16 on Friday, with seven new cases reported. All had returned recently from Mumbai. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish informed the media that none of them had contacted any locals after arriving in the district. They were taken to quarantine centres or hospitals, where samples were collected for laboratory tests. Theinfected include a couple and their son, native to Channarayapatna taluk, a couple from Arkalgud taluk, and two more people from Holenarsipur taluk. They had reached Hassan in different vehicles on May 12. Health Department staff have collected samples from those travelled along withthese people. Meanwhile, the Railway Ministry has agreed to operate a special train for the benefit of people from Bihar working in Hassan. The DC said more than 2,000 Bihar natives had sought permission to travel back home. “The train will carry 1,400 passengers on May 17. The schedule of the train is yet to reach us. We will communicate to those who applied under the Seva Sindhu application on a first-come, first-served basis,” he said. Minister on lockdown Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy, who is also in charge of Hassan district, on Friday said the lockdown would be relaxed gradually to allow economic activities to resume. He said the country has to learn to live with the virus. Speaking to presspersons, he said only people with sufficient money to support their families would want further lockdown. “But we have to think of the working class. The lockdown will be lifted gradually,” he said. The Minister also maintained that India had handled the situation better than many other countries.
16 May 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||1,241 migrants arrive in Kalaburagi||As many as 1,241 migrant workers from Mumbai reached their native places in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts on a special Shramik Express on Friday. As soon the migrants arrived at Kalaburagi railway station, they were screened and stamped with a seal for institutional quarantine before being allowed to board buses to their taluks. The district administration also arranged for 39 bus shuttles to carry all the labourers to their native places. Of the 1,241 migrants, 892 were from Kalaburagi district (843 from Chittapur taluk alone) and 345 from Yadgir. A total of 2,393 migrant workers stranded in Mumbai returned home to Kalaburagi and Yadgir by two special Shramik trains on May 11 and 15. All the passengers will be quarantined at centres that have been set up at their villages for two weeks. The labourers will undergo swab tests after 12 days and will be allowed to go home only if they test negative.
16 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||A fair to defeat disease, defying lockdown||The devotees of Maramma temple at Kolagondanahalli, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, have earned the wrath of the administration for organising a fair to ward off “communicable and infectious diseases”, ironically, amidst COVID-19 lockdown. Organising special pujas, folk fairs and festivals at the temple against the outbreak of epidemics is a decades-old tradition at the village. Subsequent to the outbreak of COVID-19, a temple fair was organised on May 12 violating lockdown restriction. At least 120 people were said to have attended the fair. After photos and videos of the folk fair went viral, the Ramanagaram district administration decided to initiate action against the persons concerned for defying the restrictions. A case has been registered against temple priest Chikkamarigowda at Kodihalli police station for supervising the fair. In-charge village accountant N.C. Kalmutt has been suspended for failing to prevent the fair as well as informing about it to his higher authorities, said sources at the Ramanagaram district administration. Ramanagaram district, where the village belongs, is a green zone in Karnataka with no positive cases reported. Kanakapura is one among the four taluks of Ramanagaram district. “Maari Saagu Hakuvudu” (driving epidemics out of the village) is an age-old folk tradition. People perform special pujas at Maari temples and pray to the deity not to harm people.
16 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||20 from UAE who landed in Mangaluru test positive||Of the 179 passengers from the United Arab Emirates who landed in the first ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ flight from Dubai to Mangaluru on Tuesday, 20 have tested positive for COVID-19, according to Dakshina Kannada Deputy CommissionerSindhu B. Rupesh. Addressing presspersons on Friday, she said that of those who tested positive, 14 were from Daskhina Kannada, five from Udupi district, and one from Uttara Kannada. All of them have been quarantined and are being treated at the designated hospitals in their respective districts. She said that of the total number of passengers who arrived, 125 were presently in Dakshina Kannada, 49 in Udupi, and five in Uttara Kannada. Asked about whether the passengers had been subjected to medical test while boarding at Dubai, the Deputy Commissioner said, “They might have been screened as per the standard operating procedure there.” She said that there were 40 pregnant women among the returnees. None of them have tested positive so far. All the asymptomatic passengers will be subjected to a second test on the 12th day. The Deputy Commissioner said that among those who test negative again, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, senior citizens aged 80 and above, and the terminally ill would be home quarantined. The second flight under the mission from Dubai will arrive in Mangaluru on May 18, Ms. Rupesh said. She said that passengers returning from abroad should understand that everyone cannot be checked at the airport at a time. They will be checked in batches of 20 each, and this will take time, she said.
16 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||2 trains leave Mangaluru||Southern Railway on Friday operated two Shramik special trains to ferry migrant workers from Dakshina Kannada to Bihar and Jharkhand (Araria and Dhanbad) from Mangaluru. Train No. 06515 Mangaluru-Araria left Mangaluru Junction at 6.15 p.m. with over 1,459 passengers. Train No. 06156 Mangaluru-Dhanbad left at 10 p.m.
16 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||From red zone to being free of disease, Mysuru all clear for now||Mysuru district, a red zone district, has become ‘COVID-19 free’ with the discharge of the last two patients who were under institutional quarantine on Friday. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar said: “This is no time for celebration but calls for working with renewed vigour and being alert.” He pointed out that other districts which were in the green zone are now classified under red zone due to the sudden spike in cases. In all, Mysuru had reported 90 COVID-19 positive cases and all the patients have been discharged on completion of the quarantine and testing negative. The first case was detected on March 21 and the patient (P20) was discharged on April 7. But from then on, it turned out to be a herculean battle for the authorities who braced to prevent a community outbreak that threatened to engulf the district with Nanjangud emerging as a major cluster. Of the 90 cases reported in the district, 74 were from Nanjangud’s Jubilant Generics plant and at one point of time in April, Mysuru had the dubious distinction of having the highest number of positive cases in Karnataka. But strict enforcement of containment measures and timely contact tracing ensured that there was no community spread. Though the restrictions owing to lockdown has been relaxed across the city and the district, the authorities said the norms pertaining to social distancing, use of sanitizers and wearing of masks have to be complied with and people will be penalised for not wearing masks. In Nanjangud, where nearly 70,000 people are under strict lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, the number of containment zones came down from 14 to 11 on Friday. Quarantine mandatory Mr. Sankar said in case of people returning from other States or districts, institutional quarantine was mandatory for all except severely ill or pregnancy cases for which home quarantine was allowed. As on Thursday, there were 568 people under institutional quarantine in Mysuru and their samples have been collected for testing. Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar took to Twitter to congratulate the district administration.
16 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘We will work on our land back home to earn a living’||It was after not hearing from the authorities for almost 10 days since registering on the Seva Sindhu portal to head back to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh from Mysuru that a group of 12 construction workers decided to venture out on their own. They boarded a truck that was headed to Hyderabad and hoped to hitch another ride from there. But the truck was not allowed to cross Karnataka–Andhra Pradesh border on Wednesday and they were brought to Bengaluru and put up at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). “We approached the officials at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru, but were told to wait for our turn to board the train. How long can we wait? We had no work for almost two months now and our parents are waiting for our return,” said Rajdev, a native of Gorakhpur. They had paid the truck driver Rs. 22,000, but he returned Rs. 17,000 because their journey was cut short. The migrant labourers said they were provided with food and place to sleep at the BIEC. “We have been asked to wait here till arrangements are made for us to go back to our native places,” Mr. Rajdev told The Hindu over phone. Even though their employer in Mysuru tried to convince them to stay on as construction work at the site will resume, they were unwilling to stay on. “We will work on our land back in our native place to earn a livelihood,” said Prashant, who was accompanying Mr. Rajdev.
16 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jubilant pharma yet to reopen||Even as industrial activity showed signs of resumption in many parts of Mysuru, which has not reported any positive cases recently, pharmaceutical company Jubilant Generics Ltd. in Nanjangud, which came under focus after more than 70 employees tested positive, is yet to reopen. Meanwhile, the source of infection for the first patient here continues to be a mystery. The company, which had temporarily suspended operations after its employees began testing positive in the last week of March, had the premises sanitised recently. Sources in the Department of Industries in Mysuru told The Hindu that the issue of the company’s reopening will be handled by the State government directly. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar had discussed the matter with the officials during his recent visit to Mysuru. Joint Director of District Industries Centre, Mysuru, D.K. Lingaraju said the department had not asked the company to suspend operations and the company had “voluntarily” suspended operations after some of its employees tested positive and others quarantined. Recently, the company had entered into an agreement to manufacture and sell investigational drug Remdesivir, considered to be a potential therapy for COVID-19, in 127 countries, including India. Jubilant Generics Ltd. in a statement said it had entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences to register, manufacture and sell the latter’s drug Remdesivir. Bulk drugs Though Jubilant Life Sciences has multiple manufacturing facilities across India, its subsidiary Jubilant Generics manufactures 46 active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs or bulk drugs) including Azithromycin Dihydrate and Azithromycin Monohydrate, which is used to fight the global menace of COVID-19. These drugs, according to a statement issued by the company, are identified as a frontline treatment for patients infected with COVID-19. Efforts by various government agencies to identify the root cause of COVID-19 spreading among the employees of the company, besides their primary and secondary contacts had come to naught. While the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, said that the raw material imported by the company from China did not contain any trace of coronavirus, the police, health officials and a senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta, in their respective probes, were unable to identify patient zero or source of infection among the company’s employees.
16 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||One more person tests positive in Shivamogga||A 42-year-old person from Hallibailu village in Tirthahalli taluk, who had returned from Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to nine. He had come to Hallibailu on May 7 in an unauthorised manner. The local Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) alerted the Department of Health and Family Welfare about his arrival on May 12, following which he was immediately sent to an institutional quarantine facility. On Friday, his swab samples tested positive for COVID-19. Subsequently, he was shifted to a designated hospital in Shivamogga city. As many as 12 persons, including six of his family members, identified as his primary contacts have been quarantined. Their throat and nasal samples have been sent to the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory on the campus of Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences for tests. The results are awaited. Meanwhile, the Tirthahalli taluk administration has demarcated Hallibailu village as a containment zone. Entry of outsiders to the village has been barred. Thedepartment has commenced door-to-door survey in Hallibailu and the nearby Bheemanakatte, Meenugunda and Mulubagilu villages to identify persons with symptoms of COVID-19. The taluk administration has also made arrangements for on-demand delivery of ration and other essential goods to households in the containment zone.
16 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||After long ordeal, migrants return from Maharashtra||“For over two months, life was miserable. Our ration and savings ran out and we were living in the most difficult of times. Getting back to our home district is a big relief as at least we can be with our family here,” said Jatteppa Biradar. He is one of the 1,200 migrant workers from the district who finally returned in a special train on Friday. Having gone to Sindhudurg district in Maharashtra around four month ago, Mr. Biradar, 37, said that he along with several other migrant workers of the district were working in a quarry. “We have ancestral land of five acres in Shivapura village of Muddebihal taluk. Since the land does not give enough to feed the families of my younger brother and myself, I decided to go to Maharashtra for a better living,” he said. The workers who reached the railway station here said that after being stranded owing to the lockdown, they had a tough time as they were not given food by the local administration. They somehow managed to survive with the money they had. On their arrival here, the workers were transported to their respective taluks by the district administration in over 40 KSRTC buses. The district administration has identified government hostels and residential schools to quarantine these migrants. A government order said only people coming from Goa are permitted to go for home quarantine. People returning from any other State, including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi, will have to be in institutional quarantine as these States have seen a great number of COVID-19 cases. “The workers have been given clear information that they will be sent to institutional quarantine, where they will be given basic facilities such as food, shelter and medical help,” said Harsha Shetty, city corporation Commissioner. He said that the special train also brought workers from other districts such as Yadgir and Kalaburagi.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC cashless transactions soon||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will be introducing cashless transactions so that commuters will have the option of purchasing tickets through UPI-based e-wallets. It will also introduce weekly passes for the benefit of commuters to minimise the load on the daily cash-based ticketing system. These are some of the measures planned to limit the risk of commuters and BMTC staff to COVID-19. Shikha C., Managing Director, BMTC, said that they have prepared a Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) which will be in place once curbs on public transport are lifted. “The SoP includes plans to minimise cash-based transactions and encourage people to pay through e-wallets, like Google Pay or PhonePe. QR codes will be put up inside the bus through which people can pay. The whole system will be managed and monitored at the depot level through a virtual payment address,” she said. The BMTC will run a pilot of the project soon to see how the system can be improved and made more user-friendly. “We have spoken to various banks, and it looks feasible,” Ms. Shikha added. Another BMTC official said the system won’t be completely cashless. “But only if there is no other option will tickets be issued. We are waiting for the government’s guidelines regarding the lifting of curbs on public transport,” the official said. KSRTC also eyeing cashless route A senior KSRTC official told The Hindu that even the KSRTC is looking at promoting cashless transactions. “Payments through e-wallets in KSRTC buses are in the offing. But as a huge chunk of our operations is concentrated in rural areas, we cannot go completely cashless,” the official said.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘How can HC decide on zoning, quarantine centres?’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday questioned a batch of litigants how the court could decide the correctness of zoning of COVID-19 districts, and where and how quarantine centres will have to be set up. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice V. Srishananda orally posed these questions during the hearing of two separate PIL petitions filed by residents of Doddaballapur in Bengaluru district. In their petition, R. Ravi Kumar and 14 others had questioned classification of Bengaluru Rural district as COVID-19 red zone and setting up of quarantine centres. How can the High Court decide which district has to be declared as red, orange or gree zones? Can the court decide in what manner quarantine centres will have to be set up? These matters are decided by the authorities and the experts, the bench observed orally. “If everyone start opposing quarantine facilities in their places, then where should the quarantine centres have to be established? Can they be established in forests? Those kept in quarantine centres are human beings, and they are being looked after by healthcare personnel...”, the bench observed while stating the pleas made in the petition are irresponsible in nature attracting imposition of heavy cost on the petitioners. Following these observations, the counsel for the petitioners sought permission to withdraw the petition, and the bench disposed of the petition giving liberty to the petitioner to give a representation to the government. In another petition, filed by G. Venkatesh of Doddaballapur, it was contended that persons sent for institutional quarantine should be kept only in the self contained rooms, having attached bath and toilet facilities, in the educational institutions identified in Bengaluru Rural district. It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that use of rooms with common toilet facility could result in spread of COVID-19 as many persons are asymptomatic. However, the bench noted that rooms in certain educational institutes in Doddaballapur were identified as preparedness for setting up quarantine facilities. “Today, we cannot assume that the State government will not use self contained rooms in these places. We are sure that if the petitioner makes a representation to the government pointing out that as far as possible no common toilets be used, the State will consider and take appropriate action,” the bench observed while disposing of the petition.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka crosses 1,000 mark with 69 new cases||Of the 69 new cases reported on Friday, 21 are expatriates who returned to the State from Dubai as part of the first phase of Vande Bharat mission, and 23 are those with a travel history to Mumbai. Among the 21 Dubai returnees, 15 are from Dakshina Kannada, five from Udupi, and one from Uttara Kannada. Of the remaining cases, 13 each have been reported from Bengaluru Urban and Mandya, seven each have been reported from Bidar and Hassan, three from Kalaburagi, two from Chitradurga, and one each from Shivamogga, Bagalkot, and Kolar. The 13 patients in Mandya, seven in Hassan and one each from Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Shivamogga have a travel history to Mumbai. Appraisal of system Meanwhile, the Health Department has asked a team of doctors from the Centre for Public Health at NIMHANS, headed by Pradeep B., to take up a rapid appraisal of district-level preparedness and performance of the health system regarding the management of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka. In a circular, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said this is primarily intended to support and strengthen the district administration and district health system to efficiently manage the COVID-19 outbreak. ‘Plan, implement’ “Following a meeting with public health experts, it was decided to plan, implement, coordinate and compile the findings of a quick appraisal of the district health system. Dr. Pradeep has been asked to carry out the activities and submit a report and make recommendations on strengthening the district-level COVID-19 control activities,” the circular stated.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Amendments to APMC Act will improve farm income’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday defended amendments introduced to the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act through an Ordinance and said that it gave farmers an opportunity to sell commodities outside APMC yards for more remunerative prices. The State Cabinet on Thursday approved the Ordinance to amend the Act, a move that has attracted criticism from farmers organisations and the Opposition parties who have contended that it will help only MNCs and large players in the market.  ‘Won’t dilute powers’ Countering the charge, Mr. Yediyurappa said that the amendment would not dilute the powers or the work of APMCs. “Marketing activities would be monitored by the Director of State APMCs,” he said. He alleged that many were “misleading” farmers on the amendments and that he “would not sit on this chair for a minute if farmers’ interests are affected.” The Chief Minister said it would give farmers “my crop, my right” priority and the right to sell their produce directly to any purchaser outside the APMC yards or in other APMCs. “This would help farmers get remunerative price for their produce,” he told presspersons here. “The amended Act will benefit farmers suffering from losses due to market fluctuations.” He clarified that the government had not removed the APMC Act but only amended two sections of it.  Decade-old changes Mr. Yediyurappa said agricultural marketing had been opened to private sector more than a decade ago and the State had rolled out Unified Markets Platform covering all APMCs. He said he had spoken to the Opposition leaders and representatives of farmers and cleared their doubts on changes in the Act.
16 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two test positive in Alappuzha||After a month’s lull, two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in the district on Friday. The district has so far logged seven cases of the disease. The fresh cases were reported after a gap of 37 days. According to the district administration, one of the patients, a youth hailing from Purakkad, had reached the district from Navi Mumbai by road on May 11. The second patient, a pregnant woman from Thrikkunnapuzha, came from Dammam in Saudi Arabia on May 13. Both of them have been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, for treatment. “They were serving the mandatory self-quarantine period at their homes when they tested positive. Both were asymptomatic. The person from Navi Mumbai commenced his journey in a car and reached Alappuzha three days later. Those who accompanied him have been put under observation. The woman used an ambulance to reach her home from Cochin airport. Her fellow passengers have been notified and put under surveillance,” said an official.  One hospitalised One person was hospitalised with symptoms on Friday, taking the total number of people under observation at MCH to eight. Officials said a total of 2,421 people were under observation including 2,413 in quarantine in the district. As many as 219 expatriates reached the district since the Vande Bharat Mission and Operation Samudra Setu started last week to repatriate Indians from foreign countries. A total of 2,102 people had so far reached the district from other States. Of the total seven COVID-19 cases in the district, five have been completely cured of the disease.
16 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Spectre of floods looms over Kuttanad||The 2018 deluge had brought untold misery and upended the lives of tens of thousands of people, Now, almost two years later, desiltation of Vembanad Lake and majority of canals in Kuttanad, aimed at increasing their absorption capacity and ensure free flow of water, has reached nowhere. With a ‘vigorous’ southwest monsoon in the offing, the spectre of another flood is looming large over the region. Drastic reduction A study by the Central Water Commission pinpoints drastic reduction in the carrying capacity of Vembanad Lake as one of the factors that led to the flood situation in Kuttanad and surrounding areas. A report prepared by the Kerala State Planning Board, A Special Package for Post-Flood Kuttanad, notes that the “shrinkage of surface area and depth of the lake is a major reason for the acuteness of Kuttanad floods.” Large-scale deposits of sediments caused by the floods have resulted in a further rise of the lake and canal beds. According to the Planning Board report, 420 km of drainage channels in Kuttanad need urgent cleaning. K. G. Padmakumar, Director, International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea Level Farming, Kuttanad, says there is a real threat of another flood in the region this monsoon season.  Silt deposition “More than one-third of the water spread area of the wetland has been lost due to land reclamation and the expanse of the lake is reduced by two-thirds. Annually, floods bring about silt deposition of around 25 tonnes per ha in lakes and rivers of Kuttanad. ‘‘Our own 2018 post-flood study indicates the silt deposition at as high as 130 tonnes per ha in the floodplains of Pampa near Mannar. The canal systems, about 1,500 km, are heavily silted up with blockages. Although both the lake and canals need to be desilted, immediate attention should be given to removing silt from drainage channels and canals to prevent a repeat of 2018,” Mr. Padmakumar says. The State government announced the second Kuttanad package in the annual Budget for 2020-21. It proposes a massive scheme to draw sludge and sediment from the backwaters. A scheme for deepening and cleaning of canals in all panchayats on the banks of the lake with people’s participation in the ‘ensuing summer’ has also been mentioned in the Budget. While desiltation of the lake is proposed as a multiyear project, cleaning of canals seems to have been delayed by the COVID-19 crisis. Canal cleaning Meanwhile, Irrigation Department officials say that major canals would be cleaned by May 31. Besides, work to deepen the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway to ensure the flow of floodwaters from the low-lying Kuttanad would be carried out, says an official.
16 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two electrocuted in bid to save child||A 70-year-old woman and her 32-year-old daughter-in-law were electrocuted while trying to save a child who had come into contact with a snapped power line at Budhanoor in the district on Friday. The deceased persons were identified as Omana of Budhanoor and her daughter-in-law Usha Mohan (Manju). Manju’s seven-year-old son escaped with minor injuries. At 11.30 a.m. According to the Mannar police, the incident happened around 11.30 a.m. “The child ventured out of the house to the road and Omana followed him. The boy then touched the snapped power line, which broke after a tree branch fell on it. Seeing it, Omana tried to save her grandson and sustained an electric shock. After hearing the cries of Omana, Manju rushed to the spot and got electrocuted while trying to save her son and Omana. Although local residents rushed the women to a nearby hospital, their lives could not be saved,” said a police officer. The police officer also said that the boy’s life was saved by the timely intervention of the people of the area, who administered him first aid.  Life of a seven-year-old child was saved by the timely intervention of local people.
16 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Plantations struggle as migrant workers leave||The plantation sector is facing an acute shortage of labour with migrant workers set to leave for their home States with the easing of lockdown restrictions. A representative of a cardamom planters’ organisation told The Hindu on Thursday that many works in the plantations were pending and the first harvest was set to begin in July/August. According to him, labour shortage will hit the cardamom sector hard as plant clearing works have to be completed before monsoon. As per official data, 5,348 migrant workers are set to leave from various taluks in the district. K.S. Mathew, a cardamom planter, said that though many migrant workers who had left for their home States during the off-season had conveyed their willingness to come back, it might not realise soon. The plight is similar for tea plantations too as migrant labourers were given leave during the peak summer season. Peerumade, Devikulam, and Udumbanchola host the largest number of migrant labourers in the farm sector, most of them from West Bengal followed by Assam, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and Uttar Pradesh. Though most of the plantation workers were traditionally from Tamil Nadu, a large number of them had gone back after a crisis in the tea sector following a price fall over a decade ago. Opportunities in the construction sector also prompted many to leave plantations. The shortage was compensated to an extent by migrant labourers. Mechanisation too helped the tea sector to an extent in coping with the shortage of labour. However, mechanisation is limited to plucking of tea leaves. Other works such as pruning and pesticide application are still done manually. Need for expertise In the cardamom sector, all works are done manually and the harvesting of ripened beans needs expertise and training. “New labourers who may arrive after the crisis will not compensate for those who have left,” said Sajan Mathew, a cardamom grower.  Cardamom planters feel labour shortage will hit the sector hard, as plant clearing works have to be completed before monsoon.
16 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Stop memo served on Devikulam MLA||District Collector H. Dinesan has issued a stop memo to a building construction by Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran at Ikka Nagar in Munnar. The purported construction on the first floor of his house was being done without the non-objection certificate (NOC) from the Revenue Divisional Office, which is mandatory for constructions in Devikulam taluk. The stop memo was issued after the District Collector asked the Devikulam Subcollector to stop the construction, if any, without the NOC. The village officer visited the spot and issued the stop memo on Thursday. When contacted, Mr. Dinesan said the stop memo was issued as the construction was done without the mandatory NOC from the Revenue Department. However, the CPI(M) legislator informed him that revenue authorities were not intimated as no construction work was being undertaken and only work to plug leaks on the roof was on. Mr. Dinesan said he had called for a report from the Subcollector and the stop memo would be revoked if there was no violation of rules. The village officer would visit the spot on Saturday and submit a report.
16 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||KSRTC to ply for govt. staff in Idukki||The District Collector has asked the Transport Officer of the KSRTC to arrange buses for government employees to reach offices at 10 a.m. and return to the starting depot in the evening from Monday. Only government staff will be allowed to travel on the buses and only one person would sit on a seat meant for two and two persons on a seat meant for three. The starting point and official destination and number of buses are: Thodupuzha-Cheruthoni (via Uppukunnu) 1, Thodupuzha-Cheruthoni (via Moolamattom) 1, Thodupuzha-Kattappana 1, Adimali-Kattappana 1, Adimali-Kuyilimala 1, Kattappana-Kuyilimala 1.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four-pronged strategy to stop COVID-19 spread in Kochi||The Kochi City police have come up with a four-pronged strategy to prevent a potential community spread of the COVID-19 pandemic following the arrival of Keralites stranded in other States and abroad. The focus is now on containment through strict compliance with the home quarantine protocol. At present, there are around 1,400 persons in home quarantine in the city. “The strategy is basically a refined and more streamlined version of what proved very effective in containing the pandemic in Kasaragod, which was a major hotspot,” said District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare, who was also the special officer for COVID-19 containment in Kasaragod. Households with quarantined persons will be visited twice a day by a bike patrol team of two cops who, besides making sure that the persons concerned remain at home, will also ensure their well being. Drones will be deployed over containment zones to monitor whether quarantined persons are attempting to sneak out. Guards will also be posted in such areas, in addition to the constant monitoring of CCTV feed. “Quarantined people will have to install a COVID Safety app, which will alert the police if they move out beyond 50 metres of their houses. The app also comes loaded with features like an emergency button that helps people alert the police during emergencies and seek medical consultations without venturing out,” Mr. Sakhare said. A demo of the app was conducted here on Friday. The officer warned that those found violating the home quarantine protocol would be shifted to institutional quarantine facilities, and their family members who did not report them would also face penal action.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Unkept promise leaves tribes in the lurch||Farming of pointed gourd ( kattu padavalam ) has left a bad taste in the mouth of tribal farmer Sivadasan of Kammalankudi, Marayur. The backtracking of Marketfed from its purchase order has left several tribal farmers like Mr. Sivadasan in the lurch. Unsold Currently, nearly15 tonnes of the dried medicinal plant that comes with a bitter taste, remains unsold. “I have been waiting for buyers for over a month for 150 kg of the produce,” says Mr. Sivadasan. The stem, leaves, and root of the plant are essential ingredients in Ayurvedic medicines. “Huge quantities are lying unsold in tribal hamlets. The tribespeople went for farming after Marketfed made a purchase offer,” said K.V. Binoji, the facilitator of the Participatory Forest Management Scheme. They harvested 34 tonnes this year. However, the agency backtracked, he said. The purchase orders by some of the private Ayurveda drug producers partly saved a few farmers. However, a large quantity remains unsold, said B. Ranjith, Divisional Forest Officer, Marayur. Manikantan, another tribal farmer, was lucky as the medicinal plants from his farmland was purchased by a private firm. However, 2,000 kg of k adukka, the seed of a medicinal plant collected by tribespeople from forests, remained unsold, said Mr. Manikandan, also president of the Kammalankudi Vana Samrakshana Samithi. The medicinal plant, said P.A. Shamsudheen, the marketing adviser of Marketfed, is now widely available in places outside Marayur and that too at a lower price, which forced the agency to cancel the purchase order. The tribespeople had priced it at Rs. 195 a kg. But it is now available at around Rs. 110.
16 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Work on desilting Thevara lakefront begins||As part of the second phase of Operation Breakthrough, the district administration’s battle against waterlogging in Kochi, work on desilting the lakefront at Thevara has begun. The work, costing Rs. 93 lakh, will ensure the smooth flow of water from the Koyithara canal into the lake, lowering chances of waterlogging at Kadavanthra, Kochukadavanthra, and Panampilly Nagar. The second phase of Operation Breakthrough aims to ensure that water from the canals reaches the Vembanad Lake without any obstructions. Work on cleaning the lakefront at Chilavannoor and Perandoor will begin soon and is likely to be over by the end of the month, providing a smooth outlet for rainwater. Work was planned using a flood zone map to identify areas that are prone to waterlogging. Work taken up by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) to lay new drains and ensure drain connectivity in some areas has nearly been completed. CSML is working on a cross-culvert on Park Avenue Road near Subhash Bose Park to reduce waterlogging in the area. Work on the drains on Shanmugham Road has also been taken up. New drains As part of the Rs. 197-crore Smart Road project, new drains have been laid along roads including Durbar Hall Road and Abraham Madamakkal Road, while drains along other Smart Roads have been cleaned. CSML is still in the process of removing LED streetlights it had placed inside a drain recently on TD Road, officials said.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sales of four-wheelers to shift to the virtual mode||Faced with an unprecedented slump in demand for four-wheelers, automobile dealerships are shifting gear to contact-less, digital mode of marketing and exchange of information, which, they say, will be the ‘new normal’ post COVID-19. Although most of them reopened a week ago, they are encountering a steep fall in walk-ins at dealerships. But most are positive of the sales picking up. “Customers are slowly adapting to the digital medium, for which we have readied an online platform. We deliver vehicles at their doorstep. A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been readied in order to enable test drives. Sales executive will be seated at the back, while the vehicle will be sanitised before and after the test drive,” says Eldo Benjamin, vice president, sales and marketing, Nippon Toyota. First-time buyers Mr. Benjamin foresees an increase in the number of first-time car buyers, be it for new cars or used ones, due to concerns of relying on public transport. Extension of the loan repayment moratorium period will help in this regard, he adds. “Enquiries are on the rise six days since we reopened. Our sales team is being re-equipped so that the staff are at home in digital marketing,” says S. Krishnakumar, general manager (sales), Sai Service Private Limited, a Maruti Suzuki dealership. “We have readied e-brochures, e-quotations, and e-booking. Amenities at dealerships have been redone in keeping with the government’s norms on sanitising and social distancing,” he adds. Azad Harry Pothen, who has dealerships of Hyundai, Mahindra, Honda, Ford, and MG, speaks of how innovatively-designed websites and virtual showrooms are taking over from the era when people used to visit dealerships multiple times. “The pandemic will redefine the way we work, with digital technology set to take over,” he says. “It is a week since we shifted to the digital mode, the new normal for sale of new and used cars and accessories and seamless loan transactions,” says the CEO of a luxury car dealership in the city. For this, SOPs have been readied and sales personnel are being retrained in videoconferencing etiquette. Test drives will be limited to those who are serious about purchasing. “Schemes like the one in which a customer pays EMI for a three-year period and either return the vehicle to us or opt for upgrade will find new takers,” he adds. Affordability Biju B, general manager, sales, Popular Hyundai, speaks of how a temporary reduction in GST, which is now in the 28%-40% range, will see automobile sales pick up, since EMIs will become affordable.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plug holes in biomedical waste disposal, PCB told||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) to file within three months a report on the gaps in the scientific disposal of biomedical waste generated in the State. The board will also have to update on the progress of establishing an additional Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF) in the State. “So three months’ time is granted for filing a detailed report regarding the progress for the establishment of the Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility in Kerala and also the total biomedical waste generated, the manner of collection, and the manner of disposal after verifying the records maintained in the existing CBWTF in Palakkad,” said the order issued by the Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on May 5. The directive was given while hearing the original application number 43 of 2017 that relates exclusively to the implementation of biomedical waste rules in Kerala. The government departments had requested more time. The Bench directed the PCB to ascertain how much biomedical waste that is being collected is disposed of and the manner being adopted for its scientific disposal after verifying the records maintained in the CBWTF in Palakkad. Data from IMAGE If there is any gap, they [board] are also expected to find the manner in which these things were disposed of, and if there is any violation in the action taken against violators, and to submit a detailed report. The board should also submit its future plan of action to remedy the situation of filling the gap in disposal of biomedical waste in the State.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre to consider State’s plea for trains||The Union government submitted before the Kerala High Court on Friday that the State government’s request for running special trains for bringing back Keralites stranded in other States would be considered. The submission was made by Suvin R. Menon, Centre’s standing counsel, when a public interest litigation filed by two pregnant nurses and students stranded in New Delhi and other northern States seeking operation of flights or special trains to Kerala came up before the court. He submitted that as of now, the lockdown norms did not permit operation of domestic flights. Harris Beeran, counsel for the petitioner, submitted that several students were stranded in Delhi, and Punjab. In fact, they could not afford to travel in the Rajdhani Superfast special train, the fare of which came to Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 for a passenger.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||6,700 persons benefit from tele-counselling||Missed counselling sessions in divorce cases, expiry of the deadline set by banks for settling loans, school exam results and financial matters pertaining to families dominated the legal, psychological and professional counselling support scheme offered by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KeLSA) during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Support was offered to around 6,700 persons during the period through tele-counselling. The 28 days of lockdown, starting April 6, witnessed the call centres and the councillors offering legal counselling support in 3,476 cases. The 441 empanelled lawyers of the Authority were involved in the process. The psychological panel with 11 counsellors dealt with 2,342 cases while the general counselling sessions led by eight professionals handled 876 cases. The sessions which were held under the programme ‘Corona pandemic lockdown-related online counselling management programme for Kerala’, was organised with the support of the Systemic Infrastructure Technology and Multilateral Industrial Co-operative Society and the Department of Psychology, University of Kerala. A copy of the report was submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
16 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MLA petitions police over fake social media post||V.D. Satheesan, MLA, has lodged a police petition seeking action against those responsible for a fake Facebook comment fabricated in his name that has been making rounds in social media since Thursday night. Mr. Satheesan emailed the petition to District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik on Friday. A screenshot of the comment showing him as the author emerged and had been widely shared in social media groups since Thursday. “It was just a screenshot of a comment in my name without actually showing the Facebook account from which it originated,” said Mr. Satheesan. Mr. Karthik said Aluva DySP would probe the matter.
16 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||don’t use||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought the response of the State government to a writ petition for a directive to pay dues under Laksham Thozhil Dana project, an employment scheme of the Agriculture Department. The petition was filed by Oru Laksham Yuva Karshaka Samithi of Alappuzha. According to it, the government had not considered its representation seeking payment of dues to its members. The petitioner sought a direction to consider and pass appropriate orders on it.
16 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew sector in the throes of another setback||With main competitor Vietnam expanding its exports to more countries during the current lockdown and the domestic market at a standstill, the cashew sector is facing yet another setback. Since the industry has hardly been able to ship any major consignment during the last two months, exporters are also worried about a possible piling up of the merchandise. Vietnam in full swing “While India could not deliver during the lockdown, Vietnam has been operating in full swing and it has been able to fulfil the overseas orders. While our contracts got cancelled, Vietnam stepped into the vacuum. The biggest blow was losing the West Asia market which was loyal to Indian cashew and it has almost captured the U.S., another major market. We fear that they will continue with Vietnam even after we are back,” says R.K. Bhoodesh, former chairman of Cashew Export Promotion Council of India (CEPCI). Huge challenge While recapturing the international kernel market poses a huge challenge, domestic market has also witnessed a substantial fall in sales during the pandemic. The ailing industry was gearing up for a revival with the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) registering record sales during last Onam. Since India is the biggest consumer of cashew, aggressive marketing strategies are being planned to tap into the domestic market. “But now the domestic market also holds no promises, at least for some months. Our major markets were metros like Delhi and Mumabi that were badly hit by COVID-19. It will take at least six months for the situation to change, but even that chance will be lost if there is a spike in corona cases,” says S. Anilkumar, managing director, Kerala State Cashew Workers Apex Industrial Cooperative Society (Capex). Productivity All the factories, including those in the public sector, are now operating with 50% workforce, which amounts to a sharp dip in total productivity. The sector has also incurred a loss of around Rs. 4,500 crore during the lockdown as processing units across the country were holding huge stocks of exposed kernels in different stages of processing. “Since Vietnam has mechanised processing, they can sell the product at a much lower price. At the same time Indian cashew has more quality and longer shelf life, which is a positive factor. Good quality wholes are always exported and it’s mainly splits and broken kernels that reach the domestic market. Since we have many export-oriented units, recapturing the lost markets will be crucial for the sector’s survival,” says K. Rajesh, president, Cashew Industry Protection Council.
16 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity quota for upper caste students||Calicut University will implement the State government order on extending 10 per cent reservation for economically backward students from upper castes in affiliated professional colleges as well as its various sections and departments. This was decided at a meeting of the university Syndicate held on Friday. According to sources, the government order had been implemented in arts and science colleges. The Boards of Studies on various subjects would prepare material for online classes in three months. Colleges would be asked to set up multimedia labs to conduct online classes. Interest-free loans would be provided to university staff to buy personal computers so that they can work from home.
16 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vande Bharat: six flights to be operated to Calicut||More flights will be operated from Gulf destinations to Calicut in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission beginning Saturday. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that Air India Express would operate the first flight from Abu Dhabi on Saturday. The second repatriation flight will be from Doha on Monday. One of the flights is operated by Air India from Riyadh on May 19. The other flights are from Salala and Muscat on May 20 and 21 respectively and finally from Dubai on May 23. “Nearly 865 Indians stranded in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations have reached the State via the Calicut airport in five flights in the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission from May 7 to 14,” he said. Air India Express will operate 11 flights to India from Dubai in the second phase of Vande the Bharat Mission.
16 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Banking mela for MSMEs||The Kozhikode Corporation is planning to hold a “banking mela” in the last week of May to make funds available to those at the the grassroots level in the backdrop of the lockdown. The mela is intended to create a platform where banks and stakeholders will meet. All banks, including service cooperative banks, will be represented at the mela.
16 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Dengue, leptospirosis cases on the rise in Pathanamthitta||With the onset of summer rain, vector-borne diseases such as dengue fever and leptospirosis are being reported in the district. Official sources say Aedes mosquito population has gone up in many areas of the district this year owing to lack of sanitation and proper waste disposal. Local self-government institutions are bound to ensure sanitation and waste disposal in their jurisdiction. C. Ajitha, who is leading the anti-dengue and leptospirosis mission of the Health Department in the district, told The Hindu that a large number of dengue fever cases have been reported from hill areas such as Vechoochira and surrounding areas. As many as 143 dengue cases have been reported from different parts of the district this year. Of this, 102 have beene from the Vechoochira and Naranamoozhy grama panchayat limits. Five cases in 10 days Five confirmed cases and 11 suspected cases of dengue fever have been reported in the past 10 days, she says. A committee chaired by Raju Abraham, MLA, has started an intensive public awareness drive in Vechoochira, which has been identified as a dengue hotspot. 63 cases this year A 48-year-old man, Koshy Abraham, died of leptospirosis at Elanthoor, near here, on Wednesday. A total of 63 leptospirosis cases have been reported in the district so far this year. Dr. Ajitha says the Health Department, in association with the local and civic bodies, would launch a series of vector-control and public awareness campaigns across the district. Facility for conducting confirmatory test for dengue is available at General Hospital in Pathanamthitta and facility for card test for easy diagnosis is available at all Community Health Centres and taluk hospitals. Management of the disease has been taking place at all hospitals as per the treatment protocol.
16 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Woman who came from Saudi gives birth to twins||A 30-year-old pregnant woman who came in a special flight from Saudi Arabia on Thursday night has given birth to twin boys at the General Hospital here on Friday. The woman, hailing from Elanthoor near here, who reached Kochi on Thursday night was taken to the General Hospital here in an ambulance. She was placed in quarantine. On Friday forenoon, she gave birth to the twins by C-section. Throat swabs Throat swab samples of the mother and both the babies have been sent to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha district. No new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of the district on Friday, according to official reports. 85 return from Delhi A total of 85 persons, 43 of them women, hailing from the district returned from Delhi in the first Kerala-bound train from the national capital on Friday. Three of the people who developed symptoms of fever were admitted to the General Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta General Hospital, and at a corona care centre at Varkala. The rest 82 of them have been home-quarantined.  The 30-year-old woman gave birth to the twins by C-section on Friday forenoon.
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to enforce quarantine||The police have formed special teams across the State to enforce home quarantine necessitated by the threat of COVID-19. On Friday, they booked 52 persons in Thiruvananthapuram and one in Kasaragod for defying quarantine norms. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the public should strike a balance between the exercise of their freedoms and the social requirement to keep the pandemic at bay. They would have to temporarily forsake the freedom of assembly and right to publicly practise and profess their religion to prevent the transmission of the disease. He urged the people to drop all plans for organising festivals or congregating for prayers for now. The public health response to the COVID-19 crisis had inadvertently restrained many simple freedoms citizens had taken for granted. They would have to bear with the constraints till the threat receded, he said. ‘Could last for years’ However, some citizens appeared to have beguiled themselves into thinking that the threat had passed. It was reckless to gather in public. The pestilence had not passed. Public health experts had repeatedly said the scourge might linger for years until the world discovered a vaccine, he said. Not more than five people could gather in public. He directed the police to warn businesses that caused overcrowding. The police would act in tandem with local body representatives to ensure that those in home quarantine stayed indoors. They would insulate containment localities from the rest of the State and would not allow mobility in high-risk regions. Sunday lockdown Mr. Vijayan said the State would observe a full lockdown on Sunday. The government had allowed only essential services, including home delivery of food, to operate. The public should remain indoors and avoid travel.
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Organ transplant sees a spurt||Organ transplantation is one major casualty during COVID-19. At present, all transplant procedures across the nation have been halted as the disease poses ‘severe consequences’ to organ recipients and health-care teams in hospitals. In Kerala, however, deceased donor organ transplantation is suddenly hogging the limelight, raising hopes of a new revival for the State’s scheme Mrithasanjeevani. The State has done seven transplants this year, five of them in April-May in the thick of COVID-19. With the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation issuing a directive that all operations of transplant be suspended during the pandemic, all major hospitals doing organ transplants had shut shop. Discussion on risks The sudden revival of public interest in deceased donor organ donation has had health-care professionals and transplant surgeons brainstorm on the risks of performing transplants during the pandemic. “The answer to whether one should risk performing a transplant surgery during COVID-19 entirely depends on the disease epidemiology in Kerala. The emergency COVID-19 task force meeting convened last month concluded that transplant surgeries did not carry an additional risk as disease transmission here is under control. So far, our ‘at risk’ group (chronic diabetes patients, those undergoing dialysis, etc.) has been safe from COVID-19,” says Noble Gracious, nodal officer, Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS). The risks to dialysis patients and transplant recipients are very real because they are immuno-compromised. Across the world, there have been several reports of post-transplant infections and long-term transplant recipients suddenly dying due to COVID-19. Infection control steps “We took extreme infection control measures to prevent all adverse events and tested both donor and recipients for COVID-19 using RT-PCR before proceeding with the transplant. The families of deceased donors are eager to save the lives of others. Somehow, in this mirthless pandemic season, the public seems to have rediscovered the joys of altruism,” says Dr. Gracious. A couple of external factors too helped. The government’s order delinking brain death declaration from organ donation early this year, giving families the clear options of termination of ICU care or organ donation, took a lot of pressure off doctors. ‘Trust regained’ H.V. Easwer, consultant neurosurgeon at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), who was part of the brain certification team for all donations, says that if till now a trust deficit between the medical fraternity and the public stood in the way of organ donation, in the COVID-19 season, doctors seem to have regained that trust and credibility. “This situation could be altered by the changing epidemic situation in Kerala. For now, we are happy that Mrithasanjeevani is looking up,” Dr. Gracious says.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ISRO units resume work||The easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions has enabled critical units of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) here to resume work after nearly two months, albeit on a limited scale. But it could be several more months before space-related activities return to normal, officials say. The Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU) had asked the staff, except personnel required for essential services, to stay home from March 23. Strict measures Now, adhering to the guidelines issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the units have opened up the campuses to more of their staff, but the emphasis on disease containment measures remain stringent. All staff holding rank equivalent to deputy secretary and above have begun reporting for duty on a daily basis. As much as 33% of the remaining officers/staff have been directed to attend work. Safety measures are strictly followed on the campuses. “Internal meetings are restricted to a few people. The duration of the lunch break has been increased to avoid crowding. Employees are encouraged to bring packed lunches so as to keep support staff to a minimum,” an LPSC official says. However, it could be months before the space missions achieve any semblance of normalcy, a senior official at the VSSC says.  The lockdown has forced the ISRO to put off two missions of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) and one of the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV). The lockdown has also affected future programmes including Gaganyaan, ISRO’s ambitious human space flight mission. “At the moment, much of the work is confined to internal activities on the campuses such as fabrication, R&D and mission studies. Major activities such as space missions continue to be hit due to the restrictions on inter-district and interstate travel and disruption of the supply chain,” a VSSC official says. During the lockdown the space facilities here have not remained idle. They had redirected their resources to combat COVID-19, which included the development of different ventilator models.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains to bring back Keralites from eight States||The chances of Keralites held up in various States returning home have brightened with Railways agreeing to operate trains from eight States. The Island Express from Bengaluru will be the first train to operate from Karnataka to bring back Keralites. Non-stop trains Railways will operate it as a daily, non-air-conditioned train, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The State has sought the permission of Railways to operate non-stop trains from Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru to facilitate the return of Keralites. The Island Express will have to be operated daily for two to three weeks as there are 30,000 Keralites stranded in Bengaluru, a railway official said. The train will have limited stops most probably at Palakkad, Ernakulam, and Thiruvananthapuram. Railways and the State are against operating trains from hotspot areas as it would hinter virus containment efforts. From Punjab The Chief Minister said the possibility of bringing back stranded students in Delhi in non-air-conditioned trains is being looked into. The help desk in Kerala House had been asked to coordinate. Nurses in Israel Kerala had also acceded to the request of the Punjab government to operate a train from Jalandhar to Ernakulam to bring back 1,005 Keralites. The government was in touch with the Union government to bring back 82 nurses in Israel whose visa had expired, the Chief Minister said. Shramik Specials To expedite the return of the migrant labourers stranded in Kerala, eight States have granted permission to operate Shramik Specials. As many as 28 trains will be operated from May 18 to June 14 to enable the return of the migrant labourers from here to West Bengal.  The train is likely to have stops at Palakkad, Ernakulam, and the capital district
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Politics overtakes the virus in Kerala||The endeavours of the State government to contain the threat of COVID-19 have increasingly drawn criticism from the United Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government, on its part, is on a counter-offensive, dismissing the criticism as the Opposition’s attempts at reaping political mileage. There has been no let-up in the sparring ever since the government engaged a U.S.-based company to collate the data of COVID-19 patients. Even the complications involved in the return of Non-Resident Keralites to the State and a medical board’s decision to send a group of Congress MPs and MLAs to quarantine are all fodder for the squabble. In response to the latter issue, the Youth Congress has demanded that Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen too be placed in quarantine. Lost amid these wordy duels are the accolades won by the State government globally for its virus containment initiatives and the alarming surge in cases among health workers and police personnel. The plight of Keralites striving to return from other States too have taken a political hue, with the curbs on their entry and the decision to regulate their flow being portrayed as an attempt to keep them at bay. In tandem Sinking political differences, the Centre and the State had been working in tandem initially to manage the crisis, but the recent observations of a few BJP leaders and retorts by the CPI(M) have raised doubts about the durability of such a co-existence. With the local body elections round the corner and the Assembly elections set to follow, all parties, especially the Opposition, can ill-afford to keep politics at bay.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU UG exams from May 26||Kerala University has deferred the commencement of the final-year examinations of its undergraduate courses to May 26. It was earlier decided to conduct the examinations from May 21 onwards. The decision to modify the examination schedule was taken by the Syndicate on Friday on account of the restrictions that prevailed in public transportation means. Students will be permitted to opt for examination centres close to their native places. The university also decided to establish new sub-centres in various areas under its jurisdiction to circumvent such difficulties.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||450 people newly under observation||As many as 450 people were newly put under observation in the district on Friday as part of steps to check COVID-19. A total of 4,568 people are in quarantine at homes, while 178 people completed their isolation period without any symptoms. In hospitals across the district, 38 people are under treatment. Four were admitted to hospitals on Friday with symptoms. Sixty-six samples were sent for tests on Friday. The results of all the 67 samples received on the day were negative. Screening tests were conducted on 11,760 people in 6,588 vehicles. At the Collectorate control room, 142 calls were received and 83 calls were received at the Disha call centre. The police registered 39 cases of lockdown violation. Petty cases were registered against 115 for travelling without masks.
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac not enthused by package||The package announced by the Union Finance Minister has only few interventions to address the lack of demand in the market, Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac said in a statement here on Friday. Out of the Rs. 1 lakh crore package for the agricultural and allied sectors, only around Rs. 20,000 crore is the additional spending from the Budget. The State will cooperate with all the new projects and will try to implement it in the best possible manner in Kerala. However, the Centre should make clear as to which are the existing schemes in the package now announced. The Centre’s package is not generally viewed as a stimulus package, said Dr.. Isaac. He said that the State will cut down considerably on its expenses. According to a study conducted by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, the revenues of the State will fall to Rs. 81,180 crore from the Rs. 1.14 lakh crore estimated in the Budget.
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seminar on smart meter||The Energy Management Centre, in association with the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management- Kerala, is organising a webinar on the topic ‘Smart meter and advanced metering infrastructure’. Registration is free. For details, dial 8547990950 or email to rajeev.kr312@gmail.com.
16 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||It is political quarantine: MP||T.N. Prathapan, MP, has termed ‘political quarantine’ the Health Department directive to three Congress MPs and two MLAs to undergo home quarantine. The directive was issued on Thursday after they visited Walayar in solidarity with those stranded at the check-post. The MP added that he would abide by the directive. Mr. Prathapan said he had gone to Walayar to urge the authorities to arrange institutional quarantine facility for those stranded at the check-post. “We did not meet the COVID-19 patient from Malappuram on May 9 at the check-post. Videos can be checked for confirmation. The Palakkad Collector in his Facebook post mentioned that the person reached the check-post at 10.30 p.m. But none of us were there then. We reached Walayar around 4.30 p.m. and returned at 9.53 p.m. The government can check our mobile tower locations. Contradicting the Collector’s statement, the DMO says the man reached the check-post at 10 a.m. We were not there even then.” It was a clear case of political vendetta by the government, he alleged.  We did not meet the COVID-19 patient from Malappuram on May 9 at the check-post. Videos can be checked for confirmation.
16 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Making State self-reliant in food production||Subhiksha Keralam, an initiative to promote self-reliance in food production in the State through productivity enhancement and effective market infrastructure, was launched on the Kerala Agricultural University campus on Friday. The programme envisages the convergence of local self-government institutions, the Agriculture Department and allied sectors, cooperatives, and research and extension agencies. It will promote production of foodgrains, pulses, spices, tubers, vegetables, milk, meat and millets for making the State self-sufficient in food production. Inaugurating the programme here on Friday, Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar emphasised the need for KAU scientists to take part in the agricultural development initiatives at the panchayat level. He distributed KAU’s eco-friendly vegetable kit Eka to Ollur block panchayat president Uma Devi and Madakkathara grama panchayat president P.S. Vinayan at a programme held at Ramanilayam in Thrissur, maintaining social-distancing protocols. NRIs in farm sector KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu said all units under the KAU would be used to train and provide technical guidance for farmers and farming groups. KAU scientists would ensure technology support for local production of quality seeds and other agricultural inputs.
16 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||YC holds protest march||Youth Congress workers took out a protest march to the Minister for Local Self Government A.C. Moideen’s house at Kallampara, near Wadakkanchery, on Friday, demanding ‘home quarantine’ for him. The Minister, who welcomed Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) at the quarantine centre in Guruvayur should be sent to quarantine, they demanded. The police arrested and removed them 100 metres away from Minster’s house. The Minister said he had kept mandatory distance from the NRIs and there was no need for concern in that case. However, he said he was ready to follow the direction of the health department as he had participated in a meeting in which Anil Akkara, MLA, who has been directed by the medical board to go on home quarantine.
16 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Ajayaprana Mata cremated||The mortal remains of Pravrajika Ajayaprana Mata, president of Sree Sarada Math, Puranattukara, Thrissur, were consigned to flames on the Math premises on Friday. Ajayaprana Mata, former global vice president of Sree Sarada Math and Ramakrishna Sarada Mission, Kolkata, passed away at Sree Ramakrishna Mission Hospital at Sasthamangalam in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday due to age-related ailments. She was 93. Her mortal remains were brought to Sree Sarada Math on Thursday evening. The Samadhi rituals led by Pravrajikas started on Friday morning. The Sree Sarada Math is one of the few Maths that are exclusively meant for women. Ajayaprana Mata joined the Math in 1952 and taught at the Math school for 21 years. She founded the Sree Sarada Math in Sydney in Australia in 1982.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||411 arrive in Kochi by train from New Delhi||A total of 411 persons on board the first special train from New Delhi to Kerala disembarked at Ernakulam Junction railway station early on Friday morning. Of this, 174 were women, including pregnant women. A total of 106 passengers disembarked at Ernakulam, of which one was taken to Government Medical College, Kalamassery, after he complained of chest pain. Those who left by KSRTC and other modes of transport to their districts included 45 persons from Alappuzha, 20 from Idukki, 75 from Kottayam, 46 from Pathanamthitta, and 91 from Thrissur. In another development, 152 NRIs arrived at the Cochin International Airport from Jeddah on Friday evening on board an Air India Express flight. They included 37 pregnant women, 31 persons who needed emergency medical aid, 40 who lost their jobs and three toddlers. The passengers were from 12 districts. They will be kept under quarantine for 14 days. In Kannur As many as 51 persons, who came by the first special New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram train and alighted at Kozhikode station, reached Kannur early on Friday morning. Of these, 48 persons were sent to home quarantine and others were taken to observation centres.  A total of 355 expatriates have so far arrived in the district. Of these, 153 persons are in home quarantine and 198 have been shifted to Corona Care Centres. Four persons who showed symptoms of COVID-19 are under observation at hospital. They arrived from Dubai and Bahrain on May 12. The expatriates arrived in 15 flights from Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha, Bahrain, Kuwait, Jeddah, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Five more test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad||The number of COVID-19 cases in Wayanad continued to rise with five more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases reported in the district stood at 21. A 29-year-old man from Kozhuvana near Cheeral and his 25-year-old-wife were confirmed to have contracted the virus on Friday. They had returned to Kozhuvana from Dubai on May 7 and were admitted to the COVID-19 hospital at Mananthavady on May 13, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. A one-year-old girl at Panavally near Mananthavady tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. A 33-year-old man from Thirunelly and a 29-year-old man at Cheeral were also tested positive. In Kozhikode Two more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Friday. A release said one of them was a 43-year-old Koyilandy native who returned from Kuwait on May 13. He had been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital after COVID-19 symptoms were noticed during screening at the airport. The second patient is a 27-year-old native of Kodenchery who came back from Chennai on May 7 by a private vehicle. He had been quarantined at a COVID care centre thereafter. His body fluid samples were sent for lab tests after a fellow passenger from Wayanad was tested positive for the virus. He had been admitted to the medical college hospital. Sources claimed that both of them were stable. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients from Kozhikode stands at 28. In Kasaragod A 39-year-old Kasaragod native, who had returned from Kuwait recently, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The Ajanur native, who landed at the Karipur airport, was kept under observation soon after his arrival. He is now undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. The total number of COVID-19 patients in the district now stands at 192. District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said the department had successfully treated all patients. At the same time, a surge in the number of cases is expected after the opening of the State boundaries, he added. Keralites stranded in other States continued to cross the State boundary at Talapady. On Friday, 506 persons entered the State.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Harbinger of change||
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All in order||
16 May 2020||ANANTAPUR/Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 persons discharged in Kurnool district||A record number of 50 persons, infected by coronavirus, were discharged from three hospitals in Kurnool district after recovery. The number was the highest in a day in Andhra Pradesh. Similarly, 38 patients were discharged from RDT Hospital at Bathalapalli in Anantapur district on Friday. Collectors of the two districts -- G. Veerapandian and Gandham Chandrudu -- described it as a great occasion as this was a sign of victory of the frontline fighters - doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and sanitation workers over COVID pandemic. Mr. Gandham Chandrudu along with Members of Parliament Talari Rangaiah (Anantapur) and Gorantla Madhav (Hindupur) cheered the patients coming out of the RDT Bathalapalli Hospital. In Kurnool district, while the total number of positive cases is 599 with eight persons being tested positive on Friday, the number of patients getting discharged till Friday evening was 393. Total active cases were 191 (Only 31.8% of total 599 cases tested positive). The new cases in Kurnool city were three, Adoni Urban four and Peapully one. In Anantapur district, with four new positive cases being reported on Friday, the total number went up to 149 (122+27 others) and of them 48 (24+24) active cases.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former underworld don Muthappa Rai no more||Former underworld don who had turned to business and social activism in recent years, N. Muthappa Rai, 68, passed away at a city hospital early on Friday. He was suffering from cancer and was hospitalised. Starting his career as a clerk in Vijaya Bank, he claimed to have accidentally turned to a life of crime in Bengaluru to protect his business, a bar and restaurant, from the underworld in the 1980s.  Fast rise However, his rise in a career of crime was fast. Mr. Rai was said to be the brains behind the murder of then reigning don M.P. Jayaraj in 1989, probably the first shootout linked to the Mumbai underworld in the city. He was then associated with Dawood Ibrahim. His rise created enemies and he was attacked when he made an appearance in a city court in 1994, but survived. Facing a host of criminal cases, Mr. Rai fled to Dubai in 1996. Though he fled with the help of Dawood Ibrahim, he slowly gravitated towards the “Hindu faction” in a communally-divided underworld. “This put him in good stead to turn a new leaf,” said a former city police official, who did not wish to be named. He soon associated with real estate business, as the city saw a boom in the late 1990s and 2000s. Mr. Rai was arrested and extradited to Bengaluru by Dubai authorities in 2002. He stood trial for eight cases, including the sensational murder of realtor Subbaraju, but was eventually acquitted of all charges for want of evidence. There has been no major case against him alleging any criminal activity since he returned to India, extradited from Dubai in 2002.  Political ambition In 2008, Mr. Rai started the Kannada organisation Jaya Karnataka, which became his public face. Though he had ambitions to convert this organisation into a political party, that never happened. Living in a heavily-guarded palatial house in Bidadi, he called himself a businessman involved in the real estate sector. Keen on a respectable public life, he turned a philanthropist and was also elected chairperson of the Karnataka Athletics Association in 2018. He is survived by his wife and two sons. The last rites were held at his residence in Bidadi on Friday afternoon. Due to restrictions imposed owing to COVID-19, only his family members participated.
16 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers stranded on inter-state border||Hundreds of stranded migrant workers bound for their homes in West Bengal and travelling in hired vehicles from Hyderabad were stuck in transition for more than six hours near Aswaraopeta on the State’s border with Andhra Pradesh on Friday morning. Dozens of vehicles carrying the workers, who were engaged in construction work before the lockdown was imposed in the State, to far-off places got stranded along the inter-state boundary, following the alleged denial of permission by staff manning a checkpoint at Jeelugumilli in Andhra Pradesh citing lack of valid documents, sources said.  The visibly exhausted migrant workers, who embarked on a long journey, after being rendered jobless by the lockdown, spent anxious moments on agricultural fields for several hours till afternoon. After spending more than six hours in sweltering heat, most migrant workers from West Bengal were allowed entry into the Andhra Pradesh border in their vehicles by checkpoint staff of the neighbouring State after conducting thermal screening as per the stipulated safety precautions, sources said. However, the stranded workers bound for their native places in Andhra Pradesh were asked to wait for necessary permission from higher-ups when reports last came in. “We had reached the inter-State border in Aswaraopeta mandal without any hassles by furnishing transit permits given by the authorities in Hyderabad,” a Kolkata-bound migrant worker said. He deplored that despite easing of lockdown norms by the Centre, they had to face an ordeal at the inter-state border owing to tough restrictions imposed by local officials. Thermal screening When contacted, Aswaraopeta cirlce inspector of police Rajagopal said that migrant labourers possessing valid documents in the prescribed format were being allowed to pass through the inter-State border from Telangana side. The joint teams at the checkpoint in Aswaraopeta mandal were scrutinising the transit documents ad permitting those coming into the State after conducting thermal screening, the circle inspector added.
16 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai link pushes tally to 176 in Chittoor||Chittoor district on Friday registered 25 positive COVID-19 cases, including 13 with Koyambedu link and 11 linked to Ajmer visit. While the Koyambedu connection is spread over Sadum, Pulicharla, Pakala, Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Chittoor, Pichatur and Narayanavanam; the cases with Ajmer links are spread all over the district. Ever since the emergence of the first COVID-19 case in Srikalahasti in March, the total number of cases now stands at 176, double the number that was last week. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah told the media here on Friday that about 100 persons who had come to Chittoor district from Ajmer last week were under quarantine, of which 11 tested positive to the virus. The COVID-19 task force officials said that on Friday, two people, including a 75-year old woman from Kadapa district, were discharged from the SVIMS COVID Hospital at Tirupati, after they tested negative to the virus twice. However, they were told to strictly observe 14-day home quarantine. A group of 54 students of Chittoor district from Jalandar arrived at Vijayawada by special train on Friday. From Vijayawada, arrangements were made for them to reach Chittoor by two buses. They are expected to reach their destinations by night. Activity increases With relaxation in lockdown norms, day-to-day activity has gradually picked up in several mandals, particularly the small and cottage industries. Though the local traders elsewhere had opened their shops since Thursday, public movement was limited to a few shops selling groceries and essential commodities. Bakeries, sweet stalls and the hotels, which are permitted to sell take away items, wore a deserted look with no takers. The shop owners hoped that their business would get back on rails by month-end. Meanwhile, the inter-State movement with a large number of public carrying e-passes had increased in the last two days. The police personnel at the border check posts at Battalapalle, N.R. Peta, Palamaner and Cheekalabailu said that several people from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu stranded in Chittoor district, who awaited their return, had engaged vehicles from their States.
16 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police destroy ID liquor near Chittoor||A joint team of Gudipala police and a special police party on Friday raided an ID liquor den at a forest location near Rasanapalle, 15 km from here, and destroyed 500 litres of ID liquor, 5,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash and utensils used for the illegal trade. According to the Gudipala police, the raid followed a tip off from the office of the Superintendent of Police at Chittoor. Noticing the raid party, several persons fled under the cover of darkness, while one motorcycle was seized. As per preliminary investigation, some accused were identified. Rasanapalle hamlet is known for ID liquor making in the last three decades. Deputy Commissioner (Excise and Prohibition) T. Naga Lakshmi said with the formation of the enforcement squads, more raids would be conducted in areas vulnerable to ID liquor-making.
16 May 2020||G.P. ShuklaTirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD gearing up to meet post-lockdown challenges||The TTD takes advantage of the absence of vehicular traffic and pilgrim movement and accelerates developmental works at Tirumala The TTD looks determined to meet all kinds of challenges after May 17 when the third phase of nationwide lockdown ends should the Central government permit temples to be opened for the public. Concrete railing Even though it is not immediately known whether or not the government will exempt the temples after the current phase of the lockdown, the TTD as a precautionary measure has accelerated the pace of various development works at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. Soon after pronouncement of relaxations in the construction field, the TTD expedited works like providing of concrete railing to the parapet wall on its second ghat road leading to the sacred shrine at a cost of Rs. 10 crore and also took up laying of BT road on the first ghat road at a cost of Rs. 8 crore besides taking up construction of an ornamental arch at the GNC tollgate at a cost of Rs. 2 crore with a wish to enhance spiritual ambiance and provide a refreshing look to devotees on their immediate arrival atop the town. The main intention behind accelerating the pace of developmental activities is to make optimum advantage of the absence of vehicular traffic as well as the pilgrim movement. This apart, it has also expedited the works relating to laying of white coolant paint in front of the main temple complex and mada streets to provide respite to pedestrian devotees from the scorching summer heat. The damaged granite slabs laid in front of the main temple have been identified and replaced with new ones so as to provide a uniform surface to benefit devotees moving around on bare foot.
16 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No fresh case in Guntur in 24 hours||For the first time in 45 days, the Guntur district has not recorded any new COVID-19 positive case, giving an indication that the district administration has finally managed to have a grip on the spread of this viral infection at least in the first phase. An intense campaign and a somewhat harsh containment strategy seemed to have paid off, as no new case has been reported in the last 24 hours. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar led from the front, putting in place 16 surveillance teams that handled the cluster containment strategies. The total number of cases stands at 404 and 257 of them have been discharged. “Our battle against COVID-19 began with merely following the World Health Organisation’s protocol of identifying, isolating, testing and treating the affected persons. The entire district administration was focussed on this single aspect for more than 45 days, and we spent sleepless days. But thanks to constant guidance from the Chief Minister, we are able to contain the spread in the district. Now, our focus is on those who have returned from the Koyambedu market in Chennai,’’ said Mr. Kumar. Suspects tested The district administration has identified 105 Delhi returnees, 1,981 primary contacts and 2,154 secondary contacts. Of them, 22 Delhi returnees, 253 primary and 88 secondary contacts tested positive. More than 600 persons above 60 years and having co-morbid conditions have been tested but none was positive. Testing has too been ramped up in the district. With more than 15,000 samples being tested, the rate of testing has gone up to 2,758 tests per million. The district has three RT-PCR testing machines, four TrueNAT labs and many rapid testing kits.
16 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘27,548 migrant workers in A.P. sent to home States’||The State government has shifted 27,548 migrant labourers stranded in various parts of the State to their native places in different States through 24 special trains of the Indian Railways. According to the railways, 1.77 lakh migrant workers have been transported to their native places so far. “After being engaged in cluster containment work, the AP Police have been involved in shifting them to their homes. The police have assisted in their inter-district and inter-State travel,’’ said Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang.
16 May 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC officials gear up to run buses after lockdown||As part of the preparedness for post lockdown scenario, officials from the APSRTC Visakhapatnam region are arranging seats in buses in a way that physical distancing is ensured among passengers. The works are being carried out at all major depots in Visakhapatnam district since the last couple of days. According to APSRTC Regional Manager, Visakhapatnam, M.Y Danam, if at all the government instructs them to start limited bus services in the coming days, they must be prepared. As such the seats in the buses are arranged ensuring social distancing and they will have new seat numbers. In one prototype, some seats in the buses are marked with cross mark with white paint to ensure that no person is allowed to sit beside one another. One seat must be vacant in between two passengers, he said. In another prototype for a few buses like Deluxe and Super Luxury, we are removing some seats as part of social distancing. In a line, there would be only three seats with gap in between the passengers, he added. “Apart from arrangement of the seats, while boarding a bus, passengers should wash their hands with sanitiser. For this, we will be arranging sanitiser in the bus itself,” the Regional Manager told The Hind u. Till now, there has been no decision announced by the Union government about public transport system which came to a halt since March 24, due to COVID-19 crisis. However there were several indications that the country would soon see buses resuming services only in orange and green zones. The Centre is likely to announce its decision before May 17. According to a senior official from the APSRTC, post lockdown, passengers who booked tickets in online only may be allowed.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana unhappy with KRMB||A gentle reminder on its earlier letter of February 5 to AP on the issue of the latter’s plans to enhance the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator sent on May 13 and writing another letter on Friday asking AP to furnish details on its GO 203 by Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) have left the Telangana irrigation authorities highly disappointed. In a letter addressed to the Special Chief Secretary of Water Resources of AP Government on Friday, Member of KRMB Harikesh Meena requested the former to “immediately furnish the AP govt. views on Telangana’s letter and also furnish a copy of the detailed project report on the schemes mentioned in GO 203 by treating it as priority”. “We are left highly disappointed with the KRMB’s approach on the highly sensitive issue that involves the riparian rights of a State. We were expecting that the river board would initially ask AP not to go ahead with its plans on Rayalaseema Lift Scheme to divert 3 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam reservoir and another 5 tmc ft a day from Pothireddypadu (PRP) by increasing its drawal capacity. Instead, the board’s approach is like washing of its hands by simply writing a letter,” highly-placed officials in the Irrigation Dept. of Telangana said unwilling to quoted at this juncture. The official said it was basic responsibility and right as provided for in the AP Reorganisation Act to tell a member State not to go-ahead with its plans contravening the provisions of the Act since AP was planning new projects as mentioned in its orders (GO 203) – Rayalaseema Lift and PRP expansion since its entire allocation of 512 tmc ft, as the arrangement in vogue, has already been tied up to meet the needs under different irrigation and drinking water systems. “Simply forward letters of contention by one State to another is nothing beyond a postman’s job,” the senior official remarked. The KRMB’s letter to AP also reminds the latter that it had initially written a letter on February 5 this year after TS’s letter dated Janaury 29 to furnish details (DPR) of the PRP capacity enhancement plans. Citing Para-7 of the Eleventh Schedule of APRA the KRMB letter to AP said: “No new project based on water resources arrived at based on appropriate dependability criteria on Krishna river can be taken up by either Telangana or AP without obtaining sanction from the Apex Council on river waters.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on May 17 to discuss Godavari water utilisation||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will chair a special meeting on the plan of action for utilisation of Godavari river water during the ensuing monsoon here on May 17. The day-long meeting to be attended by Ministers from the Godavari catchment area and officials, will be held from 11 a.m onward. Detailed meeting The meeting will deliberate on the quantum of water to be released from Godavari this monsoon, how much water to be diverted to SRSP and LMD, when and in what quantity water should be released to the reservoirs, effective utilisation of water and other issues. Ministers from the Godavari catchment area - V Prashanth Reddy, Indrakaran Reddy, Etela Rajender, K T Rama Rao , Koppula Eswar, Gangula Kamalakar, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Satyavathi Rathod and Jagdeeswar Reddy - have been invited to the meeting. Principal Secretary Rajat Kumar, Chief Minister’s Office Secretary Smita Sabharwal, E-in-C Muralidhar, SRSP CE Shankar, Kaleswaram CE Venkateswarlu and other senior irrigation engineers were also invited. A similar meeting will also be held in few more days on the policy to be adopted on Krishna river catchment area, according to a release from the CMO.
16 May 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa witnesses two COVID cases||Kadapa district witnessed two positive COVID-19 cases on Friday — one in Sambepalli of Rayachoti constituency and the other in Gandikota village of Jammalamadugu constituency. The first case, a resident of Prakash Nagar in Sambepalli, is suspected to have come from Koyambedu market in Chennai with a truck load of fruits. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan visited the two spots along with COVID containment officials and gave instructions on the steps to be followed in the vicinity. Meanwhile, Suresh, employed as a ward volunteer in Yerramukkapalli secretariat in Kadapa city, allegedly committed suicide. Police rushed to the spot and shifted the body to RIMS hospital for post-mortem.
16 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for fuel theft in East Godavari||The police on Friday arrested seven persons and seized 3,000 litres of diesel and a boat in which they were transporting the fuel in Gowthami tributary of Godavari river near Ramalayam village in Katrenikota mandal in East Godavari district. The movement of a boat in the river raised a suspicion as fishing has been banned until July 14. “The gang must have procured the fuel from some miscreants at the anchorage port in Kakinada. We have reports that such gangs are engaged in selling diesel at low prices to the aqua pond owners,” Amalapuram Deputy-Superintendent of Police Masun Basha told The Hindu . Cases have been registered against the seven persons and investigation is on, he said.
16 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil TDP team’s visit to mangrove site||Police on Friday foiled a TDP fact-finding team’s bid to enter the Kakinada mangrove site which is proposed to be spared for the housing purpose. The team consisted of Peddapuram MLA Chinarajappa, senior leaders Pitani Satyanarayana, K.S. Jawahar and former Kakinada MLA Vanamadi Venkata Ramana. On Friday morning, hundreds of locals, reportedly beneficiaries of the housing scheme, thronged the site, escalating the tension in the area. Police deployed in strength in the area defused the situation by persuading the TDP leaders to drop their plan. Later, Mr. Chinarajappa told newsmen that the team would submit a report on “the destruction” of the above 100-acre site to the party high command. “The report will be prepared based on field observations by experts, local communities, and activists for further course of the fight to stop the destruction,” he added. Recently, the National Green Tribunal (NGT)constituted an expert committee to prepare a report on the alleged destruction of the mangrove cover based on satellite mapping evidence. The committee is expected to submit its report to the NGT by August.
16 May 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre firm on 14-day quarantine||The Centre on Friday submitted before the Kerala High Court that the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had reiterated the requirement of 14-day institutional quarantine for Keralites being brought back from abroad, after considering a request of the State government for relaxing the institutional quarantine period. A Division Bench comprising Justice Anu Sivaraman and Justice M.R. Anitha had previously directed the Centre to consider the request of the State government when a few public interest litigations against the government decision to limit the institutional quarantine to seven days came up for hearing. The Centre said that pursuant to the directive, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare considered the matter and reiterated the institutional quarantine period mentioned in the standard operating procedure issued on the basis of opinion of a committee of experts.
16 May 2020||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prosthesis no bar for this stage-struck Karnataka teenager||Loss of a limb could not dilute a teenager’s love of the ancient art of Yakshagana and thanks to a steely will, 17-year-old Manoj Kumar has performed on several occasions with growing confidence. Manoj Kumar of Venoor lost his left leg when he was in Class 6, forcing him to discontinue studies for two years. But after being fitted with a prosthetic limb, thanks to efforts of the Lions Club of Naravi, he soon returned to school. Inspiring role model “When in hospital I learnt about the life of dancer-cum-actor Sudha Chandran. Her life was a morale booster to me. I determined that I should become like her,” he said. When he joined Class 8 in the Government Pre-University College in Venoor, Headmaster Venkatesh M. Thulapule was teaching Yakshagana to students and Manoj joined the classes. “He was the first to come forward to learn the art form that year,” Mr. Thulapule told The Hindu . “Bairagi was the first role I performed in Girija Kalyana prasanga (episode) in the school,” Manoj said. Outside of school, Manoj studied with Ramesh Shetty, an amateur artiste of Havyasi Balaga of Venoor. He also started exploring opportunities as an amateur artiste with professional Yakshagana troupes with performances of several hours that lasted through the night. Observing his interest and performance, some of the melas (touring troupes) gave him a chance. Since then he has been performing with Yakshagana troupes of Kateel, Sunkadakatte, Bappanadu and Mangaladevi. “He has been performing some supporting roles without any lacuna,” Mr. Thulapule said. Manoj, who is now in Class 10, wants to earn a diploma in electrical servicing. “I want to remain as an amateur artiste and become an electrician,” he said. Mr. Thulapule said since the teenager has good voice, he could emerge as a good bhagavatha (singer-cum-director). “I have also suggested that he focus on learning the himmela (background music such as singing, playing chande and maddale ) of Yakshagana,” the teacher said.
16 May 2020||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Watermelons come to the rescue of the poor||The watermelon has become the preferred source of food for hundreds of migrant labourers who are making a long, arduous trek back to their hometowns in the merciless heat. The fruit is cheap and filling, and also provides much-needed hydration, say the workers. A group of workers, who were on their way to Tuni in East Godavari district from Pericharla in Guntur district, were seen eating watermelons under a tree at Eluru. “We came in search of work in Medikoduru mandal three months ago, and due to the lockdown, were stuck there. We have little money left, and so we have been eating only watermelons for the last few days,” said Gali Sathibabu. “Watermelons are available for just Rs. 30 each. Some people are offering the fruit free of cost. One watermelon is enough for more than five persons. We walked for over 50 km, and are unable to carry water and food for all of us. So eating watermelons is convenient,” says Pasala Satyavathi of Anakapalle. Hundreds of labourers were seen walking along the highways carrying their children and luggage on their shoulders. Even a few pregnant women were among the walkers. “Suspecting that we were infected with the virus, villagers are not even offering us water. We don’t have money to buy bread and biscuits. We can only afford to buy watermelons. We are grateful to the traders who are selling the fruits along the highways,” said Saladi Nagaraju of Samalkot in East Godavari district. “There is no need to carry the fruits, as plenty of watermelons are available at every village,” said T. Lakshmi of Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district while eating the fruit under a tree with her family.
16 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases rise to 140 as 14 more test positive in Nellore dist.||Fourteen more persons having links with traders in Koyambedu market in Chennai tested positive for coronavirus in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours. Nellore district, along with the neighbouring district of Chittoor, registered the highest number of cases in the State on Friday. With this, the number of confirmed cases went up to 140 in the Nellore district, while the number of active cases stood at 56, following discharge of three patients on recovery during the period. Of the new cases, Nayudupeta accounted for eight of them followed by six in Nellore city. As many as 81 persons have been discharged so far in the district while three patients had succumbed to the disease. After reviewing the health situation with officials, State Irrigation Minister P.Anil Kumar Yadav directed the officials to expeditiously identify all traders who had had contact with Chennai traders or visited the market. He appealed to the members of the trading community to voluntarily undergo testing. As many as 1,000 persons, including primary contacts of traders who tested positive, were subjected to screening. Market shut down As a precautionary measure, people were dissuaded from visiting the A.C. Subba Reddy wholesale vegetable market in the city, and the authorities arranged for supply of vegetables and other essential commodities division-wise. Police enforced the lockdown more stringently in Stonehousepeta, which has a high concentration of kirana shops, and also in the red zone areas of Sullurpeta, Tada and Naidupeta which are closer to Chennai.  Meanwhile, Prakasam district did not report any new cases, where 60 of the 63 patients have been cured of the viral disease.
16 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why is TDP silent on move to draw more Krishna water?’||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar on Friday asked the TDP to make its stand clear on the order issued by his department according administrative approval for irrigation schemes worth more than Rs. 7,000 crore. “It is unfortunate that the TDP is silent on the bold decision taken by the State government to draw more water from the Krishna,” Mr. Anil Kumar said. The schemes were aimed at drawing an additional quantity of up to 8 tmcft water per day from the Srisailam reservoir. Upgrading the Pothireddypadu head regulator canal system to draw 80,000 cusecs from the foreshore of the Srisailam reservoir to bring more water to Rayalaseema during floods was a part of the new projects, he said. Disputing the TDP’s contention that it had completed 70% of the Polavaram project and a major part of the tunnel drilling work of the Veligonda project, the Minister dared the TDP to prove its claims. A majority of the tunnel work had been completed during the term of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in the combined State, he said, adding that the credit for filling the Somasila and Pulichintala projects to the full should go to the YSRCP. The Nellore Barrage would be dedicated to the farmers in December, he said.
16 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blaze at pharma unit sparks panic in Ongole||Fire broke out in a pharmaceutical unit at Pernamitta on the outskirts of the city on Friday, triggering panic in the area. Six fire tenders fought the flames for more than two hours and brought them under control, said Prakasam District Fire Officer S. Srinivasa Rao. Sanitisers being produced in the firm caught fire at 11 a.m. following an electric short-circuit. However, other medicines being manufactured in the unit did not suffer any damage, said Mr. Rao, who oversaw the fire fighting operation.
16 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||As lockdown 3.0 nears exit, no respite from cases in the South||Karnataka reported one more death from COVID-19 infection on Friday, taking the toll to 36. The virus was spreading in Andhra Pradesh in spite of the lockdown, with 102 new cases confirmed in a 24-hours period ending Friday morning. Kerala reported 16 more cases on Friday, 13 of which were imported cases and three involved local transmission. In the continuing spread of the virus in Andhra Pradesh in spite of the lockdown, the 102 new cases included 57 persons who contracted the virus locally and through the Koyambedu market in Chennai and 45 were migrant workers (34 from Maharashtra and 11 from Rajasthan) who had returned recently. The total number of positive cases stood at 2,307, including 150 migrant returnees. Also, 1,252 persons were discharged and the death toll was 48. Besides, 60 patients recovered in the past one day. The Health Department’s bulletin has included migrants’ cases under ‘out of the State’ tally over the last two days. Among the 57 new cases, 14 each were from Chittoor and Nellore, 9 from Krishna, 8 from Kurnool, 4 from Anantapur, 3 from Vizianagaram, 2 each from Kadapa and Visakhapatnam, and one from East Godavari district. Guntur, Prakasam, Srikakulam and West Godavari did not report any case in the 24 hour-window. The district-wise break-up of the total cases was: Kurnool 599 (238 active); Guntur 404 (139); Krishna 360 (140); Chittoor 165 (88); Nellore 140 (56); Anantapur 122 (62); Kadapa 101 (38); West Godavari 69 (24); Visakhapatnam 68 (42); Prakasam 63 (3); East Godavari 52 (17); Srikakulam 7 (3) and Vizianagaram 7 (7). Karnataka: 69 new cases Just over two months and a week since Karnataka reported its first COVID-19 case, the State crossed the 1,000 mark on Friday, also recording the highest single-day spike of 69 cases. The total tally stood at 1,056. In another fatality, a 52-year-old male resident of Chitaguppa town in Bidar, with travel history to Hyderabad presented with severe acute respiratory illness, and died on May 12 in Bidar. His samples returned positive on Friday. Mysuru district, which was a cluster hotspot and in the red zone, became COVID-free with all patients recovering and being discharged, and with no mortality. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said Mysuru was an example of how the virus could be defeated if people strictly followed guidelines. Among new cases reported on Friday, 20 were expatriates from Dubai as part of the first phase of Vande Bharat mission and 23 had a travel history to Mumbai. Among the 20 Dubai returnees, 15 were from Dakshina Kannada, five from Udupi and one from Uttara Kannada. The surge in the number of COVID cases continued in Telangana with 40 more persons testing positive for the virus on Friday. The number of positive cases is nearing the 1,500 mark with the number of cases touching 1,454. However, there were no deaths during the day. T.N. crosses 10,000-mark More than two months after reporting the first case, Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases breached the 10,000-mark on Friday. As another 434 persons tested positive and five more people died in the State, the total number of cases climbed to 10,108. Chennai reported 309 cases, taking its overall tally of cases to 5,946. Among the 434 new cases - 253 men and 181 women - were 49 people who had returned to TN from other States and from abroad. Five persons, including two men in their 30s, died in Chennai and Thoothukudi. A 32-year-old man, a resident of Chennai, was suffering from chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, and was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 12. He died on Thursday due to acute pulmonary oedema with metabolic acidosis and respiratory failure. A 34-year-old man, who had systemic hypertension, was admitted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital and died on Friday due to ascending polyneuritis and respiratory failure.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus )
16 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala updates monsoon preparedness document||As part of the preparations for the 2020 southwest monsoon, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) is updating its monsoon preparedness document by incorporating guidelines for tackling natural-calamity-related exigencies amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The updated ‘Monsoon preparedness and emergency response plan’ will be published shortly. The KSDMA has shared the updated version with different government departments for their inputs. It will be discussed at a meeting to be convened by the State Relief Commissioner on May 20. Four types of camps Among other things, the revised version, which takes into account the lessons learned from the 2019 floods, highlights the need to have four different types of relief camps/quarantining facilities in each local body and features a 101-point advisory on efficient management practices for relief camps. Such elaborate measures would be required as the State may have to tackle emergencies related to natural calamities and the pandemic simultaneously. In addition to relief camps of a general nature, special facilities would be required for COVID-19 suspect cases, the elderly and people suffering from other ailments, the KSDMA has pointed out. Moreover, the COVID-19 scenario would necessitate operational adjustments in all activities related to crisis management during the monsoon. For instance, the KSDMA has noted that rescue workers would need to be equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE). “We have also incorporated lessons learned from the 2019 floods,” Sekhar L. Kuriakose, member secretary, the KSDMA, said. In 2019, against the backdrop of the 2018 floods, the KSDMA had updated the ‘Orange book of disaster management - Kerala - Standard Operating Procedures and Emergency Support Functions Plan.’ Simultaneously, it introduced the ‘Monsoon preparedness and emergency response plan’ as a separate document. Local-body-level plans While COVID-19 has hindered pre-monsoon preparations across the State, the KSDMA hopes that the local body-level disaster management plans would help overcome this shortcoming. This year, the KSDMA also plans to source inputs from various globally reputed weather agencies in addition to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the KSDMA officials said.
16 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Challan’ fear grips traders||While the slow relaxation of lockdown norms has started easing the economy, the arbitrary fine imposed on individual as well as retail outlets has caused fear in various sections. The government’s decision to allow opening of all retail outlets barring cloth, jewellery and footwear outside the containment zones is sure to cheer the trading community, but it is received with a pinch of apprehension, in view of the challans raised and fine the outlets have been made to pay during the last week. Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Girisha, who announced the implementation plan to the media on Friday, minced no words when he stated that any flouting of the rules such as crowding, not following physical distancing norms, not having sanitiser at the outlets would draw fine. “Such outlets which do not maintain discipline will be fined Rs. 1,000 for every instance, which may go on up to cancellation of their trade licenses,” he warned. In a new norm, the MCT has decided to keep the shops open on alternate days to control crowding. Till further instructions, the days will be remembered by way of red and blue colour painted stickers on boards to indicate it is open/closed. Appeal to public Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy appealed to the public to question themselves the need for coming out on to the streets. While monitoring the implementation of lockdown at Vengamamba Circle, Jyotirao Phule Circle and M.R. Palle Circle, he said the relaxation was meant for essential travel and not a way of ‘relaxing’, he cautioned motorcyclists. Any form of violation of lockdown rules would not only jeopardise the serious efforts to control COVID, but also facilitate carrying the infection home, he added.
16 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 will reshape economy, says NITI Aayog member||The COVID-19 pandemic might have brought the world to its knees, but will end up reshaping the economy in the future, asserted V.K. Saraswat, member of NITI Aayog. Chairing a webinar on ‘Post COVID-19: Resurgence of Indian Industries and R&D’ organised by SRM AP on Friday, Dr. Saraswat dwelt on the capability of the Indian scientific community in epidemiological studies and stimulation through gene concepts and hailed scientific institutions, national laboratories and the pharmaceutical industry in the battle against the raging pandemic. Though he felt that the country had witnessed a delay in setting up test centres, and supply chain problems required a revamp and correction, Dr. Saraswat said he was optimistic that India would have an advantage in terms of cost, quantity and quality competitiveness post-COVID. Applauding India’s response to the pandemic, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy said that the production of PPEs, masks and ventilators has increased exponentially, and the industry is exhibiting preparedness for newer sectors. “We should have collaborations with the industry abroad, acquire technical know-how, and eventually become self-reliant,” Dr. Reddy said. Envisioning a ‘new India’ SRM AP Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao, who moderated the event, saw an opportunity to build a new India. “It is evident that the world will shift from China to India for imports. For this, India has to build skilled manpower, infrastructure and dedicated industrial fast-track clearances,” Dr. Rao said. Shantha Biotech chairman emeritus K. Varaprasad Reddy stressed the need for India to reorient its state of preparation to combat similar situations in the future, demanding MNCs to share the research knowledge inferred in ‘our land’.
16 May 2020||VEERAVARASARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||1 killed, three injured in blast||A 50-year-old man died on the spot and three others suffered injuries when a blast occurred in a shed at Vaddigudem village in the district on Friday. The condition of all the injured is stated to be critical, the locals said. As per sources, an electric transformer located near the shed exploded and the shed was completed damaged.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB gets more teeth to curb liquor flow||The State government has given full powers to the newly created Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) to check flow of ID liquor, curb smuggling of alcohol and control illegal sand mining in the State. SEB personnel have been entrusted with conducting raids, booking cases, seizing material, undertaking investigation, and executing Non-Bailable Warrants (NBWs). Against 6,274 posts sanctioned, the staff strength in the Prohibition and Excise (P&E) Department is 4,721. Of them, 3,304 staff members (70% of the strength) have been allocated to the SEB and 1,417 (30%) to the P&E. SEB Additional Superintendents of Police (ASPs) have been posted in all the Police Commissionerates and districts in the State. While Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang is SEB’s ex officio Principal Secretary, IGP and Director of Enforcement Vineet Brijlal is its Commissioner. The allocation of posts between the SEB and P&E Department in that order is as follows: Deputy Commissioner (10 & 6); Assistant Commissioner (12 & 9); Excise Superintendent (24 each); Assistant Excise Superintendent (38 & 30); Inspector (280 & 120); Sub-Inspector (389 & 167); Constable (2,341 & 789). Hitherto, the P&E Department used to look after the regulation of outlets, and distilleries and breweries, enforcement, wholesale trade of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and FL, revenue generation and other activities under the A.P. Excise Act, 1968, and the A.P. Prohibition Act, 1995. Now, the government has assigned the enforcement duty to the SEB and management of outlets, supervising the functioning of the A.P. State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL), revenue general and other duties to the P&E Department. The 208 excise police stations have been placed at the disposal of the SEB. The government has given more teeth to the SEB for checks on illicit liquor and sand smuggling. ASPs posted Orders have been issued posting the following officers as ASP in various districts: K. Arif Hafeez (Guntur Rural); Garud Sumit Sunil (East Godavari); Rahul Dev Singh (Visakhapatnam Rural); Ajitha Vejendla (Visakhapatnam city); S. Gautami (Kurnool); Vakul Jindal (Krishna); Y. Rishanth Reddy (Chittoor); A. Suresh Babu (West Godavari); J. Rammohan Rao (Anantapur); K. Srinivas Rao (Srikakulam); K. Rajender Rao (Prakasam); L. Lavanya Lakshmi (Tirupati Urban); K. Chakravarthi (Kadapa); M. Sathi Babu (Vijayawada city); S.V. Sreedhar Rao (Nellore); Karimulla Sharief (Guntur Urban); A. Ramadevi (Rajamahendravaran Urban); and N. Sreedevi Rao (Vizianagaram).
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana rebuts Opposition charge on electricity bills||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has come down heavily on the Opposition for alleging that inflated power bills are being issued to the consumers. “There is no iota of truth in the opposition parties’ allegations that the government has increased the power tariff steeply. The consumers are feeling the pinch as they have to pay three months’ bills in one go,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy told the media here on Friday. Power consumption went up due to lockdown and summer. Electricity bills were not issued in March and April. Hence, three months’ average consumption was taken into consideration while preparing the bills. “As three months’ bill is to be paid at once, it is being assumed that tariff has been increased,” the Minister said. Dynamic system “In fact, the government has switched over to the dynamic system of billing with a view to benefiting the consumers. Under the system, the slab rates depend on monthly power consumption during the present financial year (2020-21), which benefits the consumers. In 2019-20, the slab rates were based on consumption of the previous year,” the Minister said. “The consumers will understand the benefits in June,” he added. Blames previous regime Stating that the previous government had brought in the static system, which was not followed anywhere in the country, he said. The TDP government had filled the coffers without revising the tariff under the static system. “Under the static system, there will not be any change in the tariff for power consumed in the current month. Instead, it takes the previous year’s consumption into consideration while preparing the bill,” the Minister explained. Dues pending The previous government, which claimed to be an expert in the power sector, had messed up the situation. The subsidies and power purchase bills had not been paid, he alleged. Power purchase dues that were Rs. 4,900 crore in 2014 had gone up to Rs. 20,000 crore later. The dues to AP-Genco had touched Rs. 11,000 crore, the Minister said, and added that the government, besides clearing the dues, brought down the power purchase rate from Rs. 6 per unit to Rs. 5.16 per unit. The State government decided to give time to the consumers to pay their electricity bills until June 30 without any penalty or disconnection of service. The government would put the details of electricity consumption of all the consumers for the last two years online, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy added.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS facilitates smooth passage of migrants||In a touching gesture, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Friday interacted with migrant labourers on the national highway near Kanaka Durgamma Varadhi, and enquired about their problems. Moved by their plight, Ms. Sawhney spoke to the Collectors and Joint Collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts and directed them to provide food, shelter and arrange transportation to their home States. More than 200 migrant labourers, a majority of them from Bihar, were seen trekking on the highway. Ms. Sawhney, who was returning from the Chief Minister’s Office, immediately stopped on seeing the workers. The CS enquired about their health condition, the place they worked, their home State and for how many days they had been walking. When the workers replied that they were coming from Chennai and heading towards Bihar, she enquired about food, drinking water facilities for them en route. Ms. Sawhney wondered how they managed to cross the inter-State border and walked through Nellore, Prakasam and reached Guntur district. Medical tests Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz told The Hindu that 186 workers of Bihar were shifted to various shelter homes in the district and the rest to Guntur district. “Following the directions of the CS, we have arranged transportation for all the workers in Shramik Special Train going to Bihar. They will board the train at Krishna Canal Junction tonight after undergoing medical tests as per COVID-19 protocol,” Mr. Imtiaz said.
16 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: study points to lacunae in crisis management||Had the siren been sounded in time calling for evacuation, people living within half a kilometre from the styrene tank in LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, from which vapours leaked on May 7, would have had 30 minutes to escape and those living within one kilometre 40 minutes to escape, said Sagar Dhara, former United Nations Environment Programme engineering consultant, and Kalapala Babu Rao, Chief Scientist, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad. GVMC, PCB too blamed Sharing with The Hindu the ‘Preliminary modelling of vapour release from LG Polymers, Visakhapatnam’, the experts said that along with the plant management, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) should be blamed. The study said, “Had the siren been sounded five minutes after the temperature rose to 65° Celsius, people staying at a distance of 0.5 km from the tank would have had 30 minutes to evacuate their homes without being caught in the toxic cloud and those staying at a distance of 1 km would have had 40 minutes for evacuation. Persons living in the orange zone – beyond 1 km from the tank – had an hour or more to evacuate. Thirty minutes is adequate time for evacuation. Yet, evacuation was not done until much later. This increased the number of deaths and injuries.” “The Hazardous Chemicals Rules provisions and the APPCB consent for operation (CFO) order had information regarding the risk that LG Polymers plant posed to bystander population. Had the bystander population been trained in emergency evacuation procedures, and had the siren been sounded in time, deaths might have been avoided,” the study said. “ALOHA, a screening model based on DEGADIS, was used to model the release of toxic vapours. The model provides reasonably accurate information on the expected vulnerable zones (areas that will be affected under various release conditions,” Mr. Dhara explained.  “Styrene is an explosive substance. Fortunately, the release happened in the night and, therefore, the vapour cloud did not meet a flame and explode,” Mr. Dhara said.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC exams: marks’ breakup out||To help the SSC students prepare well for the examinations, a detailed subject-wise division of marks for all the subjects, except first and second languages, was released on Friday. In English, 30 marks are for reading comprehension, 40 for grammar and vocabulary, and 30 for creative expression. In General Science, the students will write answers to objective type questions (12 marks), very short questions (16 marks), short answer questions (32 marks), and essay and diagrams (40 marks). In Mathematics, objective type questions (12 marks), very short answers (16 marks), short answer questions (32 marks), and essay answer question (40 marks). In Social Studies, conceptual understanding will carry 40 marks, interpretation 10 marks, information skills 15 marks, current issues 10 marks, mapping skills 15 marks, and appreciation and sensitivity 10 marks. Intermediate exam The second year Intermediate Modern Language-II / Geography-II examination, which was initially scheduled on March 23 but could not be conducted due to the lockdown, will be held on June 3 (Wednesday). Focus on safety A statement issued by the Board of Intermediate Education said the examination would be conducted at the same centres with the same hall-tickets (still available for downloading @bie.ap.gov.in) from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. The examination would be conducted in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, including sanitisation of the place, social distancing and wearing of mask.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC removes 7,600 outsourced employees||In a significant move, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) management has given marching orders to nearly 7,600 outsourced/ contract staff working in the public sector transport giant across the State. In a communication to the field officers, M. Pratap, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Corporation, said in the wake of the coronavirus impact, it was decided to introduce cashless transactions in the RTC buses, without the role of conductors. "Now, as there will be an excess number of conductors, they will be deployed at places where there is a need, withdrawing the services of the outsourced employees to the extent of excess number of conductors." Likewise, the services of excess number of regular drivers would be utilised for ‘Badi bassulu’ (school buses), light vehicles or parking duties, in the place of outsourced workers, he said. Calling for optimum use of the resources and manpower, Mr. Pratap asked the department officials to identify conductors with technical qualifications so that their services could be utilised in the civil engineering department to provide assistance in civil engineering works. Move opposed Leaders of the APSRTC, now Public Transport Department (PTD), in a letter addressed to Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, have urged him to withdraw the decision. Employees' Union president Y. V. Rao and general secretary P. Damodar Rao pointed out that the Centre had asked organisations and individuals not to relieve people of their jobs in the difficult times of COVID-19.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free rice supply to resume today||The State government will launch fourth spell of distribution of free rice to white ration card holders at fair price shops on Saturday. The government will supply 5 kg of rice per person and one kg of whole bengal gram per family. As many as 1,48,05,879 families would benefit under the scheme. Of this, 1,47,24,017 families already have ration cards. In addition, 81,862 families, which have applied for ration cards, and found eligible would also be given ration. The government has decided to provide free rice to all the 1.48 crore families. Stringent norms The ration would be supplied through 28,354 fair price shops across the State. Card-holders would have to provide their biometric details to avail the free rice. The government has made sanitisers available at the ration shops. The card-holders would have to sanitise their hands before and after taking the provisions and would also have to follow social distancing norms. The ration would be available at any shop through portability.
16 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take up lift scheme at Sangameswaram’||The Andhra Pradesh State Water Users Associations Federation (APSWUAF) has asked Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take up a lift irrigation scheme at Sangameswaram to draw three tmcft of Nagarjuna Sagar water to irrigate the drought-prone Rayalaseema region. In a letter to the Chief Minister, federation president Alla Gopalakrishna Rao said it was highly inappropriate for Telangana to write to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) opposing a lift irrigation scheme proposed by the Andhra Pradesh government at Pottireddipadu Head Regulator to lift three tmcft to supply water to Rayalaseema. The AP government could therefore take up a lift irrigation scheme to utilise assured waters of the Nagarjuna Sagar, instead.  ‘TS charge baseless’ Telangana had proposed several lift irrigation schemes like the Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme to use an additional 90 tmcft, the Dindi lift irrigation scheme to use 30 tmcft, Mission Bhagiratha to use 20 tmcft , the Bhaktha Ramdas lift irrigation scheme to use 5.5 tmcft, the Tummilla lift irrigation scheme to use 5.44 tmcft, and also proposed the enhancement of three projects — the Kalwakurthi lift irrigation scheme, SLBC and the Nettempadu. After coming up with so many new projects, it was ridiculous for Telangana to complain to the KRMB, Mr. Rao pointed out.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 2,800 crore released for Rythu Bharosa||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday released Rs. 2,800 crore for the implementation of the ‘Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan’ scheme. It will benefit 49,43,590 farmer families. They will get Rs. 7,500 as first instalment of which Rs. 2,000, amounting to Rs. 3,675 crore, was credited in April. In the second instalment, Rs. 4,000 will be disbursed in October for rabi and Rs. 2,000 during Sankranti taking the total amount to Rs. 13,500 for five years. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan said 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Centres would start functioning from May 30. He observed that as a majority of farmers are small, holding less than one hectare each. The financial assistance under the scheme would be useful in kick-starting agriculture operations. The names of beneficiaries are displayed at the village secretariats. Farmers who might be left out can call 1902 help-line to get themselves covered.  COVID relief measures The CM said the government has spent Rs. 1,000 crore on COVID relief measures for farmers and the Marketing Department ensured that they got Minimum Support Price (MSP) by creating a market stabilisation fund. Free power was being given to farmers from about 82% of the feeders and ‘YSR Janata Bazaars’ would be coming up soon.
16 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmana Reddy made A.P. Lokayukta||Former judge of the erstwhile High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Justice P. Lakshmana Reddy, has been appointed as Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta. Justice Lakshmana Reddy will be the full-time officer and will have the status of Chief Justice of a High Court during his tenure. Orders to this effect were issued by the government. Justice Lakshman Reddy studied in Kadapa and Bengaluru and enrolled himself as an advocate in December 1972 in the Kadapa district court. He later became principal district and sessions judge (PDJ) and was elevated as a HC judge in May 2005.
16 May 2020||VISAKHA[ATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: company trying to hide facts, says CPI(M)||A CPI (M) delegation led by State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao met the chairman of the committee constituted by the NGT to probe into the styrene monomer vapour leak from LG Polymers plant, here on Friday. Submitting a report to Justice B. Seshasayana Reddy, chairman of the five-member committee, the Left party leader pointed out that the South Korean company was trying to hide the facts and there was no honesty in its statement. According to Mr. Narasinga Rao, the vapour had started to leak from the storage tank at around 1 p.m. on May 7, and the management did not raise any alarm or make any public announcement to alert the people living in the vicinity. They represented that in the process 12 persons had died and over 350 were hospitalised. ‘No eco clearance’ He drew Justice Reddy’s notice to the signed affidavit submitted by the company on May 10, 2019 to the Andhra Pradesh Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), wherein the company admitted that as of that date, the unit did not have a “valid environmental clearance substantiating the produced quantity, issued by the competent authority for continuing operations.” Mr. Narasinga Rao pointed out that the plan for expansion was classified as a ‘Category A’ project, for which a “prior environment clearance” from the MoEF was required. However, in May 2019, the company still went ahead to file for clearance with the Andhra Pradesh SEIAA; and the latter transferred the proposal to the Centre. In that application, the company had undertaken that it would not “repeat any such violation in future,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. He informed Justice Reddy that from 1997 and 2019, the unit, operated by LG Polymers India, did not have the requisite and essential environmental clearances. He also alleged that the company was producing all its products in its full capacity with a tacit approval and understanding with the AP Pollution Control Board. It is learnt that Justice Reddy assured to look into the facts and demands, and said that action will be initiated after the report from the expert committee.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more test positive in city||Two new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, as per the State health bulletin released on Friday. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district will be 68 as on date. While the total number of active cases is 42, the number of persons discharged is 25. It may be recalled that the district also reported one death from Chengalraopeta area. According to officials from the Health Department, the two new cases were reported from Gajula Veedhi, Poorna Market. A 62-year-old man and 56 year-old-woman from this area have tested positive on May 14 evening. The Health Department officials suspect that the duo might have contracted the virus from Delhi returnees. However they are yet to establish proper source. Primary contacts have been sent to isolation at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD).  3 migrants ‘test positive’ For the first time, three migrant labourers who have come from other States have reportedly tested COVID-19 positive in the district on May 14 late night. However the cases are yet to be confirmed in the State health bulletin. The three, include two from Bylapudi village from Cheedikada mandal and a person from Dibbidi area from Butchayyapeta mandal. The duo from Bylapudi village, who worked as labourers in Tamil Nadu, reached Visakhapatnam a few days ago. It was learnt that they came to the State on foot and were intervened in Rajamahendravaram, where they were placed under quarantine. After returning to Cheedikada, they were again sent to quarantine, where they showed symptoms and tested positive. The Revenue Department has prepared mapping in which they have identified seven villages surrounding Bylapudi under three km radius under buffer zone. Meanwhile, another person who came from Tamil Nadu to Dibidi in Butchayyapeta mandal, tested positive, while his primary contacts were sent to isolation. The Revenue Department has identified three villages under buffer zone.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT conducts inquiry at LG Polymers||A committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal, headed by Justice B. Seshasayana Reddy, held a detailed inquiry at the LG Polymers plant here on Friday to probe the circumstances of the gas leak that killed 12 persons in the vicinity of the plant on May 7. The team spent over three hours at the plant and interacted with the company officials and the South Korean expert team. They also visited the plant and inspected the styrene monomer tank from which vapour leaked out. The committee members also met various stakeholders, representatives of various political parties who had gone to submit their representations, and officials involved in the rescue operations. It is learnt that the NGT committee will also hold discussions with the members of the high-power committee constituted by the State Government to probe the incident. Various aspects, including the cause of disaster and its short-term and long-term impact on the environment and health of affected people, are being probed by the NGT committee.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Storm brewing in Bay of Bengal||The well-marked low-pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood persists and it is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the next 12 hours and further intensify into a cyclonic storm over central parts of south Bay of Bengal by the evening of May 16, according to a statement issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre, here, on Friday. It is very likely to move northwestward initially till May 17 and then re-curve north-northeastward towards north Bay of Bengal between May 18 and 20. Under the influence of the system, squally winds with speed reaching 55-65 km/hr, gusting to 75 km/hr, are likely over central parts of south Bay of Bengal and adjoining central Bay of Bengal on May 16.Squally wind with speed reaching 40-50 km/hr gusting to 60 km/hr, is also likely along and off north A.P. and south Odisha coasts on May 18. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into the above sea/coastal areas during these periods. The system is under continuous surveillance,” the release said.
16 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||No excess billing, says Discom CMD||There is no truth in the apprehensions being expressed by consumers on social media that they are being charged ‘excess’ tariff for the months of April and May, A.P. Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) chairperson S. Nagalakshmi said on Friday, adding that billing was done as in the past. Dismissing the claims being made on social media regarding excess billing, Ms. Nagalakshmi said at a press meet here on Friday that electricity bills were not issued in April in view of the restrictions imposed due to the lockdown and to ensure the safety of consumers. The consumers were asked to pay the same amount that they had paid in March as their bill for April. “Though the meter reading was taken for two months, the units were divided for the two months separately and the billing was done accordingly. The billing details have been uploaded online and consumers can check by entering their 16-digit service connection number,” Ms. Nagalakshmi said. “If the bill was issued on March 5, the billing was done for 25 days of March, 30 days of April and the remaining for the first five days in May,” she said. The CMD said that the tariff has been revised with effect from April 1 but there was no change in the slab rate except for those who have consumed more than 500 units a month. These consumers would be charged Rs. 9.95 a unit, which was an additional 90 paise per unit as compared to the tariff before revision. She said that the hot summer months of April and May normally see a steep rise in consumption of electricity. The lockdown due to COVID-19, and people staying at home, has resulted in further increase in consumption, she said. Mr. Nagalakshmi appealed to consumers to log on to the websitewww.apepdcl.com, enter their service connection number and view their previous bills. She said that the last date for payment of the bill for May has been extended to June 30. Helpline Consumers having any complaint regarding their bills can call on the toll-free number 1912 and get their grievances addressed.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna condemns arrest of TDP leaders visiting gas-affected areas||Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has condemned the arrest of party leaders Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and Gandi Babaji who went to see the conditions in the styrene-affected areas on Thursday. It was undemocratic to arrest a former Minister who was in public life for decades and a former MLA who have every right to know the well-being of residents there, he said at a press conference here on Friday. After their arrest they were shifted to the far off Anandapuram police station which was also not warranted, he said. With reports of volunteers and police officials falling unconscious it was the duty of leaders of all parties to visit the affected areas, he said. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged no action was being taken against the management responsible for the tragedy while Opposition leaders were being arrested. He appealed to the Police Commissioner to check the police who, he alleged, were exceeding their limits. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said a TDP Committee appointed by party president N. Chandrababu Naidu that included former Home Minister N. Chinarajappa would visit the styrene-affected villages soon and a letter would be addressed to the Police Commissioner in this regard. Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy said they had gone to the area only after people told them that no survey was conducted at R.R. Venkatapuram. He said issues were also represented to the three Ministers and the District Collector. When they were enquiring about the conditions, two inspectors asked them to leave since Section 144 was in force. Even as they were leaving, an ACP told them they were being arrested. Terming it undemocratic, he wondered why they were not taken to Gopalapatnam or Pendurti police stations but to Anandapuram. Mr. Babji, former MLAs G. Rama Naidu, Palla Srinivasa Rao and Peela Govinda Satyanarayana, State Telugu Mahila president Vangalapudi Anitha and general secretary (Urban) Ch.V. Pattabhiram were among those present.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workbooks prepared for students of civic schools||Following the blueprint worked out by the Education Department, workbooks have been prepared for the students of municipal schools in GVMC, closed due to the COVID-19 lockdown followed by summer holidays. Though the Sarva Siksha Abhiyan has been conducting online and smart classes, students of municipal high schools are not in a position to make use of them as nearly 50% of them don’t have laptops or smartphones. To overcome this, workbooks are prepared under a programme named ‘Abhyasa.’ The workbooks contain questions with space provided for writing answers with short answer questions and bits are included — all for 100 marks. Students have to go through the textbooks and answer them. The books will be sent to students via teachers, ward education secretary and volunteer. They will be collected after two, three days and after valuation students are advised on phone. The first set of workbooks have been distributed to students of Class X. The exercise through workbooks will continue in phases till the examinations are conducted.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs seek stern action||Praja Aarogya Vedika (PAV) and Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) have appealed to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to initiate action against LG Polymers for operating without formal environmental clearance. PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and JVV State president K. Trimurthulu said in their letter that it was shocking that the company had sought post-facto approval for expansion and sought a thorough investigation into the affairs of the firm.
16 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks arrest of company officials||The CPI has demanded arrest and filing of criminal charges against the Chairman, Directors and senior officials of LG Polymers under Section 302 CPC for criminal negligence causing death of 12 persons. In a letter to the NGT, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said the NGT should order the company management to deposit Rs. 500 crore, instead of Rs. 50 crore, towards cost of compensation and treatment of victims. The factory and the lands in possession of the company should be taken over by the government and used for public good. Officials of the Industries Department and the Pollution Control Board should be booked for dereliction of duty.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Details of victims collected||In the household survey taken up following the government’s instructions to extend financial assistance to the areas hit by styrene leak from LG Polymers so far collected details of 6,196 houses and 20,033 persons, according to GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao. The scope of the survey is 6,297 houses and 20,574 persons. The Commissioner of Zone VI, Town Planning, UCD, ward secretaries and volunteers conducted the survey.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rights groups slam company over gas leak||Mourning the death of 12 persons in the styrene monomer vapour leak from the South Korean-based chemical plant LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam, various national and international rights groups such as Occupational and Environmental Health Network of India (OEHNI) and Bhopal Group for Information and Action condemned the alleged callous attitude of the company and their efforts to buy over any backlash. Organising a press conference across cities worldwide through Zoom, they expressed shock over the Chief Minister allegedly giving a clean chit to the company. Addressing the conference, Jagdish Patel of OEHNI said that the company has been very lackadaisical in its operation . Rachna Dhingra of Bhopal Group for Information and Action, said that long-term follow up in view of fetotoxicity of styrene and its known impact to cause genetic problems was necessary. Rights activists from Visakahapatnam, the USA, China, South Korea and other countries participated. One victim was also present at the conference.
16 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work inspected||Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana on Friday inspected the water supply work taken up at a cost of Rs. 4.6 lakh at Rushikonda beach. She issued solid waste management, and other certificates to District Tourism Development Officer Purnima Devi.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Defers plan||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation has postponed for a few days its proposal to run special buses from Hyderabad to the State from Saturday to bring back people held up there. Corporation Executive Director (Operations) Brahmananda Reddy said the buses would be operated from there to different parts of the State in a few days.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hot favourite||
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trudging along||
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wind in their sails||
16 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Adilabad ryots should be weaned away from cotton: scientists||The COVID-19 situation did not really affect farmers in terms of loss of incomes in former composite Adilabad district as the government extended its protection by way of procuring all crops as minimum support price towards the end of yasangi or rabi season. They are, therefore, making preparations to sow only popular crops like cotton in the ensuing vanakalam or kharif season which, according to agriculture scientists, is not advisable under the situation. Though the government has announced that its support system, including Rythu Bandhu, will be available to only those farmers who go in for recommended crops this season, there is no indication that farmers in Adilabad will be weaned away from cotton, which is known to create distress among farmers. Well-known agriculture scientist G.V. Ramanjaneyulu wants the government to make crop plan based on locally suitable varieties where the risk of failure is highly reduced and farmers can add their own knowledge to it. Cotton, sown in about 3.5 lakh hectare, occupies over 50% of all the cultivable area in old united Adilabad. The distress it generated over the years within the farming community had even prompted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to ask farmers to stay away from cotton in April 2016. Mr. Ramanjaneyulu, executive director of Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, who also wants the government to come out of the paddy centric cultivation plan, says Adilabad has a number of crops including oil seed, pulses and millets, which can be promoted. “Cotton farmers will shift to crops for which the government builds confidence among farmers,” he opined. “The government should come up with district-level models of cultivation which will include strengthening local markets. If planning is made at their level, farmers can decide the kind of crops that need to be sown and can infuse their knowledge which drastically reduces the risk factor,” the scientist explained. “The government should take advantage of the COVID-19 situation and promote indigenous varieties for cultivating nutritious and healthy food crops by extending all its support to farmers. Such an effort will also revive the health of the soil in these parts,” suggested an agriculture scientist in Adilabad, not wanting his name to be revealed.
16 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Three of a family killed in road accident||A ghastly road accident on Friday morning claimed the lives of three persons of a family on the National Highway passing through Mandamarri town in Mancherial district. The victims were identified as Komuraiah, 48, Sujatha, 40, and Kavya, 18, from Luxettipet mandal head quarter. The husband, wife and daughter were on a motorcycle when an unidentified vehicle rammed the bike. The trio attended a function in Perkapalli village of Kasipet mandal the previous night and were on their way home when the accident took place.
16 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF-bolt||One person from Raiguda of Sirikonda mandal was killed when a thunderbolt struck him while he was taking shelter under a tree as it was raining in Indervelli mandal on Friday. Athram Madhav Rao, a 35-year-old Adivasi, had come to Indervelli on some work. He was returning home when it started raining.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government to launch intensive sanitation drive||Notwithstanding the poor financial health of the State government in view of the ongoing lockdown, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed Finance Department to ensure that there was no dearth of funds for an intensive sanitation drive in towns and villages and other essential services. Mr. Rao asked the Finance Department to release funds for the purpose for June as the same was already done for February to May, a release said after he chaired a high-level meeting to discuss action taken to check spread of COVID 19, implementation of lockdown and seasonal diseases. He instructed the government machinery to carry out sanitation drive in towns and villages to ensure that the seasonal diseases did not spread. Sodium hypochlorite should be sprayed five times a month. It should be taken up twice before May-end and five times in June. The habitation should be cleared of garbage and fogging taken up to eliminate mosquitoes. It will help in checking spread of coronavirus and seasonal diseases. Mr. Rao wanted the mayors and municipal chairpersons as also other elected representatives in towns and villages to take an active part in the drive. They should sensitise public to work with the government in its endeavour. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao should hold video conference to monitor the situation. As the neighbourhood clinics (basti dawakakhanas) worked effectively, he asked Mr. Rama Rao and Health Minister Eatala Rajender to open 45 more of them in Hyderabad. Presently, there were 123 clinics in the city. He also ordered launch of `Haritha Haaram’ programme of green belt improvement across the State from June 20.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure services for those with non-COVID health issues: HC||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the government to appoint nodal officers in all red zones or hot spots — localities witnessing a high number of COVID-19 cases — so that people living there can rely on them to access non-COVID health services. The HC instructed the government to ensure that all non-COVID hospitals do not refuse treatment to pregnant women and patients suffering from cancer and other ailments. Contact numbers of the nodal officers should be publicised through media and posted on the websites of Medical and Health department. Lacunae in services The order was passed by a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman while hearing two PIL petitions over the death of a woman and her newborn reportedly due to lacunae in emergency medical services in government hospitals. The woman hailed from Gadwal and had to be taken to different government hospitals for delivery. She and her newborn died eventually. The bench said the government machinery should ensure pregnant women requiring medical facilities are safely shifted to non-COVID hospitals at the earliest. Vehicles carrying pregnant women, accompanied by an attendant, should be permitted to visit doctors or for regular medical check-up. Their movement to scanning centres or purchasing medicines should not be obstructed, the bench said. Referring to compensation to the family of the dead woman, the bench instructed the government to file a detailed counter affidavit. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said the Chief Secretary has ordered an inquiry into the death of the woman and baby. Compensation, action After receiving the inquiry report, the government would decide upon the quantum of compensation to be paid to the victim’s family and action to be initiated against the persons responsible for her death. The pleas were posted to Tuesday for next hearing.  Vehicles carrying pregnant women, accompanied by an attendant, should be permitted to visit doctors. High Court bench
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR joins hands with IIIT-H and Intel||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is working with Intel India and International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT)-Hyderabad to help achieve faster and less expensive COVID-19 testing and coronavirus genome sequencing to understand epidemiology and AI-based risk stratification for patients with co-morbidities. Intel India is developing an end-to-end system that consists of multiple applications, testing devices, data collection/aggregation gateways, a data exchange SDK and an AI model-hub platform. CSIR constituent labs such as CSIR-IGIB, CSIR-CCMB, CSIR-IMTECH, CSIR-IIP, CSIR-CLRI etc. will work with various hospitals and diagnostic chains in carrying out comprehensive diagnostics. IIIT-Hyderabad will develop risk stratification algorithms that can help in drug and vaccine discovery for long term preparedness to combat the epidemic. “Multi-disciplinary partnerships are key to tackling the challenge of COVID-19 and CSIR is happy to collaborate with IIIT-Hyderabad and Intel India which bring in complementary strengths in genomics, big data and AI,” said CSIR director-general Shekhar. C Mande. “Technology has become cheaper, more accessible and far more efficient since SARS-CoV-1 hit us and remains crucial in this fight against SARS-CoV-2 as it enables diagnostics, drug and vaccine discovery with higher predictability, speed and accuracy,” said Nivruti Rai, country head, Intel India and VP, Data Platforms Group, Intel Corporation. ‘Exciting tie-up’ “It is exciting for IIIT-Hyderabad to work with the country’s top scientists from CSIR laboratories and an industry leader like Intel on developing solutions for better sequencing of COVID-19 and other problems,” said IIIT-Hyderabad director P.J. Narayanan.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||House surveys in 3 districts||National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in association with the Telangana government has initiated house-to-house survey in 30 villages across Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda, districts as part of the community based sero-surveillance, said NIN director R. Hemalatha on Friday. She said that COVID-19 has emerged as a pandemic and the infection due to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV-2) has now spread to more than 200 countries. It has also been observed that SARS-CoV-2 causes asymptomatic infection for which sero-surveillance is strongly recommended for active case finding, testing and contact-tracing. Besides, surveillance of antibody-based sero-positivity indicates the extent of spread of infection in the given population and forms the basis for strengthening public health mitigation measures. Household based studies can generate evidence on role of asymptomatic and mild infections in transmission, she explained in a press release. Indian Council of Medical Research has initiated a nationwide survey to establish the community-based district level sero-surveillance and to monitor transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population. In each of the districts chosen, 10 villages will be selected randomly, and from each village 40 adults aged above 18 will be randomly covered. The study will be carried out in four rounds in the same villages (repeat cross-sectional study). The initial survey would serve as a baseline to determine the sero-prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community, while the subsequent rounds would help to monitor the trends of infection. “Population-based sero-epidemiological studies will help us to determine the burden of COVID-19 infection at the community level and to monitor trends in transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection,” she said. Study findings will be useful to guide in designing and implementing appropriate containment measures. Objectives of this sero-surveillance is to estimate and monitor trend of sero-prevalence for SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population and high burden cities, determine the socio-demographic risk factors for the infection and delineate the geographical spread of the infection in the general population and hotspot cities, Ms. Hemalatha added.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sitharaman urged to ensure crop loans to all farmers||The State Commission for Debt Relief for small farmers, agriculture labourers and rural artisans has requested Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman to provide loans to distressed farmers indebted to non-institutional lenders and crop loans to all farmers in order to keep engaged at least half of the population in farming during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter addressed to the Finance Minister, Chairman of the Commission Pakala Srihari Rao stated that during the ongoing lockdown period, it is only the farming community that is working in fields contributing relentlessly to national food security, while all other sections are confined to homes. However, they are incurring losses in the process and a majority of them have already landed in debt trap of moneylenders paying exorbitant interest rate ranging from 36% to 48% per annum. Stating that farmers constitute approximately 50% of the country’s population, Mr. Rao said they require at least Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh as long-term loan without insisting upon any surety or collateral security as planned for MSMEs and MUDRA. No bank has taken the RBI directions to provide loans on priority to farmers, although the apex bank has been advocating it since 2004, leaving a majority of the farming community to end up at the mercy of moneylenders, he noted. As banks are not accessible to all people, over 20% of farmers have never availed any institutional credit in the form of crop loans and among those who are getting crop loans a majority are not getting the credit for their entire landholding or area of cultivation. While a farmers having 10 acres land is entitled for Rs. 4 lakh as crop loan at the scale of finance of Rs. 40,000 per acre, the banks were sanctioning maximum of Rs. 1.6 lakh only without asking for any surety. They were insisting on mortgaging of agricultural land for availing crop loans beyond Rs. 1.6 lakh, Mr. Srihari Rao explained. The Commission Chairman requested the Finance Minister to consider the request.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Moving of migrants is non-transparent’||Concerned citizens, NGOs and activists, under the umbrella of ‘Advocacy Covid Lockdown Collective’, decried the “highly non-transparent” mechanism of issue of passes and departure of trains for migrant workers aiming to reach home states. The process is difficult for the workers to understand, they said, in a letter addressed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The movement passes for reaching railway stations (MRPS) were not being filled in diligently, and the MRPS, and the two SMSes conveying system-generated number and confirmation details respectively were entirely in English, while majority of the workers only knew to read their mother tongue, the letter said. The second SMS was often unclear without train details. When the number given was called, the worker was guided to come to certain place and taken in local transport to the railway station. In some SMSes, the workers were directed to come to certain place immediately, which they were unable to. Lacking any awareness about procedure, several migrant workers construe MRPS to be the travel pass and end up at random railway stations, the letter said. Huge time gap between the issue of movement pass and receipt of second SMS, besides slow registration process, was the reason the workers are travelling on foot, it said. Officials at the ground level, including police, were unable to help as they were not fully aware of the procedure, schedule of trains and other details. Difficulties in local travel, contractors disowning responsibility, lack of food, water and shelter at railway stations and highways were other issues brought forth by the Collective. Suggestions Making some suggestions, the letter sought wide publicity about the procedure in text as well as pre-recorded audio and video messages in Hindi, Oriya, and Bengali languages. It would be useful if a team of officials within each mandal was charged with the process of mass registration, by going to the residence of workers. Workers should be provided clear details of train and bus schedule at least two days in advance, and local travel should be arranged up to the station. Database of migrant workers should be maintained and shared with their home-state. It was signed by representatives of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, Dalit Bahujan Front, MAKAAM, Human Rights Forum, National Alliance of People’s Movements, Ammomat Society, Montfort Social Institute, Caring Citizens Collective, Anveshi Research Centre, Bhumika Women’s Collective, MV Foundation, and several other organisations, apart from individuals.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Experts suggest cotton instead of paddy crop in TS||Agricultural experts have suggested to the government and farmers that paddy should be cultivated only in about 60 lakh to 65 lakh acres per year, including vana kalam and yasangi seasons to get a remunerative price for the produce. The experts also said that rainy season was not suitable for maize crop and cotton crop, which has demand in market, only be cultivated. Red gram crop should be cultivated as vana kalam crop in 10 lakh to 15 lakh acres. These recommendations were made in the meeting held by Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao on regulated crop cultivation policy with agriculture experts and agriculture university officials here on Friday. The experts gave their opinion to the Chief Minister after studying the agricultural land in the State, cultivation methods and markets in and outside the country. They said that if paddy was cultivated by everyone, then farmers are likely to suffer losses and if it was cultivated in more than 65 lakh acres, they would not get remunerative price. Paddy, both fine and ordinary variety, should be cultivated in 40 lakh acres in vana kalam and 25 lakh acres in yasangi based on market requirement. Entire crop It would not be possible for the government to purchase entire produce every time. This time was an exception due to COVID crisis. Cultivating cotton would give better returns to farmers and they get could earn a net income of Rs. 50,000 per acre as against Rs. 30,000 per acre for paddy. Red gram crop also has good demand in the market. Cotton can be cultivated in 65 lakh acres to 70 lakh acres in Telangana as it has good market demand. State government would deliberate on the suggestions given by the experts for two more days and finalise the regulated crop cultivation policy. Later Chief Minister would address a video conference of field-level officers, Rythu Bandhu Samithis on May 18 from Pragathi Bhavan. The video conference scheduled for Friday had been postponed. Video conference The video conference will be attended by District Collector, Agricultural officer, District rythu bandhu president, seed development corporation officer and others. Meanwhile Chief Minister continued discussions on the new agricultural policy with ministers Niranjan Reddy, Eatala Rajender, E. Dayakar Rao, Gangula Kamalakar, V. Prashanth Reddy, Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeswar Reddy, Chief Secretary and other officials.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Central package disappointing’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has described the Rs. 20 lakh crore relief package announced by the Central government as totally disappointing and directionless. Addressing Congress workers and leaders on social media platforms, he said the Centre’s package had nothing for migrant workers, who were worst affected due to lockdown, and also for crores of youth who lost their jobs during the last 50 days. He said providing free food to migrant workers could not be counted as ‘relief’. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that several countries like the USA, Britain and Canada have taken exemplary steps to protect their industries and employees and said the Centre must have emulated those countries. He said that the Congress party has been objecting to the opening of liquor shops as it would kill the very purpose of lockdown. He said it was strange that the State government allowed liquor shops to operate even in Red Zones while all other shops were kept shut. Briefing the Congress workers about the Pothyreddypadu issue, he condemned the silence being maintained by Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the issue. He said it was due to KCR’s negligence and silence that AP government dared to issue the GO to enhance the capacity of Pothyreddypadu Head Regulator to 80,000 cusecs at a cost of Rs. 6,829 crore. Mr. Uttam Reddy said that the AP government was planning to draw additional 4 TMC ft of water from Srisailam which would create huge problems for farmers in Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda districts while causing shortage of drinking water in Hyderabad.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM ignored KRMB panel report on Krishna water: Nagam||Former minister and Congress leader Nagam Janardhan Reddy has claimed that the sub-committee constituted by the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has given a report that 73,900 cusecs of water has already been utilised by the Andhra Pradesh government from Pothireddypadu but the government was mum. Has Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao seen this report and if he has seen why didn’t he react early, Mr. Janardhan Reddy asked at a press conference. He said he had written a letter to the Chief Minister in January itself but there was no response, and he woke up only after another letter was sent to him on May 5. Showing visuals of the Chief Minister promising help to Andhra Pradesh in his speech in the Assembly, Mr. Reddy asked why didn’t KCR react when AP Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy openly announced his intention to increase withdrawal from Pothireddypadu in December 2019 Assembly sessions of Andhra Pradesh. Reacting to criticism of earlier governments by the TRS ministers, he said none of them have the personality or the guts to even speak in front of the Chief Minister on any issue. “We can’t expect them to explain the injustice being done by this government,” he said adding they only know to criticise the opposition parties. Instead of trying to impress KCR, the ministers and MLAs should ask him why the distribution canals have not been taken up for Bheema, Nettempadu and Kalwakurthy projects, he said. Mr. Reddy said not even 50% of the allocations made to Telangana in Krishna basin were being utilised and advised the Chief Minister not to mete out step-motherly treatment to South Telangana that gave him political life.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Disinfecting’ robot rolled out||With safety, disinfection and sanitisation to be the priorities for all establishments post-COVID-19, a city-based company has launched UVRova BR Robot and ST machine, which can kill viruses including coronavirus in five minutes without use of disinfectants. Unlike the present practice of using disinfectants that consume time, energy and resources, the new UVRova uses electricity to clean up a place in less than 10 minutes, said Reevax CEO Y. Jagan, adding that it is the first-of-its-kind product to be launched in India. “US and other Western countries use this widely in hospitals and we plan to introduce it in India at one-tenth of its cost in the US,” he said. The UVRova robot, made specially for ICUs, disinfects the place in less than 10 minutes. Thes robot can sanitise without consumables, fumes, vapours, sound, corrosion or residues. “It is simple to use through a phone app and by anyone,” Mr. Jagan said.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ex-cricketer pitches in to feed the needy||Pragyan Ojha has always been a quiet performer. On the field, he spun magic with his left-arm spin bowling, especially in Sachin Tendulkar’s last Test match in Mumbai where he claimed a 10-wicket haul against West Indies to make it a memorable farewell for the ‘god of cricket’ in 2013. Now, in keeping with his low-key image, the former cricketer will celebrate his 10th wedding anniversary on May 16 with no pomp but to show his concern for the needy. “The hardship faced by many people during this lockdown has made me plan my wedding anniversary differently this time. On Saturday, along with my wife [Karabee Kailash] and son [Yohaan], I will be distributing food to the needy in and around Hyderabad to make the day more meaningful,” he said. The 33-year-old says he will work in coordination with some charitable organisations in the city for the food distribution. “Well, this is a token gesture from my end. We are all aware how badly those who just manage hand-to-mouth income are suffering in this lockdown,” Ojha said.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TAFRC seeks change in bench hearing petition||A memo was filed in Telangana High Court on Friday requesting to list the writ petition challenging hike of medical PG courses’ fee, being heard by a bench of justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman, before any other appropriate court. The memo was filed by Telangana Admission and Fee Regulation Committee chairman Justice P. Swaroop Reddy. After going through the memo, the bench said it would deal with the memo and decide upon it. A doctor Sudeep Sharma and 120 others filed the writ petition seeking to set aside the Government Order No. 20 hiking fee of medical PG courses. Hearing the petition, the bench sought to know on what basis the TAFRC recommended hike of fees. It directed Additional Advocate General J. Ramchander Rao, appearing for TAFRC, to furnish the detailed report of the TAFRC based on which the fees were hiked. Meanwhile the TAFRC chairman filed the memo requesting that the matter be posted before any other bench.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Distribute ‘Ramzan pack’, Cong. urges KCR||The Telangana Congress urged the government to distribute free Ramzan-pack consisting of sevaiyyan , sugar, milk and ghee to poor Muslims along with rice and essential items which are distributed through ration shops. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and TPCC Minorities Department chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail in an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao said that continuous lockdown for the last 54 days has ruined the economy of the poor and middle-class Muslims. “Since this is the Ramzan month, instead of just supplying rice and dal, the State government should restore supply of all other items at fair price shops. It should also provide Ramzan-pack to all poor Muslims, with or without ration cards, through ration shops,” they demanded. The Congress leaders pointed out that the State government had allocated Rs. 66 crore towards Dawat-e-Iftar and another Rs. 1.83 crore towards iftar dinner hosted by the Chief Minister in the Annual Budget for 2020-21.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traveller Tracking for early arrest of virus||To keep track of passengers arriving at bus stops, railway stations and airports and control the spread of coronavirus, city-based start-up Vera Smart Healthcare has launched Traveller Tracking System . With the help of AI and Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine, the system screens all passengers. Vera Smart Healthcare is working with the State government to implement the system throughout the city. Earlier this week, it was implemented at Secunderabad station. Passengers are screened after which their travel history, symptoms, primary contacts, and residential address, among others, are geo-tagged. The information is sent to the respective district administration and police stations to either home-quarantine or take them to a hospital depending on symptoms.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Antibody fragment-based therapy under way||University of Hyderabad (UoH) and CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) are collaborating with Vins Bioproducts Ltd., an antisera manufacturing company incubated at UoH’s BioNEST incubation centre, to develop antibody fragment-based immunotherapy for immediate treatment for COVID-19. The use of antibodies has been an effective method in protecting against several human and animal diseases . Although plasma-based passive immunity against COVID-19 has been reported to be working well in clinical trials, it has several theoretical and practical concerns including limitation in the availability of human plasma samples. Hence, scientists have been exploring alternative strategies of using horses or other higher animals to generate antibodies against the SARS-COV2 viral antigens. The antibodies, raised in horses using inactivated coronavirus is fractionated and purified to produce antibody fragments for neutralising coronavirus in patients for recovery. This collaborative effort plans to use this platform technology which has been providing neutralising antibodies from horses for a variety of life-threatening pathologies in humans such as anti-venoms, anti-toxins and anti-virals. Horse-based immunoglobulins can be produced in large quantities as a promising alternative therapy as it would be economical and can be made readily available to a larger population. The research team feels this treatment would be more productive, efficient and safe to meet the enormous requirement for the treatment of COVID-19 infection. The UoH team is headed by Nooruddin Khan, an associate professor at the Department of Animal Biology, School of Life Sciences. The CCMB team is led by Krishnan Harinivas, principal scientist specialising in the area of molecular virology while Krishna Mohan is leading the research team at VINS. UoH Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile hoped the collaboration would result in a successful development of antibody fragment-based immunotherapy for immediate treatment.  I hope the collaboration results in a successful development of immunotherapy for immediate COVID-19 treatment. Appa Rao Podile, UoH Vice-Chancellor
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Leopard left; pug marks identified: Forest officials||The leopard which had created a flutter by making appearance near the Katedan underpass, Mylardevpally, on Thursday, reportedly, left the area during midnight. The feline escaped into a farm near Shamshabad by Thursday afternoon, after it was pursued by teams from Police and Forest departments. To capture the animal, forest officials installed camera traps and trap cages on the farm, and kept night vigil. As the cameras did not yield any images, the officials scoured the farm and identified the pug marks of the leopard. Dog squads were pressed into service to ascertain the direction taken by the animal, which revealed that it might have gone towards Chilukur forest area via the Agricultural University route. It was decided to continue the camera traps and cages on the farm, as it had plenty of prey animals for the big cat, which might lure it to return there. A special surveillance team, and rescue group too would be kept at the site, officials said in a statement. Besides, surveillance would be increased in the Chilukur forest, and it would be ensured that no leopard strayed from there into the city, the statement by the department said. The Forest officials asked the residents of Rajendra Nagar and surrounding areas to be on alert, and inform the Forest department if they notice traces of leopard movements.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister tours constituency||Minister for Cinematography and Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav, accompanied by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration Arvind Kumar and GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, extensively toured the Sanathnagar Assembly constituency on Friday, and inspected the developmental works. During the visit, the Minister said the Fatehnagar flyover width would be extended to accommodate two more lanes, and service roads on both sides. They discussed shifting of the traffic signals beside the railway track with officials from HRDCL and GHMC, since the widening was to take pace above the railway line. The team also inspected location of the four-lane, and 100 feet link road to be developed between Sanathnagar and Balanagar and from there to Jeedimetla crossroads.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub ties up with Genome||Telangana’s startup incubator T-Hub and Start-up Genome, a leading research and policy advisory organisation, announced their collaboration to foster the city’s innovation ecosystem and showcase Hyderabad-based entrepreneurs’ success stories to the world. City’s key startups will feature at Start-up Genome’s 2020 edition of Global Start-up Ecosystem Report. T-Hub said that with this move, it hoped to strengthen its activities and bring new ideas and approaches focused on global peer-learning and sharing of best practices.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contractors threaten to stop works||Contractors of GHMC have given an ultimatum to Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, saying they will stop all the works if payment for the work done is not made forthwith. The Contractors Association, GHMC, through a letter addressed to the Commissioner, said that bills for more than Rs. 350 crore had been pending with the corporation for the last four months, for the works completed six months ago. As a result, payments to the material and labour had been pending. President of the association Damodar Reddy said they had about 600 contractors, all engaged in works pertaining to roads, desilting etc.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Beer from bars to be shifted to liquor shops||The Excise Department has given permission to bars, clubs and tourism bars which are closed due to lockdown to dispose of beer stocks with them to liquor shops. The permission followed a representation given by managements of bars and clubs to the government that they face the threat of suffering losses if they did not dispose of the stocks immediately because beer comes with ‘use by’ and ‘best before’ dates. After carrying out verification of stocks of beer at bars, clubs and tourism bars in the last two days, the department on Friday issued an order that beer which had ‘best before’ dates from May 17 to May 31 shall be transferred to liquor shops.
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Officials visit valuation camp||Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran and Board of Intermediate Education Secretary Syed Omer Jaleel made a surprise visit to the valuation camp at Kasturba Gandhi Women’s College, West Maredpally, to verify whether all safety, security and health precautions were followed. They checked valuation halls and strong room and interacted with examiners.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FeedMyHyderabad doing its bit||FeedMyHyderabad, an initiative of the KVN Foundation, is providing over 12,500 meals daily to workers through 16 distribution points across the city from March 30. KVN Foundation is a union of three foundation trustees — Venkat K. Narayana, CEO of Prestige Group, Juggy Marwaha Executive MD of JLL India, and K. Ganesh, a serial entrepreneur currently running GrowthStory.in. The meals are served in Gachibowli, Balanagar, Karmanghat, Santosh Nagar, Bandlaguda etc. FeedMyHyderabad is supported by several brands like Innopark Group, FICCI FLO, Bambino, Entrepreneurs’ Organization, Sumo Biscuits, Veni Rao Foundation, Feu, Anushree Reddy, Puzzolana, InnoPark Ventures, Accurate Wind Chimes, Raju Vegesna Group, Manbhum, Silpa Homes Private Limited, Ashoka Developers, AceUrban, Harsha Auto Group, Future Trends, iNFHRA, TiE Hyderabad, Paytm, Shaadi.com and Truecaller.
16 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For City briefs Pic will be mailed separately||Mr. K. V. Ramana Chary, Advisor to the Telangana government, donated groceries to about 150 Brahmins at the Endowments Office on Friday. The official was responding to a call about the plight of poor Brahmins, including purohits, because of the lockdown. RTI Commissioner Shankar Naik, SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy, Mighty Sports director Nanda Pandey, former footballer P. Venkateshwar Reddy were present.
16 May 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF-Rasta Roko||About 2,000 MGNREGS workers staged a rasta roko on the Sangareddy-Nanded-Akola national highway (NH-161) near the gram panchayat office at Madnur mandal headquarters demanding better facilities at work sites and an inquiry into alleged irregularities in measurements. The rasta roko resulted in a major traffic jam for two hours. The workers alleged that the authorities did not provide them masks, sanitisers, drinking water and tents at their site.
16 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||In ferrying people, autorickshaws throw caution to the wind||Lockdown norms to check the spread of coronavirus have gone for a toss in Karimnagar with autos plying illegally and ferrying people in various parts of the town. Though the government is yet to announce the resumption of modes of public transportation, autos are seen moving packed with passengers throwing caution to the wind. In spite of several appeals by the government to maintain physical distancing to check the spread of the deadly virus, auto drivers are appearing careless. Some of them were even found carrying more than three passengers. When asked, some of the drivers averred that they were only transporting patients to hospitals. However, it was found that they were ferrying people to markets and other places too. Some of the drivers were not even wearing the mandatory masks, risking the lives of the passengers. “Autos are not allowed to run. If we allow them, we would have even allowed other modes of public transportation like RTC buses,” an official said. Police, on the other hand, said that the auto drivers were forced to take out their vehicles as they had no earnings since the lockdown. They clarified that they had allowed autos only to transport patients to hospitals. Meanwhile, a few activists have urged the authorities concerned to allow autos to ply by maintaining all physical distance norms, which means only two passengers. Police should ensure nobody sits next to the driver and drivers should provide sanitisers to passengers before they board an auto, they said.
16 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Reopen agricultural market yard’||With the government relaxing the lockdown norms for agricultural-related activities, the demand for reopening of the agricultural market yards in the district has gained momentum. The Telangana Rythu Sangham has already submitted a memorandum to Khammam Agricultural Market Committee chairman M Venkata Ramana two days ago seeking the reopening of the market yard to help chilli farmers sell their produce at a remunerative price.
16 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leader faults KCR and Jagan||Former MLA and senior BJP leader Yendala Laxminarayana said that people would expose and reject the collusive politics of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Chief Ministers K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over the Pothireddypadu head regulator capacity expansion. Talking to the media here on Friday, he said that diversion of large quantities of water against the interests of the people of Telangana would result in drought in south Telangana. He said that it was Mr. KCR who led his separate Telangana agitation with focus on the Pothireddypadu issue and used it as a weapon to spearhead the movement. “Surprisingly, he is silent on the issue now,” he said.
16 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Journalist dies in road mishap||Velma Satish Reddy, 29, who joined The Pioneer daily recently, after working for The Hans India for two years, succumbed to injuries sustained in road accident near his native village of Gadkol in Sirikonda mandal. Mr. Reddy came to his village on his motorbike from Hyderabad to see his wife, Shravanthi, and new-born daughter on May 12. On the same night, while travelling back, he fell down, and was rushed to a hospital here, and breathed his last on Thursday. Journalist unions and scribes condoled the demise of Mr. Reddy.
16 May 2020||Serish Nanisetti,TELANGANA||ORR junction turns halting station for migrants||A colourful shamiana, water tankers, a few toilets, food, drinking water and regular supply of edibles that Good Samaritans keep distributing have turned the Outer Ring Road junction near Kandlakoya into a halting station for migrating workers. “We don’t know where they are coming from. The numbers have not declined. Every day up to 15,000-20,000 people have been passing through this place for the past one month,” says a police officer at the site. ‘First meal’ Getting down from a truck packed with people, Sunil Kumar rushes to the tent. “This will be my first meal of the day,” he says as volunteers serve him rotis, dal, a banana and a packet of buttermilk. Mr. Kumar finally got onto a bus to Siwan arranged by Mukti Bosco who arranged the passes for transit as well as other approvals needed for the long journey. “We arranged six buses, some of which are going to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The migrant workers don’t have to pay and we arranged the transport, keeping social distancing in mind,” she said. But for many families and individuals, it is a long wait to find their mode of transport to their home. There are young men who have formed a group and begin negotiating with truck drivers to take them home. Unlike earlier days, there are more families fleeing the cities. “We will do farming. If we go back to our villages, we have families who will help us. We were hopeful of work restarting after 30 days. But now it looks difficult,” says Shafi Ahmed who used to be engaged in maggam work in the Moula Ali area. His family waits under the shade of a lorry which will start in the evening to take them home. “I had a biscuit packet for Iftaar. But I think food will also be available here,” says the artisan from Lucknow’s Shahpur area, pointing to the tent where a cartload of bananas were delivered by a businessman. ‘10,000 fed’ “Initially, we struggled. But today, we managed to feed all the 10,000 people passing through this place,” says a volunteer, who helped organise the tents with the help of Medchal civic officials. Aiding the effort, staffers of Integrated Child Development Services are distributing among children and women packets, which include oral rehydration salt sachets and sanitary napkins.
16 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||14 more containment zones in Gurugram||Fourteen new containment zones, including parts of DLF Phase-II and III, were notified and four areas were de-notified by the Gurugram district administration on Friday, taking the total number of such zones to 34. The new containment zones include DLF Phase-II “L” Block; Hermitage Housing Society, DLF Phase-III; Kherki Daula ki Dhani; Basai Enclave Part-I and parts of Bhawani Enclave. However, based on the recommendations of Containment Review Committee, District Magistrate, Amit Khatri, in a four-page order, de-notified Fazilpur Jharsa village in Gurugram block, parts of Sohna block and Ward No. 11 and 14 of Pataudi block. These areas were listed as containment zones issuing separate orders on April 9 and 23. Meanwhile, nine more samples were tested positive in Gurugram, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 179. However, 90 patients have been discharged and the number of active cases is only 89. As many as 58 people are under surveillance at quarantine facility. The results of 236 samples are awaited. High-risk case Of the nine cases reported on Friday, six are the contacts of a high-risk confirmed case in Rajeev Nagar and one each from Gandhi Nagar, Hari Nagar and Basai Enclave. The Hari Nagar patient is linked to Khandsa Mandi case.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Senior IAS officer transferred to Delhi govt. from North body||IAS officer Varsha Joshi was transferred from the post of Commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, to the Delhi government by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal here on Thursday. The vocal 1995 AGMUT batch officer’s abrupt transfer has raised questions about the manner in which it was carried out. Ms. Joshi was one of the senior members of the bureaucracy when the then Chief Secretary Anshu Prakash was allegedly assaulted at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence by AAP MLAs in February 2018. She took charge of the North DMC, which runs six hospitals in the city in December 2018. A former Transport Commissioner and Power Secretary, she had briefly held additional charge of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) after the transfer of the previous commissioner, Puneet Goyal. The current SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti has been assigned additional charge of the North DMC. Ms. Joshi described her tenure as “very satisfying indeed”and said it had “been a great ride with a great team”. These achievements, she said, included management of the Bhalaswa dumpsite and its biomining, the pedestrianisation of Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh, streamlining of administration and finalising rosters, acquisition of new vehicles for maintenance work, ensuring ODF certification, constructing 500 additional toilets, improving the corporation’s website and cleaning up the civic body’s delivery of services with transfers and rule 56 J under which problematic officials were weeded out.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Plea in HC challenges ‘special corona fee’ on liquor||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the Aam Aadmi Party government on a plea challenging the levying of 70% “special corona fee” on all liquor brands in the Capital. The Bench asked the Delhi government to reply by May 29 to the petition which has sought setting aside of the May 4 notification imposing the levy. Petitioner Lalit Valecha, an advocate, has contended that the “special corona fee” is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily. He added that the fee was an afterthought and an after-effect of overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms outside liquor shops on the first day of their reopening. The plea further claimed that the MRP of liquor in Delhi includes all taxes and duties imposed by the Centre or State government, and that increasing the MRP by 70% by means of an executive order was “illegal and bad in law”.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. is ready to resume public transport: Gahlot||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday discussed with officials Standard Operating Procedures for the safe resumption of metro and bus services in the city and said that the government was ready to restart public transport. “If central govt. allows, Delhi is confident of running public TPT... Social distancing, contactless ticketing and disinfection will be the three pillars of our strategy to run public transport safely. And all of this will be possible only if people of Delhi cooperate. Delhi will be back on its feet only if people and the govt work together [sic],” he tweeted. Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Friday said that detailed guidelines expected to be followed by commuters travelling on the network will be issued once the government gives its nod to resume operations. “At present, the DMRC is undertaking necessary cleaning and maintenance of trains, stations, corridors, escalators, etc. Logistical arrangements such as provision for hand sanitisation/thermal screening, and installation of social distancing-related ssignages are also being handled in the interim,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. DMRC officials added that based on guidelines issued by authorities, additional staff will be deployed for thermal screening and provision of sanitisers.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘1,640 foreign Tabligh members were in India’||As many as 1,640 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members from 47 countries were in India at the time of Nizamuddin Markaz gathering, of whom only 64 tested positive for COVID-19 and two more died of the virus, prominent Muslim organisation Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind said on Friday. Jamiat president Maulana Arshad Madani said the “highlighting” of Tablighi Jamaat cases while talking about the total number of cases in the country had allegedly created an atmosphere of hatred against Muslims. Mr. Madani said that now when there are more than 78,000 cases, the Tablighi Jamaat figures are not being highlighted.  Out of the total foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, 739 are in Delhi and the rest are in other States, the Jamiat said.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allow cabs to ply, permit restricted use of metro’||Increase time limit for citizens to be outside by two hours, allow cabs operated by aggregators to ply, and permit Delhi Metro to start operations but limit its utilisation to government employees and those providing essential services. These are some of the recommendations made by the Delhi government to the Centre.  Other suggestions include allowing 50% attendance at private offices and mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app at these sites. No ease in restrictions has been recommended in containment zones. All these suggestions will, according to the proposal, be reviewed after a week.  Open parks The first point in the proposal to gradually ease curbs, cleared by the Chief Minister’s office, calls for modifying the time limit allowing individuals to engage in non-essential activities from the current 7 a.m.-7 p.m. cycle to 5 a.m.-9 p.m. cycle. Parks, playgrounds and sports complexes should also be allowed to open but subject to social distancing norms, the proposal reads. Auto, electric and cycle rickshaws should also be allowed but only if they carry one passenger at a time.  Taxis/cabs being operated by aggregators should also be allowed but can carry only two passenger. Car-pooling by such service providers will not be allowed.  Services of the Delhi Metro should be limited to government employees and functionaries and these too in cycles between 7.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., and then from 5.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.  Passengers with valid passes or those providing essential services should be allowed to use the metro between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. Private vehicles should also be allowed but only with two passengers.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police chief pushes for digitalisation||In a move to digitalisation, Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava urged its department to adopt newer technology and register daily diaries online. “Since the daily diaries are being received online, except for special reason, hard copies may not be printed. All may view the daily diaries online and take necessary action. We may adopt to newer technology and save the paper. All concerned need to be briefed accordingly,” the order reads. The order was marked to Special and Joint Commissioners of Police.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhiites gulp liquor worth about Rs 170 crore in 10 days||Delhiites have consumed liquor worth around Rs. 170 crore in the 10 days since the city government reopened a handful of outlets on May 4. An official said that the Delhi government has earned an additional Rs. 70 crore from the sale on account of the ‘special corona fee’ levied on all liquor. According to official data, liquor sales spiked after introduction of the e-token system under which people are given specific time to buy liquor from outlets.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DJB chalks out action plan to meet water demand in summer||The Delhi Jal Board on Friday released its action plan to meet the water demand during the summer months. The plan includes rejuvenation of 155 existing waterbodies, creating new lakes and installing 254 tube wells to help improve water availability in deficient areas.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- ration||North Delhi Municipal Corporation standing committee chairperson Jai Prakash on Friday appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to ensure security arrangements at ration distribution centres. Due to the late arrival of rations, incidents of commotion and stone pelting by people have come up, Mr. Prakash said.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Website launched for registration and renewal of construction workers||The Delhi government on Friday launched a website for renewing and fresh registration of construction workers in Delhi. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, chaired by Labour Minister Gopal Rai. On Monday, it was decided to provide financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 for the second successive month to construction workers in the wake of the extended lockdown.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Food security allowance to students: NDMC||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC ) on Friday announced its decision to grant food security allowance to students from nursery to Class 12 of NDMC, NDMC-aided and Navyug Schools. The move has been taken to meet the nutritional requirements of schoolchildren, the NDMC said. The money will be transferred through RTGS to the bank account of students.
16 May 2020||Noida,||Fourth death in Gautam Buddha Nagar||A 71-year-old cancer patient from Noida who was admitted to a Delhi hospital and later tested positive for COVID-19 has died, becoming the fourth fatality linked to the virus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar, officials said on Friday. The man, a resident of Sector 150 in Noida, died due to “multiple organ failure” at the government-run LNJP hospital in the Capital on Thursday night, they said. Earlier three more men, two of them aged 60 and one 62, have died in Gautam Buddha Nagar with their deaths linked to COVID-19, according to officials. Meanwhile, four more persons have tested positive, taking the number of COVID-19 cases to 242 on Friday, District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The new patients include a 78-year-old woman from Sector 12, two men aged 22 and 41 from Sector 5 besides a 21-year-old man from Nagla village, the officer said.
16 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand CM takes on Goyal||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday took on Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal saying his statement that Jharkhand was not giving permissions for running more trains for which migrants stranded outside were suffering was ‘uninformed’ one. In a series of Tweets, Mr. Soren said, “what it seems, Union Railway Minister is not being fed with correct information by his own department. We have already given no objection certificates for running 110 trains. Around 60,000 migrant workers in 50 trains have already returned home.” “I request you (Mr. Goyal) to run more and more trains for Jharkhand. Now, only four to six trains are reaching the State every day. This is not sufficient to bring back about 7 lakh Jharkhandi migrant workers. I hope you will give attention on this and help Jharkhandis,” the Chief Minister said. The statement of Mr. Goyal seems to have not gone down well with Mr. Soren. The Railway Minister had said 1,200 trains were exclusively reserved for transporting migrant workers stranded away from their homes and 300 trains can be run daily. “But, there are many States like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand where very few NOCs are coming from. On the other hand, around 400 trains have departed for Uttar Pradesh and 200 for Bihar,” he pointed out. Mr. Goyal further said, “the Jharkhand CM had given a statement that he wants to bring back all migrants. But, he should first give permissions so that trains could be made available.” According to office of Jharkhand Chief Minister, “Mr. Soren had written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and spoken to Home Minister and Railway Minister reiterating numerous times that necessary arrangements be made to bring back migrant workers by trains.” The first Shramik special train had travelled from Telangana to Jharkhand. As around seven lakh workers registered on the State portal expressing their desire to return, the Jharkhand CMO said it was a herculean task — much bigger in scale and size than Vande Bharat mission — to bring all back home. In another Tweeter message, Mr. Soren said, “time and again, I have reiterated our commitment to bring home all stranded workers of Jharkhand. On May 12, our Chief Secretary wrote Union Home Secretary, seeking necessary clearances to bring back 319 migrant workers stuck in Andaman and Nicobar Island by two chartered flights.”  ‘Awaiting clearances’ “It has been four days and we are still awaiting necessary clearances from Home Ministry to initiate the process. Jharkhand government will bear the costs of the flights to Ranchi, if Home Ministry permits us. We need a humane approach now and be sensitive to those who have faced the worst,” he pointed out.
16 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Walk to reach home turns tragic||A migrant labourer, who was walking back to his home in Odisha’s Puri district, died at Laxmannath toll plaza near the State border on Friday. The man identified as Dhubei Charan Mohanty was working in a company in Kolkata. He lost job following the nationwide lockdown. Subsequently, he exhausted all savings on food during past 50 days. The man decided to return home. As there was no easy mode of transport he could avail, walking back home was the only option left with him. Mr. Mohanty collapsed near Laxmannath toll plaza, the border check gate, about 11.30 am. He was declared brought dead by doctors. With people found miserably walking in blistering heat, the Odisha government, meanwhile, announced a structured strategy to stop people from walking on road. “We are working on a strategy of providing relief to those walking through Odisha. People will not walk on road to reach home from now. Chief Minister’s Relief Fund will be used to ferry them from State’s one end to another,” said State Director General of Police Abhay.
16 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Cyclone alert in Odisha||With a cyclone brewing over the Bay of Bengal, the Odisha government on Friday put 12 of its districts on high alert and advised them to make fresh assessment on temporary medical centres set up for COVID-19 pandemic. The well-marked low pressure area over south-east Bay of Bengal is likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during next 12 hours and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by the evening of May 16, a Meteorological Department bulletin said. Apprehending that the cyclone could hit Odisha, a high level meeting was convened here to take stock of the situation.
16 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||13 new cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 13 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday with six cases surfacing in Faridkot district, according to an official statement. The Health department said till May 15, the total positive cases reported were 1,932. Meanwhile, in the wake of the season of vector borne diseases starting in the State, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has instructed civil surgeons to intensify the measures to prevent and control dengue and other Vector Borne Diseases in collaboration with State Task Force. “It is necessary to control dengue and other vector borne diseases, which will be the paramount target for State Task Force,” he said.
16 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Scribe’s death triggers debate about ‘warriors’||It’s been more than a week since Pankaj Kulshreshtha, a senior journalist working for a Hindi newspaper in Agra, lost his battle with COVID-19, but his family and colleagues are still waiting for the U.P. government to declare him a “corona warrior” and award compensation to his family. In April, the U.P. government had declared a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh in case a “corona warrior” died while working during the pandemic. Corona warriors are health workers, staff of local bodies and police. Kulshreshtha, 50, was Deputy News Editor of Dainik Jagran’s Agra edition at the time of his death. Recalling the chain of events, Gaurav, his cousin, said, “It rained in Agra on April 24 and bhaisahib got wet while returning from office. The following morning, he developed a fever and I took him to SN Medical College OPD. The doctor gave him medicine and said if the fever didn’t subside, he should get himself tested for COVID-19.” The fever kept coming back and Kulshreshtha started feeling weak. “On April 28, he got himself tested for COVID-19. But the report came out only on May 2 and he was admitted to SN Medical College on May 3. If the administration had responded in time, my brother might have been saved,” he alleged. Mr. Gaurav’s version is at variance with what Dainik Jagran reported on May 8. It said Kulshreshtra’s report came out on May 4 and the same day he was admitted to the hospital. Mr. Gaurav has demanded Rs. 50 lakh and a government job for his cousin’s wife. One of Kulshreshtha’s colleagues, who chose anonymity, claimed that even after a rival newspaper implemented a policy of work from home, Dainik Jagran kept calling its staff to the office. Hemant Tiwari, president of State Accredited Journalist Association, said he had been demanding that journalists be declared “corona warriors” even before Kulshreshtha’s demise. “According to Central and State government notifications, print and electronic media have been part of essential services. But both the government and management are yet to respond.” Ashutosh Shukla, State Editor of Dainik Jagran , maintained that there was no laxity on the part of the management or administration. “We are in touch with the government on the issue of compensation but before that the management will take care of the family. We will make an announcement within a few days.”  ‘Delays’ in response On the issue of “delays” in response, Mr. Shukla said as soon as they got the information of infection in office, they allowed the desk to work from home and only skeletal staff was coming to the office. “I was personally involved in arranging the ambulance to shift him to Lucknow, but the doctors advised against it as he was already on ventilator support,” he added.
16 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot flays Centre’s package after third tranche of relief||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday criticised the Centre’s economic package of Rs. 20 lakh crore to deal with the impact of COVID-19 pandemic after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced its third tranche dedicated to agriculture and allied activities. Mr. Gehlot said there was nothing for the landless labourers and the urban poor in the package. “It was the third day of the Finance Minster’s announcements... The first thing the FM should have done was to give a complete break-up of the numbers, figures [and] details regarding the package. It is important for transparency, clarity and for understanding the impact,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. Mr. Gehlot regretted that 90% of the Centre’s rescue package was in the form of bank loans. This was done when the gross domestic product (GDP) was dipping into deep recession and was predicted to grow at minus 3% this year and more than 14 crore people had lost their jobs, while a large number of people were living at near starvation level, he said. Mr. Gehlot said the States had not been given any financial assistance even though the entire expenditure on fighting COVID-19, enforcing the lockdown and providing support to migrant labourers and relief to the poorest had had to be borne by the States.
16 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. could cut ties with China over pandemic, warns Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday threatened to cut ties with China over its role in the spread of the coronavirus, as the global death toll from the disease topped 3,00,000. The Trump administration also said on Friday that it would restrict the ability of Chinese telecoms giant Huawei, which it considers a national security risk, to develop semiconductors abroad with U.S. technology. “This announcement cuts off Huawei’s efforts to undermine U.S. export controls,” the Commerce Department said in a statement. The department said it would “narrowly and strategically target Huawei’s acquisition of semiconductors that are the direct product of certain U.S. software and technology”. Huawei has been under relentless pressure from the Washington, which has lobbied allies worldwide to avoid the company’s telecom gear over security concerns. Washington last year said it would blacklist Huawei from the U.S. market and from buying crucial American components, though it has extended a series of reprieves to allow U.S. businesses that work with Huawei time to adjust. On Friday it extended this reprieve by another 90 days.  Refugees at risk Despite fears of a second wave of infections, national and local governments around the world are easing lockdown orders as they try to get stalled economies moving again. But there were warnings on Friday that some of the world’s poorest people remain the most vulnerable. The nexus of poverty and risk was highlighted by the discovery of cases in the world’s biggest refugee camp, where upwards of a million Rohingya live in squalor. “We are looking at the very real prospect that thousands of people may die from COVID-19” in these camps, Save The Children’s Bangladesh health director Shamim Jahan said.  In the U.S., the man formerly charged with developing a vaccine told lawmakers the government in Washington has no “master plan” to fight the pandemic and is unprepared to distribute enough vaccines to immunise millions of Americans. “We don’t have a single point of leadership right now for this response,” said Rick Bright, who was removed from his job last month. The U.S. has registered almost 86,000 deaths linked to COVID-19 — the highest toll of any nation, with a third of all known global infections. ‘Very disappointed’ In an interview aired on Thursday, Mr. Trump again accused Beijing of concealing the true scale of the problem after the virus emerged in Wuhan late last year. “I’m very disappointed in China. I will tell you that right now,” he said. Asked how the United States might choose to retaliate, Mr. Trump said: “We could cut off the whole relationship”.  The U.S. and China are the world’s two largest economies, doing hundreds of billions of dollars of mutually beneficial trade every year. Nevertheless, the U.S. President is keen to make Beijing the bogeyman in an election year. New figures showed a further three million job losses, taking the newly unemployed to 36.5 million — more than 10% of the U.S. population. Germany’s treasury is also expecting a big hole in its budget, with around €100 billion euros wiped off the tax take in 2020. Europe’s biggest economy has already slipped into a recession, with GDP expected to shrink by 6.3% this year — the biggest contraction since 1949. Much of Europe appears to be over the worst, with more parts of the continent opening up. Austria and Germany were expected to open their border on Friday, while Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia were set to create their own “mini-Schengen on the Baltic”, allowing free movement among the three countries.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Can Iran weather the economic storm?||Iran, the hardest hit country by the COVID-19 pandemic in West Asia, is struggling to cope with several challenges at the same time — from the crippling U.S. sanctions and a collapsing economy to falling oil prices and a severe public health crisis. Even before the pandemic struck the country, the Islamic Republic was reeling under a deep economic crisis, mainly due to the sanctions imposed by Washington. The sanctions resulted in a sharp fall in Iran’s oil exports — from over 3.5 million barrels a day in May 2018 when the U.S. pulled out of the deal to less than 5,00,000 barrels a day now — and economic contraction. Then came the double whammy of the pandemic and the oil price crash. The pandemic crisis “is adding to the existing burdens on the country’s economy, which last year saw the GDP shrink by 7.6% as U.S. sanctions cut into its crude exports and trade,” said Naysan Rafati, Senior Iran Analyst at the International Crisis Group. “The recent drop in oil prices and demand, combined with a slowdown in domestic and regional commerce as a result of the coronavirus, means that Tehran will have to grapple with significant financial challenges at a time when the nuclear agreement is hanging by a thread and regional tensions with the U.S. and its allies remain significant,” Mr. Rafati told The Hindu . Price of Brent crude, the international benchmark, crashed by 50% in March. Brent crude price was hovering around $27 a barrel on Friday afternoon in London. The oil shock came at a time when Iran was already struggling hard to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. As of Friday afternoon, the country has seen over 1,16,000 infections and 6,900 deaths. The International Monetary Fund has forecast that Iran’s economy will contract by 6% this year. Inflation, which hit 41% last year, is expected to be around 34.2% this year. Reduced oil dependency Grappled with hyperinflation, Iran has already introduced a new currency, toman — 1 toman will be worth 10,000 riyals. The Iranian government has claimed that the impact of the oil crisis on the economy would be minimum compared to other oil exporters as the Islamic Republic has reduced its dependence on petroleum.  In 2019, oil sales made up only 29% government revenues. For Saudi Arabia, the share stands at about 87%. In 2020, the Iranian government has accounted for a further fall in the share of oil in revenues to 9%, according to the New York-based Eurasia Group. But achieving even this number is doubtful as the budget for the current year expected Iran to export 1 millions barrels of crude a day at $50 a barrel. Sales have since fallen to less than 5,00,000 barrels a day, while prices have plunged to just $27 a barrel. To prevent a total economic collapse, the government decided to ease the virus restrictions on businesses and the public in late April even as infections were spreading fast. Aggressive foreign policy The plan, as Iran’s actions suggests, is to strike a balance between the economy and the fight against COVID-19, while at the same time pushing for expanding the country’s strategic interests in the region. And as the Iran economy is used to prolonged crises in the past, mainly due to the international sanctions, its leaders are trying to turn the crisis into an opportunity to mobilise power by attacking their favourite rival — the U.S. The Iranian government has blamed the U.S. sanctions for the severity of the virus attack on its people. Iran’s proxies in Iraq continued to target U.S. forces, killing two Americans on March 11. In the Gulf, the Revolutionary Guard Corps carried out operations, harassing the American Navy, which prompted Mr. Trump to authorise the Navy to shoot down Iranian boats. Last month, Iran said it launched a military satellite into the orbit. This fits well into a time-tested strategy of taking a more aggressive foreign policy and whipping up nationalist sentiments whenever the domestic crisis worsens. “Iran’s resilience should not be underestimated,” said K.P. Fabian, a former Indian diplomat, and an expert on West Asia. “Iran cannot be sanctioned further and it hopes to see Trump out,” Mr. Fabian, who was posted in Tehran during the Iranian revolution in 1979, told The Hindu .
16 May 2020||Kabul,||Afghan hospital attackers came to kill mothers, says MSF||Gunmen who stormed a hospital in the Afghan capital this week had come to “kill the mothers”, a medical charity said, as survivors expressed shock and horror at the gruesome attack. At least 24 people were killed — including newborns, mothers and nurses — when three armed men rampaged through the maternity ward of the Barchi National Hospital in Kabul on Tuesday, in an attack that sparked international outrage. The U.S. later said the deadly assault was carried out by the Islamic State group. “What I saw in the maternity hospital demonstrates it was a systematic shooting of the mothers,” said Frederic Bonnot on Thursday, the Doctors Without Borders (MSF) head in Afghanistan, who visited the facility a day after the attack. ‘A methodical attack’ “They went through the rooms in the maternity, shooting women in their beds. It was methodical. “Walls sprayed with bullets, blood on the floors in the rooms, vehicles burnt out and windows shot through,” he said in a statement. MSF, which runs the maternity ward at the hospital, said at the time of the attack 26 mothers were being cared for at the Barchi National Hospital in west Kabul. When the attack began, shooting and explosions could be heard from the safe room where several had taken refuge, said Mr. Bonnot. “They came to kill the mothers,” he added. Afghan officials in Kabul blamed the Taliban. “Neither the Taliban hands nor their stained consciousness can be washed of the blood of women, babies & other innocent in the latest senseless carnage,” Afghan Vice-President Amrullah Saleh tweeted.
16 May 2020||London,||More than 12,500 care home deaths linked to virus in U.K.||More than 12,500 deaths of care home residents in Britain were linked to the coronavirus, according to figures released on Friday, heaping further pressure on the government over its handling of the pandemic. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said 12,526 care home residents in England and Wales had died from the virus in March and April, with nearly three-quarters occurring within homes and the rest in hospitals. However, the ONS suggested the actual death toll of care home residents could be far higher, noting it had recorded 23,136 more fatalities in the first four months of the year than in the same period in 2019. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps had said on Thursday that “the vast majority” of care homes had seen no virus cases and that the rate of deaths in them was less than in neighbouring European countries. The ONS and regional U.K. health bodies reported earlier this week they had registered 36,473 deaths from or mentioning the virus up until May 1 — a tally second only to the U.S. The figures also indicated that Britain’s excess mortality, which experts have said is the truest indicator of the virus’ impact, was close to 50,000. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government has been criticised for its response to the outbreak, particularly in relation to care homes, with accusations they have been abandoned during the pandemic. Opposition parties and whistleblowers in the care sector have said hospitals allowed patients to be discharged from hospital into homes without adequate testing to determine if they had the virus.
16 May 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong history exam question sparks rebuke from Beijing||A history exam question asking Hong Kong students to assess colonial Japan’s occupation of China sparked a rebuke by Beijing on Friday and reignited a row over academic freedoms in the semi-autonomous city. The criticism comes as Hong Kong’s schools and universities — some of the best in Asia — become the latest ideological battleground in a city convulsed by political unrest since last year. Chicken coop metaphor China’s Foreign Ministry and state media rounded on a university entrance exam question that asked students whether they agreed Japan “did more good than harm” to China from 1900 to 1945. “Hong Kong’s education sector must not become a chicken coop without a roof,” the Foreign Ministry wrote on the Facebook page of its Hong Kong office, using a metaphor referring to the idea that students should be protected from negative influences or ideas. “Hong Kong’s (university exam) question leads students to be traitors,” wrote the nationalist Global Times newspaper on Friday. After the criticism from the mainland, Hong Kong’s Education Secretary Kevin Yeung announced the question would not be marked by examiners because it was “biased” and had “seriously hurt the feelings and dignity of the Chinese people”. He also ordered the city’s exam board to report to him on how it was included in the test. Japan’s colonial occupation of parts of China between 1900-1945 was brutal and led to millions of deaths. The “chicken coop” metaphor was used by Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing Chief Executive Carrie Lam last week as she warned that liberal studies, a secondary school class that teaches critical thinking, helped fuel last year’s unrest.
16 May 2020||Sao Paulo,||Lula fears ‘genocide’ in Brazil under Bolsonaro||Former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva says he fears a “genocide” in Brazil because of fierce opposition to coronavirus containment measures by current President Jair Bolsonaro, whom he said should be impeached. In an interview with AFP by video conference from his home near Sao Paulo, Lula — a hero of the Brazilian left who served as President from 2003 to 2010 — attacked the far-right leader who now holds the office. He accused Mr. Bolsonaro of steering Brazil toward “chaos” with his calls to reopen the economy despite the country emerging as one of those hardest hit by the new coronavirus worldwide, with nearly 14,000 deaths so far. “The administration is turning anyone who’s worried about coronavirus into an enemy, and that’s not the right path. I’m Catholic, so I’ve been praying for the Brazilian people to escape this genocide Bolsonaro is causing.” “Bolsonaro has attacked democracy, democratic institutions and the people.”
16 May 2020||Paris,||Virus could kill 1,50,000 in Africa: WHO||The new coronavirus could kill 1,50,000 people in Africa in a year unless urgent action is taken, according to a WHO modelling study that says nearly a quarter of a billion people will be infected. Authors of the research, published on Friday in the journal BMJ Global Health , predicted a lower infection rate than in other parts of the world like Europe and the U.S., with fewer severe cases and deaths. Experts at the World Health Organization’s Africa office modelled likely rates of exposure to the virus and infection in the 47 countries under its regional remit, which excludes Djibouti, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan and Tunisia.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How a market turned into a COVID-19 hotspot||The normally bustling Koyambedu market in Chennai, touted to be one of Asia’s largest wholesale hubs for perishable goods, has come to a complete standstill. The never-ending rows of shops are empty, and an eerie silence has descended upon the sprawling area of 65 acres. The iron gates to the market are closed to prevent further spread of the novel coronavirus, but it is too little, too late. Keeping the market open till May 5 during a raging pandemic has proved costly for the Tamil Nadu government. Instead of maintaining physical distancing, people thronged the market during the nationwide lockdown without wearing masks. As a result, the huge market complex is now the State’s biggest COVID-19 cluster. With cases from the cluster spread over half of Tamil Nadu, Koyambedu has changed the State’s COVID-19 trajectory. Other States too have begun to report COVID-19-positive people with a known presence at Koyambedu, or who had contact with those in the market. Since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, the Koyambedu wholesale complex comprising the vegetable, fruits, flowers and foodgrains market saw sudden surges in the number of visitors every time there was panic about an impending shortage of essential goods. The complex attracts about 1-2 lakh visitors on normal days. Though the number dropped by less than half during the lockdown, there was a steady flow of consumers, In addition, about 10,000 labourers involved in loading and unloading goods flocked to the market. Rush during lockdown T. Venkatesh (name changed), a 57-year-old merchant at Koyambedu, was among the hundreds of traders present at the market during the lockdown. “It is impossible not to mingle with people when you’re at the market. I also attended meetings of traders’ bodies until April-end. There was greater rush during a certain period of the lockdown,” he said. A few days later, Venkatesh experienced a bout of fever and cold. “I thought it was normal sickness, but my family thought it would be better if I got tested for COVID-19. Little did I expect that I would test positive for the disease. After the result came on May 2, I was admitted to a private hospital for seven days,” he said. A diabetic, Venkatesh is relieved that he recovered quickly and his family members tested negative for COVID-19. Like him, many other traders described business during the lockdown period as abnormal. P. Sukumar settled for business on April 25 at the market after unloading produce from the vehicles. Crowds, he said, are not new to him. But what unfolded on that day, before the four-day complete lockdown in Chennai, is etched in his mind. “Normally, retail vendors from distant areas like Arakkonam, Tiruvallur and Gummidipoondi begin to arrive first between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. to purchase vegetables and other goods. But on that day, people from nearby areas too started coming in early,” he said. Crowds soon spilled over to the roads leading to the market. Generally, about 2,000 vehicles arrive to fetch goods from the market around 2 a.m., but on that day, it seemed like the number of vehicles had doubled, Sukumar said. Inside the market, hundreds of people without masks jostled for space to buy vegetables in bulk. Vendors estimated that the number of visitors was three or four times higher than on normal days. For residents in the neighbourhood, the Koyambedu market is a popular choice. This is where they can purchase most of the essential goods under one roof at a nominal rate. Traders were not prepared for such an increase in the number of visitors. It is nearly impossible to control such a huge gathering in a market that is the centre of a large supply chain, they said. Government agencies, including the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, Greater Chennai Corporation and the Chennai police, formulated guidelines to decongest the market: they imposed restrictions on vehicle movement and visiting hours; launched mobile vegetable shops to issue passes to visitors; disallowed residents from entering the market; and roped in food aggregators to deliver vegetables and fruits. But none of these measures stopped the crowds from swelling. Playing the blame game Soon after the market was closed, and with the number of COVID-19 cases increasing in Tamil Nadu, the blame game for the chaos has started. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has blamed the vendors for not cooperating with the government. He said they refused to move to alternate sites citing business losses, despite several rounds of talks. The Opposition parties have blamed the State government for allowing the creation of this cluster. D. Rajasekaran, president of the Federation of Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetables Merchants Association, said: “Koyambedu is a large hub of perishable goods where about 90 different items are available. There are several options available now to people, but the market complex’s easy access and affordable rates have always been a big draw. Selling vegetables became an alternative business for several people who were rendered jobless during the lockdown. They also started visiting the market during the early hours despite restrictions by the police.” Members of traders’ associations said they cooperated with the authorities and spread awareness about COVID-19. They also distributed about 5,000 masks daily to labourers and retail vendors, they said. Some people said lack of awareness among the labourers on COVID-19 could have caused the rapid spread of the virus. About 10,000 labourers, mainly from other districts such as Ariyalur, Cuddalore and Perambalur, were engaged for loading and unloading the produce. Many of them left the city to their native places in vegetable trucks. Members of the traders’ associations said they had been suggesting since April that the market be closed for a few days or operate on alternate days. They recalled that they withdrew the decision of closing the market on March 27 and 28 following the government’s instructions. “It is disheartening to see Koyambedu vendors being solely blamed for the spread of COVID-19. We had kept the shops open to prevent shortage of essential goods and price rise. We are prepared to listen to the government’s decisions in the future,” said Rajasekaran. The emergence of a cluster By May 15, Tamil Nadu recorded 10,108 COVID-19 cases, a figure inflated by cases from the Koyambedu market cluster. The number of cases began to increase rapidly in the last week of April when vendors in Chennai started to test positive for COVID-19. Soon, the market turned into a hotspot for the virus. By May 4, when the State’s Health Department officially acknowledged the cluster in its daily bulletin, the cluster had started to grow in large proportions. It spread silently but quickly to other districts of the State that were less affected by the virus. The majority of the northern districts — Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore, Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai — took a hit. While western districts were spared, the central region — Ariyalur and Perambalur — that was less affected until then bore the brunt too, along with Chennai. This was nothing like the State’s first cluster. Those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi account for a little over 1,300 cases. Officials said the Koyambedu cluster could account for about 3,000 cases. The cluster’s present case count is approximately 2,500-2,600. Soon after the retail market was closed, market labourers, who until then had stayed and slept on platforms and in load vehicles, started to leave the city for their hometowns. J. Radhakrishnan, special nodal officer for COVID-19, Greater Chennai Corporation, said the government immediately began to identify and list those who went to the market. “With the cooperation of the market association, we identified 6,900 people who had gone to various districts from Koyambedu, and another 1,300 in Chennai. We quarantined all of them, checked them for symptoms, and tested them,” he said. Noting that contact tracing was very strong, T.S. Selvavinayagam, director of public health and preventive medicine, said they had tracked most of the people who had returned from Koyambedu. Most of them had gone to Ariyalur, Cuddalore and Villupuram. With targeted testing on, officials began to test the samples of all those linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai and other districts. However, all this dealt a heavy blow to the ongoing containment measures, and posed many challenges too. “We immediately knew that the Tablighi Jamaat cluster had a new replacement. The Koyambedu market was conducive for disease transmission,” an official said. “The labourers, who until then had made the market their home, started to leave the city in groups and in whichever vehicle they managed to get. What we wanted to do is trace them and their contacts as early and as fast as possible. The aim was to track all of them but the challenge was that the majority were asymptomatic. However, the response from the people was encouraging. They self-reported and gave details on how many days they had worked in the market,” he said. All districts that had business relations with Koyambedu were affected, said K.S. Kandasamy, Collector of Tiruvannamalai, a district that is 185-190 kilometres away from Koyambedu. “Earlier, 300-500 people used to arrive in Tiruvannamalai from Chennai. At the time we had about seven positive cases a day. Now, on an average, we receive 50 people and one-third of them test positive for the infection. Most of them are natives of Tiruvannamalai but reside in the city for work. They are from areas such as Pulianthope, Pallavaram and Tambaram and are somehow linked to the Koyambedu market. They worked in tea stalls near the market, or sold produce in pushcarts. With Chennai turning into a hotspot, many are returning to their hometowns,” he said. Along with Chennai, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu continue to report a significant number of cases linked to Koyambedu. Shopkeepers and vendors travelled in vehicles from these districts to Koyambedu and purchased vegetables. They got infected and so did their contacts. In one area, a vendor who travelled in a share auto to purchase vegetables from Koyambedu spread the infection to 25-30 others. Such was the magnitude of the cluster, officials said. Maintain distancing, wear masks “The point is you have to imagine what can go wrong,” said T. Jacob John, virologist and retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Only imagination can tell you what will happen if you keep the Koyambedu market open with the lockdown hanging over your head till May 17. People will tend to hoard. This should have been imagined ahead of time. This lack of imagination is helping the virus,” he said. He added that if the government wanted the market to function, it should have organised it in a better way and insisted that everyone wear masks. “In other words, if everyone wears masks, that is equal to imposing a lockdown or is even better than a lockdown. The lockdown is to prevent the asymptomatic infected from infecting others. The minimum distance between two persons should be six feet. If you expect people to assemble in spite of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, then insist they wear a mask. Then it would be less of a problem. But they did not imagine that people would crowd like this. The damage is done, and there is hardly anything that they can do except contact tracing and quarantining,” he said. “If you want to control the speed of infection, diagnose and test mild and moderate cases. If this is done regularly by RT-PCR, we will find more people than through contact tracing.” The lockdown, Professor John said, has not worked very well because it has not been taken seriously by a lot of people. “It has been extremely leaky. It is proven by the fact that the number of cases is going up by leaps and bounds despite the lockdown. People are not taking the lockdown seriously, nor are they wearing masks,” he said. Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said one of the most important risk factors for the spread of COVID-19 is the average distance between two human beings. “This is the most important principle. The moment you have crowding, this principle is violated. Whatever you do, you should not allow crowding to happen,” he said. “When we have a complete lockdown in the middle of a lockdown, people will buy a lot. So decisions have to be carefully made. You can warn people in advance.” What can crowding do? “Reducing the duration of shopping for vegetables is not a good idea as people tend to rush to buy vegetables. Do everything to prevent crowding,” Dr. Muliyil said. “With every decision you make, ask the question, can you increase or decrease crowding? The question is not how long a person spends inside the house. The question is, how often does a person have to get into a crowd?” For instance, a person can spend 23 and a half hours inside the house and then stand in a crowd for half an hour and get infected. “The idea to keep people at home is to avoid crowding. We have succeeded in keeping people at home but all of them come together in shops. Spacing individuals and allowing enough time for them to shop is important. Crowds gather because we do not give enough time to people. This was the problem,” Dr. Muliyil said. “The word cluster came into the COVID-19 story when it was initially said that this virus is imported, and there were a few people around that imported case. That is a containable cluster. The meaning of the word cluster is lost when community transmission starts. That means there are clusters all over the place. Earlier clusters were named so that we can contain the area but we cannot contain 1,000 clusters. This virus is highly transmissible. And it does so without any clinical manifestation,” he said. Managing a market Management of the Koyambedu market has been a big challenge during the pandemic, said officials of the Market Management Committee and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. It is a complex area as various segments are situated in the same place. Shops are closely located. When it was set up in 1996, no one would have designed the market keeping in mind physical distancing or a pandemic, said an official. “We had been talking to the representatives of traders associations about shifting the market for many days. But people continued to visit the market despite the police prohibiting them,” the official added. Since May 10, wholesale merchants are trading at the Thirumazhisai market where space has been allotted for about 200 shops. Individual consumers are not allowed. Business hours are restricted from early morning till 8.30 a.m. D. Karthikeyan, Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, said creating a temporary market in a vacant space in a short time was a challenge. “We are taking a cautious approach so that people don’t congregate. Entry to the market has been restricted and screening of vehicles is being done,” he said. The growing cluster points to the need for better planning. A. Srivathsan, Professor, CEPT University, Ahmedabad, said unlike shopping malls, there were compulsions to have the Koyambedu market opened to prevent shortage of essential commodities. However, the decision to shift the market to alternate spaces like Madhavaram and build temporary markets like in Thirumazhisai could have been thought of earlier, he said. “Sometimes, there is a tendency to overlook some issues in an emergency response. There is nothing wrong in admitting an oversight,” he said. Even without a pandemic, having a market in one large unit is a problem in a rapidly expanding city. “Given the population distribution, a polycentric model is needed in the way we distribute urban amenities. Sanitary inspections were important in the early 20th century. In places like Doveton, market licences were cancelled if there was poor sanitation,” he said. “We must come up with more locations for markets, and design and maintain them well post-pandemic. A well-designed market goes a long way in the maintenance of hygiene, irrespective of its size. It needs to be designed keeping in mind not just crowd movement and the convenience of people but also health and sanitation.” Can the concept of goods distribution be sustained in the post-COVID-19 scenario? Urban Design Collective, a Chennai-based collaborative platform of architects, urban designers and planners, has studied how Chennai’s Koyambedu and Tirunelveli have coped with the pandemic. Vidhya Mohankumar, architect, urban designer and founder of Urban Design Collective, said, “Our team found that some new ways were adopted to get fresh produce. In Tirunelveli, residents grouped to buy produce on a rotational basis to reduce the number of individual trips to the market.” The team has come up with a model that can be followed post-COVID-19 for distribution in Tirunelveli. Cooperatives for neighbourhood shops and small food enterprises can be formed with a few business owners, they said. One of them can procure goods at the market for the cooperative and reduce crowding at the market. However, in a major city like Chennai, intermediate delivery service providers would also be appropriate. Residents and vendors can sign up with aggregators who can pick up and deliver supplies. “We must think of multiple ways to become a food-smart city. We can have rooftop gardens in many buildings, including commercial ones. The State government can form ‘community thottams (gardens)’ at unused land parcels or open space reservation lands at the ward level to grow organic food,” said Mohankumar. Clearly, more than one solution has to be employed with foresight and imagination, so that crises of this scale are avoided in future, even if the Koyambedu market were to get back to regular functioning.  Earlier, 300-500 people used to arrive in Tiruvannamalai from Chennai. At the time we had about seven positive cases a day. Now, on an average, we receive 50 people and one-third of them test positive for the infection. K.S. Kandasamy Collector of Tiruvannamalai
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET is not student-friendly, merit-promoting||“Freedom of individual development is the basis of democracy,” observed the Commission (1948-49) appointed by the Government of India “to report on Indian University Education and suggest improvements and extensions that may be desirable to suit present and future”. It had among its members Dr. S. Radhakrishnan and was cited by then Chief Justice of India, B.N. Kirpal, in the judgment in T.M.A. Pai Foundation & Ors vs State Of Karnataka & Ors (2002). The Commission added (also cited in the T.M.A. Pai Foundation judgment): “Exclusive control of education by the State has been an important factor in facilitating the maintenance of totalitarian tyrannies. In such States[,] institutions of higher learning controlled and managed by governmental agencies act like mercenaries, promote the political purposes of the State, make them acceptable to an increasing number of their populations and supply them with the weapons they need. We must resist, in the interests of our own democracy, the trend towards the governmental domination of the educational process.” But these observations do not seem to have been kept in mind in a judgment this April on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), by a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Arun Mishra. NEET was initially struck down as unconstitutional in Christian Medical College, Vellore (2013) by a 2:1 majority. In 2016, not only was a review of this judgment allowed but the dissenting judge of the 2013 judgment made NEET compulsory even prior to a full hearing by the constitution Bench. NEET is an assault on the autonomy of universities and higher education institutions, particularly private, unaided ones. It is ironical that while in all other areas including industrial relations, the government is talking about deregulation, in the case of education, over-centralisation is becoming a harsh and painful reality. Similarly in the name of NEET or the state’s power to “regulate”, the rights of unaided private institutions and minority institutions cannot be violated as regulation cannot annihilate minority character. Certainly minorities do not have right to “mal-administer” their institutions yet due to admission mal-practices practised by the few institutions, denial of Article 30 rights and Article 19(g) rights of private unaided institutions is absolutely wrong. Students disadvantaged Is NEET really student friendly? For example, Tamil Nadu has been opposing NEET. With NEET and similar other national tests such as the Joint Entrance Examination and Common Law Admission Test, coaching institutes are prospering; since most of them are in cities, poorer students from a rural background and who have studied in the vernacular medium face a disadvantage. There is also large-scale variation in the syllabus and standards of the Central Board of Secondary Education and State boards. We cannot overlook some of the advantages a student has if there are multiple tests: if he falls ill or has not done well in one test, he will still have a chance to qualify in another without losing a year. Second, it gives a student a right to select an institution of his choice. Third, the NEET paper was leaked twice in the last four years; therefore, there is not much confidence in NEET’s fairness and transparency. Finally, there is the issue of wrong translation. In the 2018 NEET, as many as 49 questions had errors in Tamil translation leading to a Madras High Court order to award four marks for each of the 49 wrongly translated questions, or 196 marks to all 1.07 lakh candidates of Tamil Nadu. The Supreme Court overruled this order as the High Court had arbitrarily ordered giving grace marks to everyone without examining whether the student even attempted such a question. Element of class NEET is considered the best option as our judges genuinely think it promotes merit. But is there a consensus on what merit really means? British sociologist Michael Dunlop Young’s book, The Rise of the Meritocracy (1958), has popularised what is called “meritocracy” though the idea really goes back to earlier times. Meritocracy requires competition and equality of opportunity. Is it not a fact that the administrators of NEET and judges do believe that the multidimensional construct of merit can be adequately, if not accurately, measured? When NEET and other such admission tests do not meet this fundamental criteria, competition cannot be termed as fair and just, and the equality of opportunity becomes illusionary. There is substantial scholarship in the West (Sacks, Freedle, Wells, Camara & Schmidt) that argues that common admission tests cannot measure abilities that are essential for learning such as imagination, curiosity and motivation. Justice Mishra did concede the point of a lack of commitment of doctors to serve in rural areas (that was a point in Christian Medical College, Vellore ) but eventually decided in favour of NEET in the name of merit. Empirical research in the United States on standardised common tests has found that these tests are biased against the poorer and underprivileged sections of population, women and minorities. Thus there is an element of class in NEET that the Indian judiciary has so far overlooked. Differential treatment Minority rights are not the violation of the equality provision in Article 14 as the Constitution does permit classification. In fact substantive equality as opposed to formal equality, mandates differential treatment. There are even hundreds of minority institutions of Hindus as linguistic minorities. The Supreme Court itself termed Article 30 as ‘an article of faith’ in Lilly Kurian (1978); a ‘sacred obligation’ in Kerala Education Bill (1957); ‘the conscience of the nation’ in Ahmedabad St. Xaviers College (1974); ‘an absolute right’ in Rev. Sidhajbhai Sabhai And Others (1962) and part of the ‘basic structure’ in Kesavananda Bharati (1973); thus minority rights were held as unamendable and inalienable. The Court’s opinion in Kerala Education Bill , on minority rights, has been religiously cited in all subsequent judgments (including the latest judgment on NEET) but without paying much attention to the crucial statement where there was the observation that the key words in Article 30 are ‘of their own choice.’ Holding ‘choice’ to be the dominant word, then Chief Justice Das said that ‘the content of the article is as wide as the choice of the particular minority can make it’. If a minority institution wants additional qualifications over and above the NEET score, denial of such additional and superior qualifications undermines its choice. Even if one concedes the necessity of NEET, centralised counselling due to which several minority institutions and private medical colleges are unable to fill their seats is indeed an ‘intolerable encroachment’. Moreover, every vacant seat is the national loss. COVID-19 has only demonstrated India’s extremely poor doctor-population ratio. Justice Mishra has rightly relied on T.M.A. Pai Foundation , where the Court had held that admission by the management can be by a common entrance test held by “itself or by the State/University”. Moreover, it is important that here universities and state  were treated on a par and an admission test by the university was considered as good as a test conducted by the State. What a 11-judge Bench really emphasised was that an admission process must be fair and transparent rather than just one test for all institutions. In Islamic Academy of Education and Another (2003), a five-judge Bench of the top court clarified the T.M.A. Pai judgment and held that institutions which have a special feature and which have been admitting only students of their own community but have a fair and transparent admission procedure for at least the last 25 years can seek an exemption from a common admission test. Certainly it is nobody’s case that minority institutions can grant admission on their whims and fancies, but if such an institution follows an identifiable or reasonable methodology of admitting students, the imposition of NEET with mandatory centralised counselling is indeed an unreasonable restriction. The Supreme Court has consistently held that Article 30 is not so absolute as to be above the law and regulations made in the true interests of efficiency of instruction, discipline, health, sanitation, morality and public order could be imposed. This is a small window and cannot be widened to take over the entire admission process as some of the smaller Benches (including the latest one) have inferred. After all, instruction, sanitation, health and discipline will come into play only after candidates are admitted. Faizan Mustafa is an expert of constitutional law. The views expressed are personal
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The pandemic and the challenge of behaviour change||The COVID-19 crisis is far from over, but governments everywhere appear to have either relaxed lockdown parameters or will do so soon. The curve may have been flattened, but there will be a greater risk now of being infected. Containing COVID-19 and restoring our economies requires not just good policy decisions and medical advice; it also needs continued compliance with the recommended behavioural changes that in many ways go against social and cultural conventions. Daunting as they may seem, the drastic changes in behaviour being called for can indeed be brought about. The science of social marketing uses known marketing principles and behaviour change theory to influence people’s behaviour for the benefit of both the target audience and of society. Public health, safety and environmental concerns are some of the areas where social marketing can have huge impact. The Health Belief Model (HBM), developed by Irwin M. Rosenstock others suggests that a person’s health-related behaviours ultimately stem from the desire to avoid illness. The two most important constructs of the model are: perceived benefits — the effectiveness of actions available to reduce the threat of the disease, and perceived barriers — the obstacles to performing a recommended health action. The model also recognises the importance of “cues to action” or triggers which set into motion the process of adopting the desired behaviours. These cues, typically, are emotional, not just informative or educational. The HBM presumes that knowledge or education alone is grossly insufficient to change a person’s behaviour. Cigarette sales, for example did not decline significantly for years despite the ills of smoking having been widely publicised. The Indian example India is one of the few countries that appears to have recognised the power of deliberately crafted emotive cues to action such as the Prime Minister’s call for a voluntary “Janata Curfew”, exhorting citizens to show that they care for themselves and their loved ones, and to display their patriotism. People were asked to stay indoors but, at 5 p.m., to also applaud health-care workers and others who are a part of the pandemic battle. The blend of fear, patriotism and gratitude extolled by the Prime Minister appeared to have been just the right buttons to push and people did stay indoors. Yet at 5 p.m., while many applauded from their balconies, hordes of others congregated in large groups, throwing social distancing to the winds. Fear, patriotism and gratitude, even if they were effective as “initiating” cues to action, were insufficient to sustain behaviour change and needed to be periodically rekindled. The Prime Minister later called upon citizens to switch off lights at 9 p.m. for 9 minutes on a chosen day and light lamps to go “from darkness to hope”. As is well known, the number 9 and lighting lamps are powerful positive symbols in India. In Singapore, the government, perhaps taking a cue, supported an event, “Sing Together Singapore”. People at home were encouraged to sing as well and wave a torchlight as gratitude for frontline and migrant workers. Going back to the main constructs of the HBM, to be effective, the social marketing message would present the benefits as applying direct to the individual, not just indirectly to society at large. And, messaging about barriers should not make the change appear too difficult to engage in or make the cost of adopting the behaviours appear too high. Supportive measures should facilitate the adoption of the desired behaviour. Here is an example to illustrate this. In the 1970s, Bangladesh undertook an ambitious family planning campaign keeping in mind the country’s limited resources. Research showed that while the women were able to readily see the benefits, the men, who were the decision makers at home, could not. The campaign became successful after social marketers decided to empower women by making female contraceptives available through women rural medical practitioners who made house calls. The marketers also designed a communications programme directed at men highlighting benefits such as better health for their wives, thereby enabling them to look after their husbands and children better. Gauging receptivity This writer conducted informal interviews (not scientific by any means) in Chennai to gauge receptivity to recommended behaviours during the pandemic. Here are the findings in relation to some of the recommended behavioural actions and possible messaging and support measures. Many were not quite convinced of the threat posed by asymptomatic others merely because they were close by. The perceived direct benefits of social distancing were thus moderate at best. Further, one does not have the luxury of observing physical distancing in many situations (especially in densely populated areas). Telling someone to stand away is also difficult because it could be considered rude. Hygiene instructors often ask an audience to colour their hands and then show the imprints they leave everywhere to demonstrate how germs can spread. Would a social marketing campaign that paints a picture of the virus “jumping” onto you if you are close to an infected person work? This needs to be supported by physical barriers wherever possible to promote social distancing. The recommendation to hand wash often or use an alcohol-based hand rub was unrealistic for too many people even though they saw the merit in it. The two options have been presented as equivalent, but from a behavioural change point of view they are not. Even those who had fairly easy access to soap and washing facilities found it rather inconvenient to interrupt whatever they were doing to frequently head to a hand wash station. If alcohol-based hand rubs were available within arm’s reach, people had no need to interrupt their work and drying their hands was not a problem since they would swiftly dry on their own. This suggests high payoffs from a decision by governments to focus on increasing the supply of hand rubs and absorbing or highly subsidising the costs of making hand rub bottles readily available to supplement hand washing with soap and water. We know that shame is a powerful disincentive to undesirable behaviour. This writer has considerable experience in projects to make villages open defecation free through the use of Community-led Total Sanitation, a technique that liberally and successfully uses “naming and shaming” to achieve its goals. It is not hard to visualise messaging that shows bystanders strongly disapproving of those who do not comply with the COVID-19 recommendations. A well-crafted social marketing campaign would help address the COVID-19 crisis and set foundations that will help ameliorate the adverse consequences of future pandemics. Let us build policy from science in the effort to save lives and to put the local and global economies back on track. S.N. Srikanth is Chairman and Managing Director of the Hauer-Diana Group of Companies of India
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A question of quarantine||As tens of thousands of people move across States, many of them migrant workers and their families travelling as unorganised groups, the Centre finds itself facing a fresh front in the campaign to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. While it was possible to shut down optional public activity and travel early on during the lockdown, those who were stranded within the country and abroad have started returning home. Only some are travelling by trains and aircraft, and the system of quarantine in the States is not uniform. The Centre, as the lockdown regulator, now has the important task of creating a consensus with the States on the quarantine modalities. Confusion surrounding quarantine for passengers who took the first relief trains from New Delhi to various cities, leading to some of them returning to the national capital, underscores the need for agreement. The response so far has been flat-footed in several States. Train passengers arriving in Bengaluru protested that they received no advance notice of institutional quarantine, although they were given an option to stay in hotels for 14 days incurring considerable expenditure. Labourers compulsorily quarantined in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar escaped from the facilities after complaining of bad conditions. In Kerala, the Centre insists on a 14-day institutional quarantine for those arriving by air, rejecting the State’s proposal for seven days in a public facility and another seven at home; train passengers were given a home quarantine option. Such a lack of certitude, even as the extended lockdown is set to expire, reflects failure at building consensus. With further easing of the lockdown, if not full withdrawal, many more will want to move within and between States, by rail and road, besides those returning from abroad. All States have to prepare for this by agreeing on the period of quarantine, and provide, as a baseline, decent and free official accommodation to anyone who wants it. There could be options, including hotels and private accommodation, at non-exploitative tariffs. Such a stratified approach is inevitable, considering that many travellers from areas with high transmission have been testing positive. For thousands of workers moving in groups by road across States, there is both the risk of infection and transmission. This is a daunting scenario as India has crossed 85,000 cases of COVID-19 and slowing the spread depends vitally on joint action. It must be pointed out that the Health Ministry, in its updated advice issued on May 10, approved home isolation for even patients with the virus, if they are deemed to be very mild to pre-symptomatic cases. This indicates a recognition of both the growing case load, the rising pressure on public facilities and the limited scope for paid quarantine. Yet, institutional capacity will have to be ramped up in the coming weeks as part of a cohesive policy.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||TASMAC tribulations||The conflict between fiscal health and public health is quite real for the States. Faced with dwindling revenue due to the stagnation in economic activity since the national lockdown began, States are desperate to raise money to combat disease spread and to keep their public health services going. It is this desperation that led Tamil Nadu to rush to the Supreme Court to obtain a stay on a Madras High Court order barring the sale of liquor through its retail stores and mandating online sales alone. The top court seems to be mindful of the need to preserve the policy space of States, reflected in its various interim orders declining to stop liquor sales. In one case, it refused a blanket stay on opening liquor shops; in another it suggested online sale and home delivery, but did not want to impose the option on any government. In TN’s case, it has stayed the HC order, paving the way for resumption of sales through outlets of the State-run TASMAC. The Madras High Court initially allowed the State government to open its vast network of liquor shops, subject to several conditions for maintaining physical distancing. However, the State witnessed appalling scenes of unmanageable crowds and serpentine queues when shops re-opened on May 7. As there was overwhelming evidence that physical distancing had been given the go-by, the HC banned across-the-counter sales, and directed that only online sale be permitted. Popular opinion in TN does not seem to favour the resumption of liquor sales at a time when the number of people testing positive for the novel coronavirus is spiralling. Even those who have no moral objection to liquor consumption would endorse regulations on physical sale, given the great danger of the infection spreading fast. TN is reeling under the effect of a cluster traced to Chennai city’s huge wholesale vegetable and fruit market, with the total infection count rising in thousands in recent days. The State government’s argument that the HC ought not to have interfered in a policy matter may be sound, and obviously impressed the Supreme Court. However, its claim that online sale is not possible in a State like Tamil Nadu does not really ring true. The reality is that selling liquor online would cut into the unaccounted extra fee that TASMAC staff charge for every purchase. At Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 for each sale, this amount runs into crores of rupees annually and is believed to be shared among vested interests. None can realistically discount the possibility that reopening TASMAC outlets may lead to another infection spiral. Now that it has fought bitterly, even at the cost of making a highly contentious decision, to get liquor sales going, the State government has to live up to its promise of preventing overcrowding in the vicinity of its outlets.
16 May 2020||MUMBAI,||IndiGlobe eyes Virgin Australia||InterGlobe Enterprises Ltd., which owns over 37% stake in IndiGo Airlines, has submitted a bid to acquire Virgin Australia airlines, which had filed for bankruptcy protection on April 21, 2020 after going down with an over $7 billion debt and a very little amount of cash. “As regards Virgin Australia, InterGlobe Enterprises has signed an agreement to participate in the sale process, and is bound by the confidentiality requirements of that agreement,” an InterGlobe Enterprise spokesperson said. “We are unable to say anything further at this stage,” the spokesperson added. Virgin Australia, founded as Virgin Blue in 2000 by British billionaire Sir Richard Branson, was one of the first casualties of COVID-19 that caused large scale grounding of aircraft as different countries imposed travel restrictions. Deloitte is conducting the bids and reportedly eight bidders, including InterGlobe, have submitted bids by Friday. The rest include Brookfield, Queensland’s investment firm QIC, private equity firm BGH Capital, Bain Capital, and mining baron Andrew Forrest. The three top bidders will be short-listed next week.The airline, Australia’s second largest, has a fleet of 98 aircraft and used to operate to 56 destinations before it went down. Existing shareholders Its existing shareholders include China’s Nanshan Group, HNA Group, Singapore Airlines, Etihad Airways and Sir Branson’s Virgin Group with 10% equity stake. IndiGo started commercial operations in 2007, and since then has emerged as India’s biggest airline with nearly 50% domestic market share. IndiGo is one the world’s best run low-cost profitable airlines. It had recently denied any role in the bid.
16 May 2020||Mumbai,||Permit us to use reserves: NBFCs to RBI||Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) on Friday requested the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to allow them to draw down from their reserves for making additional provision for expected losses due to COVID-19 pandemic. NBFCs appropriate pro- statutory and other reserves, and utilisation of these reserves is governed by the statute requiring its creation. “We urge the RBI to consider, as a one-time measure, to allow NBFCs to draw-down from their reserves and adjust towards additional expected credit losses (ECL) provision requirement, in excess of provision calculated as per normal probability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD),” the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), a representative body of assets and loan-financing NBFCs, wrote to RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das. NBFCs are required to comply with Indian Accounting Standards (IndAS).  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has advised the NBFCs to measure the impact of COVID-19 on the portfolio quality in the form of PD and LGD with adverse impact on the business of the borrowers or debtors due to COVID-19 on one hand, and prudential regulatory actions to sustain the economy such as loan repayment holidays. As per IndAs norms applicable in respect of ECL measurement and disclosure in the financial statements, the NBFCs are required to make additional provisioning in terms of ICAI advisory, which will surely make a severe dent on the profitability and networth of the respective NBFCs, the FIDC said. A one-time draw-down from reserves would enable them to shore up their balance sheet strength by reporting a more fortified ECL provision cover against their likely increase in delinquent loans and remain eligible to access equity/debt capital when situation normalises, the letter read. The sector has asked the RBI to consider permitting any provisions made as per ECL, in respect of the standard assets, to be reckoned with for the purpose of tier II capital. The industry also wanted the RBI to raise the ceiling for considering standard asset provision for calculation of capital adequacy to 2.5% from 1.25%.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Merchandise exports drop over 60%||With the global trade coming to a near halt due to the COVID-19 pandemic, India’s merchandise exports nosedived over 60% in the last month to $10.36 billion from $26.07 billion in April 2019. Except for iron ore and drugs and pharmaceuticals, all other commodities saw a negative growth. As per government estimates, service exports for April 2020 — which will be revised later — stood at $17.60 billion, taking India’s overall exports to $27.96 billion, a decline of 36.65% year-on-year. “The decline in [merchandise] exports has been mainly due to the ongoing global slowdown, which got aggravated due to the current Covid-19 crisis. The latter resulted in large scale disruptions in supply chains and demand resulting in cancellation of orders,” the Ministry of Commerce said. Ravi Sehgal, chairman, Engineering Export Promotion Council said that the over 60% drop in merchandise exports during April 2020 is no surprise given a near halt in the global trade and it would be a long haul before normalcy returns. Noting that exporting units, especially in the engineering sectors, are largely MSMEs, Mr. Sehgal said while the MSME package would provide liquidity infusion, the units need straight- forward fiscal support like waiving of electricity charges, water bills, and wage support for survival. “All dues and refunds should be immediately released to enable exporters to tide over this unprecedented crisis,” he added. Except for iron ore and drugs and pharmaceuticals, which registered a growth of 17.53% and 0.25% respectively, all other commodities registered negative growth in April 2020 vis-a-vis April 2019.  Trade deficit The merchandise trade deficit for April 2020 was estimated at $6.76 billion as against the deficit of $15.33 billion in April 2019. The statement said, “Taking merchandise and services together, overall trade surplus for April 2020 is estimated at $0.16 billion as compared to the deficit of $8.67 billion in April 2019.”
16 May 2020||MUMBAI,||‘FM measures for agri will open new chapter’||The 11-point measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman including the three governance and administrative reforms concerning farmers and agriculture sector, has been welcomed by industry veterans and analysts, who say these will open a new chapter. Sanjiv Puri, chairman, ITC Ltd., said, “It is heartening to see the reforms announced for the agri sector that provides livelihoods to about half of India’s workforce. Amendments to the ECA, reforms in agricultural marketing and risk mitigation through predictable prices will empower farmers, strengthen agri-food processing linkages and enable demand-driven value added agriculture.” “The reforms will encourage investments in food processing and together with the infrastructure outlays will contribute in shaping a competitive agri value chain, reduce wastages and raise farmer incomes,” Mr. Puri said. Amith Agarwal, co-founder and CEO, AgriBazaar, an agritech marketplace, said “The announcement of Rs. 1 lakh crore agri-infrastructure fund for farmgate infrastructure will significantly contribute towards mitigating post-harvest losses and wastage by giving a fillip to scientific storage facilities and also help the small farmers earn additional income by way of value-added agri-produce. According to Anand Ramanathan, partner, Deloitte India, the announcements regarding food, fishery and animal husbandry will have positive impact on the food processing sector.  “The removal of cereals from essential commodities, the agricultural marketing policy changes being made to facilitate direct sale to aggregators, and the assistance being provided to enhance food processing and post harvest infrastructure in proximity to farm gates are excellent formulations which will help farmers,” he added. Atul Mehra, chairman, Tasty Dairy Specialities Ltd., and co-chairman — CII National Committee on Allied Sectors in Agriculture- Dairy, Fisheries and Poultry said, “The reformed measures are much needed and were long standing request from the industry. The reforms will help India go to the next level.”
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre borrows another $1 billion from World Bank for COVID-19 relief||The Centre is taking another $1 billion loan from the World Bank to support its COVID-19 relief measures and financial assistance for the poorest and most vulnerable communities. The money will also be used for reforms in India’s social security net, making it more integrated, portable and focussed on the urban poor. The loan was approved by the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors on Thursday, according to an official statement. The bank had already approved a $1 billion loan to support India’s health sector in April, taking its total commitment to India’s COVID-19 response to $2 billion. The new support will be funded in two phases. An allocation of $750 million —more than Rs. 5,600 crore — will be made immediately to help fund the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, which the Centre announced in March to scale up cash transfers and free foodgrain distribution to vulnerable communities, pensioners and poor workers, and provide insurance support to health workers. The second phase will provide $250 million — almost Rs. 1,900 crore — post July 2020, which will fund additional cash and in-kind benefits based on local needs through state governments and portable social protection delivery systems. The money will also be used to implement reforms. “The COVID-19 pandemic has also put the spotlight on some of the gaps in the existing social protection systems,” said World Bank’s India director Junaid Ahmad. “This program will support the Government of India’s efforts towards a more consolidated delivery platform – accessible to both rural and urban populations across state boundaries,” he added.  The pandemic has also put the spotlight on some of the gaps in the existing social protection systemsJunaid AhmadWorld Bank India director
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown-hit Zomato to reduce workforce by 13%||Online food-delivery platform Zomato on Friday said it will reduce its workforce by 13%, while also implementing a temporary pay cut of up to 50% for the remaining employees as nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 severely affected its business. In an e-mail to employees, Zomato founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal said the workers affected by the lay offs will continue to get half their salaries, in addition to health insurance and outplacement support, for the next six months or till they find another job, whichever is earlier. The company employs about 4,000 people. The company is also looking at making ‘partial or full work-from-home’ a permanent feature to reduce real estate costs. “Our business has been severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. A large number of restaurants have already shut down permanently, and we know that this is just the tip of the iceberg,” Mr. Goyal said, adding he expected the number of restaurants to shrink by 25-40% over the next 6-12 months.
16 May 2020||Mumbai,||Vedanta delisting is opportunistic: report||The decision of Vedanta’s promoters to take the firm private by buying out shareholders at Rs. 87.50 a share is “opportunistic and the price does not reflect the fundamental value of the equity,” Institutional Investor Advisory Services said on Friday. The promoters will have to offer a significantly higher exit price if the bid is to succeed, it added. Last week, billionaire Anil Agarwal-run Vedanta Resources, the London-based holding company, said it will buy back Vedanta shareholders at Rs. 87.50 a share and take the company private. The offer price was at 9% premium over the previous day’s closing price, but since then, the stock has rallied and closed at Rs. 92.90 on the BSE on Friday. “The free float market capitalisation of Vedanta is about $2.2 billion and we expect the parent to shell out significantly more, if the de-listing is to go through,” the shareholders’ advisory wrote in a note. Attributing the move to go private to promoters’ debt repayment pressures, the advisory said, “Vedanta delisting at a floor price of Rs. 87.50 is opportunistic. “The stock is currently trading close to its 52-week low, which is a steep discount to its historic five-year average as a natural fallout of the current economic environment and the COVID-19 crisis.” “The current market price does not reflect the fundamental value of the equity,” the advisory said.
16 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Franklin Templeton MF initiates voting for refunds||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, which abruptly closed six debt schemes with cumulative assets of nearly Rs. 26,000 crore last month, has initiated the process to refund investor money by seeking their consent to a voting process, which is the first step in the refund process. In a note to the investors, Sanjay Sapre, president, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India), said that while the decision to wind up the schemes was the only “viable way to preserve value”, the fund house is “committed to ensuring an orderly and equitable exit for all investors at the earliest possible.” The note further said that as per regulations, investors need to authorise the trustees to take the next steps towards monetisation of assets and distributing the proceeds. “An important point to note is that the payment schedule/payouts can only be finalised and implemented, post the successful completion of the voting process,” it said. Negative vote Interestingly, the note highlighted the fact that while there are some misconceptions that if majority of investors cast a negative vote, then the decision to wind up the schemes would be revoked, but that is not the case. “If trustees do not receive authorisation to proceed with disposal of assets of the scheme, this may delay the process of monetising such assets and distribution of proceeds,” it said.
16 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors to raise Rs. 1,000 crore via NCDs||Tata Motors has announced plans to raise Rs. 1,000 crore via non-convertible debentures. “The company is desirous of offering rated, listed, secured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) aggregating Rs. 1,000 crore,” Tata Motors said in a regulatory filing. In this regard, the company will be holding a meeting of its duly constituted committee of the board on May 20, 2020. “The above issuance is pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors’ resolution passed at its meeting held on March 27, 2020,” the company said in the filing.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||HMSI retails over 21,000 two-wheelers||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) on Friday said it has retailed over 21,000 two-wheelers since resuming operations this week. Besides, almost 2.5 lakh customers have got their two-wheelers serviced at the company’s dealerships and authorised service outlets across India, HMSI said. “With ready availability of six of India’s favourite BS-VI products, we are seeing increasing take off in retails by the day,” according to HMSI director — sales and marketing Yadvinder Singh Guleria. HMSI has also introduced retail finance schemes,he said.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC notice to govt., RBI on CREDAI plea||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government and the RBI to respond to a plea by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) on whether real estate firms are eligible for the loan moratorium policy of the central bank. CREDAI, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, told the Bench that there was no clarity as to whether real estate developers were entitled to the loan moratorium policy. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and others, said he would seek instructions from the ministry concerned and other authorities. The court then issued the notice and fixed the plea for hearing after two weeks.
16 May 2020||Mumbai,||Stimulus to cost 0.34% of GDP: Barclays||The actual hit to government finances from the measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the last two days was pegged at Rs. 66,500 crore, or 0.34% of the GDP, by Barclays. Aggregating all the measures, Barclays said the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cumulatively have, so far, announced steps worth over Rs. 15 lakh crore, leaving Rs. 4.25 lakh crore worth of announcements remaining to hit the Rs. 20-lakh crore mark announced by PM Narendra Modi. From an ‘actual fiscal impact’ perspective, the moves announced on Thursday will cost only Rs. 11,000 crore, the brokerage said, adding it had so far taken a hit of Rs. 66,500 crore only.
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Biocon Q4 profit drops on COVID-19||Biocon said its Q4 net profit has fallen 42.3% to Rs. 123.4 crore owing to a one-time hit to its biologics business due to COVID-19 pandemic. However, revenue from operations rose 3% to Rs. 1,581 crore during the period. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) dropped 11% to Rs. 382 crore while EBITDA margin fell 500 basis points to 23%. R&D expenses rose 36% to Rs. 125 crore. “Q4FY20 witnessed a muted growth due to operational challenges, including a one-time COVID-19 related impact on our biologics business,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon.
16 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Markswoman Sindhu Parthasarathy’s great initiative||State shooter Sindhu Parthasarathy is chasing a dream — to pick and polish uncut ‘shooting’ diamonds from the tribal community of Kotagiri. The rifle specialist says shooting was an ancient tribal practice in the Nilgiris belt before it was prohibited. “I chose to train them in this sport because they were naturally-gifted.” So, on her way back from Sweden after completing her masters, Sindhu had two things in mind — to return to winning ways and introduce the sport to the tribals (Todas & Irulas). She chose Kotagiri as it was her native place. The 26-year-old took some time to shake off the rust as she was returning to competitive shooting after two years. She had enough medals to boast at the State level but not one at the Nationals. No one to guide “That’s because there was nobody to guide me then but, now I am better placed and guided to understand the sport,” she says. And, that prompted her to impart whatever she had learnt to the tribal people through her newly-formed club — the Insight Sporting Academy, affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Shooting Association. “We spoke about the sport to the tribals. They were quite reluctant at first to send their children but after much counselling, we now have 22 active participants (19 boys & three girls in 11-17 age group). They were picked after screening a good number and are trained at no cost,” she says. Has it been easy to train? “Quite difficult. They were good with targets but are not used to sophisticated shooting. There were many issues such as handling of weapons and following the rules.” Huge task It was a huge task but she handled them all with patience and, Indian junior team coach Satguru Das further guided her. Sindhu is pleased that a few of them are now ready to take part in State competitions. “I want to test their skills as State championships are the best place for new shooters before they go deep into the sport.” But her worry is that they have a fear of stepping out of their territory. “They have a fear of facing the world. I need to quickly bring them out of their shell and help them fly without any fear. And, I am confident of doing that,” she says.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stranded Ashok Diwan back in India||Almost two months after he first felt unwell, former India hockey goalkeeper and part of the 1975 World Cup-winning side Ashok Diwan returned from the USA on Friday morning. Reaching home, however, remains another two weeks away. Diwan was supposed to return on March 20 after his annual visit to his son in California. But he fell ill and was rushed to hospital. “It was a combination of several things. The epidemic had spread and I could not go out anywhere. With my son going to work, loneliness and homesickness set in. Plus there were the usual age-related issues. Huge costs “At the hospital, they performed several tests and recommended a brain scan. The tests cost me around $590 (approx. Rs. 45,000) and the scan would have cost another $7,000 (Rs. 5.25 lakh). “The absence of insurance there was an issue and that’s when I decided to seek help to return home,” Diwan told The Hindu from the ITC Welcomgroup hotel near Delhi airport, where he will be in quarantine for 14 days. The former Railways employee reached out to Indian Olympic Association president Narinder Batra on April 9 and thereon, he admitted, things became much smoother. “It would not have been possible for me to get a seat back home for a while even now if the Indian embassy officials had not stepped in to help. “Once the External Affairs Minister informed officials here, they have been a huge help. The Indian Ambassador Taranjit Sandhu and Deputy Consul-General Rajesh Naik personally kept in touch and designated Dr. Dinesh Vyas to monitor my health. My friends and colleagues also helped me through this period,” he said. Frustration Admitting it was frustrating to not be able to go home, Diwan was nevertheless relieved at being back in the country. “The feeling of being on home soil cannot be expressed. I will now get complete tests done once the quarantine is over but already feel much better,” he said.
16 May 2020||BENGALURU,||BFC wants early clarity on foreign player rule||With the FSDL and AIFF set to announce in the coming months their plan to reduce the number of foreign players in the ISL from the 2021-2022 season, Bengaluru FC (BFC) CEO Mandar Tamhane called on the governing bodies to chart out the plan early. I-League will implement the AFC standard ‘3 (foreigners) + 1 (Asian) recruit rule’ from the coming season itself, but the move has been deferred for the ISL until next year following a request from club owners. “We at BFC support the rule as it is good for Indian football. It will allow more Indian players to play. But the decision should be taken well in advance so that we can plan,” said Tamhane. For the 2020-21 edition, ISL will continue with the five-foreigner rule (in the playing XI) with a maximum of seven in the squad. The only change will be the mandatory inclusion of an AFC player. Foreign roster BFC currently has five foreigners on contract for the next season — Dimas Delgado, Eric Paartalu (AFC), Juanan, Raphael Augusto and Deshorn Brown. Defensive mainstay Albert Serran will be a free agent by May-end. “We need to take a call on Serran’s contract. [But] we already have five players for the next season. So we will wait and watch. “Normally we need to register foreign players by August 31. But with COVID, we expect it to be extended. Also we still don't know when the league is going to start. “But going forward, with the number of foreigners set to be limited, we need to see how we are progressing with our youth teams; whether we can promote somebody or is there anyone young in the market. These things influence decision-making. So we need clarity early.” Financial implication Clubs’ financial limitations in the post-COVID phase and the fluid visa situation will not help matters. “Finances will matter even more, but there is also a positive side to look at. Since a lot of countries may not complete their leagues or will be forced to restructure, there is a good possibility that there will be quality foreigners available at a lesser value. So it depends on how the market evolves.”  We at BFC support the rule as it is good for Indian football. It will allow more Indian players to play
16 May 2020||KOCHI,||Athletics in for a major change||The middle-distance runners taking off a few seconds apart, relay runners with gloves and probably even a lane’s gap between 100m runners. The World Athletics is considering a lot of options as it works on finding ways out of the mess created by the coronavirus pandemic and resume competition in August. But clearly, athletics is in for a major change. Not identical “ It’s not going to look identical to traditional track and field for a few months,” said Sebastian Coe, the president of World Athletics, in a video interaction, from London on Friday. “If we have to bring back competition in the relays, we have to think about the baton going hand to hand, this could clearly be a source of infection. Would it not be possible to wear very light skin-tight gloves. I’m sure there are ways around this.   “The Italian federation sent me some very interesting ideas about how you could maintain distance in the 800 and 1500m, not necessarily by starting together but by starting may be five seconds apart and starting individually,” said Coe. “We also recognise that the first few competitions may be held behind closed doors.” Coe was also clear that despite the lockdown, dope cheats should not feel safe. “Clearly, our testing procedures now are not what they were earlier. But I want to be clear: No athlete should assume that they are in lockdown and are free from it. So, continue to fill in your whereabouts. The days of adding up a number of tests is long gone. Intelligent testing and intelligent analysis are more important now than they have ever been and we’re able to do that.”
16 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Ashwath tipped for KAA chief’s post||After the death of Karnataka Athletics Association (KAA) president Muthappa Rai on Friday, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has emerged as the frontrunner to take up the post. Narayan has served as KAA vice-president in the past. KAA officials stated that it will take some time before Narayan or any other candidate can officially take over as president, as the appointment procedure is lengthy. The lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic also makes it difficult for KAA to hold meetings and pass orders. In the interim period, KAA vice-president H.T. Mahadeva will head the association. An ailing Muthappa — diagnosed with cancer over a year ago — had found it tough to discharge his duties in recent times. A few months ago, he had stated in a press conference that he intended to resign from his KAA post due to his ill health. Muthappa was elected unopposed as KAA president in September 2018. He was 68.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chess Gurukul too good for Superkids||Fancied Chess Gurukul overcame a slow start and eventually ended the first day as the worthy leader, with 16 game-points, in the inaugural Indian Chess.com  League (ICL) on Friday. In the fifth and last round of the day, Gurukul comprising Aravindh Chithambaram, R. Praggnanandhaa, M. Karthikeyan, Aditya Mittal and R. Vaishali, outplayed second seed Superkids 3.5-1.5. Even as Gurukul lived up to its reputation, last seed Undercover Agents proved to be the surprise packet of the day. The side stunned third seed Desi Boys 3-2 and, like Gurukul, stayed unbeaten.  The results: Fifth round: Superkids lost to Chess Gurukul 1.5-3.5; Desi Boys bt Five Fighters 3.5-1.5; Chess Pathshala lost to Undercover Agents 2-3; Cheeky Cheetahs lost to United India 1.5-3.5; Chess Gyaan drew with Chess Thulir 2.5-2.5.   Fourth round: Chess Gurukul bt Cheeky Cheetahs 4-1; Chess Thulir lost to Superkids 1.5-3.5; Undercover Agents bt Desi Boys 3-2; Five Fighters drew with Chess Gyaan 2.5-2.5.   Third round: Chess Pathshala lost to Chess Gurukul 2-3; Cheeky Cheetahs drew with Superkids 2.5-2.5; Desi Boys bt United India 4-1; Five Fighters bt Chess Thulir 3.5-1.5; Chess Gyaan drew with Undercover Agents 2.5-2.5.   Second round: Chess Gurukul drew with Desi Boys 2.5-2.5; Superkids bt Chess Pathshala 4-1; Chess Thulir bt Cheeky Cheetahs 3.5-1.5; United India bt Chess Gyaan 4-1; Undercover Agents drew with Five Fighters 2.5-2.5.   First round: Chess Gyan lost to Chess Gurukul 2-3; Desi Boys drew with Superkids 2.5-2.5; Undercover Agents bt Chess Thulir 3-2; Chess Pathshala lost to Cheeky Cheetahs 0.5-4.5; Five Fighters lost to United India 1.5-3.5.   Standings (after five rounds): 1. Chess Gurukul (16 game-points), 2. Desi Boys (14.5), 3-4. Undercover Agents, Superkids (14 each), 5. United India (13.5).   6. Five Fighters (11.5), 7-8. Chess Thulir, Cheeky Cheetahs (11 each), 9. Chess Gyan (10.5), 10. Chess Pathshala (9).
16 May 2020||Hyderabad,||‘I aim to make it big in 2022 Commonwealth and Asian Games’||Nikhat Zareen is a gold medallist at the Youth World boxing women’s championship. However, her search for a decent job still continues. The 23-year-old could not follow up the efforts for a job, which began in 2018, with Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao after she had initially expressed her desire to take up employment in the State Police Department.  Nikhat, a B.A. graduate, had a change of heart and is now exploring the possibility of getting a Central government job so that she represent a team which is a regular in the Nationals. “I hope to meet the CM once the lockdown ends and request for a decent job,” the former national champion said. She has also arrived in the City without any training equipment. “Frankly, there are no events scheduled for the rest of the year for me and I doubt if any tournament will be held after the lockdown is lifted,” she said. Disappointed “I was disappointed at not making it to the originally scheduled Tokyo Olympics this year after losing to Mary Kom in the 51kg category,” she said. “There were lots of messages after the controversy over the selection trials for the Tokyo Olympics. Some of them hurt me. “But, soon I realised that those who criticise would be the same who would applaud once you start winning. Hence, I stayed positive and more determined,” she added. “Anyhow, my aim is to make it big in the 2022 Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games. I want to come back fitter and stronger next year,” Nikhat said. Keeping fit “Right now, I am doing some shadow boxing and stretching exercises to stay fit. “Though I want to do some running, I am not able to because of the unsafe environment,” she said. Nikhat was hopeful things would improve so that she can start her full-fledged training.  I hope to meet the CM once the lockdown ends and request for a decent job
16 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||Indo-Ceylon Virtual GP tomorrow||Chennai-based Ultimate E has joined hands with FMSCI and Ceylon Motor Sports Club (CMSC) to bring back the Indo-Ceylon GP this Sunday. Supported by the FIA Race at Home initiative and FIA Action for Road Safety, the virtual race will see the best gamers from India and Sri Lanka compete for honours by using Gran Turismo Sport. Each team will select six top gamers to represent their country. “We are excited to join hands with FMSCI and CMSC to bring back this event in a modern and unique format,” said Armaan Ebrahim, co-founder of Ultimate E. “This is a good initiative to keep ourselves engaged with the sport during the current crisis,” said FMSCI president J. Prithviraj.
16 May 2020||KOCHI:,||No Indians for Diamond League||The AFI will not be sending its stars for the Diamond League series scheduled to start in August. “We are clear that they are not travelling out of India, preferably not even out of Patiala,” said AFI president Adille Sumariwalla on Friday. “They will do the Indian circuit, get into an off-season again by October and go to Europe by 2021, if the situation permits, and then peak for the Olympics.”
16 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya village Quinine Nongladew latches on to its past in search for COVID-19 cure||Hydroxychloroquine may not be the answer to SARS-CoV-2 or the COVID-19 pandemic. But quinine, its most primitive antimalarial avatar, has made a village in Meghalaya latch on to its past for a curative future. Welcome to Quinine Nongladew, a village named after the alkaloid quinine extracted from the bark of cinchona, a plant belonging to the Rubiaceae family and classified as either a large shrub or a small tree. The village, about 70 km south of Guwahati, is on the highway to Meghalaya’s capital Shillong. Meghalaya’s Forests and Environment Department has no records on the Quinine Garden. The villagers are clueless too. “I was a boy when our parents settled here from other parts of Meghalaya about 50 years ago. “There was no village before us and the place was called Quinine because of the plantation. We added Nongladew later,” said Bhastar Lyngdoh Tongkhar, the headman of the village of about 400 people. Badhok Nongmalieh, an entrepreneur who documents local histories, said the cinchona nursery was raised in the 19th century, probably around 1874, when Shillong became the British administrative headquarters for Assam Province. “Large swathes of Meghalaya used to be, and still are, malaria-prone. The British had the foresight to start the plantation to combat malaria and other diseases caused by mosquitoes,” Mr. Nongmalieh said from Mawtnum village near Quinine Nongladew. The nursery on an unknown area fell into disuse by the mid-1950s, Mr. Nongmalieh added. One of the reasons is that the Forest Department has no control over the area where a few cinchonas grow uncared for. According to the Indian State of Forest Report 2019, Meghalaya has a forest cover of 76.32% of its geographical area. But the department lords over only 1,113 sq km forest area while the remaining 16,005.79 sq km is under community and private ownership. No jurisdiction “We have no jurisdiction over Quinine Garden or whatever is left of it. But our predecessors said the plantation was not much of a success as it involved an exotic species brought from South America,” B.S. Kharmawphlang, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Research and Training), told The Hindu from Shillong. The villagers, however, said people in the olden days collected the bark of the plant and ground it to administer to malaria patients. “The COVID-19 pandemic has generated interest among locals in the cinchona tree. The government should enlighten us about the curative properties of this tree,” Mr. Tongkhar said. The villagers also sniff commercial gain if quinine goes on to become a cure for the disease.
16 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Seven films to premiere on Amazon Prime||A day after announcing the premiere of Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo , Amazon Prime Video released the list of an additional six films that will be premiering directly on the streaming service. The straight-to-digital slate of films spans five Indian languages and the titles are scheduled to premiere between May and August. First off the mark, even before Gulabo Sitabo , will be J.J. Fredrick’s legal drama Ponmagal Vandhal (Tamil), starring Jyothika, that begins playing from May 29. It also stars Parthiban, Bhagyaraj, Prathap Pothen and Pandiarajan and is produced by Suriya and Rajsekar Karpoorasundarapandian. Another much anticipated title is Anu Menon’s Shakuntala Devi with Vidya Balan in lead. A biographical drama on the extraordinary life of Shakuntala Devi, mathematics genius, writer and astrologer, who was popularly known as a human computer, it also features Sanya Malhotra and is produced by Sony Pictures Networks Productions and Vikram Malhotra. The date for its release, however, is yet to be announced.  Penguin (Tamil and Telugu) begins streaming from June 19. Starring Keerthy Suresh, it is written and directed by Eshavar Karthic and is produced by Stone Bench Films and Karthik Subbaraj.  Law (Kannada) begins playing from June 26. Starring Ragini Chandran, Siri Prahlad and veteran actor Mukhyamantri Chandru, it is written and directed by Raghu Samarth and produced by Ashwini and Puneeth Rajkumar.  French Biryani (Kannada) drops on July 24 and features actors Danish Sait, Sal Yusuf and Pitobash as leads. The movie is written by Avinash Balekkala, directed by Pannaga Bharana, and produced by Ashwini and Puneeth Rajkumar and Gurudutt A. Talwar.  Sufiyum Sujatayum (Malayalam) starring Aditi Rao Hydari and Jayasurya has also been acquired by Amazon Prime Video but the date for its release has not been announced as yet. Written and directed by Naranipuzha Shanavas, it is produced by Vijay Babu’s Friday Film House. “At Prime Video, we believe in listening to what our consumers want and working backwards from there. This belief is the genesis of our latest offering,” said Vijay Subramaniam, director and head of content, Amazon Prime Video, India, adding, “Over the last two years, Prime Video has become the destination of choice for our customers to watch new releases.” Exhibitors displeased The decision to skip a theatrical release for Gulabo Sitabo has met with criticism from theatre owners. A statement from INOX on Thursday stated: “The decision of the production house to deviate from the globally prevalent content windowing practice is alarming and disconcerting.” Meanwhile, the Producers Guild of India slammed INOX and said: “It is disappointing to see abrasive messaging from the exhibition sector.”
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Rama Taraka Mantra||Adi Sankara’s Stotra granthas are capable of making a powerful impact on one who learns them with interest. While these hymns are noted for their extraordinary devotional quality, they are also packed with the profound Upanishad truths on Brahma Jnana. The devotee thus is inspired into a spiritual experience where bhakti and jnana get merged in a seamless manner. For instance, in the Rama Bhujanga Stotra, the acharya while extolling the greatness of Rama avatar also indicates that Rama as the very Absolute Brahman is the ultimate end and goal, said Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Even at the outset, he salutes Rama and addresses Him as the eternal form of Taraka Brahma when he draws from the purana beliefs in the power of Rama Nama. In the puranas such as the Skanda and Padma, it is stated that regardless of one’s spiritual attainment or one’s karma bondage, if one happens to die in Kasi, he gets liberated because Siva chants the Rama Taraka Mantra in his ears. A verse in this hymn alludes to Siva’s chanting the Rama Nama thrice to liberate the souls in Kasi to show the special value of the Rama Nama in helping people cross the ocean of samsara. It is also held that when Siva first revealed the efficacy of the Rama Taraka Mantra to Goddess Parvati, He mentioned that chanting the Rama Nama is equal to chanting the Sahasranama of the Lord. In the famous verse ‘Sri Rama Rama Ramethi Rame Rame Manorame,’ Rama Nama is repeated thrice. The acharya reinforces the truth that Rama is the manifestation of the Absolute Brahman. Hence, meditation on the form and qualities of Rama also leads to the realisation of Brahman. Rama has taught by example the way to lead a life of virtue, dharma, viveka and vairagya and thereby to strive for liberation.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 07:29 IST,||Sudoku - May 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi in sepia||The lockdown does have a bright side afterall. Three friends, who as Delhi University students in late 1950s and ‘60s pursued their passion for photography, have now unearthed their old frames of Delhi for an online exhibition. They had explored the city as students, and captured its many avatars in black and white images. Vinoo Bhagat, a lawyer; Kishan S Rana, and Deb Mukharji both career diplomats, met as undergraduates in St Stephen’s and were part of the college’s Photo Society. The idea of the Three Amigos was born during the lockdown,when they found that the Delhi of those days looked somewhat similar to what the city has become, post-lockdown. Deb, a former Ambassador to Nepal, says, “It does, for all the wrong reasons.” In those days, “We would go into embassies which had no armed guards and request for stamps of the country. Delhi was a peaceful place. And there were vast empty spaces. What is now Vasant Vihar and JNU was then a part of the ridge.”There were no ticket counters at the gates of monuments, and visitors could enter free of cost. But the photographs aren’t just a throwback to old times. “These pictures are a beautiful part of our heritage. They deserve to be seen and preserved,” he says. There’s the picture of a young Indira Gandhi in 1955, comfortable in the company of friends, for instance. In 1955, when Bhagat, a lawyer by then, took her picture she was known only as Pt. Nehru’s daughter. “I knew Elizabeth Gauba (in the frame), German educationist, whose daughter was to get married that evening,” which is how he got the photo. There’s another of Pt. Ravi Shankar, who Bhagat had come to know when he was just 11. The fact that Shankar was learning to play the sitar made him curious about his neighbour in Lalla Shankar Lal Mansion, on then Curzon Road. The lockdown has been a blessing in disguise for Mukharji, as he sorted through thousands of images that had been scanned and stored in hard disks. There are 45 pictures of the city’s landmarks, like Connaught Place, Qutab Minar, Humayun’s Tomb, people-less roads as well as mountains, because Bhagat and Mukharji are trekkers. There’s one image they missed though, says Rana: “I wish I had also captured images of the Phat-Phat , which was also the common man's transport. Connaught Place to Red Fort cost just four annas per seat in those four-seaters.” Theonline exhibition concludes on May 18; Iicdelhi.nic.in
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||When leaves lead you on||A plant with bluish flowers gives much pleasure to my artistically inclined near and dear ones. It gives me great joy, too, but for different reasons. I am reminded of some excellent food that I had in Thailand, prepared with the leaves of the plant, called the Morning Glory. I had never had it in India before that, but I later learnt that its Indian cousin is cooked in various ways across the country. Still, something about the leaves will always remind me of the delicious food of Thailand. So, when I heard that one of the best Thai restaurants in town was now delivering food – and had a dish of steamed fish with crispy morning glory on the menu -- I was greatly tempted. The restaurant in the Sangam Courtyard complex is called Ziu, and I have had some great meals there. Now, in the period of the lockdown, it is delivering food across Delhi and Gurugram. Ziu’s food was always special, for it served what can be described as nouvelle Thai. There was a tweak to the dishes that greatly enhanced the taste – and the way it looked. I called up one of the numbers that had been forwarded to me (9958677731 and 011-26180711) and asked for Roasted Chicken Nutmeg Curry Paste and Coriander, served on rice (Rs. 455); Slow Cooked Chicken with Mustard Cress and Thai Basil in Home-made Thai Green Sauce (Rs. 725); Stir-fried Lamb in a Red Bird’s Eye Chilli and Crispy Holy Basil Sauce (Rs. 825); and Wok Tossed Silken Tofu and Seasonal Vegetables in Roasted Sticky Rice Powder and Chilli Lime Sauce (Rs. 625). My bill came to a little less than Rs. 3,100. And Ziu added (gratis) a dish of Som Tam to my order -- crispy fried shredded green papaya served with freshly pounded roasted peanut, long green beans and spicy bird’s eye chilli with a lime dressing. I had visited Ziu some years ago, and remember being completely floored by the food and the service. The young man behind the restaurant – Gurmehar Sethi – had earlier worked in places such as Nobu Dubai, Mayfair London and Banyan Tree in Thailand. I remember he had told me the word Ziu stood for cultivated. For the food, he explained, went beyond the usual. I completely agree with him. Take his papaya salad. He has turned this dish around by crispy frying the shredded papaya. To this he adds roasted peanuts and a bird’s eye chilli-lime dressing. The dressing and the peanuts came in separate containers. We mixed it up—and the result was something that I could have made a full meal of. The appetiser that we had asked for —Roasted Chicken Served on Crispy Rice Crackers — was superb. The rice, like murmura, had been turned into crunchy little bases, and the minced chicken was nice and spicy. I like green curries, so I enjoyed the chicken dish. The chicken had soaked in all the flavours of the Thai herbs in the curry, which was neither too runny, nor too thick. The lamb was out of this world. The meat was juicy, yet crispy, and the sauce was deliciously piquant. Though I am not much of a tofu fan (I thought we needed to order something non-meaty for a wholesome meal), I quite liked it, too. The tofu was soft and mild, and the sauces were strong. We didn’t ask for the fish with crispy morning glory, for folks at home are these days not as fond of fish as they were. Another time, perhaps. In these dark days, places such as Ziu offer us a warm little beam of light. Jiyo, Ziu. The writer is seasoned food critic
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Heart of darkness||The first episode itself cements the tone for Paatal Lok, and promisingly at that. A fantastically shot chase on the Yamuna Bridge has the intelligence department nabbing four people on the conspiracy to murder high-profile journalist Sanjay Mehra (Neeraj Kabi). It’s not the glamorous, adrenalin-pumping action with spectacular car collisions straight out of a Rohit Shetty universe. Instead, it’s as grimy and real as it can get, underlined with a machismo and rage so uniquely Delhi. So too for the cynical cops and grubby police stations, the seedy hotels, the tips they work on in the police procedural. And most so the unbridgeable divides of class that throw the title of the episode — Bridges — itself into sharp relief. Swarg (heaven), Dharti (earth) and Paatal (netherworld), are part of the day-to-day reality; chasms that are unbridgeable. These disparities go the extent of infiltrating the cop universe as well with those assigned to Outer Yamuna far more lowly in the hierarchy and duty than the ones serving in Lutyen’s Delhi. The classic buddy cop trope is reinvented to some context: the world-weary Inspector Hathi Ram Chaudhury (Jaideep Ahlawat) languishing in the mediocrity of his job, partnering with the young and idealistic Imran Ansari (Ishwak Singh), who is deep into books, preparing for an IPS exam when not interrogating or chasing perpetrators. There are many brutal interrogations and breathless chases strewn all over, energising and enervating at the same time. There is a steady momentum, an unmistakable sense of force underlining the craft in Paatal Lok — from the cinematography to the acting and the atmospherics. Most striking is the propulsion in the show’s narrative as it forges ahead from episode to episode to become an installation, a pile-up of shameful inequities and accompanying exploitation. From insecurities, power play and politics within the cop world to the media which is rapacious on the one hand and victimised on the other. In the guise of crime and investigation, the series packs in a lot, in a complex, intricate way, specially how it integrates social realities. It’s a labyrinthine world in which everyone is violated even as they go about violating the other, everyone is a bully and getting bullied. The wheel of exploitation is inescapable, one in which everyone is caught. As more characters get added on, the unseemly network of crime and corruption gets wider, layers of bitter truths keep emerging before plumbing to the depths. At times it gets too bare and ugly for comfort, a mirror we’d rather not look ourselves in: The pent up prejudices against Muslims, the dehumanisation of ‘lower castes’ and the rage and angst of the have-nots against the haves. At others, the series puts too much on its own plate, trying desperately to pack in every issue and concern possible. As a result, some get highlighted while others are given a short shrift. The innumerable characters and plot strands also get hemmed in by the unwieldiness. What shoulders Paatal Lok are the performances, powerful all around, in consonance with the essential pulse of the series. Ahlawat is magnificent in bringing a gravitas to his cop, battling a teen at home, to fighting unsympathetic seniors at work. In the middle of it all, he’s trying to find a larger meaning in life. Abhishek Banerjee is equally strong as the sinister villain dealing with his own unresolved demons. His steady, piercing gaze scares, disturbs. Quite like Paatal Lok itself. Paatal Lok is streaming on Amazon Prime Video
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Any time is podcast time||If you’ve never been a podcast person, there’s no time like the present to begin. Two developments from earlier this month are enough to tell you why. First, Google rolled out its Podcast Manager tool, giving podcasters data on engagement metrics like play count, geographical location of listeners and so on. Second, and more importantly, Acast, a Swedish platform for the distribution, management and monetisation of podcasts, announced a partnership with JioSaavn, the second-largest audio streaming service in India (at 104 million monthly users, it is exceeded only by Gaana with its eye-popping 150 million). This means that JioSaavn creators will now be able to use Acast’s proprietary technology, and listeners will have an all-new range of content (Acast hosts several branded podcasts with The Guardian , Vice, CBS, etc). Clearly, this is a movement whose time has come, and according to Amarjit Singh Batra, Managing Director at Spotify India, this is just the beginning. “We see a lot of potential in India as a market,” he says. “As a culture, we love storytelling. Moreover, people are already used to consuming stories in an audio format, via the radio. There’s a dearth of good local content in this space here and that’s what we are trying to build.”  Going local  Much like Netflix India, Spotify India is also investing in building an exclusive library in the country, one dominated by in-house local content. Creators working in Hindi, Tamil, Bangla and so on, hold the key to capturing the biggest unclaimed market — listeners in tier-two and tier-three cities, who’re currently starved of locally-relevant content in a language and format they’re comfortable with. Ameya Nagarajan (one half of the Fat. So? podcast, alongside Pallavi Nath), who was in charge of The Indian Express ’ podcast division until early 2018, says, “Talk radio in India exists in non-English languages. That’s the place where podcasting can go. The problem, however, is that for people who break through into a new space, it is like the non-English part of the country doesn’t exist.” But Batra reckons breaching this frontier is not far: “We have a lot of wonderful ideas coming in, and in various Indian languages. We just need people who’ll execute these ideas well.” A host of new audio content is in the offing. Over at Audible, spokesperson Shailesh Sawlani says, “We launched an India-first free app called Audible Suno in December, which is home to hundreds of hours of content across various genres and formats. Narrated by India’s most famous voices — such as Amitabh Bachchan ( Kaali Awaazein ), Katrina Kaif, Karan Johar, Farhan Akhtar ( Picture Ke Peechhe ) — these offer everything from horror and thriller to comedy and motivational content. Each show is comprised of short, easy-to-digest episodes.” Audible India’s plans are quite extensive. Among its noteworthy international collaborations is its “partnership with DC Comics to release the first audiobook adaptation of Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman graphic novels. It has voices such as James McAvoy, Andy Serkis and Riz Ahmed”.  Find your voice  Meanwhile, among recent English-language products, Fat. So? (on Suno India) is one of the notably well-executed and insightful podcasts around. Nagarajan and Nath wanted to create a space where the concerns of plus-sized Indian women — obscured ever so often in real life as well as popular culture — can be discussed. “We wanted to speak to young women, especially those between the ages of 10 and 25. It is like we wanted to go back in time and speak to our own younger selves and tell them, ‘Don’t listen to what society says, you’re allowed to be who you are, you’re allowed to have the body you have. You are not less than, you are not unworthy!’,” says Nagarajan. Another recent podcast, Supriya Nair and Deepanjana Pal’s The Lit Pickers (produced by Maed in India), combines in-depth literary conversations with quicksilver wit and snappy presentation. It has gained a significant following since its first episode in January. “For us, this was an offshoot of the things we’re interested in and the way we talk to each other when we’re together,” says Nair, adding, “I think this style of conversational/interview podcast is the easiest to do, which is why there are so many of them. So the secret sauce, if any, was really that we were heard by producers who liked our work and who went on to give it shape and polish.” Then there are the older podcasts still going strong — Amit Varma’s The Seen and the Unseen , Samanth Subramanian and Padmaparna Ghosh’s The Intersection , comedian Cyrus Broacha’s Cyrus Says , and Maed in India , the music podcast hosted and produced by Mae Mariyam Thomas, who is also the founder of the Maed in India production company/consultancy that is behind several Indian podcasts. Thomas knows the costs and challenges of setting up a podcast from scratch better than most. “I always get asked how much it costs. It depends on what kind of a show you’re making,” she says. “For The Lit Pickers , because it is only two hosts and no guests, the production cost was lower than say She Says She’s Fine , a women’s health podcast [hosted by Mumbai-based gynaecologist, Dr Munjaal Kapadia] where we were flying in guests from all over the country. For the production of any podcast you have to consider planning, research, recording, editing/sound design, administration, production, and distribution. And depending on your host, there is also a variable talent cost as well.”  Money matters  This is a crucial distinction that Thomas makes — while producing different podcasts as an organisation may involve significant costs (such as studio), indie podcasting (a one-or-two-person operation) has no such constraints. You can record on your phone or on a field recorder, and edit using free software. The other basic equipment, such as microphones, aren’t very expensive — for Rs. 3,000-Rs. 5,000 you can buy serviceable ones and anything above Rs. 10,000 will get you high-end products. The low-cost nature of the enterprise helps independent podcasters, not least because there’s not much money in podcasting — for now. Podcasters who’ve been creating for some years, often crowdfund their expenses; they ask listeners to buy them a cup of coffee or a meal (this is what Amit Varma does, for instance), or donate whatever amount they are comfortable with. But much like Netflix and other streaming giants that are experimenting with various ad placement mechanisms, podcasting firms are also in wait-and-watch mode (with notable exceptions like Acast, whose ad placement technology — targeted based on location, time and personal data — has proven to be a success). The podcasting boom is just around the corner, by all accounts — you’re either all in right now, or you’ll be late to the party.  As brands understand the strengths of this medium, they are slowly advertising on podcasts. Some ways of monetising are through distribution platforms that will help you make money on your content via ad insertion. So, depending on how popular your show is, you can allow for branded content to be advertised or opt for host mentions [which can also provide compensation] — Mae Mariyam Thomas   None of us involved in The Lit Pickers made money off it. I’d be surprised if there turned out to be a big market for English audio content in India, outside of a premium niche [with subscription fees; podcasts such as Chapo Trap House follow this model — with two episodes every week or month, one a short, free episode and the other a longer one for subscribers], since it has to compete with video being available on cheap data and in people’s native languages — where more content like this will be made sooner or later — Supriya Nair
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Home gyms or stadium workouts?||It is funny how, when the lockdown was imposed, India collectively felt the need to go for a morning walk the very next day. Such sporadic enthusiasm aside, this pandemic will redefine the workings of the fitness industry. I am a self-confessed fitness buff but for entirely tangential reasons. I work in the field of fine food and wine so exercising ensures my exaggerated existence doesn’t require a batch of pills as a regime. But the lockdown has meant that long runs are history and bike rides even more so. I don’t think I’ll ever be comfortable handling public equipment in a gym or attending boxing/cardio class where everyone is panting heavily and openly. For answers on how to proceed, I spoke to a few veterans to get a better understanding of things. Doctor Kaustubh Radkar is the only Indian to have crossed the finish line at 25 Ironman triathlons (and still going strong) and trains many a budding triathlete under his brand, RadStrong. Nivedita Samanta is a coach with Adidas Runners and the founder of FitRabbits, an online fitness platform. And Rahul Kaul is the founder of BoxFit, possibly the most buzzing boxing-cum-cardio fitness space in the capital. This then is their collective wisdom. The big change ahead, as all concur, is that social distancing is here to stay. Radkar says, “Group sessions for runners/cyclists may be limited to a maximum of five people but once pools open, let’s see how they apply lane restrictions.” The biggest impact, according to him, will be in team sports like football and cricket, where we will see a lot more change. Samanta enthuses that we’ll see a virtual training boom — ‘specialised programmes for all pockets’. “People will work out with family/alone or with virtual friends.” She points out that many gyms already offer virtual consultations and classes. “Packed gyms are over and expensive gyms mean fewer clients. But people may start preferring the outdoors — membership to stadiums perhaps — or invest in home equipment if they can afford it.” For Kaul, this has “polarised the fitness community… certain people are looking to stay at home and get their daily dose via live workouts/YouTube videos or hiring online personal trainers, while others will be looking to move outside and go to studios and gyms”. Nobody sees a shift in the kind of workouts one does, so muscle gym buffs will continue to pump iron (and knock back the protein shakes) while endurance athletes will keep working on that slow twitch and obsess over lactate thresholds. Kaul notes that there has been a constant drift from “bodybuilding to functional fitness, the kind that helps with daily activities and makes us look good”. As for what equipment we must have at home, he swears by a skipping rope (also, from his Insta-feed, he seemed most elated to get his hands on a pair of dumb bells). Something else he features often in his videos are resistance bands. And of course, given his background, boxing bags and gloves remain his choice for a great cardio sesh. For Samanta, it might be the TRX trainer, kettlebells and medicine balls, but in most of her workouts she manages to make things fairly extensive with just a basic yoga mat. Radkar echoes the dumb bells, kettlebells and TRX for the strength seekers (also a workout bench if the space permits), while for the endurance enthusiasts he advises getting a treadmill. I concur, having recently tried to run a 10k by looping my 40m home parking. The next on his list is a cycle and maybe a smart trainer to hook it up to, which would allow one to train both outdoors and indoors. So there you have it. Work from home and work out from home too, for most parts. Focus on form to avoid injuries and don’t stress if you skip a day or two.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How to pick a ‘lock’down||This lockdown has grown talents out of cracks in the wall. Your friends have posted vigorous home gym videos. You, in turn, exercised one finger, texting appreciative comments, which sometimes auto-corrected from ‘How fit!’ to ‘How fat!’ This then required exercising all the other fingers, texting profuse apologies, ending in ‘Love ur lickdown vid.’ Talented people posted pics of four-tiered cakes they whipped together with four ingredients. Of designer haircuts they gave themselves. You too followed a fancy stylist’s free video (may his scissors shrivel up and die!). You snipped off half an eyebrow and slashed your forehead. Thank God and government for the mandatory mask, so that no one recognised you. Not to brag, but you have super-skilled yourself too. You have finally got your kids eating raw food (since the option was cook-it-yourself). You have successfully saved: for example, you have saved enough weight, camel-like, to last through eight months of famine. Your neighbours have learnt Swahili, the harmonica, prism-healing — through brilliant, free webinars. Not to be outdone, you studiously downloaded all the links. Then snored through each in turn. You snored through office calls and family calls, too. Played back, your snoring was rather musical. Another talent! You too learnt a new language — of non-living things. Your snack cabinet pleaded to be opened many times a day. Your broom lied about sweeping the corners. Your jeans refused to obey dictatorial things like zips. You too learnt to appreciate music, your favourite being the silence of kids who finally fell asleep. You learnt that team work was throwing everything into a one-pot meal and letting them embrace differences and cook together. You finally understood poetry, which was the sound of the doorbell when your maid eventually arrived. You have learnt not to compete with those who used this lockdown to enrich minds, reduce flab, declutter cupboards, start kitchen gardens, practise mental peace. You spent most of the day listening to multi-person calls while chopping vegetables (and occasionally fingers), pulling children off their devices, then off each other, then throwing their devices back at them. You banged pans less out of patriotism and more out of frustration. You wept on the phone to your maid who gave you better advice than the brilliant free webinars. You have emerged grateful. Fatter. Hairier. Lazier. But grateful. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||When truth is stranger than fiction||As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds like a dystopian novel, writer Samit Basu has an odd balm for nerves: an “anti-dystopian” book. In his new release, Chosen Spirits , the author of the GameWorld Trilogy fantasy novels and the Turbulence series of superhero books turns his attention to the near future. It is one of the few books to be released during the lockdown.  A world of possibilities The novel is set in the late 2020s, when ‘Smartatts’ are tattooed on your wrist — to sense and control every movement and emotion. Smog masks have become essential accessories. News is a lie and no one can be trusted. Why does he call it anti-dystopian? “While I am trying to look at what happens in the near future, there is an attempt to find hope in it. It is the best case scenario,” he explains. It begins with Joey, a 25-year-old “reality controller” — a professional image-builder in charge of the livestream of celebrities — chancing upon a floral kolam with embedded hashtags. It is an invite to a protest against the evacuation of a slum. She is not new to protests: she has memories of the chants at Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Since then, Delhi has settled into an eerie, tech-obsessed chamber of darkness. Writing the book proved to be a massive exercise in restraint. Basu couldn’t “go wild”, unlike in his other fantasy writing, and reality often played spoilsport. “Something I had set three to four years into the future ended up happening the week after I wrote it! Current events also inspired new variations on the predictions. Basically, reality is badly plotted and poorly structured,” he quips.  He is currently busy with another web project, a series based on one of his books (but he can’t reveal more at the moment). Is a pandemic-inspired book on the cards? Not yet, he says. He is going to wait for this to pass before putting it on paper. Chosen Spirits ’ e-book (S&S India) is available for Rs. 246 onamazon.in. Read an extended version of this interview on weekend.thehindu.com.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||En pointe||Swans for Relief  Americanballet dancers Misty Copeland and Joseph Phillips have organised this video of 32 premier ballerinas from 22 dance companies in 14 countries performingLe Cygne(The Swan). Funds raised will be distributed to relief funds. On the Swans for Relief YouTube channel.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Covid Art Museum: Celebrate International Museum Day on Monday (May 18) by visiting a virtual museum of art inspired by the pandemic. Started by three art directors in Barcelona – Emma Calvo, Jose Guerrero and Irene Llorca – the idea is to collate works by artists across the world in one place. This includes paintings, photographs, illustrations and digital works. Follow @covidartmuseum
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Language of dance||Catch the digital premiere of The Unseen Sequence - Exploring Bharatanatyam through the art of Malavika Sarukkai on YouTube today at 9 pm. The 98-minute biographical documentary, written and directed by Sumantra Ghosal, was first released in 2013. It traces the artiste’s journey, deliberating the valuable connections and departures that she makes from a hallowed, and often unforgiving, tradition. Streaming till Wednesday, May 20, 9 pm on Aalaap Concept’s YouTube channel.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual anniversary bash||This weekend, tune in to The Park Chennai’s social media pages to celebrate their 18th anniversary. Tonight, DJ Ryan Nogar from Goa will spin commercial music on the Pasha Facebook page from 9 pm to 10 pm. On Sunday, indie artiste Varshah Susana Kurien from Bengaluru will sing both originals and covers on The Leather Bar Facebook page, from 8 pm to 9 pm. There is also a takeaway menu of their signature dishes like Thai spiced roast chicken and Greek style eggplant moussaka.42676000
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Curtains up||The National Theatre in the UK has been streaming productions like Antony & Cleopatra and Frankenstein. This week’s lineup includes Barber Shop Chronicles (till May 21) and A Streetcar Named Desire (May 21 to 28), which will be available on their YouTube channel.Closer home, The Madras Players celebrates 65 years by showcasing some of their productions on YouTube. Till May 18, they will stream Chudamani, an adaptation of the Tamil writer's short stories for the stage, followed by Julius Caesar from May 19 to 21.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Streaming first: While theatre and multiplex owners are worrying about the future, films that are ready for release are taking the digital route. Earlier this week, Amazon Prime Video announced that Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo , starring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana, will begin streaming from June 12. And in July, we will see Lin-Manuel Miranda’s Hamilton on Disney+ Hotstar.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping kids busy||Chennai-based reading gym, My Chapter One, has an ongoing ‘A Book a Day’ Summer Camp. There’s a 30-minute live session with a host, quizzes, online and offline activities, as well as independent reading time. For ages three to seven, at Rs. 2,499 for 21 days. mychapterone.in For ages six to 12, Vedantu has live tutoring sessions on coding. The aim is to increase logical reasoning, encourage creativity and make kids creators of technology rather than just consumers. Sign up for a free trial class on vedantu.com/superkids.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Choose an adventure||Netflix’s new interactive episode of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt dropped earlier this week. Ellie Kemper returns to her titular role and, this time, she is about to get married to Frederick (played by Daniel Radcliffe). But when she discovers a mysterious book in her backpack, will she make it down the aisle? The show will present you, the viewer, with multiple options that will take the characters on different, hilarious journeys. While it is currently available in six countries, it is set to release in the coming weeks in India.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A trip Down Under||Over the coming weekend, Tourism Australia will bring the country straight to our homes with a curated live programme of virtual travel experiences. Watch for kangaroo kisses at the day care in Alice Springs, penguins making their way home in Victoria, sunsets over the Uluru, performances at the Sydney Opera House and brunch with MasterChef Hayden Quinn. You can even dive deep to see the Great Barrier Reef. From 2.30 am IST, today and tomorrow, every hour, on Australia.com Facebook page.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, join dancer Rukmini Vijayakumar on our Instagram Live series, as she talks about dance as an anchor during the lockdown. She will be in conversation with Akhila Krishnamurthy at 7.20 pm @thehinduweekend. Following this, actor Nimrat Kaur will share the roles that influenced her with Namrata Joshi of The Hindu . At 8 pm @the_hindu. On Sunday, Vasudha Rai will talk natural haircare with the founder of Ohria Ayurveda, Rajni Ohri. At 5 pm on @thehinduweekend. Follow us on Instagram for details.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||How to pick a lock-down||This lockdown has grown talents out of cracks in the wall. Your friends have posted vigorous home gym videos. You, in turn, exercised one finger, texting appreciative comments, which sometimes auto-corrected from ‘How fit!’ to ‘How fat!’ This then required exercising all the other fingers, texting profuse apologies, ending in ‘Love ur lickdown vid.’ Talented people posted pics of four-tiered cakes they whipped together with four ingredients. Of designer haircuts they gave themselves. You too followed a fancy stylist’s free video (may his scissors shrivel up and die!). You snipped off half an eyebrow and slashed your forehead. Thank God and government for the mandatory mask, so that no one recognised you. Not to brag, but you have super-skilled yourself too. You have finally got your kids eating raw food (since the option was cook-it-yourself). You have successfully saved: for example, you have saved enough weight, camel-like, to last through eight months of famine. Your neighbours have learnt Swahili, the harmonica, prism-healing — through brilliant, free webinars. Not to be outdone, you studiously downloaded all the links. Then snored through each in turn. You snored through office calls and family calls, too. Played back, your snoring was rather musical. Another talent! You too learnt a new language — of non-living things. Your snack cabinet pleaded to be opened many times a day. Your broom lied about sweeping the corners. Your jeans refused to obey dictatorial things like zips. You too learnt to appreciate music, your favourite being the silence of kids who finally fell asleep. You learnt that team work was throwing everything into a one-pot meal and letting them embrace differences and cook together. You finally understood poetry, which was the sound of the doorbell when your maid eventually arrived. You have learnt not to compete with those who used this lockdown to enrich minds, reduce flab, declutter cupboards, start kitchen gardens, practise mental peace. You spent most of the day listening to multi-person calls while chopping vegetables (and occasionally fingers), pulling children off their devices, then off each other, then throwing their devices back at them. You banged pans less out of patriotism and more out of frustration. You wept on the phone to your maid who gave you better advice than the brilliant free webinars. You have emerged grateful. Fatter. Hairier. Lazier. But grateful. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||When truth is stranger than fiction||As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds like a dystopian novel, writer Samit Basu has an odd balm for nerves: an “anti-dystopian” book. In his new release, Chosen Spirits , the author of the GameWorld Trilogy fantasy novels and the Turbulence series of superhero books turns his attention to the near future. It is one of the few books to be released during the lockdown.  A world of possibilities The novel is set in the late 2020s, when ‘Smartatts’ are tattooed on your wrist — to sense and control every movement and emotion. Smog masks have become essential accessories. News is a lie and no one can be trusted. Why does he call it anti-dystopian? “While I am trying to look at what happens in the near future, there is an attempt to find hope in it. It is the best case scenario,” he explains. It begins with Joey, a 25-year-old “reality controller” — a professional image-builder in charge of the livestream of celebrities — chancing upon a floral kolam with embedded hashtags. It is an invite to a protest against the evacuation of a slum. She is not new to protests: she has memories of the chants at Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Since then, Delhi has settled into an eerie, tech-obsessed chamber of darkness. Writing the book proved to be a massive exercise in restraint. Basu couldn’t “go wild”, unlike in his other fantasy writing, and reality often played spoilsport. “Something I had set three to four years into the future ended up happening the week after I wrote it! Current events also inspired new variations on the predictions. Basically, reality is badly plotted and poorly structured,” he quips.  He is currently busy with another web project, a series based on one of his books (but he can’t reveal more at the moment). Is a pandemic-inspired book on the cards? Not yet, he says. He is going to wait for this to pass before putting it on paper. Chosen Spirits ’ e-book (S&S India) is available for Rs. 246 onamazon.in. Read an extended version of this interview on weekend.thehindu.com.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual anniversary bash||This weekend, tune in to The Park Chennai’s social media pages to celebrate their 18th anniversary. Tonight, DJ Ryan Nogar from Goa will spin commercial music on the Pasha Facebook page from 9 pm to 10 pm. On Sunday, indie artiste Varshah Susana Kurien from Bengaluru will sing both originals and covers on The Leather Bar Facebook page, from 8 pm to 9 pm. There is also a takeaway menu of their signature dishes like Thai spiced roast chicken and Greek style eggplant moussaka.42676000
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Curtains up||The National Theatre in the UK has been streaming productions like Antony & Cleopatra and Frankenstein. This week’s lineup includes Barber Shop Chronicles (till May 21) and A Streetcar Named Desire (May 21 to 28), which will be available on their YouTube channel.Closer home, The Madras Players celebrates 65 years by showcasing some of their productions on YouTube. Till May 18, they will stream Chudamani, an adaptation of the Tamil writer's short stories for the stage, followed by Julius Caesar from May 19 to 21.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Streaming first: While theatre and multiplex owners are worrying about the future, films that are ready for release are taking the digital route. Earlier this week, Amazon Prime Video announced that Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo , starring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana, will begin streaming from June 12. And in July, we will see Lin-Manuel Miranda’s Hamilton on Disney+ Hotstar.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping kids busy||Chennai-based reading gym, My Chapter One, has an ongoing ‘A Book a Day’ Summer Camp. There’s a 30-minute live session with a host, quizzes, online and offline activities, as well as independent reading time. For ages three to seven, at Rs. 2,499 for 21 days. mychapterone.in For ages six to 12, Vedantu has live tutoring sessions on coding. The aim is to increase logical reasoning, encourage creativity and make kids creators of technology rather than just consumers. Sign up for a free trial class on vedantu.com/superkids.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Choose an adventure||Netflix’s new interactive episode of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt dropped earlier this week. Ellie Kemper returns to her titular role and, this time, she is about to get married to Frederick (played by Daniel Radcliffe). But when she discovers a mysterious book in her backpack, will she make it down the aisle? The show will present you, the viewer, with multiple options that will take the characters on different, hilarious journeys. While it is currently available in six countries, it is set to release in the coming weeks in India.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A trip Down Under||Over the coming weekend, Tourism Australia will bring the country straight to our homes with a curated live programme of virtual travel experiences. Watch for kangaroo kisses at the day care in Alice Springs, penguins making their way home in Victoria, sunsets over the Uluru, performances at the Sydney Opera House and brunch with MasterChef Hayden Quinn. You can even dive deep to see the Great Barrier Reef. From 2.30 am IST, today and tomorrow, every hour, on Australia.com Facebook page.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, join dancer Rukmini Vijayakumar on our Instagram Live series, as she talks about dance as an anchor during the lockdown. She will be in conversation with Akhila Krishnamurthy at 7.20 pm @thehinduweekend. Following this, actor Nimrat Kaur will share the roles that influenced her with Namrata Joshi of The Hindu . At 8 pm @the_hindu. On Sunday, Vasudha Rai will talk natural haircare with the founder of Ohria Ayurveda, Rajni Ohri. At 5 pm on @thehinduweekend. Follow us on Instagram for details.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||En pointe||Swans for Relief  Americanballet dancers Misty Copeland and Joseph Phillips have organised this video of 32 premier ballerinas from 22 dance companies in 14 countries performingLe Cygne(The Swan). Funds raised will be distributed to relief funds. On the Swans for Relief YouTube channel.
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Covid Art Museum: Celebrate International Museum Day on Monday (May 18) by visiting a virtual museum of art inspired by the pandemic. Started by three art directors in Barcelona – Emma Calvo, Jose Guerrero and Irene Llorca – the idea is to collate works by artists across the world in one place. This includes paintings, photographs, illustrations and digital works. Follow @covidartmuseum
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Language of dance||Catch the digital premiere of The Unseen Sequence - Exploring Bharatanatyam through the art of Malavika Sarukkai on YouTube today at 9 pm. The 98-minute biographical documentary, written and directed by Sumantra Ghosal, was first released in 2013. It traces the artiste’s journey, deliberating the valuable connections and departures that she makes from a hallowed, and often unforgiving, tradition. Streaming till Wednesday, May 20, 9 pm on Aalaap Concept’s YouTube channel.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Neighbour locks doctor inside house over COVID-19 fears||A 27-year-old doctor in south-west Delhi’s Vasant Kunj was allegedly locked inside her house by a neighbour when she returned from an isolation facility where she had gone after testing positive for COVID-19. Case registered The police have registered a case and begun an investigation. The senior resident at a government hospital in north Delhi contracted the virus when she was deployed in a COVID-19 ward last month. She told the police that when she returned home to quarantine herself, she was allegedly asked by residents to leave. She then went to an isolation facility from where she returned on Wednesday after being tested negative. The doctor told the police that when she returned, her neighbour came and started shouting at her and told her that she cannot stay. The doctor said she tried to explain that she had tested negative but he did not listen and went on to lock her in her house from the outside saying that she had to leave the place. The doctor then called the Residents’ Welfare Association president for help, who informed the police. RWA president Snehlata Rathi said the doctor had come to the residence on April 26 and was tested positive on April 30. “We were not aware [about the doctor being infected] till May 5 when Health Department officials came and enquired about her. There was no warning poster outside the residence. We then spoke to the doctor in-charge here who ensured that the doctor went to an isolation facility,” she said. Ms. Rathi, however, condemned the act of the neighbour and said that she fully supported the doctor and that the neighbour should not have behaved in the manner he did. Apology tendered “All the members of the RWA condemn the act. The neighbour also asked me if he could apologise to the doctor. He then went and told her he was sorry,” Ms Rathi said. A senior police officer said that a case under IPC Sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered against the neighbour and investigation is under way.  All the members of the RWA condemn the act. The neighbour also asked me if he could apologise to the doctor. He then went and told her he was sorry Snehlata Rathi RWA president
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||When truth is stranger than fiction||As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds like a dystopian novel, writer Samit Basu has an odd balm for the nerves: an “anti-dystopian” book. In his new release, Chosen Spirits , the author of the GameWorld Trilogy fantasy novels and the Turbulence series of superhero books turns his attention to the near future. It is one of the few books to be released during the lockdown.  Chosen Spirits is his effort to address the sense of loss that many feel about the India they once knew. “I had a realisation five or six years ago that I hadn’t written anything close to the world I actually live in. There was a definite desire to [do so],” says Basu, over a phone call. The novel is set in the late 2020s, when ‘Smartatts’ are tattooed on your wrist — to sense and control every movement and emotion. Smog masks have become essential accessories. Home cleaning crews install spy cams on the sly. News is a lie and no one can be trusted. Why does he call it anti-dystopian? “While I am trying to look at what happens in the near future, there is an attempt to find hope in it. The world it describes is actually easier to live in than the world we are actually looking at 10 years from now. It is the best case scenario,” he explains. It is also uncomfortably close to reality. Unlike the most compelling science fiction books, such as Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale and George Orwell’s 1984 that imagine the world from a greater distance, Chosen Spirits looks at the situation we are already in. Yet, it is uncannily prophetic. It begins with Joey, a 25-year-old “reality controller” — a professional image-builder in charge of the livestream of celebrities — chancing upon a floral kolam with embedded hashtags. It is an invite to a protest against the evacuation of a slum. She is not new to protests: she has memories of the chants at Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Since then, Delhi has settled into an eerie, tech-obsessed chamber of darkness. A narrow stream of light hints at a revolution. When Joey takes her childhood friend, Rudra, under her wing, a series of events, including a sex scandal, threatens to reset power dynamics as things spiral out of control. Writing the book proved to be a massive exercise in restraint. Basu couldn’t “go wild”, unlike in his other fantasy writing, and reality often played spoilsport. “Something I had set three to four years into the future ended up happening the week after I wrote it! Current events also inspired new variations on the predictions. Basically, reality is badly plotted and poorly structured,” he quips. He is currently busy with another web project, a series based on one of his books (but he can’t reveal more at the moment). Is a pandemic-inspired book on the cards? Not yet, he says. He is going to wait for this to pass before putting it on paper. Chosen Spirits (S&S India), is available as an e-book, Rs. 246, Amazon.in. Read an extended version of this interview on Weekend.thehindu.com
16 May 2020||May 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Rescripting north-east Delhi riots – and the question of justice||Arshad Alam, Amaan Iqbal, Deepak Kumar, Mohammad Hamza and many others were killed in communal riots that convulsed north-east Delhi in late February 2020. Many more were injured, or victims of arson. The Home Minister stated on March 11 that “over 700 FIRs” had been filed. Yet about 80 days after the riots started, little is known to the public about the status of most cases as the police aggressively and selectively pursue a few FIRs and seek to project a so-called “conspiracy” behind the riots, led by anti-CAA protest organisers. Significantly, 38 out of 53 recorded killed in the riots were Muslims, as were majority of those otherwise affected. Most anti-CAA protest organisers being targeted by the police under the supposed “conspiracy” are also Muslims. This line of investigation is being followed with suspicious speed, under twin pressures – COVID-19 lockdown and under threat of the draconian UAPA, added to one of the FIRs (FIR 59/20 of 6.3.20) police are pursuing – both curbing the ability and right of those arbitrarily implicated to access legal help. This has deliberately diverted attention from well-reported facts – BJP leader Kapil Mishra’s role, the fact that no FIR still exists against him or other leaders, incidents of communal violence by mobs, including Hindu aggressors, and many instances of communal bias of the police, including illegal detentions of Muslims and refusal to lodge ‘missing person’ complaints by Muslims. This diversion is quite likely being abetted also by the problems and weaknesses in routine FIRs filed in riot-related cases (in a manner reminiscent of Gujarat in 2002). FIRs are crucial instruments through which police have control over what is regarded as truth. Discrepancies in recording of FIR can lead to improper investigation and acquittal of the guilty. About 40 FIRs (related to the north-east Delhi riots) accessed by a Delhi-based civil rights group, Peoples Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) and in its possession, reveal crucial discrepancies. One, several Muslim victims have faced problems while trying to lodge FIRs. Two, in few where they have managed to, charges have been diluted and non-bailable sections against Hindu names have been visibly dropped. Three, there is evidence of a single FIR combining multiple incidents. Four, the police have chosen to be the complainant even in those instances where there were independent witnesses. Given the evidence in this small sample of FIRs, the communal bias of police in the north-east Delhi riots is evident in the manner in which the FIRs have been lodged by them. Through this bizarre, blatant rescripting of the narrative of the riots, the subversion of truth is being presided over by the state. This needs to be called out, and halted. It is imperative, for the sake of justice that all FIRs pertaining to the riots be opened to public scrutiny. Collection of evidence – CCTV footage, phone records, etc., and physical evidence and investigation also need to be made transparent and monitored. Arrests as intimidation One obvious consequence of the rescripting of the riots is the criminalisation of anti-CAA demonstrations which had gone on peacefully at different sites for months, protests which were legitimate, constitutional, and which raised very valid concerns. Further, the rescripting has diverted attention from the state’s failure to prosecute accused in the massive police attack on Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) students in December 2019, which also drew extensive international criticism. The JMI authorities, backed by the courts, sought registration of FIR into police action in January 2020. And yet, no FIR has been filed. Is it a coincidence that many of those arrested recently in the so-called riots “conspiracy” are associated with JMI? Is it a coincidence that prominent persons, like the Chairman of the Delhi Minorities Commission, who question selective arrests of Muslims, are being charged under sedition for a tweet? The intimidatory objective of such arrests and charges is absolutely clear. In the midst of this noise around the manufacture of a conspiracy, and the attempt to erase the truth of the riots, we must persevere in the ‘struggle of memory against forgetting’ and ensure that state institutions are held accountable to their constitutional and legal responsibility of treating all citizens equally, ensuring fair recording of riot crimes, systematic collection of evidence, fair investigation and prosecution of all guilty. Nothing more is needed. Nothing less will do.  Radhika Chitkara and Vikas Kumar are secretaries of Peoples Union for Democratic Rights, a Delhi-based civil rights group.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Google India seeks time to reply to plea on UPI app||Google India has sought three weeks time to submit its response to the Delhi High Court on a petition seeking to immediately suspend operations of its UPI app, Google Pay, till it complies with interoperability The court, in the meantime, also asked the Centre and the RBI to respond to allegations made in the petition about Google India’s “wilful and continued non-compliance” of various directions issued by the government and the RBI. Justice Asha Menon, who heard the case through videoconferencing, granted the Centre, RBI and Google India three weeks to file their responses. Petitioner Shubham Kapaley approached the High Court after Google Pay did not allow him to contribute to the PM CARES Fund, without making another VPA (virtual payment address) or UPI ID on its own app. He tried to use his already existing VPA/UPI ID for other transactions as well, however, the same issue of denial of interoperability persisted. The plea claimed that Google Pay was flouting the rules of UPI interoperability and that it does not allow new users to use their existing VPAs or UPI ID on its platform. It sought for a thorough third party and independent investigation to check compliance of directive and guidelines issued by the National Payments Corporation of India and the RBI.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Doctor stranded in Seoul longing to return home||A 41-year-old doctor’s dream of pursuing a sought-after fellowship at a university in South Korea came true at the end of a three-and-a-half-year-long wait in November last year, but for the last month-and-a-half, the Dwarka resident is stranded in Seoul due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As he runs out of resources fast, Gopal Kumar, a cancer surgeon who says he is among 210 Indians in that country which is said to have kept COVID-19 more or less at bay, is consumed by apprehensions — the well-being of his spouse and the rest of the family. His wife, also a doctor, he says, is very likely to contract the infection herself. He has ailing parents, who are in their 80s, and a six-year-old son — all at high risk of contracting COVID-19. “I was here for a course in Robotic Head and Neck Surgery which was self-sponsored. I had to stay back as during the lockdown the course was near completion,” Dr. Kumar, who is on sabbatical from a prominent private hospital in Gurugram, told The Hindu over the phone from Seoul. “I got this opportunity after waiting for 3.5 years and I am probably the first one from the country to do it. But it turned out to be a wrong decision. My course is over, but not my wait,” he said. Dr. Kumar was pursuing his course from Severance Hospital of the Yonsei University Cancer Centre. He is, however, not of the opinion that his wife, a senior doctor with the Delhi government, should stay at home. He, instead, wishes to return so she can work harder. “She was supposed to come here towards the end of my course but the pandemic had broken out by then. She is working round the clock and, as part of her duties, visits not only the hospital where she is posted but also containment zones. I am afraid anything can happen,” he said. “She will contract the infection sooner or later, given the circumstances. I don’t have any emergency like other Indians who are being taken home. I don’t know who will take care of my parents and my son in case my wife falls sick,” he said.
16 May 2020||New Delhi,||Students’ wings hit out at DU over open book online exams proposal||Students groups hit out at Delhi University’s proposal to hold online open book examinations with some carrying out social media campaigns and others writing to the administration on Friday. Following a call for a “Twitter Storm”, hundreds of students and teachers took to the social media to express their discontentment with the university’s move. “It is very clear that students have completely rejected the exercise of online open book examinations in DU. It is preposterous to think of online exams and DU V-C must rethink this decision,” said AISA in a statement. The SFI said that the proposal neglected many serious concerns associated with online examinations, including stark disparities in socio-economic conditions of students and in terms of access to internet, speed and other technical issues apart from other problems, ultimately turning it into a “test of privilege”. The group even launched a petition opposing the digital mode of examination which was submitted to the Vice-Chancellor by 23 students of 17 colleges, including student union representatives, and was signed by nearly 3,000 students, along with a mass mailing campaign, the group said. Students group ABVP also wrote to the V-C with a list of alternative modes of undertaking evaluations and complained that only two days were given by the working committee on examinations to take suggestions.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Make SOP to stop illegal groundwater extraction’||Following a plea which alleged that water filling plants were being operated without requisite licenses and supply of contaminated water in several parts of the city, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to prepare an appropriate SOP to prevent illegal extraction of groundwater.  “It will be appropriate that the Chief Secretary calls a meeting of all concerned within one month and oversees preparation of SOP. Ministry of Jal Shakti may also take necessary steps,” the NGT said.
16 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SSB officer helps woman find medicine for ailing son||A day after The Hindu reported about a 45-year-old woman who had been looking for medicine for her son suffering from schizophrenia, a Sashastra Seema Bal officer ensured the medicine was delivered at her residence. The woman, a resident of west Delhi’s Basai Darapur jhuggis, said that she was waiting for the lockdown to end to go to Kanpur from where she had been buying the medicines for the last 13 years. She said she had visited medicals shops in the area and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, but failed to find it. Inspector General Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Patna, IPS officer Sanjay Kumar intervened and had the medicine delivered at her doorstep. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said that 10 companies of the SSB are deployed in Delhi for law and order and he reached out to them for help. “I asked my colleagues in Kanpur and Lucknow for the medicines but they said the medicine was tough to find there as well. A colleague from Delhi then said that he might be able to help,” the officer said. Next, the SSB officials in Delhi found the medicine in Yusuf Sarai and Assistant Commandant Aman Sarkar reached the woman’s residence and handed it over.
