16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mega trade bloc RCEP takes off||The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a mega trade bloc comprising 15 countries led by China, that came into existence on Sunday said India would have to write expressing “intention” to join the organisation to restart negotiations for membership. In a statement after the initialising ceremony among member-countries on the sidelines of the 37th ASEAN Summit held virtually, the newly formed organisation laid down the path for restarting discussions and said “new” developments would be taken into consideration when India re-applied. “The RCEP signatory states will commence negotiations with India at any time after the signing of the RCEP Agreement once India submits a request in writing of its intention to accede to the RCEP Agreement to the depository of the RCEP Agreement, taking into consideration the latest status of India’s participation in the RCEP negotiations and any new development thereafter,” declared the RCEP, which comprises the 10 ASEAN members and Australia, China, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. The China-backed group is expected to represent at least 30% of the global GDP and will emerge as the largest free trade agreement in the world. The mega trade bloc is a landmark initiative, which is expected to boost commerce among the member-countries spread across the Asia-Pacific region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the ASEAN Summit on November 12 and highlighted the necessity for peace and stability in the region but maintained silence regarding RCEP, indicating India’s difficulty in welcoming the China-backed grouping. India’s ties with China in recent months have been disturbed by the military tension in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. In the meantime, India has also held maritime exercise with Japan, Australia and the United States for the “Quad”, interpreted as an anti-China move. However, these moves did not influence Japanese and Australian plans regarding RCEP. Experts are interpreting the beginning of RCEP as a major development that will help China and trade in Asia-Pacific region in the post-COVID-19 scenario. ‘Leverage for China’ “The agreement means a lot for China as it will give it access to Japanese and South Korean markets in a big way, as the three countries haven’t yet agreed on their FTA,” said Amitendu Palit, senior research fellow and research lead (Trade and Economics) at the Institute of South Asian Studies, National University of Singapore. “The fact that this happened, despite the pandemic, is certainly leverage for China, and shows the idea of decoupling from China is not a substantive issue in a regional sense,” he said. While the door remains open for India to join, Mr. Palit said there was “a degree of cynicism” among trade representatives in the region after how the negotiations turned out. “Except perhaps with Australia and Japan, there is a sense that India increasingly turning inward doesn’t connect with a region looking to come together,” he said. “India will also have to consider if the new U.S. administration revives the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal in some form and brings in all of its partners in the region, can India afford to stay out of a template that excludes China, at the same time as it is looking to move out supply chains from China in the next 5 or 10 years?”  (With inputs from   Ananth Krishnan)
16 November 2020||KOCHI,||Will resist move against KIIFB: Isaac||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) should clarify whether it wants to surrender the freedom of financial institutions such as Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Responding to the Opposition charges that the Finance Minister had committed breach of privilege of the Assembly by making a public statement on the draft report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on the KIIFB, Dr. Isaac said the LDF government had in 1999 and the UDF government in 2003 raised funds by way of KIIFB and no one had raised such issues then. UDF attempt The UDF was attempting to stall development projects worth Rs. 50,000 crore that were being implemented in the State using KIIFB funds. This cannot be permitted, he said. The people had been enjoying the benefits of various infrastructure initiatives undertaken by the State government using KIIFB funds, he said. Tenders for projects worth Rs. 30,000 crore had been floated under the KIIFB and it cannot be dropped midway. If the UDF was opposed to the KIIFB, it should come up with an answer on how to take these projects forward, he said. Several public sector companies such as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) had raised foreign funds, to which the CAG had no objections. The freedom given to these agencies should also be extended to the KIIFB, he said. 100-page reply A nearly 100-page reply is being readied for the queries raised by the CAG. The Chief Secretary will forward the reply to the CAG, which will be shared with the people. The attempts of the UDF-BJP combine to stall the development projects by using the draft report of the CAG would be thwarted The people, who had benefited by KIIFB projects, would give a befitting reply to the false campaign, Dr. Isaac said. On the Opposition charges of breach of privilege, the Finance Minister said such issues could be discussed in the Assembly as and when they come up. There were no allegations of corruption against the KIIFB-supported projects, which were being implemented in the State. At the same time, legislators of all political parties were pressing the government for taking up more projects in their constituencies, he said.
16 November 2020||PATNA,||Nitish to take oath as Bihar Chief Minister again today||Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar was elected leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) legislature party in Bihar on Sunday. He will take oath as Chief Minister of the State for the fourth consecutive term on Monday. Four-time MLA from Katihar Tarkishore Prasad was elected leader of the BJP legislature party and Renu Devi, MLA from Bettiah in West Champaran, his deputy. Mr. Prasad, 64, is tipped to be the next Deputy Chief Minister, replacing long-time incumbent Sushil Kumar Modi. Mr. Kumar was elected unanimously at the meeting held at 1 Anne Marg, official residence of the CM. Senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, party’s poll in-charge Devendra Fadnavis and State party in-charge Bhupendra Yadav were present. Soon afterwards, Mr. Kumar, accompanied by leaders of all the four alliance partners, met Governor Fagu Chauhan at the Raj Bhavan and staked claim to form the new government. “The Governor accepted our request. Tomorrow the oath taking ceremony will be held between 4 and 4.30 p.m.,” Mr. Kumar said. After the NDA legislators’ meeting, BJP leaders headed to the State guest house. Mr. Modi, Mr. Singh, Mr. Fadnavis and Mr. Yadav were closeted in another meeting before they went to meet the Governor. The leaders avoided a direct answer to a question about the next Deputy Chief Minister. “You all will know at an appropriate time,” said Mr. Singh. Mr. Modi, who is known to be close to Mr. Kumar, later tweeted that no one could “snatch” the position of party worker from him. “In my political career spanning 40 years, the BJP and the Sangh Parivar (RSS) have given me much more than anyone will ever get. I will discharge whatever responsibility is given to me,” said the tweet in Hindi. Meanwhile, the buzz in political circles is that Mr. Modi may be inducted into the Union Cabinet through a Rajya Sabha seat, vacant after the demise of Lok Janshakti Party chief Ram Vilas Paswan. “Hon’ble Sushil ji, you are a leader and held the post of Deputy CM… you will be a leader of the BJP in future too. No one becomes small or big through a post,” tweeted Union Minister Giriraj Singh. The NDA, which comprises the BJP, the JD(U), the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular and the Vikassheel Insaan Party won 125 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The BJP won 74 seats and the JD(U) 43. HAM-S and VIP won four seats each.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Traffic police now come knocking on your door to collect pending fines||If you have attracted a fine for violating traffic rules and have not paid up, the traffic police could come knocking on your doors to ensure you do. Bengaluru Traffic Police (BTP), who have upped the ante against violations, are now going to the doorstep of violators to collect dues, which amounts to crores of rupees. 61 violations For instance, last week, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ramanayak attached to the K.R. Puram traffic police station visited the house of a government employee and collected Rs. 32,000 towards pending fines for 61 traffic violations he had committed in the last few months. This was part of the total Rs. 18 crore collected by the traffic police in October, which is the highest fine collected in the last five years. M. Narayan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (east division), said the traffic police would continue this drive till they recover outstanding dues of Rs. 300 crore piled up in the last two years. The east division alone has Rs. 130 crore pending dues. The traffic police said motorists in the State often come across as “indisciplined”. “Though they take oath and give written consent on following traffic rules while getting the driving licence, they violate rules, leading to increasing number of accidents. Owing to this behaviour, the city has recorded the second highest number of pedestrian deaths among metro cities, as per the NCRB data,” Mr. Narayan said. Another officer said lenient punishment was also a factor for the high number of violations. “Motorists who are booked under accidental deaths tend to get bail often. Repeat traffic violators ignore paying fines,” the officer added. “To bring discipline and make them accountable and responsible, the traffic police have decided to visit the houses of repeat offenders and issue them notice demanding clearance of dues. The team with the ASI and two constables have also been directed to give a pep talk to the offenders and their family members to create awareness and traffic sense among them. This drive will continue till we recover the dues and ensure awareness among erring motorists,” he said.
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Soumitra Chatterjee, one of India’s tallest actors, dies||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengali superstar and one of India’s tallest actors, widely admired for his roles as Apu and Feluda, died on Sunday after fighting for his life since October 6, when the 85-year-old was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic here with symptoms of COVID-19. Though he subsequently tested negative for the virus, the infection and the prolonged stay in ICU had severely affected his vital organs. His death was formally announced by the hospital at a quarter past noon. That the actor — who debuted in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959 and acted in over 300 films, working until his recent hospitalisation — was very close to death had become evident on Deepavali eve when critical care specialist Arindam Kar, who headed the team of doctors attending on him, said they were hoping for a miracle. Busier in final years While the sad news was not entirely unexpected, given his age and the complications he had developed after contracting COVID-19, the formal announcement of his departure numbed Kolkata, his home, and shocked fans across the globe. Far from being someone who led a retired life at 85, this winner of the Dadasaheb Phalke award was busier in his final years than ever and several of his films are still awaiting release. Tributes poured out on Twitter. While President Ram Nath Kovind said the Indian cinema had lost one of its legends, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his condolence message, said the actor, through his works, had come to embody “Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos”. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who rushed to the hospital on learning of the actor’s demise, tweeted: “Feluda is no more. Apu has said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned.” The most common sentiment expressed by fans was that legends like him don’t die — they live on. As actors, Soumitra and Uttam Kumar were the two most popular faces in Bengal — no one else came close. The latter was older by nearly a decade but they died 40 years apart — incidentally, in the same hospital. It was also at this hospital that Soumitra’s mentor Satyajit Ray received his Oscar and spent his final days in 1992. “[Soumitra] proved himself to be a warrior, fighting valiantly till the last. He cooperated with the doctors and gave his best. But destiny had other plans — and who can fight destiny,” one of the doctors who had attended on the actor told The Hindu . “No one else could have fought this long in spite of advanced age and the severity of the infection and multiple co-morbidities.”
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Soumitra Chatterjee, one of India’s tallest actors, dies||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengali superstar and one of India’s tallest actors, widely admired for his roles as Apu and Feluda, died on Sunday after fighting for his life since October 6, when the 85-year-old was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic here with symptoms of COVID-19. Though he subsequently tested negative for the virus, the infection and the prolonged stay in ICU had severely affected the functioning of his vital organs, particularly his central nervous system. His death was formally announced by the hospital at a quarter past noon. The funeral was held in the evening with full State honours at the Keoratala crematorium, but not before his mortal remains were kept at the Technician Studio and then at Rabindra Sadan for people to pay their last respects. Busier in final years That the actor — who debuted in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959 and acted in over 300 films, working until his recent hospitalisation — was very close to death had become evident on Deepavali eve when critical care specialist Arindam Kar, who headed the team of doctors attending on him, said they were hoping for a miracle. While the sad news was not entirely unexpected, given his age and the complications he had developed after contracting COVID-19, the formal announcement of his departure numbed Kolkata, his home, and shocked fans across the globe. Far from being someone who led a retired life at 85, this winner of the Dadasaheb Phalke award was busier in his final years than ever and several of his films are still awaiting release.  Tributes pour in Tributes poured out on Twitter. While President Ram Nath Kovind said Indian cinema had lost one of its legends, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his condolence message, said the actor, through his works, had come to embody “Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos”. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who rushed to the hospital on learning of the actor’s demise, tweeted: “Feluda is no more. Apu has said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned.” The most common sentiment expressed by fans was that legends like him don’t die — they live on. As actors, Soumitra and Uttam Kumar were the two most popular faces in Bengal — no one else came close. The latter was older by nearly a decade but they died 40 years apart — incidentally, in the same hospital. It was also at this hospital that Soumitra’s mentor Satyajit Ray received his Oscar and spent his final days in 1992. “[Soumitra] proved himself to be a warrior, fighting valiantly till the last. He cooperated with the doctors and gave his best. But destiny had other plans — and who can fight destiny,” one of the doctors who attended on the actor told The Hindu . “No one else could have fought this long in spite of advanced age and the severity of the infection and co-morbidities.”
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Circular on betterment fee sends PU colleges into a tizzy||A circular by the Pre-University Department warning disciplinary action against principals of government PU colleges that collect additional fees as betterment charges has sent principals into a tizzy as the additional charges were collected as per recommendation of the college betterment committees headed by local MLAs. The circular of Joint Director (Academics) on October 10 said Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has heard of some government PU colleges collecting betterment charges from students. “This conduct is unacceptable. Principals of such colleges will be held responsible and disciplinary action will be taken. Deputy Directors of PU Education have been asked to inform principals in their jurisdiction and submit compliance report at the earliest,” the circular said. Enquiries with the colleges revealed that the betterment charges were collected as per recommendations of the betterment committees. This amount ranges between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 and was in addition to tuition fee that ranges between Rs. 225 and Rs. 2,300. A principal of a government PU college in Dakshina Kannada said colleges were using the amount for maintenance work as government was not paying for it. The amount was also used for paying salary of Group D staff. The government has not appointed Group D staff since 1997. Additional expenditure incurred for starting of new courses were also borne through betterment the charges. Supporting the action of the government, Shamsuddin, parent of a II PU student from Puttur, said colleges have no authority to make students pay for betterment. As against Rs. 250, girls in that college were made to pay betterment fee of Rs. 1,800, he said. “Despite our poor financial status, we are forced to pay,” he said.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cumulative case burden 5,24,998 in State||The Kerala COVID-19 case graph moved slowly to a cumulative case burden of 5,24,998 cases, with the State reporting 4,581 new cases on Sunday when 46,126 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate went below 10% again on Sunday to 9.93%. Continuing the trend of the past few days, more recoveries than new cases were reported on the day, with 6,684 patients leaving hospitals. With this, the active case pool dwindled further to 74,802 cases. So far, 4,48,207 persons have recovered from the disease. Of the active cases, 905 patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs, with 225 patients on ventilator support. The State’s cumulative death toll rose to 1,869, with the addition of 21 more deaths to the official list. Of the new deaths, Thiruvananthapuram accounted for five, Thrissur and Kannur four each, Palakkad and Malappuram three each and Wayanad one. Of the new cases, 3,920 cases (98%) are locally acquired infections, with the infection in 527 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. Among this, the number of health workers who contracted the infection is 49. Among districts, Kozhikode reported 574 cases, Malappuram 558, Alappuzha 496, Ernakulam 489, Thrissur 425, Palakkad 416, Kollam 341, Thiruvananthapuram 314, Kottayam 266, Kannur 203, Pathanamthitta 171, Idukki 165, Wayanad 101 and Kasaragod 62 cases.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Scuba diving, water sports, boating resume in Uttara Kannada||Scuba diving, water sports, boating are back again in Uttara Kannada, one of the tourist destinations having the highest footfall in the State. This is following relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions. Deputy Director, Tourism, Uttara Kannada, Purushottam S., told The Hindu that three operators have resumed scuba diving in the surroundings of Netrani Island, 20 km off Murdeshwar Beach, which has 14 species of corals and 89 species of fish. Ganesh Harikantra, proprietor of Netrani Adventures, registered with the Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI) and one of the three agencies authorised by the Uttara Kannada district administration to organise scuba diving, said that the regulator mouth piece used by a scuba diver on a day is not shared with any other diver on that day. Once used, the equipment is washed in a machine having ultra sonic liquid. It is used only on the second day. This is as per the standard operating procedure in view of COVID-19. He said that safety precautions are being taken in organising diving activities. Tourists have begun arriving now, mainly from Bengaluru, though only during the weekends, he said. Mr. Purushottam said that after the Kasarkod Beach, near Honnavar, bagged the coveted eco-label Blue Flag from the international agency, Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark, recently, it has been attracting about 400 tourists on week days and more tourists on weekends. “The beach had about 5,000 visitors during the last week-end and all the parking slots were full,” he said. As the footfall on the beach is on the rise, following its beautification and added facilities, it has created a new livelihood avenue for some autorickshaw drivers who are now conducting regular trips to the beach from the national highway, he said. The Deputy Director said that water sports activities and boating have resumed on the Kali river in Dandeli. The activities have been attracting tourists from Goa and Maharashtra now. He said that three beaches in Gokarna, including the main beach, Om Beach and Kudle Beach, have also been attracting tourists as water sports activities have been introduced there. The number of visitors availing themselves of homestays and resorts in Gokarna is satisfactory. Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada K. Harish Kumar said that the administration will allow more operators to organise scuba diving on Netrani Island in the coming days to promote tourism. The minimum and the maximum user fees to be collected from each one of the divers will be fixed by the district administration.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Qureshi’s claims attempt to divert attention, says MEA||India on Sunday described Saturday’s press conference by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi as a “desperate attempt” to divert attention from internal problems. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava reiterated India’s allegation against Pakistani involvement in sponsoring cross-border terrorism and reminded that Pakistan’s Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhary had recently ‘claimed’ the Pulwama atttack was a “success of Pakistan”. “The press conference was a deliberate attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures. It also seeks to justify cross-border terrorism, including ceasefire violations and infiltration across the LoC and the International Border,” Mr. Srivastava said. Mr. Qureshi had claimed that Islamabad will provide the United Nations proof of India’s involvement in sponsoring terrorism in Pakistan. The claims from the Minister came as India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest against the ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) that resulted in the loss of lives of several citizens on Friday.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Apex court to hear separate pleas against Jagan Mohan Reddy today||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice U.U. Lalit is scheduled on Monday to hear separate writ petitions against the Andhra Pradesh government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy for levelling “false, vague and political allegations” against sitting apex court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, and other High Court judges. The controversy is based on a letter by Mr. Reddy addressed to the Chief Justice of India against the judges, and the subsequent revelation of its contents during a press conference on October 10. Recently, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal had refrained from giving his statutory consent to pleas seeking contempt of court action against Mr. Reddy and his Principal Adviser Ajeya Kallam. Mr. Venugopal said it was up to the CJI, who is “seized of the letter” to take an appropriate decision. Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, in his contempt plea to Mr. Venugopal, claimed that the decision of a Bench led by Justice Ramana on September 16, directing expeditious completion of pending criminal trials against politicians had spurred Mr. Reddy to write the letter. Mr. Reddy, the lawyer said, had 31 criminal cases against him. On Monday, Justice Lalit’s Bench will hear first the petition filed by advocate G.S. Mani, who has accused Mr. Reddy of “misusing his official post.” A similar petition has also been filed by an NGO, Anti Corruption Council of India Trust. The third petition is by another lawyer, Sunil Kumar Singh, who has urged the apex court to issue an order to bar Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy from making public statements against the judiciary and holding press conferences to malign the judicial institution. The Constitution does not allow such deliberate attempt to publicly embarrass the judiciary. “What is at stake is the confidence that courts inspire in the public in a democracy,” Mr. Singh contended. The right places to bring allegations against the higher judiciary is Parliament or the State Legislature and not in press conferences. The petition said the constitutional immunity granted to the judiciary is to allow it to function fearlessly.
16 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Work apace on Formula Three racing track in Anantapur dt.||A Formula Three racing track is getting ready at Kotapalli of Tankallu mandal in Anantapur district with work apace on a large part of the proposed 3.4-km track. Once completed, the track will be one of the country’s key attractions such as the Buddh International Circuit, India’s only Formula One circuit located at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh, and the 3.74-km track located at Irungattukottai near Chennai. Regional Director (tourism) B. Eswariah told The Hindu that the Bengaluru-based Nidhi Marque One Motors was developing the facility on a 219-acre plot, which would be a resort with a Formula Three track, for which recognition would be sought from The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM). Dual purpose The racing track will be used by the automobile manufacturers too for their testing purposes. The Formula Three restricts the speed of the cars to 250 kmph, but it will have all the traps such as straights and high-speed corners, along with elevation of up to 40 metres. “With its proximity to the Bengaluru airport and a number of motorsport enthusiasts in the metropolis, the Rs. 100-crore resort planned with a wellness centre and a golf course in 50 acres is bound to bring a large number of tourists,” Mr. Eswaraiah said. An amusement park would also be developed in the second phase, and the entire project when developed would employ 150 to 200 people from the district, he added. Heritage circuit Meanwhile, the Tourism Department has submitted a proposal to the Central government to give its nod for the Rayalaseema Heritage Circuit in Anantapur - Kurnool - Kadapa districts. The circuit proposes to cover Lepakshi and Tadipatri temples, Penukonda and Gooty forts in Anantapur; Belum Caves, Mahanandi and Ahobilam in Kurnool district, and Gandikota Fort and Canyon in Kadapa. With the Orvakal airpot getting ready for commercial operations, a proposal to build a hotel with 5-Star facilities in the PPP mode is also on the anvil at the Rock Garden, for which Expression of Interest (EoI) has been called for from the prospective developers. Another large project proposed is development of the Madakasira Tank as a tourist destination with a boating facility. With the Ratnagiri Fort and the 7th century Hymavathi temples in close proximity, the department expects to attract good crowd.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Worst air quality on Deepavali in four years||The air pollution in Delhi on Deepavali and day after was the worst in the last four years, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) based on data from 38 monitoring stations from across the Capital was 435 on Sunday, which falls in the ‘severe’ category. Bursting of firecrackers was witnessed across Delhi on Deepavali night even though a ban was imposed on its sale. Local emissions worsened the quality of air in the city. The Delhi police said they received over 2,000 PCR calls in connection with bursting of firecrackers and seized over 1,300 kg of crackers from across the city. The AQI in Gurugram, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad was also in the ‘severe’ category. By afternoon, the sky turned cloudy and light showers were reported in many parts of Delhi with a moderate wind speed that brought some relief as it helped in dispersion of pollutants. The Met Department said that under the influence of fresh western disturbance the wind speed went up to around 25 km per hour. Quick recovery predicted SAFAR, the air quality monitoring agency of the Ministry of Earth Sciences, said conditions are favourable for a quick recovery from the situation caused due to local emissions (firecrackers) as well as stubble fire-related pollutants. “Effective stubble fire counts (with sufficient potential) estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products were significantly reduced to around 350 on Saturday in contrast to around 2,586, a day before. In view of this, stubble burning share of PM2.5 in Delhi's air is almost negligible and estimated at around 4% for Sunday,” SAFAR said. It added that better ventilation condition is likely to prevail now for faster dispersion and scattered rainfall is also likely to help improve the air quality. In its forecast, SAFAR said: “The AQI is likely to start improving and reach the ‘very poor’ category on November 16 and may touch the poor category in case of enough rains. The AQI is forecast to stay in the middle-end of ‘very poor’ category on November 17 and 18.”
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Not a ‘firecracker-free’ Deepavali||It was expected to be a Deepavali unlike any other in recent memory as the government and medical fraternity appealed for a quieter festival of lights in view of complications that could arise out of firecracker-related pollution and the existing pandemic. But confusion over transition to “green crackers” continued even as firecrackers were burst in many areas across the city on Saturday and Sunday, though rain brought some temporary relief. In addition, despite restrictions on timings (between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m.), firecrackers were burst across the city from 6.30 p.m. onwards and even well beyond midnight. Srinivasulu, member-secretary, KSPCB, said they had been observing an increase in particulate matters, including PM10 and PM2.5, during Deepavali when compared with normal days. “However, the acuteness of the problem is reducing year by year. There was 46% increase in particulate matters in 2017, and over the period of time — in 2018 and 2019 — the number has decreased,” he said. He added that they were hoping that it reduces further this year. He also said that the KSPCB had provided around 140 electronic equipment to the city police and KSPCB officials to test the noise of firecrackers. “They have been given the basic information on testing and the permitted decibel levels. We will be getting information on them soon,” he said. Directions too late? However, civic officials and the police admitted that it was difficult to monitor shops selling firecrackers and ensure that they are selling only “green crackers”, given that the directions were issued on the eve of Deepavali. “If the decision to allow green crackers was taken earlier, we would have got KSPCB officials to conduct workshops for our officers,” said a senior civic official, who did not wish to be named. A senior police official said had they received the directive from the government earlier, it would have been easier for them to form inter-departmental committees at local levels, mobilise resources, and conduct inspections. The city police had received a total of 306 applications from firecracker shops this year as against 811 last year. “The low response may be because of COVID-19 and the rule on the sale of green crackers,” a senior police officer overseeing the licensing and auction of these shops said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Four children feared drowned in the sea||Four children, aged between 13 and 17, were feared drowned in the sea near the Kasimedu fishing harbour on Sunday. They were pulled in by strong currents after they stepped into the water to play. Arulraj, 19, who attempted to save them, drowned. Later, his body washed ashore. He was a resident of Kappal Bola Street at Old Washermenpet. The incident occurred during a visit to the beach by three families from the same locality. The parents were sitting on the shore, while the children, including Arulraj’s sister Durga, 17, Vishnu, 14, and twins Margaret and Martin, 13, were playing in the water. On seeing the four in trouble, Arulraj jumped into the water to save them. But all of them went missing. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Tondiarpet and Royapuram began a rescue operation. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Washermenpet, G. Subbulakshmi monitored the operation, and fishermen joined the effort. Since it was pitch-dark, the operation was suspended. It will resume in the morning, sources said.
16 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Dalit girl found dead in U.P. village, family suspects kidnap and rape||Two police personnel, including a station house officer, were suspended for not registering an FIR on a complaint from the family of a missing Dalit girl who was found dead in a field in Basti district on Sunday. The family of the girl suspects she was kidnapped and raped before being murdered. However, a post-mortem report is awaited and the police are yet to confirm or deny the allegations. A resident of a village in Kalwari area of Basti in eastern Uttar Pradesh, the girl had gone out with her mobile phone on November 10 but did not return, said the police. On November 12, her family informed the Kalwari police station, said Basti SP Hemraj Meena. Body found in field The body was discovered under a stack of hay in a field around 70 metres away from her house, he said. The local SHO and a ‘halka’ in-charge were suspended for “not taking the matter seriously” when the family informed them about the missing girl, said the SP. An FIR has now been registered, said the police. A relative of the girl told the media it appeared that acid had been poured on her. Three teams have been formed to solve the case, said Mr. Meena.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Apex court to hear separate pleas against Jagan today||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice U.U. Lalit is scheduled on Monday to hear separate writ petitions against the Andhra Pradesh government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy for levelling “false, vague and political allegations” against sitting apex court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, and other High Court judges. The controversy is based on a letter by Mr. Reddy addressed to the Chief Justice of India against the judges, and the subsequent revelation of its contents during a press conference on October 10. Recently, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal had refrained from giving his statutory consent to pleas seeking contempt of court action against Mr. Reddy and his Principal Adviser Ajeya Kallam. Mr. Venugopal said it was up to the CJI, who is “seized of the letter” to take an appropriate decision. Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, in his contempt plea to Mr. Venugopal, claimed that the decision of a Bench led by Justice Ramana on September 16, directing expeditious completion of pending criminal trials against politicians had spurred Mr. Reddy to write the letter. Mr. Reddy, the lawyer said, had 31 criminal cases against him. On Monday, Justice Lalit’s Bench will hear first the petition filed by advocate G.S. Mani, who has accused Mr. Reddy of “misusing his official post.” A similar petition has also been filed by an NGO, Anti Corruption Council of India Trust. The third petition is by another lawyer, Sunil Kumar Singh, who has urged the apex court to issue an order to bar Mr. Reddy from making public statements against the judiciary. The Constitution does not allow such deliberate attempt to publicly embarrass the judiciary. The petition said the constitutional immunity granted to the judiciary is to allow it to function fearlessly.
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Feluda is no more. Farewell, Soumitra Chatterjee||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengali superstar and one of India’s tallest actors, widely admired for his roles as Apu and Feluda, died on Sunday after fighting for his life since October 6, when the 85-year-old was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic here with symptoms of COVID-19. Though he subsequently tested negative for the virus, the infection and the prolonged stay in ICU had severely affected the functioning of his vital organs, particularly his central nervous system. Chatterjee’s death was formally announced by the hospital at a quarter past noon. The actor, who debuted in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959, acted in over 300 films. While the sad news was not entirely unexpected, given his age and the complications he had developed after contracting COVID-19, the formal announcement of his departure numbed Kolkata, his home, and shocked fans across the globe. Far from being someone who led a retired life at 85, this winner of the Dadasaheb Phalke award was busier in his final years than ever and several of his films are still awaiting release.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Minister warns of action against cooperatives not following rules||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somshekar on Sunday warned of stringent action against those cooperatives which extended loans without proper security, while assuring government’s commitment to protect the interests of depositors. Speaking at the inauguration of the 67th national cooperative week celebrations, organised jointly by Karnataka Cooperative Marketing Federation and others here, Mr. Somashekar said all 280-odd cooperative banks in Karnataka were functioning efficiently. Cooperative banks have occupied top spots in extending loans, particularly to farmers, as well as recovery. A fraud in one bank did not mean all other cooperative banks were malfunctioning, he said. Mr. Somashekar said the government has sent a proposal to the Centre seeking Rs. 600 crore out of funds reserved for the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme to the cooperative sector in the State. Meanwhile, extending loans under the financial response scheme in four cooperative zones [Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi] has commenced while nodal officers have been entrusted with the responsibility of tracking the actual usage of loans taken from cooperative banks. South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank president and chairman of the federation M.N. Rajendra Kumar said the government has approved setting up a cooperative study centre at Mangalore University, which would commence functioning from this year itself. He said SCDCC Bank was in the forefront of loan recovery having recovered 100% loans every year. Speaking on the occasion, MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said Mr. Rajendra Kumar, through the cooperative machinery, has effectively been implementing various central schemes. D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Mangaluru South MLA, hoisted the cooperation flag. Earlier, Mr. Rajendra Kumar flagged off a jatha from the SCDCC Bank headquarters on K.S. Rao Road.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Qureshi’s claims an attempt to divert attention: MEA||India on Sunday described Saturday’s press conference by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi as a “desperate attempt” to divert attention from its internal problems. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava reiterated India’s allegation against Pakistani involvement in sponsoring cross-border terrorism and reminded that Pakistan’s Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhary had recently “claimed” the Pulwama atttack was a “success of Pakistan”. Mr. Qureshi had claimed Islamabad would provide the United Nations proof of India’s involvement in sponsoring terrorism in Pakistan. The claims from the Minister came as India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest against the ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir that resulted in the loss of lives of several citizens on Friday.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eviction notices inhumane, say artists||Several eminent artists who have been asked to vacate the houses allotted to them by the government in Lutyens’ and south Delhi by December 31 say the decision was sudden and inhumane during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj, who was first allotted a house in 1978, said it came as a surprise to him that the allotment had been cancelled. He told The Hindu that he would “return all the awards” if he is evicted from the Shahjahan Road house.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rs. 120 crore aid to RTC to overcome crisis||The State government will infuse Rs. 120 crore into Telangana State Road Transport Corporation as part of measures to bail it out from financial crisis on account of COVID and clear the 50 % arrears in salaries of crew for two months. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao to immediately release the amount, a release of the CMO said. He gave the instructions at a meeting to discuss the guidelines to ensure job security of RTC staff. It was decided on the occasion to resume operation of 50 % fleet of the corporation in Hyderabad. A release quoting Mr. Rao said the RTC slipped into problems due to COVID at a time when the entity had begun to make profits following incentives given by government. Yet, the government was determined to revive the corporation. He said the State government was protecting public sector undertakings against all odds. It was providing job security to lakhs of employees in the undertakings. The government opposed enhancement of private participation in power sector though some forces made attempts. On the other hand, the government regularised the services of thousands of contract workers in the sector. The Centre was privatising public sector units, including the Life Insurance Corporation of India. But, the State government did nothing of the sort and protected the PSUs despite facing severe financial crunch. “I will not sleep till the RTC was put back on rails. I will see it survived as long as I live,” the Chief Minister remarked. He also said a large number of families were dependent on RTC staff. Moreover, the corporation provided very cheap transport to poor. Hence, the government wanted to protect the RTC without considering profit or loss. The government will support the corporation financially. The meeting saw officials informing Mr. Rao that the corporation had been incurring losses for some months because of poor occupancy due to fear of COVID and increase in usage of personal vehicles of commuters. In his response, Mr. Rao asked officials to analyse the right solutions that will see the corporation return to pre-COVID days. He complimented the RTC for introduction of cargo services as it enjoyed public patronage. He expressed hope that the RTC will earn profits through cargo services like the railways. It was significant that the corporation booked a million cargo parcels within a short time of commencement of services, he said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Pollution levels dip in Chennai this Deepavali||With many people deciding not to burst crackers and toning down celebrations, this year’s Deepavali in Chennai was a less polluting affair, both in terms of smoke and noise levels, when compared to last year. Madipakkam resident Prasad Karanth said this had been one of the quietest Deepavali celebrations he had witnessed in all his years. “Many residents in our locality burst a few crackers just for the sake of keeping the tradition alive,” he said. Similarly, Tiruvottiyur resident S. Ambigaidas said, “We only bought green crackers. Heavy rain had been forecast, which was another reason for not buying a lot.” There were also families like the Kumars, of Kilpauk, who did not buy crackers at all. “This was perhaps the first time that we did away with tradition. The boys said they would rather spend the money on something else. They have been saving up to buy gadgets, which we did,” Mr. Kumar said. Cleaner air The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) said there had been a substantial decrease in the values of various prominent pollutants. For instance, the TNPCB's manual station in Besant Nagar recorded PM2.5 — particulate matter of 2.5 micron size — of 37 microgram/cubic metre in the ambient air. This was a 24-hour average. Last year, the same station recorded PM2.5 of 58 microgram/cubic metre. This was true of other stations at T. Nagar, Nungambakkam, Triplicane and Sowcarpet as well. However, levels of nitrogen oxide were higher than last year in all the stations. The PM10 recordings ranged from 52 microgram/cubic metre to 111 microgram/cubic metre during Deepavali as against the prescribed standard of 100 microgram/cubic metre. Likewise, the PM2.5 levels ranged from 32 microgram/cubic metre to 59 microgram/cubic metre, the permissible limit being 60 microgram/cubic metre for 24 hours, the TNPCB said. It attributed the reduction in pollution levels to the directives of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal and its own efforts to create awareness. The Board's report said ambient noise levels ranged from 54 to 69 Decibel (DB) pre-Deepavali (November 9), and 71 to 78 DB during Deepavali. AQI at 98 The Central Pollution Control Board's Sameer App's air quality index (AQI), recorded across seven automatic stations for 24 hours from 4 p.m. on Saturday, showed that the city had an AQI of 98, with PM2.5 and CO as prominent pollutants. Maximum levels touched 500 microgram/cubic metre in Arumbakkam around 9 p.m. At Manali, the highs were around 300 microgram/cubic metre around the same time. Velachery's maximum level was 150 microgram/cubic metre, also recorded around the same time. Timings not followed Though the State government had stipulated that crackers can be burst between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., there was very minimal bursting of crackers in the morning. It was during the evening that people began bursting crackers, from 6 p.m. In most localities, residents said it stopped by 9 p.m., well beyond the time slot stipulated by the government. Former member secretary of the TNPCB, K. Karthikeyan, said he was happy that the pollution values recorded during Deepavali were low. “At the same time, it is important to arrive at a geo-spatial distribution of pollutants in a 540 sq km area to plan the assimilating capacity of air to hold pollutants in desired ambient standards. This will create awareness among policymakers and the public on using the crackers at an appropriate time and area,” he explained. Meanwhile, activists said it was high-time that the TNPCB began monitoring more stations for Deepavali and Bhogi. “They had procured equipment worth crores of rupees. We are yet to see that data being made public. Hopefully, by Pongal, we will see data from those 10+ automatic stations,” said an activist who did not wish to be named.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,||DYFI, ABVP oppose move to divert land for seafood park||Sanjeeva Matandoor, Puttur MLA, said on Sunday that there is no point in continuing to reserve 40 acres of land, under the jurisdiction of the Bannur Gram Panchayat near Puttur Town, for a government medical college which is yet to be approved. Speaking to The Hindu on opposition to the move to divert the same land for a proposed seafood park, the MLA said that the chances of the government approving the college are remote as Dakshina Kannada has eight private medical colleges. Enquiries by him have revealed that the government is unlikely to sanction the government medical college now. Empoyment chances The MLA said that if the seafood park came up on the same land it would create many employment opportunities. The Union government is ready to sanction Rs. 50 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative for setting up the park. Sources in the medical fraternity told The Hindu that one more private medical college is in the offing in Mangaluru. Notwithstanding it, sources said the government can sanction a government medical college to the district. There is no such blanket ban on opening a government medical college even if the district had many private medical colleges. It needs conviction and effort to get a government medical college. No one is serious to get a government medical college to Dakshina Kannada, according to sources. Referring to Bengaluru, the sources said it had many private medical colleges and also a government medical college. Meanwhile, the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) have opposed the move to divert the land. State president of the DYFI Muneer Katipalla said in a release that if the move is not dropped the DYFI will launch an agitation. It appears there is a conspiracy in diverting the land, he said. The district needs a government medical college and the government should strengthen all its medical establishments. The government can identify separate land for the seafood park, Mr. Katipalla said. An ABVP delegation met the MLA in Puttur on Saturday and submitted a memorandum urging him not to divert the land. The opposition to the diversion of the land grew after the Bannur Gram Panchayat issued a public notice on November 11 inviting objections within a week for diverting the land.
16 November 2020||Mumbai,||Temple reopening: Oppn. parties claim credit||With the Maharashtra government set to reopen religious places outside containment zones on Monday, Opposition parties have rushed to claim credit for the move. Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in the Council, on Sunday claimed that the State government was forced to take the decision owing to sustained pressure from the BJP.
16 November 2020||Tiruvannamalai,||Tiruvannamalai Karthigai Deepam to be low-key affair this year||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the district administration has announced that devotees will not be allowed into the Tiruvannamalai temple on the day of ‘Karthigai Deepam’, falling on November 29, or to gather on the streets to witness the lighting of the Deepam. The Deepam festival is scheduled to be held from November 17 to December 3. It draws lakhs of devotees from across the country. This year, the festival will start with the flag hoisting on November 20. On November 29, the ‘Bharani Deepam’ will be lit in the Arunachaleshwarar temple at 4 a.m. and the ‘Karthigai Deepam’ will be lit on top of the hill at 6 p.m. “Since prohibitory orders are still in place and to prevent the spread of COVID-19, we are not allowing anyone inside the temple on November 29. On other days, 5,000 devotees, with e-passes obtained by registering at www.arunachaleswarartemple.tnhrce.in will be allowed for darshan,” said Collector K. S. Kandasamy. As always, devotees will not be allowed to climb the hill for darshan of the deepam. “This time, people will not be allowed to gather on the streets and witness the lighting of the deepam. They can stand outside their houses and do so,” added the Collector. Girivalam, on November 29 and 30, is also banned. “No special buses will be operated between November 28 and 30. The annual car festival that is scheduled for November 26 and the other processions, usually conducted on Mada streets, will take place inside the temple this year,” said an official.
16 November 2020||Malda (WB),||7-year-old girl dies of burn injuries during Kali puja celebrations||A seven-year-old girl died of burn injuries that she sustained while bursting crackers at her home in West Bengal’s Malda district, police sources said on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Jayanti Rabidas, was a resident of Kadamtoli in the Kaliachak police station area of the district. She was bursting crackers along with other members of her family on Saturday, on the occasion of Kali puja, when her dress caught fire. Her relatives immediately put out the fire and took her to Malda Medical College and Hospital, where the girl died while undergoing treatment, the sources said. Notably, the Calcutta High Court had on November 5 ordered a ban on bursting and sale of crackers in Bengal for Kali puja, Deepavali, and Chhat puja to curb air pollution amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
16 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Court rejects bail plea of 3 with ‘PFI links’||A Mathura court on Friday rejected the bail plea of three men who were arrested along with a Kerala journalist while they were going to a village in Hathras to meet the family of a gang-rape and murder victim. Atif-ur-Rahman, Masood Ahmad, Mohammad Alam and journalist Siddiqiue Kappan were initially detained on October 5 under Section 151 of the CrPc.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Glowing brightly||
16 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 recovery rate dips slightly||Maharashtra’s recoveries barely outpaced its case surge on Sunday, with just 3,065 patients being discharged against a spike of 2,544 new COVID-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 16,15,379, with the State’s recovery rate in fact coming down marginally to 92.45%. The total case tally has reached 17,47,242 while the number of active cases touched 84,918. With 60 deaths, the fatality toll has climbed to 45,974. The State’s case fatality rate currently is 2.63%. The low case surge has to be viewed in the context of the far lesser-than-usual samples being tested. Pune district reported nearly 300 new cases to take its total tally to 3,41,877 while seven deaths saw its toll climb to 7,156. As per the Pune district administration, the active cases have come down to 9,299 while the recovery rate stands at 94.75%. Mumbai city reported 577 cases to take its total tally to 2,69,710 of whom 13,532 are active. As many as 15 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,573. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 142 new cases, taking the district’s total cases to 1,08,733 of whom just 2,686 are active. Two more deaths took the toll to 2,880.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Beat police told to check for illegal chemical units||Following the massive fire accident at a chemical godown at Bapujinagar, off Mysuru Road, on November 10, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has instructed beat police to step up vigil and identify chemical units in their respective areas. In a circular issued on Saturday, Mr. Pant said the beat police, as part of an additional responsibility, would conduct survey to identify godowns and chemical units functioning in their areas. Police officials concerned should check documents and mandatory permits and whether they are following the prescribed safety measures. If the police notice any violation, the Deputy Commissioner of Police concerned should bring it to the notice of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (Explosives Department), BBMP, and the Department of Factories, Boilere, Industrial Safety and Health for further action, he said. Meanwhile, Bijay Sundar, 30, an employee at the godown who had sustained burns, died at Victoria Hospital on Saturday. The police have booked Sajjanraj, his wife, and son for death due to negligence apart from charging them under various sections of the Explosive Substances Act.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Bangles festival||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Greener days ahead||
16 November 2020||Vijayawada,||State reports lowest COVID tally in a day||The State reported 1,056 new COVID-19 infections and 14 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It is the lowest single-day tally of infections in the last four months. The daily positivity rate too is the lowest.
16 November 2020||KAKINADA,||Two held on charge of smuggling turtles||The forest personnel arrested two persons of Malkangiri district in Odisha and seized 437 live Indian softshell turtles at Burugupudi check-post while they were being transported in a van in the early hours of Sunday. According to Gokavaram Forest Range Officer (territorial) V. Durga Kumar Babu, the accused – Jayadeb Ray and Bolachu – belong to Lachupeta in Malkangiri district. They procured the turtles from Ravulapalem in East Godavari. The supplier is yet to be traced. Investigation is on. The arrested were produced in court in Rajamahendravaram. “We will release the turtles into the Godavari,” said Mr. Durga Kumar.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Offerings to Goddess||
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||First Kolkata nearby||West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has been projecting an alliance of the Left and the Congress as the “third alternative” to the people of West Bengal in a highly polarised electoral contest between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) next year. Reacting to the recent electoral outcome in Bihar and the remarks made by Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, Mr. Chowdhury, a five-time Congress MP from Behrampore in Murshidabad district and also the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the ground realities in Bengal and Bihar were very different. Mr. Bhattacharya had recently said that “any subservience to the Congress will be suicidal to Left parties in Bengal”.
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal reports 51 more COVID deaths, 3,053 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in West Bengal rose to 7,661 on Sunday with 51 more people succumbing to the disease, the Health Department said in a bulletin. Altogether, 3,053 fresh cases of infection reported from different parts of the State took the tally to 4,31,551, it said. After 4,480 patients recovered from the disease during the day, the discharge rate went up to 91.43%. The State now has 29,314 active cases. Since Saturday, 38,658 samples had been tested for COVID-19, the bulletin said.PTI
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi still reporting more COVID-19 cases||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said 10 States and Union Territories had contributed 82.87% of the new cases and in this, Delhi reported 7,340 cases in the last 24 hours. Kerala recorded 6,357 new cases while Maha-rashtra reported 4,237.
16 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam’s Baghjan blowout well killed||Indian and foreign experts on Sunday “killed” a disastrous well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district 173 days after it had a blowout, ejecting natural gas and associated elements uncontrollably from a depth of 3.7 km. The blowout had hit the ecologically fragile Dibru-Saikhowa National Park.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Accused can get bail if probe is not over in time’||An accused, irrespective of the merits of the case against him, should be granted “default” or “complusive” bail if the investigating agency does not complete the probe within a prescribed time limit, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. The court said that an accused has an “indefeasible right” to default bail under Section 167(2) of CrPC.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Coop. not following rules will face action’||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somshekar on Sunday warned of stringent action against those cooperatives which extended loans without proper security, while assuring government’s commitment to protect the interests of depositors.
16 November 2020||Thane/Palghar,||Maha FDA raids five food units, seizes goods worth Rs 41 lakh||The Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration raided five establishments in Thane and Palghar districts and seized goods worth Rs. 41.60 lakh.PTI
16 November 2020||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,||Home stay hasn’t done them much good||While several migrant workers who had returned home during lockdown have returned to cities, there are a sizeable number in North Karnataka districts who have decided to stay back and look for alternative avenues in their native villages.
16 November 2020||Belagavi,||‘CM has assured help to pay salaries of RTC staff’||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has assured of help in releasing salaries of workers of State transport undertakings like BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC.
16 November 2020||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,||Home stay hasn’t done them much good||A sizeable number of migrant labourers who returned to their village during lockdown have stayed back but are finding the going tough.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Colleges set to reopen||As colleges are set to reopen on Tuesday for final year students, managements have asked staff members who have tested positive to isolate themselves.
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Feluda is no more. Apu has said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengali superstar and one of India’s tallest actors, widely admired for his roles as Apu and Feluda, died on Sunday after fighting for his life since October 6, when the 85-year-old was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic here with symptoms of COVID-19. Though he subsequently tested negative for the virus, the infection and the prolonged stay in ICU had severely affected the functioning of his vital organs, particularly his central nervous system. His death was formally announced by the hospital at a quarter past noon. That the actor — who debuted in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959 and acted in over 300 films, working until his recent hospitalisation — was very close to death had become evident on Deepavali eve when critical care specialist Arindam Kar, who headed the team of doctors attending on him, said they were hoping for a miracle. While the sad news was not entirely unexpected, given his age and the complications he had developed after contracting COVID-19, the formal announcement of his departure numbed Kolkata, his home, and shocked fans across the globe. Far from being someone who led a retired life at 85, this winner of the Dadasaheb Phalke award was busier in his final years than ever and several of his films are still awaiting release. Tributes poured out on Twitter. While President Ram Nath Kovind said Indian cinema had lost one of its legends, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his condolence message, said the actor, through his works, had come to embody “Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos”. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who rushed to the hospital on learning of the actor’s demise, tweeted: “Feluda is no more. Apu has said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned.” The most common sentiment expressed by fans was that legends like him don’t die — they live on. As actors, Soumitra and Uttam Kumar were the two most popular faces in Bengal — no one else came close. The latter was older by nearly a decade but they died 40 years apart — incidentally, in the same hospital. It was also at this hospital that Soumitra’s mentor Satyajit Ray received his Oscar and spent his final days in 1992. “[Soumitra] proved himself to be a warrior, fighting valiantly till the last. He cooperated with the doctors and gave his best. But destiny had other plans — and who can fight destiny,” one of the doctors who attended on the actor told The Hindu . “No one else could have fought this long in spite of advanced age and the severity of the infection and co-morbidities.”
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi still reporting more cases||About 85.01% of the 447 COVID-19 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are from 10 States/Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry on Sunday. About 23.5% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra which reported 105 deaths. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 96 and 53 new deaths, respectively, a release said. The other States in this group are Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. “Twenty-one States/Union Territories have death per million lower than national average,” said the release. The Ministry said 10 States and Union Territories had contributed 82.87% of the new cases and in this, Delhi reported 7,340 cases in the last 24 hours. Kerala recorded 6,357 new cases while Maharashtra reported 4,237 new cases. India has reported fewer than 50,000 new daily cases for the eighth continuous day and in the last 24 hours, 41,100 persons were found to be infected, said the Ministry. It said the daily new case tally last crossed the 50,000 threshold on November 7. “Apart from the successful dissemination of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour among the varied population groups, this trend assumes wider significance as many countries in Europe and America continue to see a surge in their daily numbers,” noted the Ministry. Daily recoveries The Ministry said that in the last 24 hours, India also registered 42,156 new recoveries which has led to a further contraction of the active case load. India’s present active case load of 4,79,216 consists of just 5.44% of India’s total positive cases, as per the Ministry, which added that 15 States/union territories, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Gujarat, West Bengal and Punjab, have cases per million lower than national figure (6,387). “The total recovered cases stand at 82,05,728. The gap between recovered cases and active cases that is steadily increasing presently stands at 77,26,512. About 79.91% of the new recovered cases are contributed by 10 States/union territories,” said the Ministry. It added that with 7,117 persons recovering, Delhi saw the most number of recoveries. Kerala saw 6,793 daily recoveries while West Bengal reported 4,479 new recoveries.
16 November 2020||Srinagar,||Pak. used heavy weapons: Army||In a change of tactics along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K, the Pakistan Army used high-calibre weapons on November 13 that left five soldiers dead, top officials of the BSF and the Army said on Sunday, while paying tributes to the jawans. “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked firing along the LoC in Kashmir [on November 13]. It resorted to use of heavy artillery and modern weapons,” BSF Inspector-General Rajesh Mishra said, paying tributes to sub-inspector Rakesh Doval who died in the ceasefire violation in the Naugam Sector in north Kashmir. Taken by surprise Sources said the Army and the BSF were taken by surprise by the calibre and range of artillery used in Kupwara, Baramulla and Bandipora districts. “It was intense shelling. Many civilians were killed and property was destroyed. Human rights organisations must take note of the damage caused to the civilian properties and killing of civilians in the intense shelling by Pakistan,” Mr. Mishra said. At least five soldiers and four civilians were killed in the ceasefire violations. The BSF has warned that around 300 militants are preparing to sneak in before the snow covers the passes in north Kashmir. “Security forces are ready to foil all infiltration bids.” Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju, Chinar Corps Commander, while paying tributes to the soldiers, said: “It was an unprovoked artillery shelling by the Pakistan Army.” The Army said Havildar Hardhan Chandra Roy, 38; Naik Satai Bhushan Rameshrao, 28; Gunner Subodh Ghosh, 22; and Sepoy Jondhale Rushikesh Ramchandra, 20, were killed. Standing in solidarity “The mortal remains of the bravehearts were taken for last rites to their native places, where they would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with these bereaved families and remains committed to their dignity and well-being,” an Army spokesman said. Congress leader Taj Mohiuddin, who hails from the worst-affected Uri in Baramulla, said the Pakistan Army had resorted to “indiscriminate shelling and firing”.“The L-G administration should provide reasonable relief. There is an immediate need to construct underground bunkers in Uri,” he said.  It was an unprovoked artillery shelling by the Pakistan Army Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju Chinar Corps Commander
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||̥ India, U.S. keen on training peace missions||With China significantly scaling up its troop contribution for United Nations Peace Keeping (UNPK) missions, India and the U.S. are looking to undertake training of military personnel for the missions from Southeast Asian countries on the lines of the ongoing initiative for African countries. “The U.S. is keen on undertaking joint training of Southeast Asian countries in the UN peacekeeping and discussions are under way,” an official source said on Friday. India has consistently been among the top troop contributing nations to the UN and is the fifth largest with 5,424 personnel in eight countries. The U.S. on the other hand has never contributed ground troops but contributes 27% of the U.N. peacekeeping budget. In 2016, India and the U.S. began a joint annual initiative “UN Peacekeeping Course for African Partners” to build and enhance the capacity of African troop and police-contributing countries to participate in the U.N. and regional peacekeeping operations. While this is going on, the U.S. is keen on a similar initiative for South East Asian nations like Vietnam and others, the source said. China is significantly expanding its troop contribution to the UN in addition to the funding, said a second source. “It currently has over 2,500 troops in various UN missions and has committed another 8,000 troops as standby,” the source said. Once implemented, it will make China the largest provider of troops to the UNPK. China contributes 12% of the UN regular general budget and 15% of the peacekeeping budget. India’s contribution to the regular budget is 0.83% and 0.16% of the peacekeeping budget. 51 missions in all India has so far participated in 51 of the 71 missions and contributed over 2 lakh personnel. It has troop deployment in Lebanon, Golan Heights, Congo and South Sudan in addition to staff officers in other missions. India has also set up two field hospitals in South Sudan and one in Congo. Since 2018, India has co-opted a contingent from Kazakhstan at the mission in Lebanon. Bhutan too has expressed interest in joining a UN mission within the Indian contingent. “We have around 5,500 troops in eight countries of Africa and West Asia. Their contribution has been applauded by all and Indian troops are the most sought after,” said a Major General M.K. Katiyar, Additional Director General Staff Duties, after addressing an Indian battalion set to leave for South Sudan end of this month. The first batch of 200 personnel from the contingent to South Sudan is scheduled to leave on November 27.
16 November 2020||MYSURU,||Forest rights claims of 1,200 tribals rejected||Nearly 1,200 tribals in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district stare at an uncertain future, as their review petition for recognition of their claims over forest land under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, was rejected by the local authorities. NGOs fighting for tribal rights fear more applications may be rejected and are bracing for a showdown with the authorities on the grounds that the review was done cursorily. In Mysuru, 7,275 tribals had originally sought benefits under the forest rights Act (FRA), of which 755 were approved and 6,459 rejected. The review of their claims followed a State government directive which was warranted as a consequence to a Supreme Court order on a case questioning the validity of the FRA. SC order The SC in 2019 ordered the eviction of nearly a million people across India whose claims had been rejected. But the court stayed its earlier order and directed all State governments to file a review petition and submit a report. S. Sreekanth, of Development through Education (DEED), told The Hindu that nearly 1,200 applications from Hunsur had been rejected and the applicants received a communique stating that they had failed to furnish evidence to substantiate the claims of their stay inside the forest. “The letter was issued in the last week of October,” said Mr. Sreekanth and expressed concern that more applications could meet the same fate. The FRA was enacted 13 years ago to recognise the rights of the tribals over the forests apart from community rights over common property resources. “But instead of taking steps to correct a historical injustice, the authorities have discarded their application without application of the mind,” alleged Mr. Sreekanth. He said in a country where maintaining records of evidence and documents are a recent phenomena, expecting tribals to provide records, to substantiate claims that they lived inside the forest before their eviction in 1972, was ridiculous and was in contravention of the concept of natural justice. Karnataka HC He said the High Court of Karnataka took cognisance of their application in 2006 with regard to the forest rights of tribals displaced from Nagarahole. It had constituted a three-member committee, headed by Muzzafar Assadi, as per which nearly 3,140 tribals have to be rehabilitated and this report is proof enough for the displacement of the tribals. “But the sub-divisional committee has failed to take cognisance of it,” according to P.K. Ramu, tribal leader from Hunsur. Many of the applications have been rejected on the grounds that their individual claims under FRA lay within the tiger reserve (Nagarahole) and hence cannot be maintained. The NGOs have argued that in such cases the authorities should first recognise the rights and subsequently provide alternative solution by way of rehabilitation instead of rejecting the claims. A senior official in the district administration said the affected parties can file objection within 60 days. The process is far from complete and there are many applications pending in H.D. Kote and will be completed by December, the official added.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala tops with 4,500; Telangana sees 661 cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph moved up slowly to a cumulative 5,24,998 cases, with 4,581 new cases on Sunday from 46,126 samples. The test positivity rate was below 10 at 9.93%. The State’s toll rose to 1,869, with the addition of 21 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for five deaths, Thrissur and Kannur four each, Palakkad and Malappuram three each and Wayanad one death. Kozhikode reported 574 cases, Malappuram 558, Alapuzha 496, Ernakulam 489, Thrissur 425, Palakkad 416, Kollam 341, Thiruvananthapuram 314, Kottayam 266, Kannur 203, Pathanamthitta 171, Idukki 165, Wayanad 101 and Kasaragod 62 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,056 new infections and 14 deaths on Sunday. It was the lowest single-day tally in four months. The daily positivity rate was one of the lowest at 1.98% from 53,215 samples. The overall positivity rate for 91.54 lakh samples was 9.3%. Karnataka reported 1,565 cases on Sunday, 840 of them in Bengaluru. The government said 21 new deaths were reported on Sunday. Also, 99,606 tests were conducted on Saturday with test positivity rate of 1.57%. The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu remained below 2,000 with 1,819 fresh cases reported on Sunday. The tally of active cases in the State stood at 16,441. As on date 7,58,191 persons have tested positive for the infection. Also, 2,520 more people were discharged post-treatment from various health facilities. So far 7,30,272 persons have been discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours in Chennai, 502 more persons tested positive while 680 were discharged.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
16 November 2020||Srinagar,||Farooq extends olive branch to Mehbooba||Amid growing fissures within the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, over allocation of ticket for the District Development Council polls, the top leaders met in Srinagar on Sunday to iron out the differences. Farooq Abdullah, Gupkar alliance chairman and National Conference (NC) president, chaired a meeting at his residence, but Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti skipped it. Sources said Dr. Abdullah later called up Ms. Mufti and offered “to select seats of her choosing for the upcoming polls”. Sources said many leaders in the PDP and Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC) were upset with the seat sharing exercise finalised by the alliance. Mr. Lone, in a tweet, also hinted at differences. “The reality as it exists is that statesmanship and magnanimity is still a missing trait in our polity. And the absence is being felt more than any other time,” he tweeted. ‘Bigger cause’ However, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura downplayed the differences after the meeting. “There were no issues between the alliance partners. Seat sharing on DDC is not important to us. We are fighting for a bigger cause. Our fight is to get the status of pre-August 5 2019 back.” The meeting came a day after PDP patron Muzaffar Hussian Baig resigned from the party over “skewed seat sharing arrangement” between the PDP and the NC. “The NC is fighting on the majority of seats. It is not in the interest of the PDP. I respect Dr. Abdullah, Ms. Mufti. I wish them luck. I am leaving PDP on principle,” Mr. Baig said. Gupkar alliance constituent Awami National Conference (ANC) senior vice-president Muzaffar Shah said the alliance had decided “not to leave a single seat to the communal and fascist forces in coming DDC polls.” Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who also attended the meeting, said, “The issue of seat sharing will be given a final touch very soon.”
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||Arunachal records best sex ratio, Manipur the worst||Arunachal Pradesh recorded the best sex ratio in the country, while Manipur recorded the worst, according to the 2018 report on “Vital statistics of India based on the Civil Registration System” published by the Registrar-General of India. Sex ratio at birth is the number of females born per 1,000 males. Arunachal Pradesh recorded 1,084 females born per thousand males, followed by Nagaland (965) Mizoram (964), Kerala (963) and Karnataka (957). The worst was reported in Manipur (757), Lakshadweep (839) and Daman & Diu (877), Punjab (896) and Gujarat (897). Delhi recorded a sex ratio of 929, Haryana 914 and Jammu and Kashmir 952. Six absentees The ratio was determined on the basis of data provided by 30 States and Union Territories as the “requisite information from six States namely Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal is not available”, the report said. The number of registered births increased to 2.33 crore in 2018 from 2.21 crore registered births the previous year. “The level of registration of births has increased to 89.3% in 2018 from 81.3% in 2009,” the report said. The prescribed time limit for registration of birth or death is 21 days. Some States, however, register the births and deaths even after a year. The birth or death certificate is issued free of charge by the Registrar concerned if reported within 21 days. If reported within 21-30 days, it can be registered on payment of the prescribed fee. If the duration is more than 30 days but within a year, it can be registered with the written permission of the prescribed authority and on production of an affidavit made before a notary public or any other officer authorised by the State government and on payment of a fee. “Births and deaths reported after one year of occurrence shall be registered only on an order of the Magistrate of the First Class after verifying the correctness and on payment of the prescribed fee,” the report said.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry seeks feedback on draft social security rules||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry has notified the draft rules under the Code on Social Security, 2020, which propose to provide the unorganised sector, gig and platform workers access to social security benefits through a government portal. The Ministry notified the draft rules on November 13 and sought suggestions and objections within 45 days. In a statement on Sunday, the Ministry said the rules had been framed for the implementation of the provisions of the Code on Social Security, 2020, passed by Parliament in September, relating to the Employees’ Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, gratuity, maternity benefit, social security and cess in respect of building and other construction workers (BOCW). “The draft rules also provide for Aadhaar-based registration, including self-registration by unorganised workers, gig workers and platform workers on the portal of the Central government. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has already initiated action for development of such portal,” the Ministry said. The rules also provide for the Aadhaar-based registration of BOCW on a portal of the Centre, State government or the BOCW welfare board of the State. “Where a building worker migrates from one State to another he shall be entitled to get benefits in the State where he is currently working and it shall be the responsibility of the Building Workers Welfare Board of that State to provide benefits to such a worker,” it said. The BOCW cess would be calculated by the employer on the basis of the cost of construction according to the rates of the State Public Works Department or the Central PWD or the documents submitted to the Real Estate Regulatory Authority.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former CEC Quraishi calls for ban on opinion polls||Former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi on Sunday called for a ban on opinion polls, counting of votes from the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) slips instead of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and change in the appointment process of the Election Commission. In his lecture on the need for electoral reforms organised by the Capital Foundation on the occasion of Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer’s birth anniversary, Mr. Quraishi said the EC had been a “powerful neutral umpire” and never missed a deadline for elections. He said while the EC had set up campaigns for voter awareness to increase turnout and formed the expenditure monitoring division to check the use of money in elections, there was more to be done. “Criminals are ahead of the police. They come up with new modus operandi,” he said. He flagged the problem of “criminalisation”, with 30-40% of the members of any legislature having pending criminal cases. Among the reforms he suggested were changing the process of removal of election commissioners, who can be removed on the recommendation of the CEC while the removal of the CEC is by impeachment.  ‘Equal protection’ “They [ECs] feel like they are on probation,” he said, adding that all three members of the Commission should have equal protection. He said the appointment of the CEC should involve the Leader of the Opposition. He added that there should be a common electoral roll for all elections, local or national. The EC should have the power to de-register political parties, he said, adding that “there are lots of defunct and bogus parties” that only exist for “money laundering”. The ban on campaigning 48 hours ahead of polling should extend to print media and door-to-door activities also, he said. “Opinion polls should be banned. You have seen how they vitiate the purity of the election process,” he said. He said the suggestion of counting from the VVPAT instead of the EVMs needs to be considered. Mr. Quraishi also said there needs to be a debate on proportional representation. He said he changed his mind about the first past the post system after the 2014 elections when the Bahujan Samaj Party got 20% of the votes in Uttar Pradesh but no seats. The fact that 20% of the voters did not have a voice in the legislature was a defect in the system, he said.
16 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||SP rules out tie-up with major parties||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has virtually ruled out an alliance with either the BSP or the Congress for the 2022 Assembly election. At a press conference in Etawah on Saturday, he said he was more keen on having “adjustments” with smaller parties, including the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) run by his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav. “Chote dalo se adjustment hoga. Lekin bade dalo se koi gathbandhan nahi hoga [We will have adjustments with smaller parties. There will be no alliance with major parties],” he said. In an indication that he was ready to patch up with Mr. Shivpal Yadav, Mr. Akhilesh Yadav said he was willing to make “adjustments” with his party and Mr. Shivpal Yadav would be rewarded with a berth in the Cabinet if the SP returned to power in 2022. Mr. Shivpal Yadav, an MLA from Jaswant Nagar, founded the PSPL before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, after a family feud that stretched from Mr. Akhilesh Yadav’s tenure as the Chief Minister. Mr. Akhilesh Yadav also said that in 2022, he would leave the Jaswant Nagar seat for his uncle. In the recent byelections to seven seats in Uttar Pradesh, the PSPL did not field any candidate, triggering speculation that it was on course to a patch-up with the SP. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the PSPL had fielded candidates, denting the SP’s prospects in some regions. Mr. Shivpal Yadav has stressed that though he will not merge his party with the SP, he is open to a pre-poll alliance with it. “Our priority is [an alliance with] the SP,” he said last week. With the SP, the BSP and the Congress still wrangling for the slot of top contender, the role of smaller parties is likely to be crucial for both the BJP and its opponents in 2022.
16 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Murder case filed against DM||The Malkangiri police on Sunday lodged a murder case against District Magistrate Manish Agarwal and three other officials. On the direction of the Malkangiri sub-divisional judicial magistrate, the police registered a case against the four under Sections 302, 506, 201, 204, 120 (B) and 34 of the IPC in connection with the death of Mr. Agarwal’s former personal assistant, Debnarayan Panda. Panda was found dead near Satiguda Dam on December 28 last year, a day after he went missing from his office under mysterious circumstances. The police initially suspected it to be a case of suicide but later converted it into a case of unnatural death. After six months of the incident, family members of Panda went public alleging foul play. Banaja Panda, wife of the deceased, moved the court of the SDJM, Malkangiri seeking registration of a case of murder against the district collector. She alleged that her husband had come to know about certain corruption cases involving the district collector and others for which he might have been killed.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Boost research in Kerala’s universities, says scientist||Lamenting the state of research in higher education institutions in Kerala, scientist Gangan Prathap has advocated emulating the Slovenian model to reinvent the State as a world-class destination for service-and knowledge-intensive research and delivery. Dr. Prathap, who was part of the Prabhat Patnaik-chaired expert committee constituted by the Kerala State Higher Education Council on the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, authored a separate note that was included in the panel’s report to the government. He said the State had been unable to consolidate its position as a leading destination for higher education or research despite having high levels of literacy. Citing the All India Survey of Higher Education report, Dr. Prathap said only 6,686 (or 0.61%) of the 10,95,842 students who enrolled for higher education were pursuing doctoral degrees in Kerala. By assessing the performance of the State’s higher education and research institutions in global university rankings, he explained to what extent they lagged behind others in the world in terms of research. In the Scimago Institution Rankings for 2020, one of the largest ranking exercises, only eight institutions from Kerala figured among the 3,897 that were ranked. In comparison, Slovenia, which is around 17 times smaller than Kerala demographically, has five institutions, all of which are ranked higher. In the ShanghaiRanking’s Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2020 that ranked institutions on the basis of 54 subjects in natural sciences, engineering, life sciences, medical sciences, and social sciences, no institution from Kerala made it to the 54 lists. The University of Ljubljana in Slovenia figured in 30 lists. Dr. Prathap said the European country achieved such progress in research, despite having a GDP of $56 billion that is around 40% of Kerala’s GDP. He called for steps to produce 5,400 PhDs a year in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s Maratha board move draws mixed response||The Karnataka government’s decision to set up a Maratha Development Board has received mixed reaction, with Kannada activists opposing it. The government has set aside Rs. 50 crore to form the board. The government’s decision comes ahead of the anticipated announcement on bypolls to the Basavakalyan and the Maski Assembly constituencies and to the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. These constituencies, especially Belagavi and Basavakalyan, have a sizeable population of the Maratha community. Just before the announcement of the by-elections to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar, the government had announced the setting up of the Kadugolla Development Corporation. It was seen in the context of the Gollas constituting a considerable chunk of voters after the Vokkaligas in the Sira constituency. However, the opposition to a Maratha board comes in the backdrop of Karnataka’s border dispute with Maharashtra, which claims Belagavi and a few other adjoining areas ought to belong to it. Slamming the government’s decision, former legislator and Kannada leader, Vatal Nagraj, asked, “Will the State set up development boards for Telugu and Tamil people too in the future? Our understanding is that the decision is not Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s. The BJP and RSS are behind this as the two try to reclaim their power in Maharashtra, where the Shiv Sena is now ruling in a coalition”. ‘Will stage protests’ Saying that the Chief Minister had “betrayed the trust of Kannadigas” by taking such a decision, Mr. Nagaraj added that protests would be staged across the State against the move. However, Karnataka Kshatriya Maratha Parishat welcomed the decision, saying the funds coming through the board would help the overall development of Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. slashes property tax by 50 per cent||As Chief Minister’s Deepavali gift to the urban population of Telangana who bore the brunt of COVID-19, the State government on Saturday slashed their property tax for the current year by 50 per cent. The relief will, however, be available only to domestic category of tax payers up to Rs. 15,000 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Rs. 10,000 in 141 municipalities across the State. Payments already made by now will be adjusted in the demand that will be raised next year, said Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. Disclosing the decision taken in this regard at Saturday’s Cabinet meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the Minister told a media conference that about 13.72 lakh house owners in GHMC and 17.68 lakh others in 141 municipalities will benefit from the measure. The relief in GHMC will amount to Rs. 196.48 crore and Rs. 130 crore in municipalities, aggregating to Rs. 326.48 crore. By other decisions, the citizens of Hyderabad and fifteen adjoining municipalities who did not get the flood relief of Rs. 10,000 announced by the State government have been given one more opportunity to access the money through Mee Seva centres. They can make online application at the centres on payment of Rs. 20 and the money will be delivered at their doorstep by officials or deposited in banks if they furnished their account numbers. The government has so far disbursed Rs. 470 crore out of the budgeted Rs. 550 crore earmarked to assist people distressed by recent rains and flooding of houses in Hyderabad. In recognition of their services during COVID times, the government enhanced the salary of sanitation workers from Rs. 14,500 to Rs. 17,500 per month. This is the third enhancement to them since the formation of Telangana State; first time it was done in 2015 from Rs. 8,500 to Rs. 12,500 and again in 2017 from Rs. 12,500 to Rs. 14,500, Mr. Rama Rao said. On Sunday, the government issued an order saying it imposed the cut in property tax as a special case and that the amount waived will be reimbursed to the urban local bodies. By another order, the government said the salaries of sanitary public health workers and other field-level staff was enhanced from Rs. 14,000 to Rs. 17,000 per month and that of sanitary field assistants and other public health field assistants, including entomologists, was raised from Rs. 14,500 to Rs. 17,500 per month.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eviction notices inhumane, say artists||Several eminent artists who have been asked to vacate the houses allotted to them by the government in Lutyens’ and south Delhi by December 31 say the decision was sudden and inhumane during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj, who was first allotted a house in 1978, said it came as a surprise to him that the allotment had been cancelled. The Padma Vibhushan recipient told The Hindu that he would “return all the awards” if he is evicted from the Shahjahan Road house. He added that the artists had served the country over the years and were now being evicted in their old age. Under the artists pool, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, through the Directorate of Estates, and on the recommendation of the Culture Ministry, allots houses to eminent artists. Initially allotted for a period of three years, the artists were given extensions over the years. The last extension expired in 2014. On November 8, the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation decided to regularise the allotment and waive the damage charges from 2014 till September 30, 2020 and ask the artists to vacate by December 31, The Hindu reported on November 13. Kuchipudi dancer Guru Jayarama Rao, who has been staying at the Asian Games Village house allotted to him since 1987, said the artists had struggled over the years, taught students and made a name for the country. “We are able to work because of the house. But, every few years, they sent us a notice. There should be a policy,” he said.  ‘Not squatters’ His wife and fellow dancer, Vanashree Rao, added that there had been no written policy shared with artists since 2008. She said the artists were “not squatters,” and had been paying the licence fees due to the DoE regularly over the years. “We feel that the government should be able to take care of 20 artists. We really don’t have any other home in Delhi. They should deal with us like people, not files in the government,” she said.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The tree’s gone, the shade remains||A piece of information, by itself, is dead wood — like a piece from a jigsaw puzzle — which comes to life only when you collate it with other pieces. Take actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s date of birth, for example. The fact that he was born on January 19, 1935 does not say much about him. But if you place that date against October 1, 2020, when he last reported for a shoot before showing symptoms of COVID-19, you realise he was no ordinary actor but someone who was professionally active even when nearing 86. Not many lead actors continue to work — or get work — at 86. None actually, if you discount Clint Eastwood, Kirk Douglas, Christopher Plummer and maybe a couple of other names that don’t lend to easy recall. Back home, there was exception in the form of Dev Anand, who continued to work until he died at 88, but by then he was long past his prime. But Chatterjee, even in his mid-eighties, was not only active but also highly sought-after. Terms like ‘has-been’ or ‘yesteryear’ never applied to him. Ernest Hemingway once said that no writer ever produced anything worthwhile after winning the Nobel; the same holds true for the Dadasaheb Phalke award in Indian cinema, in the sense that it invariably comes at a time when the awardee’s productive years are spoken of in the past tense. But not for Chatterjee. He got the award in 2012, and ever since then he got only busier by the year. In 2019, he had as many as 15 releases; and in the pandemic-hit 2020, almost as many of his films either released or are lined up for release. So, how does one define Soumitra Chatterjee? If you label him as a Satyajit Ray actor — they worked together in 14 films — his knowledgeable fans will instantly point out that he worked with numerous other directors too and that those 14, even though they brought him acclaim, form only a small percentage of the more than 300 films he did during his lifetime. In fact, with the notable exceptions of Ritwik Ghatak (whom Chatterjee claimed to have punched once, during a debate back in the 1960s) and Buddhadeb Dasgupta, he worked with nearly all directors, including Tapan Sinha, Mrinal Sen and Tarun Majumdar. If you label him as a cinema actor, people will remind you that he did theatre too. If you label him as an actor, someone or the other is bound to tell you that he was a painter, poet and an activist as well. If you identify him as Feluda, there will be someone disagreeing: “No, he was more popular as Apu.” If you classify him as a Calcuttan or a Bengali, they will say he was global, decorated twice by the French, with Order of Arts and Letters and with the Legion of Honour. More actor than ‘hero’ But in debate-loving Bengal, one thing remains indisputable: that for several generations of Bengalis, the mention of the word ‘actor’ instantly brought two names to mind, Uttam Kumar and Soumitra Chatterjee. They were the two colossi. After Kumar, nearly a decade older and far more popular of the two, died at the age of 54 in 1980, Chatterjee became the lone flag-bearer of meaningful Bengali cinema. He was one of those very few Indian actors who, even while playing the lead in commercial movies, was acknowledged more as an actor than a “hero” — a hero being someone one who can jump off a tall building without a scratch and can knock out a dozen bad guys with his bare hands. While it was only fairly recently that some fresh air swept through Bollywood with the arrival of Irrfan Khan, Ayushmann Khurrana, Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Rajkummar Rao, Chatterjee was all of them rolled into one, right from the black-and-white era. And considering that he was around for 61 long years, almost every Bengali lovingly preserves in mind his or her own image of Chatterjee: the innocent Apu; the charming Amal of Charulata ; the daring Feluda; the resolute swimming coach in Kony ; the middle-aged man next door; the genial grandfather. His very presence on the screen was assuring: for filmmakers and audiences alike. His passing is akin to the falling of an ancient tree. But while the tree is gone, its shade remains. It wouldn’t be entirely wrong to say that the trunk of the tree was essentially made of the 14 films he did for Ray. For, one will always wonder how Chatterjee’s career would have fared without Ray. For that matter, one can also wonder how Ray’s films would have fared without Chatterjee. That’s something Bengal can now debate.  He was one of those very few Indian actors who, even while playing the lead in commercial movies, was acknowledged more as an actor than a “hero”
16 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala opens for pilgrimage||Marking the beginning of a pilgrimage season drastically scaled down by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala opened for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season on Sunday. Outgoing head priest A.K. Sudheer Namboothiri opened the sanctum sanctorum in the presence of chief priest (Tantri) Kandararu Rajeevaru at 5 p.m. Later in the day, the Tantri performed the installation of the newly selected Melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple — V.K. Jayaraj Potti and Raji Kumar M.N. Namboothiri. The new Melsanthis will assume charge on Monday for the next one year . The temple rituals will begin with the Tantri performing the Ashtadravya Maha Ganapati Homom on Monday morning. Devotees who booked for darshan through the virtual queue system will be permitted entry to the hill shrine from November 16. After the Makaravilakku festival on January 14, the temple will be closed on January 20. The two-month season will be under strict COVID-19 guidelines. Authorities have already issued an advisory to ensure compliance by pilgrims to health protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All pilgrims have to carry the COVID-19-negative certificate with tests done 24 hours before reaching the base camp Nilackal. The small band of pilgrims will observe physical distancing as they trek up the hill and return. Priest tests positive On Saturday, a 26-year-old priest, appointed by the Travancore Devaswom Board on a temporary basis, tested positive during an antigen test at Nilackal. The person was immediately shifted to a first-line treatment centre while two of his co-travellers were sent to quarantine. In view of the daily limit in the number of pilgrims, the arrangements made at the Nilackal base camp and Pampa-Triveni too are on a reduced scale. A 250-member group of workers has been brought from Tamil Nadu for cleaning works. Police stations at Vadasserikkara, Nilackal, and Pampa have started functioning. The personnel on duty have been directed to implement health protocols while adhering to guidelines. Pooja schedule The Mandala pooja will be held on December 26 and the temple will close on December 27 after the 41-day Mandala pilgrimage season. The hill shrine will open on December 30 for the Makaravilakku. The Makaravilakku is on January 14 and the temple will close on January 2
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Rs. 120 crore aid to RTC||He said that the State government was protecting public sector undertakings against all odds. It was providing job security to lakhs of employees in the undertakings. The government opposed enhancement of private participation in power sector though some forces made attempts. On the other hand, the government regularised the services of thousands of contract workers in the sector. The Centre was privatising public sector units, including the Life Insurance Corporation of India. But, the State government did nothing of the sort and protected the PSUs despite facing severe financial crunch. “I will not sleep till the RTC was put back on rails. I will see it survived as long as I live,” the Chief Minister remarked. He also said a large number of families were dependent on RTC staff. Moreover, the corporation provided very cheap transport to poor. Hence, the government wanted to protect the RTC without considering profit or loss. The government will support the corporation financially. The meeting saw officials informing Mr. Rao that the corporation had been incurring losses for some months because of poor occupancy due to fear of COVID and increase in usage of personal vehicles of commuters. In his response, Mr. Rao asked officials to analyse the right solutions that will see the corporation return to pre-COVID days.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish to take oath as Bihar CM again today||“The Governor accepted our request. Tomorrow the oath taking ceremony will be held between 4 and 4:30 pm,” Mr. Kumar told media persons as he emerged from the Raj Bhawan. After the NDA legislators’ meeting, BJP leaders headed to the State guest house. Mr. Modi, Mr. Singh, Mr. Fadnavis and Mr. Yadav were closeted in another meeting, before they went to meet the Governor. The leaders avoided a direct answer to a question about the next Deputy Chief Minister. “You all will know at an appropriate time,” said Mr Singh. Mr. Modi, who is known to be close to Mr. Kumar, later tweeted that no one could “snatch” the position of a party worker from him. “In my political career spanning 40 years, the BJP and the Sangh Parivar (RSS) have given me much more than anyone will ever get. I will discharge whatever responsibility is given to me,” said the tweet in Hindi. Meanwhile, the buzz in political circles is that Mr. Modi may be inducted into the Union Cabinet through a Rajya Sabha seat, vacant after the demise of Lok Janshakti Party chief Ram Vilas Paswan . “Hon’ble Sushil ji, you are a leader and held the post of Deputy CM… you will be a leader of the BJP in future too. No one becomes small or big through a post,” tweeted Union Minister Giriraj Singh. The NDA, which comprises the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United), Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) won 125 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The BJP alone won 74 seats and the JD(U) 43, a steep drop from the 71 it won in 2015. HAM-S and VIP won four seats each.
16 November 2020||SURYAPET,||5-year-old goes missing, kidnapping suspected||A five-year-old boy who went missing from Bhagat Singh Nagar in the town, amid Deepavali celebrations on Saturday evening, is suspected to have been kidnapped. Nearly 24 hours after the incident, the Suryapet police is left with one clue, the alleged kidnapper’s phone call to a neighbour, which is leading the multi-level investigation now. The boy’s mother Naga Lakshmi said Gowtham left the house with a Rs. 50 note on his bicycle at around 7.30 p.m., to the nearby Sri Dharani Kirana store to get lamp oil and a matchbox. However, when she stepped out to check, suspecting more time being taken than usual, only the boy’s bicycle was found around the street corner, she said. Parikipalli Mahesh, the boy’s father, a cab driver was not at the house during the incident. According to the storekeeper, and the locals, there were new persons in the colony, but their presence did not evoke suspicion as it was a festive occasion. Parents soon filed a missing person’s complaint, and local searches for the only child Gowtham continued till after midnight. The first direct clue to the locals, the family and the police came at around 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, when an unidentified person called the Swastik ladies tailors, located behind Gowtham’s house. But the woman rejected it as a wrong call as the family did not have a child. According to police sources, the ladies tailor’s phone number was prominent on a flex sign board in the street. The police collected her phone for investigation purposes. The town police was found collecting information from the colony dwellers and the police along the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) was alerted. Footage from a few CCTV units on the route outside the Bhagat Singh Nagar colony and the main junctions was also retrieved and were being rummaged. It was learnt Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran has formed four teams – a local, a technical and two outstation teams to gather intelligence to trace the boy at the earliest. Call detail records of the parents and others were also generated, to arrive at evidence, a source added.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel for white scarves for madrasa students||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the Commissioner of the Kerala State Road Safety Authority to issue directions that children walking along the road to madrasas or for other needs early in the morning or at dusk should wear white scarves or purdahs that are clearly visible to drivers instead of black ones. The commission directed the Transport Commissioner to issue appropriate orders in this regard and promote through the Motor Vehicles Department and road safety classes the donning of white scarves by children. It also asked the chief executive officer of the Kerala State Wakf Board to issue a circular that the direction on wearing white scarves should be followed in all madrasas and other institutions run by the administrators. The commission was taking suo motu action on media reports quoting a joint regional transport officer of the regional transport office at Pattambi, Palakkad, that students should wear white scarves. In his report to the commission, the joint regional transport officer said the directions on white scarves had been presented in front of madrasa teachers as a recommendation in the interest of children’s safety. The officer also told the commission that many drivers had said during road safety classes that the white scarves that were visible in the dark would help ensure children’s safety. The secretary of the Samastha Kerala Islam Matha Vidyabhyasa Board, in his report, said the recommendation on wearing white scarves or purdahs was very important, and it had been conveyed to all madrasa teachers through the board’s inspectors. It had also been decided that a circular would be issued to all madrasas at the start of the next academic year. The commission has sought a report Commissioner of the Kerala State Road Safety Authority, Transport Commissioner, and the chief executive officer of the Kerala State Wakf Board on the action taken within 90 days.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Mega trade bloc RCEP takes off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the ASEAN Summit on November 12 and highlighted the necessity for peace and stability in the region but maintained silence regarding RCEP, indicating India’s difficulty in welcoming the China-backed grouping. India’s ties with China in recent months have been disturbed by the military tension in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. In the meantime, India has also held maritime exercise with Japan, Australia, United States for the “Quad” that was interpreted as an anti-China move. However, these moves did not influence Japanese and Australian plans regarding RCEP. Experts are interpreting the beginning of RCEP as a major development that will help China and trade in Asia-Pacific region in the post-COVID-19 scenario. ‘Leverage for China’ “The agreement means a lot for China, as it will give it access to Japanese and South Korean markets in a big way, as the three countries haven’t yet agreed on their FTA,” said Amitendu Palit, Senior Research Fellow and Research Lead (Trade and Economics), at the Institute of South Asian Studies, National University of Singapore. “The fact this happened, despite the pandemic, is certainly leverage for China, and shows the idea of decoupling from China is not a substantive issue in a regional sense.” While the door remains open for India to join, Mr. Palit said there was “a degree of cynicism” among trade representatives in the region after how the negotiations turned out. “Except perhaps with Australia and Japan, there is a sense that India increasingly turning inward doesn’t connect with a region looking to come together,” he said. India had ended negotiation on RCEP last November over terms that were perceived to be against its interests.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Qureshi’s claims attempt to divert attention: MEA||The claims from the Minister came as India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest against the ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir that resulted in the loss of lives of several citizens on Friday. “The press conference was a deliberate attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures. It also seeks to justify cross-border terrorism, including ceasefire violations and infiltration across the LoC and the International Border,” Mr. Srivastava said. “India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistani forces. It is highly deplorable that Pakistan chose a festive occasion in India to disrupt peace and perpetrate violence in J&K through coordinated firing along the length of the LoC using heavy calibre weapons, including artillery and mortar on Indian civilians,” said the Ministry summing up the communication to Aftab Hassan Khan, Charge d’Affaires. The statement said the firing from the Pakistani side had claimed the lives of four Indian citizens and caused serious injuries to 19 persons. ‘3,800 violations’ The violation came weeks after India said the Pakistan military had carried out 3,800 ceasefire violations till October. On October 22, Mr. Srivastava had pointed out that the ceasefire violations were aimed at facilitating cross- border infiltration of terror modules.
16 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Court rejects bail plea of 3 with alleged PFI links||A Mathura court on Friday rejected the bail plea of three men who were booked and arrested along with a Kerala journalist while they were going to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of an alleged gang-rape and murder victim. Initially detained on October 5 under Section 151 of the Cr.Pc, Atif-ur-Rahman, Masood Ahmad, Mohammad Alam and journalist Siddiqiue Kappan were later booked under Sections 124-A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity), 295 (outraging religious feelings) of the IPC and Sections 65, 72 and 75 of the IT Act. The stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was later slapped on them. The police claimed that the four were part of the Popular Front of India and the Campus Front of India . Judge Mayur Jain cited the gravity of the charges while rejecting the bail applications. The court delivered three separate orders but all of them stated that the bail pleas were liable to be rejected due to the embargo created under Section 43-D (5) of the UAPA.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former CEC calls for a ban on opinion polls||Former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi on Sunday called for a ban on opinion polls and also suggested counting of votes from the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) slips instead of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). In his lecture on the need for electoral reforms organised by the Capital Foundation on the occasion of Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer’s birth anniversary, Mr. Quraishi said the EC had been a “powerful neutral umpire” and never missed a deadline for elections.  He flagged the problem of “criminalisation”, with 30%-40% of the members of any legislature having pending criminal cases. Among the reforms he suggested were changing the process of removal of Election Commissioners, who can be removed on the recommendation of the CEC while the removal of the CEC is by impeachment. “They [ECs] feel like they are on probation,” he said The EC should have the power to de-register political parties, he said, adding that “there are lots of defunct and bogus parties” that only exist for “money laundering”. “Opinion polls should be banned. You have seen how they vitiate the purity of the election process,” he said.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Accused can get bail if probe is not over in time’||An accused, irrespective of the merits of the case against him, should be granted “default” or “complusive” bail if the investigating agency does not complete the probe within a prescribed time limit, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. A Bench, led by Justice U.U. Lalit, referred to how “in England, even a person accused of grave offences such as treason could not be indefinitely detained in prison till commencement of the trial”. The court held that an accused has an “indefeasible right” to default bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure if the probe agency failed to complete the investigation on time. Under Section 167, an accused can be detained in custody for a maximum of 90 days for a crime punishable with death, life imprisonment or a sentence of over 10 years. It is 60 days of detention if the probe relates to any other offence. These time-limits were set to ensure that agencies do not use the ruse of an ongoing probe to keep people behind bars indefinitely, Justice Mohan M. Shantanagoudar, who wrote the verdict for the Bench, observed. Magistrates have to mandatorily inform the accused, especially those from the poor sections, of their statutory right to apply for default bail, the court said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Lancet panel seeks new task force on diabetes||A Lancet Commission on Diabetes, four years in the making, warns of possible damaging effects of coronavirus 2 on the pancreatic islets, responsible for regulating blood sugar, and thereby, on diabetes. It has also recommended the setting up of a global task force for diabetes and non-communicable diseases (NCDs), consisting of stakeholders from different sectors. The report was released online early on Saturday. “The task force can design, steer, and support a multi-component strategy to address the multi-dimensional nature of diabetes and other NCDs,” it said. The publication and recommendations to governments across the world are the culmination of four years of extensive work. Prevention, early detection and regular monitoring have been outlined as the key elements in reducing the growing burden of diabetes. “In 2019, 463 million people had diabetes worldwide, with 80% from low-income and middle-income countries. Over 70% of global deaths are due to non-communicable diseases, including diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases,” the report said. In 2016, 26 experts in public health, clinical care, epidemiology, and health economics were brought together by The Lancet to review the evidence and knowledge gaps in diabetes and to develop actionable plans. Among the authors of the paper is the Chennai-based diabetologist A. Ramachandran of Dr. Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospital, who was one of the commissioners representing South Asia.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Shadnagar-Gollapalli section gets new-look stations||South Central Railway (SCR) has introduced new signalling safety standards and refurbished station masters’ rooms design giving it a corporate look for three stations on the recently commissioned 29-km line between Shadnagar and Gollapalli. It is a significant portion of the proposed electrified double rail link from Hyderabad to Mahabubnagar being developed by the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the infrastructure building wing of Indian Railways. Three electronic interlocking stations — Shadnagar, Balanagar and Gollapalli — —are on this route. Old buildings were demolished and new structures have been given a corporate look with the staid station masters’ rooms, informed senior officials on Sunday. Restrooms are neat and tidy with a modern look and there is dedicated space for the ticket checking staff while the station master himself/herself will have Visual Display Units (VDUs) for better monitoring. Universal fail-safe block instruments have been installed near the VDUs for block signalling and a single section digital axle counter provides additional safety, they explained, unwilling to be identified. The station masters can also keep a check on the happenings at the staff relay rooms, station yards and interlocked electronic motorised level crossing gates through video surveillance for the first time in SCR for enhanced safety in train operations. Latest technology signalling systems have been installed in this section like internet-based multi-protocol label communication system doing away with analog switches, integrated LED lighting system offering high precision, better illumination, colour stability and long service line, they explained. Highly-sensitive fire alarm systems, integrated passenger information system with electronic boards, auto announcement system, the ‘A’ class lightning protection system on towers to protect the electronic equipment from lightning strikes, web-based application, signal and telecom drawing management system for online access for engineers, etc,, are the other special features. “We consulted key employees to revamp the workplace with better facilities for them to work in a more comfortable environment despite the pandemic induced limitations,” said senior officials. Electrification Secunderabad Mahabubnagar doubling of railway line and electrification project was sanctioned for a distance of 85 km in 2015-16 at an estimated cost of Rs. 774 crore with section between Secunderabad and Umdanagar undertaken as part of MMTS Phase I & II. Work between Umdanagar and Mahabubnagar is currently progressing.
16 November 2020||KHAMMAM,||Lorry driver stabs cleaner to death, confesses later||In a bizarre incident, a lorry driver allegedly stabbed the cleaner to death on board the vehicle in Karimnagar district late on Saturday night and travelled more than 200 km on NH 563 along with the victim’s body, before surrendering to the police at Konijerla near here on Sunday morning. The accused identified as N. Raju of Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district created a flutter when he drove the paddy-laden lorry straight to the parking area in the vicinity of the Konijerla police station abutting the Khammam-Sattupalli main road with the body of the cleaner, identified as Raju, lying inside the cabin, on Sunday morning, sources said. Police suspect that the accused got into an altercation with the cleaner over a matter of wrapping the consignment of paddy in sheets while heading back towards Warangal en-route Kakinada from the paddy loading point near Karimnagar. In a fit of rage, he allegedly stopped the lorry somewhere between Karimnagar and Huzurabad and attacked the cleaner with an iron rod before stabbing him to death, sources added. The accused reportedly told the police that he acted in self-defence.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Congress, Left will give tough fight in Bengal’||West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has been projecting an alliance of the Left and the Congress as the “third alternative” to the people of West Bengal in a highly polarised electoral contest between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) next year. Reacting to the recent electoral outcome in Bihar and the remarks made by Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, Mr. Chowdhury, a five-time Congress MP from Behrampore in Murshidabad district and also the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the ground realities in Bengal and Bihar were very different. Mr. Bhattacharya had recently said that “any subservience to the Congress will be suicidal to Left parties in Bengal”. “Dipankar babu should appreciate that the ground realities in West Bengal are different from Bihar. The Left parties here have a baggage of running the State for 34 years,” Mr. Chowdhury told The Hindu.  The Congress leader said that in the 2016 Assembly election, the Congress contested nearly 90 seats and won 44 whereas the Left parties, which contested more than 200 seats, won only 32. West Bengal has 294 seats in the State Assembly. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Congress leader said that the party won two seats whereas the Left parties drew a blank. Mr. Chowdhury said the Congress had been committed to the alliance from the start as the party felt that it would provide a credible third alternative to the people. “The Left and Congress will give a tough fight to the Trinamool Congress. Ours in not just an electoral alternative but also an ideological alternative than is contrary to the competitive communalism of the Trinamool and the BJP,” he said.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Registration of non-agricultural properties from November 23||The registration of non-agricultural properties which stopped on September 8 following the decision of the State government to route all land transactions, both agricultural and non-agricultural through the Dharani portal, would resume on November 23. The decision was taken at an official meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday. The registration of agricultural lands had already commenced on October 29 when the portal was launched by Mr. Rao. The registration of agricultural and non-agricultural properties was earlier done by Computer Aided Administration of Registration (CARD) project of registration and stamps department developed in the combined Andhra Pradesh State. Dharani will supercede CARD and take up both registration and mutation of agricultural and non-agricultural lands in two separate parts.  While the tahsildars have started taking up registration and also mutation of agricultural lands in revenue records after the information is updated on Dharani, the same will be done by sub-registrars for non-agricultural properties and the mutation will be automatically reflected in municipal and gram panchayat records. The government has already issued orders fixing mutation charges to be paid to tahsildar and sub-registrar offices online. The portal has eliminated registration and mutation as two levels of land transactions in offices of sub-registrars, tahsildars and municipalities. The commissioning of Dharani involved slot bookings for registration which will generate the required documents and filling them up will lead to e-challan payments for registration and mutation and subsequent visit to tahsildar or sub-registrar offices as the case may be for completion of process. Good feedback At the meeting convened by Mr. Rao, it was decided that Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar will launch registration of non-agricultural properties on November 23. Mr. Rao said that the registration of agricultural lands by the portal was well received by people. There was good response from the public because they were happy that a security mechanism was created for their lands. The feedback from ground level was heartening, he said. The portal had already overcome minor hiccups but all of them will be completely resolved in three to four days. It was decided to commence registration on non-agricultural lands and properties after all issues were settled. Therefore, the government took some time to resume the process, he added. The meeting was attended by Ministers P. Sabita Indra Reddy and P. Ajay Kumar, Mr. Somesh Kumar and officials of CMO.
16 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Mar Thoma Metropolitan installed||Suffragan Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius has been installed the 22nd Metropolitan of the 1.6-million-strong Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church. He will be known by the name Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan. The installation of the new metropolitan was held at the church head quarters in Thiruvalla on Saturday. The ceremonies began with a reception to the metropolitan designate at 7.45 a.m, followed by a holy mass led by Euyakim Mar Coorilos Episcopa. Senior Mar Thoma metropolitan Philipose Mar Chrysostom, Malabar Independent Syrian Church head Cyril Mar Baselios, and other bishops of the Mar Thoma church attended the service. Church secretary Fr. K G Joseph announced the selection of the new Metropolitan and this was followed by the installation ceremony. Cardinal Mar George Alenchery, Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, Malankara Orthodox Church Catholicos Baselios Mar Thoma Paulose II, National Council of Churches in India and CNI moderator P.C. Singh, Cardinal Baselios Cleemis Catholicos of Malankara Catholic Church, CSI bishop Dharmaraj Rasalam, Jacobite Church trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios, Knanaya Church bishop Kuriakose Mar Severios, Geevarghese Mar Coorilos, metropolitan of Malankara Orthodox Church, Rajya Sabha former deputy chairman P.J. Kurien, Anto Antony, MP, MLAs Mathew T. Thomas and Raju Abraham, Higher Education Secretary Usha Titus, and former municipal chairman of Thiruvalla R. Jayakumar offered felicitations. The new metropolitan, in his message, emphasised on the need to conserve nature and called on to work towards ensuring the welfare of all humans. “While we take pride on the fact that the country is on a growth path, one should not forget that it still finds a place among the countries having extreme poverty conditions as per the Global Hunger Index,” he said. The new Metropolitan, who was consecrated as Episcopa on December 9, 1989, and given the tittle Suffragan Metropolitan on July 12, 2020, succeeds Joseph Mar Thoma, who passed away on October 18.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Isaac scandalising CAG draft report: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday said Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had overstepped its constitutional bounds by issuing sovereign bonds to borrow from the foreign market. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had turned his ire against the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for pointing out the anomaly in a draft report, he said. The CAG had said that borrowings by the KIIFB ran against the grain of Article 293 (1) of the Constitution. It pertained to guarantee given by State governments to lenders for instruments of debt issued against the consolidated fund. Mr. Chennithala said the CAG had pointed out that the State could mobilise funds from the domestic market by floating sovereign bonds. However, it could not issue “masala bonds” outside India to raise funds from foreign investors. For one, the government had sold instruments of debt totalling Rs. 2,150 crore to CDPQ, a subsidiary of SNC-Lavalin. Masala bonds Mr. Chennithala said CDPQ purchased the masala bonds as per a clandestine understanding and for an exaggerated interest rate of 9.72% when the KIFFB listed them at the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The interest to be paid to CDPQ by the government was extortionate and unheard off, he said. Mr. Chennithala demanded an anti-corruption investigation into the KIIFB. Mr. Chennithala accused Dr. Isaac of scandalising the “draft report” submitted by the CAG. He said Dr. Isaac had sought to divert public attention from the scandals plaguing the government by targeting the constitutional office of the CAG. The State had allowed only a partial audit of the KIIFB accounts. Mr. Chennithala had moved the court to enable the CAG to audit the financial statements of the Kannur airport. The Finance Minister was worried that the skeletons in the closet would come tumbling out if the CAG examined the accounts closely, Mr. Chennithala said.
16 November 2020||IMPHAL,||COVID-19: Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren tests positive||Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren said on social media on Sunday that he had tested COVID-19 positive. He took the test after he felt uneasy, he said. He urged those who had come into close contact with him in the past few days to get tested. Power and Works Minister Thongam Biswajit and MLA Fazoor Rahman had earlier tested positive and recovered. Though Manipur has been taking care to check the pandemic, there were lapses during the recent Assembly bypolls in five constituencies as people did not follow COVID-19 regulations.
16 November 2020||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC stays probe against Kailash Vijayvargiya, other BJP leaders for ‘unlawful assembly’||The Calcutta High Court has stayed the investigation in an FIR filed by the Kolkata police against BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and other leaders. The case was filed during the West Bengal BJP’s march to the State Secretariat (Nabanna) on October 8. The Hasting police had booked 24 people, including party MPs Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee, for “unlawful assembly with the common object to approach Nabanna, a high- security zone”. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha, who gave the order, said the matter may be listed before a regular Bench on November 26.
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel critical||Senior Congress leader and party treasurer Ahmed Patel is in a critical condition following complications that developed after he tested positive for COVID-19 on October 1. The 71-year-old is admitted to the intensive care unit of Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon. The infection had damaged his lungs and other critical organs, sources said. His son Faisal Patel tweeted that his condition remained stable.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quantity of hazardous waste comes down by 20% this year||The quantity of hazardous waste generated in Chennai from firecrackers came down by 20% this Deepavali. According to a press release from the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, the quantity of hazardous waste has reduced from 22.58 tonnes in 2019 to 18 tonnes this year. The southern region of the Greater Chennai Corporation generated the highest quantity of such waste in the past three days. Three tonnes generated The Madhavaram zone in the northern region generated more than three tonnes of hazardous waste during the festival. Tondiarpet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Alandur and Valasaravakkam generated more than one tonne of waste from crackers on Saturday. Zones such as Tiruvottiyur did not generate any waste. According to the data provided in the press release, most of the hazardous waste from crackers is yet to be processed for safe disposal. The hazardous waste was dumped at SIPCOT, Gummidipoondi, last year. Economic conditions Officials said the quantity of hazardous waste had come down because of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the economic condition of many residents. Residents of some neighbourhoods like Chetpet said they found the streets clean this Deepavali. But some residents complained that the hazardous waste had not been collected properly. Chennai Corporation officials said they deployed more than 19,500 conservancy workers for cleaning the streets during Deepavali. The city generates around 4,500 tonnes of solid waste every day. The waste is dumped at Perungudi and Kodungaiyur.  Most of the hazardous waste from crackers is yet to be processed for safe disposal
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily count stays under 2,000||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the State remained below 2,000, with 1,819 fresh cases being reported on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 16,441. As on date, 7,58,191 persons have tested positive for the infection. As many as 2,520 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of discharged persons to 7,30,272. In the last 24 hours, Chennai recorded 502 infections. A total of 680 persons were discharged, even as 5,098 persons are still undergoing treatment. The district also recorded five deaths. In Ariyalur, Perambalur, Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram districts, the number of newly-infected persons stayed under 10. While Tenkasi recorded seven new infections, Ariyalur reported four, Ramanathapuram three and Perambalur two. Two other districts, Theni and Virudhunagar, reported under 100 cases. According to data provided by the Directorate of Public Health, as much as 43% of the State’s new cases were recorded in the districts of Chengalpattu, Chennai and Coimbatore. Chengalpattu saw 123 new infections, while Coimbatore witnessed 171. So far, 6,35,696 persons in the 13-60 age group and 26,780 children have been infected in the State. A total of 95,715 persons over the age of 60, including 60,145 men and 35,570 women, have been infected.  Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Tiruvallur and Vellore each recorded one death, apart from Chennai, accounting for a total of 12 deaths in the State. As on date, 11,478 persons have died of the infection. All deceased persons had co-morbidities. While five deaths were recorded in government hospitals, seven took place in private facilities. The oldest among the deceased was an 84-year-old man from Chennai. The Health Department added one more private laboratory in Thanjavur, taking the total number of testing centres in the State to 209 — 66 in the government sector and 143 private facilities.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||428 cases filed for not adhering to time slots||The city police have booked 428 cases against people for bursting crackers beyond the stipulated timings. Following a Supreme Court order, the Tamil Nadu government fixed time slots for residents to burst crackers during Deepavali: between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Police inspectors monitored compliance of the order in their regions. Cases were booked against violators. The west zone, comprising the Anna Nagar, Ambattur and Pulianthope police districts, accounted for the highest number of 239 cases. It was followed by the south zone with 95 cases, the east zone with 57 cases and the north zone with 37 cases. The violators were booked under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the City Police Act. Fines were collected, a senior police officer said. Child dies An accident caused by the bursting of firecrackers resulted in the death of a child in Chennai. One child was critically injured and is undergoing treatment at the Government Kilapuk Medical College Hospital. On Saturday and Sunday, the hospital treated 14 persons in the outpatient department. U. Sri Vignesh, from Thirumazhisai, injured his right hand when he tried to examine a cracker that had not burst. “I bought him a box of firecrackers. Yesterday [on Saturday], he was lighting them, and one of them did not go off. So he picked it up. But it burst all of a sudden, injuring his right hand,” said his father Uthamaraj, a casual labourer. At Kilpauk Medical College, an X-ray was taken and Sri Vignesh’s injury was cleaned and bandaged. The boy has been asked to return on Tuesday for further procedure. An 18-month-old child sustained burns in multiple parts. A 40-year-old woman was injured when she tried to push away a ‘zamin chakkar’ with her hand just after it burnt out.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman opposing sale of ganja attacked in city||A 49-year-old woman, who has been opposing the sale of ganja at Annai Sathya Nagar near the Secretariat, and her two sisters were attacked with sharp weapons near their home by a three-member gang on Saturday night. R. Annakili Vedhachalam, Chennai district secretary of Pennurimai Iyakkam, and her sisters Karpagam and Yashoda are residents of Annai Sathya Nagar, which has around 800 families. The residents say a few youngsters in the locality smoke ganja or consume alcohol and then harass women. “My 20-year-old relative was also subjected to this torture in July. She has been targeted by the same gang ever since,” said Ms. Annakili. She said that on Saturday night, Sunda, Shankar and Deva barged into Ms. Karpagam’s house when she was sleeping and attacked her with sharp weapons. “When I came to know of it, I ran to save her. But they spotted me and hit me on the head and the back. My other sister Yashoda was not spared either,” she said. The three were rushed to hospital. A complaint has been lodged with the Fort police station against the assailants.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for cheating, robbing woman who wanted to become a news reader||The Thoraipakkam police have arrested a couple who robbed a young woman of jewellery by posing as recruiters for a private television channel. The police said the victim, Minimol, 27, from Parakkavattuvillai in Kanniyakumari, was staying with her friends in Guindy. She recently came across an advertisement on an online portal for a news reader’s post. She contacted the advertiser, and was told that a woman would pick her up as the screen test would be conducted at a hotel in Thoraipakkam. She was advised to wear jewellery for the test. She met the woman in T. Nagar and went with her to the hotel. She was then led by an unidentified man to a room, where the couple pretended to conduct an interview for the job. They told her to remove her jewellery and use the bathroom to wash her face, on the pretext of applying make-up for the test. While Ms. Minimol was in the bathroom, the couple locked the door from outside and fled with the jewellery. The hotel manager, who used a spare key to enter the room as the TV volume was very high, found Ms. Minimol locked up. Realising that she had been cheated, she lodged a complaint. The police traced the suspects and identified them as Raven Bistro, 30, of Theni district, and Deepa alias Shenbagavalli, 38, of Thiruvanmiyur. They were arrested in Palavakkam on Saturday. Inquiries revealed that Shenbagavalli got separated from her husband and married Raven Bistro, the manager of a popular non-vegetarian restaurant. “Deciding to make a quick buck, they posted fake advertisements on the portal, inviting aspirants for film artist or news reader roles,” an officer said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali sale: Tasmac nets Rs. 465 crore in two days||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) netted Rs. 465.79 crore in revenue in two days through retail liquor sale during the Deepavali festival. On the day of the festival, liquor worth Rs. 237.91 crore was sold across the State. On the day before Deepavali (November 13), Tasmac registered sales worth Rs. 227.88 crore. According to data collated from various liquor shops, the Madurai zone witnessed the maximum sales this year, followed by Tiruchi. Tipplers in Madurai consumed liquor worth Rs. 103.82 crore, while Tiruchi clocked Rs. 95.47 crore. The Chennai zone’s liquor sales stood at Rs. 94.36 crore, Salem Rs. 87.58 crore and Coimbatore Rs. 84.56 crore. Price hike “One reason why the revenue figures are higher than in 2019 is the price hike that happened twice this year. Consumption was also quite good, as people were waiting for an occasion to celebrate,” a source in Tasmac said. Last year, the cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government fetched Rs. 355 crore from the sale of liquor during Deepavali and the preceding day. Tasmac liquor prices were hiked twice this year. In February, the price of a quarter bottle (180 ml) of Indian Made Foreign Spirits (IMFS) was hiked by Rs. 10. The price of beer also went up by Rs. 10 for a full bottle, after a gap of five years. In May, the State government hiked the excise duty on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) by 15%, resulting in a price increase of Rs. 10-Rs. 20. Tasmac has 5,338 shops across the State selling liquor worth Rs. 130 crore-Rs. 140 crore a day.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Moderate rain likely in several areas||Several places in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal may experience moderate rainfall till November 18, as north-east monsoon intensifies over the region. According to the Meteorological Department, Saturday’s trough in easterlies now runs from the Comorin area to west-central Bay of Bengal, across south-west Bay of Bengal off the Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast. Moreover, another trough from the Comorin area to the north Tamil Nadu coast has merged with the prevailing weather system. This will trigger widespread rainfall over the State for the next few days. In the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, several places across the State received moderate to heavy rainfall. Kelambakkam in Chengalpattu district received 9 cm of rainfall — the highest for the day. The weather station in Hindustan University, Chengalpattu district, recorded the second highest rainfall for the day, with 7 cm, and Nungambakkam saw 3 cm. Officials of the Meteorological Department said one or two places in Chennai and its neighbouring districts, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli, may experience heavy rainfall on Monday. While coastal areas are likely to receive moderate rain till November 18, thunderstorm with heavy rain may occur in one or two places over the southern parts of the State. The intensity of rain may begin to drop from November 19, and only a few places over the Western Ghats and south Tamil Nadu have chances of moderate rain. Only light rain is likely over other parts of the State on Thursday, officials said. The department has forecast thunderstorms, with rainfall up to moderate intensity, to continue till Monday. The intermittent showers may be heavy, at times, in some areas.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire control room gets 40 distress calls||Though the number of fires caused by the bursting of crackers has come down across Tamil Nadu, such incidents were higher in Chennai city, compared with the previous year. M.S. Jaffar Sait, Director-General of Police, Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS), said, “The overall incidents due to the bursting of crackers have come down this time, compared with last year. But there was a marginal increase in Chennai city...” According to the data provided by TNFRS, 40 calls were received by the fire control room in Chennai. Of them, 33 were related to minor fires caused by rockets landing on trees and thatched roofs and the rest were related to garbage and the clothes of two people set on fire by crackers. The distress calls received in Chennai was 26 and over 50 people were injured in several incidents last year. Over 106 calls were received at the fire control rooms all over the State, said a senior officer. Of them, 82 calls were related to minor fires caused by rocket-type fireworks and 24 were related to cracker burns. The number of calls received in 2019 all over the State was 138.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police crack modus operandi of cyber gang||After losing jobs during the lockdown, a few truck drivers, mechanics and agricultural labourers from Rajasthan donned the role of cyber criminals. The Chennai city police, recently, tracked them down for creating fake accounts of senior IPS officers and cheating people. However, this is not the first time that they have induldged in cyber crimes. They have already cheated several persons, after receiving money online for supplying foreign liquor or for selling vehicles on OLX, the police said. In August, they created fake Facebook accounts of Chennai City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and more than two dozen IPS officers in the city, including DGP Ashutosh Shukla. They did not spare the police officers of Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh either. They copied the profile pictures of the IPS officers from their Facebook accounts, and used them to create fake profiles. They then befriended people in the officers’ friend lists, asking for money on grounds of medical emergencies, including COVID-19. Some persons, without verifying the account’s authenticity, credited the money into the mobile wallets of the criminals. After analysing call records, a special team of cyber police traced the suspects to Kethuwara and Levra villages of Kaman Tahsil, in Bharatpur district, Rajasthan. The team nabbed the main suspect, Shakeel Khan, who was wanted by other State police as well. Shakeel Khan had attended school only up to Class 2, the police said. He was earning Rs. 5,000 as a truck driver in Kaithwara village. After he lost his job during the lockdown, he turned into a full-time burglar on cyberspace, and trained youngsters from his area. His associates, two adults and two juveniles, were also nabbed. “Our investigation revealed that the criminals were once truck drivers or were involved in other allied professions. Most of them had not even completed elementary classes. After losing their jobs during the pandemic, they decided to indulge in cyber crime,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner K. Saravanakumar. “They did not have swanky offices, but sat under trees in the village,” he said. The criminals operated in more than a dozen villages of Alwar and Bharatpur districts in Rajasthan, bordering Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. They withdrew money from e-mitra service centres, using “privileged debit” cards, the police said. Privileged cardholders can withdraw any amount of money, without any limit.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons hacked to death by gangs in city||A 41-year-old person who acted in a television serial was hacked to death by a gang of unidentified persons at MGR Nagar on Sunday. The victim was identified as Selvarathinam, who had been in the cinema field for the last 10 years and was appearing along with a main villain in a television serial, calledThenmozhi BA, aired on a popular channel. Sri Lankan refugee As he was a Sri Lankan refugee, his wife and children are in a camp located in Virudhunagar district. On Saturday, Selvarathinam did not go for the serial’s shooting and stayed with his friend Mani, an assistant director. In the early hours of Sunday, he stepped out of the house after receiving a phone call. A gang of unidentified men encircled and attacked him, even as he ran to save his life. On information from his friends, policemen from the MGR Nagar station rushed to the spot and sent the body to the Government Royapettah Hospital for a post-mortem examination. The police registered a case and launched a search for the suspects. History-sheeter killed  Another murder was reported from Ambattur on Saturday night. The police said the victim was Balaji, 26, a painter. He came to his in-law’s house in Ambattur from Villivakkam to celebrate Deepavali. Balaji had 10 criminal cases, including of assault and robbery, pending against him. The police said that at 8.45 p.m., the Ambattur Industrial Estate police received information that Balaji was lying in a pool of blood at ICF Colony after he was hacked to death by a gang. The police began an investigation after sending the body for a post-mortem examination. The probe revealed that Sathish Kumar of the same area had recently accused Balaji’s brother Srinivasan of stealing his gold chain. Balaji, who was under the influence of alcohol, allegedly threatened Sathish Kumar that he would eliminate him. The police suspect that out of fear, Sathish Kumar collected his friends and murdered Balaji. A search has been launched for Sathish Kumar and his associates. Balaji’s friends set fire to Sathish Kumar’s thatched-roof house, triggering tension in the area.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7 youths arrested for bike racing||The Chennai City Traffic Police arrested seven youths who indulged in bike racing on Kamarajar Road in the early hours of Sunday. Bike racing on public roads has been banned by the police. The bikers were booked under the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act and remanded in judicial custody after being produced before a magistrate’s court, the police said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands V-C’s suspension||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday wondered why the State government had not suspended Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, even after a retired judge was appointed to probe complaints of financial and administrative irregularities against him. In a statement in Chennai, he said the continuation of Mr. Surappa’s tenure as the Vice-Chancellor, “without any regret”, was a farce. He asked why the government had waited till now, even though the allegations against him were brought to its notice in February. “What is the deal between the government and Mr. Surappa? There is a feeling that the inquiry is nothing but an eyewash, since he has been allowed to hold the Vice-Chancellor’s post,” Mr. Stalin said. Claiming that the erstwhile DMK government had acted immediately and suspended Anna University of Technology (Coimbatore) Vice-Chancellor Radhakrishnan when there were allegations against him and another former Anna University Vice-Chancellor Mannar Jawahar was suspended during the previous AIADMK regime, Mr. Stalin wanted to know why Mr. Surappa should be an exception. “The government should immediately suspend him,” Mr. Stalin said.
16 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah to visit Chennai on Nov. 21||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be visiting Chennai on November 21 to take part in official government events and hold meetings with representatives of the party, BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan said on Sunday. The government will release details of the official programme, and Mr. Shah will hold meetings with State and district secretaries. About 200 people will take part in the meetings while adhering to physical distancing norms, Mr. Murugan said while addressing mediapersons in Chennai. The party’s core committee meeting will also be held during Mr. Shah’s visit, Mr. Murugan said, adding that the party was planning a grand welcome for Mr. Shah, in adherence to physical distancing norms. ‘Will boost morale’ He said Mr. Shah’s visit would boost the spirits of the party cadre and “create panic among opponents”. The Home Minister will not be participating in the party’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ as during his visit it is planned in Coimbatore, he added. Mr. Shah’s visit comes at a time when the BJP is upset over the denial of permission by the police for its ‘Vetrivel Yatra’.
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four persons detained for murder of Tirunelveli native||The Karumathampatti police detained four suspects in connection with the murder of a Tirunelveli native near Coimbatore. A. Muthukutty (42), a native of Ulagankulam near Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district, was found murdered in a private land at Ganapathypalayam near Karumathampatti on Sunday morning. According to the police, Muthukutty was working in a powerloom warehouse belonging to M. Rakkimuthu at Ganapathipalayam for the last three weeks. Earlier, he had worked in a powerloom unit belonging to V. Chandrasekaran at Arasur for two years. On Sunday, a person from Ganapathypalayam saw Muthukutty consuming alcohol with three persons in an open private land in the locality. He was found dead at the same place on Sunday morning. ,The Karumathampatti rushed to the spot and found injuries on the right forehead and the right elbow of the deceased. The police shifted the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem and registered a case based on a complaint lodged by his wife Jeyarani. The investigation team headed by inspector Shanmugasundaram found that Muthukutty left Chandrasekaran’s powerloom as the latter refused to pay him a pending salary amount of Rs. 8,000. Apart from quarrelling with Chandrasekaran over the pending salary, Muthukutty also threatened Chandrasekaran of telling others that the latter has an affair with a woman, said the police. It was found during the investigation that G. Mani (48) of Ganapathypalayam, Santhosh Kumar (27) of Vagarayampalayam, Senthil Kumar (39) of Kaniyur and Rajagopal of Periyamopperipalayam took Muthukutty to the open land and consumed alcohol on Sunday evening. They assaulted him with a PVC pipe, allegedly on the instructions of Chandrasekaran, said the police. The police detained all the accused except Rajagopal late on Sunday.
16 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Recent announcements by Central Govt. expected to create jobs in apparel sector||The recent announcements by the Central Government on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package have been welcomed by the textile sector in Coimbatore region. However, the micro and small-scale industries have sought implementation of the benefits with retrospective effect. The Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0 will make the Indian economy robust, said A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council. Extension of Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till March 31 and expanding the outstanding credit limit to Rs. 500 crore for the stressed sectors will go a long way in reviving many of the struggling industries, he said. The Focused Product Investment Scheme and the relaxations will open up new job opportunities in the apparel sector, he added. According to Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, the announcements related to provident fund in the package will help the knitwear exporters provide employment to more number of people in the coming days. He urged the exporting units to make use of the package and the investment scheme. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations, representing the micro and small-scale industries here, has said that many of the units started getting loans under the ECLGS in June this year. The banks disbursed only 50 % of the loan amount initially. They had to complete the registration formalities paying the stamp duty and registration fees to avail of the remaining amount. These units will not get the stamp duty benefit now. Hence, the stamp duty exemption and fee reduction should be implemented with effect from May 2020, covering all loans disbursed under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme. The State Government should reimburse the stamp duty and registration fee paid by the industries already. The State Government should ensure hassle-free implementation of the relaxations, it said. Meanwhile, the Focused Product Investment Scheme, announced by the Central Government, is expected to boost to investments in textile sector, especially in man-made fibre (MMF) and technical textiles segments. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said in a press release that Rs. 10,683 crore has been earmarked in the scheme for textile sector. It will promote greenfield and brownfield investments in 40 HS lines of MMF garments and 10 HS lines in technical textiles. “The scheme is likely to create 50 to 60 world-class global champion companies in these segments,” he said.
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of debris into Valankulam tank irks public||The Coimbatore Corporation dumping debris and earth into Valankulam tank has irked members of the public, who say that the lake development project that the civic body has taken up under the Smart Cities Mission is going against people’s wishes. East of the road that connects Trichy Road at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital junction with the Sungam Bypass Road, the Corporation has dumped earth to form a long stretch resembling a road. As soon as the Corporation began the work, a few activists had objected to the work saying it will further truncate the already divided tank and result in turning into a pond. This defeats the very purpose of the Corporation taking up the lake development work. For, when it drafted the detailed project report, it projected lake conservation through beautification as its objective. But what is happening seems to be the opposite as the civic body is focussing more on beautification than conservation, says an activist on condition of anonymity. To underscore his argument, he says the Corporation has thus far spent money only on beautification and not on constructing sewage treatment plants near the Valankulam tank and Ukkadam Big Tank, though the plants also form part of the project proposal. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon says the Corporation dumping earth and debris right into the water body is in contempt of the Madras High Court, which has ordered the district administration and Corporation to remove all encroachment in water bodies in River Noyyal basin. The Corporation’s action also goes against the very affidavit that it submitted in the case to protect water bodies. The Coimbatore Consumer Cause has issued notice to the Corporation for taking up the work, he adds. Singanallur MLA N. Karthik says lake conservation has only been a cover for the Corporation to spend money on beautification. This is not the first encroachment by the Corporation in the water body. It had eaten into the water holding area by widening the bund and thereby reducing the storage capacity. He warned that if the Corporation did not remove all the dumped earth, the party will soon stage a protest. Sources familiar with the development say the civic body has dumped earth to construct a pedestrian path right through the water holding area.
16 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stuffed tigers to scare off food-stealing monkeys||Large, stuffed tigers welcome visitors to shops in remote villages of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR). However, not all of them are for sale. Having exhausted all other options, shopkeepers have placed the toys in front of their outlets to scare off bonnet macaques that come looking for food, ranging from plantains to large jars of peanuts. N. Palanisamy, whose family has been running a grocery store at Navamalai for the last 60 years, said the intrusion by monkeys had reduced by 90% after he placed a large, stuffed tiger in front of the store three months ago. “Monkeys used to cause damage to the tune of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. They would take biscuit packets, plantains, dal, nuts and anything else they deem edible. They once lifted a jar of cashew nuts worth Rs. 2,000,” he said. He bought a stuffed tiger from Salem after hearing that shopkeepers in other villages of ATR, like Sarkarpathy and Kadambarai, had been placing replicas of the big cats to scare monkeys. “Sometimes, I play clips of tigers roaring on my mobile phone and walk around the shop with the stuffed animal,” he said. Besides stealing food, the monkeys cause trouble in the Electricity Department quarters at Navamalai, which houses 100 employees. A common sight Monkeys atop washed clothes hung out to dry are a common sight. Employees are forced to wash their clothes again because of dirt or fear of parasites, Mr. Palanisamy said. Pollachi Forest Range Officer V. Pugalendhi said places like Navamalai, Sarkarpathy and Kadambarai are situated within the forest limits, and hence, capturing monkeys for relocation may not bring the desired results as new troops may replace those that have been captured. He noted that the Forest Department had captured bonnet macaques that were causing a menace in the urban areas of Pollachi, and had released them into the forest.  Monkeys used to cause damage to the tune of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. They would take biscuit packets, plantains, dal, nuts and anything else they deem edible N. Palanisamy Shopkeeper
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pensioners can now get life certificate at doorstep||Pensioners who need to submit digital life certificate can now avail of the service offered by the Department of Post to do so at their doorstep. According to a press release from the Department, pensioners should submit their life certificate every year by visiting the treasury in November. The government has come out with Jeevan Pramaan scheme so that pensioners can submit the digital certificate. This facility is offered by the Department too. Pensioners should provide details such as Aadhaar, mobile phone number, and pension account number and register their finger print and the life certificate will be submitted digitally. They need to pay Rs. 70 for the service. If they are unable to contact the postman, the pensioners can approach the nearest post office. They can submit online too by logging on tohttp://jeevanpramaan. gov.in/ppouser/login
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||12 held for flouting cracker regulations||The Kattoor police arrested 12 persons on charge of bursting firecrackers during the non-permitted hours on Deepavali day. The police said that they found the persons bursting firecrackers in places such as 10th street of Cross Cut Road, G.P. Signal, V.K.K. Menon Road, Kalappan Layout, Nagappan Street, N.V.N. Layout and P.K.R. Street, all places near Gandhipuram from 12 noon to 4.30 p.m. on Saturday. This was a violation of the two time slots fixed by the State government - between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m., and between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Deepavali day. The 12 persons were arrested for offence under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code. They were released on bail on the same day. No case registered Coimbatore District (Rural) did not register any case for the offence on Saturday, said a senior police officer.
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man stabbed to death||A 23-year-old man was murdered by two men when he was celebrating Deepavali with his friends near R.S. Puram in Coimbatore city on Saturday early morning. According to the police, R. Janarthanan, a resident of Shastri Street near Thudiyalur, was stabbed to death by two men at Kamarajapuram near R.S. Puram. Janarthanan, who is from Kamarajapuram, came from Thudiyalur to the place to celebrate Deepavali with his friends. The police said that three men namely Guna, Mari and Rajesh, from Thudiyalur area came to Kamarajapuram on a two-wheeler around 12.45 a.m. Guna and Mari confronted Janarthanan at Kamarajapuram and stabbed him. Though Janarthanan started running for his life, the duo chased him down on the sixth street at Kamarajapuram and stabbed him multiple times, the police said. As people gathered, the two men escaped in the two-wheeler which Rajesh kept standby. Though Janarthanan's brother Jegatheesh took him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, doctors declared him dead. According to the police, Janarthanan used to create ruckus in Thudiyalur area under the influence of alcohol. He had allegedly picked up a quarrel with the accused after they questioned his acts. M. Kanagasabapathy, inspector of the R.S. Puram station, said that the police were on the lookout for the accused.
16 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance rams truck, accident victim dies||A 31-year-old man from Namakkal, a two-wheeler accident victim, was killed after the ambulance in which he was being taken to a hospital in Coimbatore dashed against the rear side of a truck near Karumathampatti late on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as S. Devarasu, a resident of Ganapthypalayam near Manapalli in Namakkal. According to the police, the driver of the private ambulance Sankar drove the vehicle negligently and it hit the truck. Devarasu, who was undergoing training to become a health inspector, died while being taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, said the police. Sankar and three others V. Ponnusamy (45), R. Vinoth (21) and P. Ravikumar (27), who accompanied Devarasu in the ambulance, suffered injuries.
16 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL posts decline in net profit||NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), a Navratna company under the Ministry of Coal, posted a decline in net profit for the quarter that ended September 30, 2020. The PSU had posted a net profit of Rs. 20.39 crore (quarter) and Rs. 312.93 crore (half-year ended) respectively as against Rs. 336.78 crore and Rs. 659.82 crore in the corresponding period year-ago. According to a release, the income of the company during the quarter and half-year ended was Rs. 1,849 crore and Rs. 4,235.86 crore respectively, as against Rs. 2,217.85 crore and Rs. 4,121.88 crore in the corresponding period year-ago. During the quarter, the company generated 3,791.31 Million Units (MU) as against 5,273.02 MU. The reduction in power generation was due to the fire accident in Thermal Power Station -II and decommissioning of TPS-I, partly offset by operation of new units - Unit I of Neyveli New Thermal Power Station (NNTPS) and solar power generation to the tune of 709 MW. The PSU exported 3,225.21 MU for the quarter ended September 30 as against 4,512.64 MU in the corresponding period of previous year. NLCIL posted 19.9 % reduction in Earnings Before Interest, Tax and Depreciation and Amortisation (EBIDTA) for the quarter ended September 30.
16 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers told to insure crops||The district administration has asked the farmers to insure crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) so that they can get relief for crop loss due to natural calamities, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current samba season. Collector C. Kathiravan, in a press release, said that paddy crop is cultivated in 28 firkas in the district and villagers can get their crop insured for a premium of Rs. 502.50 per acre. Farmers, who wish to apply for insurance can visit commercial banks, cooperative societies and common service centres in their area for registration. Necessary land documents including ‘chitta’, ‘adangal’, seed sowing certification, and photocopy of bank passbook and Aadhaar card should be submitted for registration, he added. The release said that the last date for registration is November 30 and to avoid last-minute rush and to prevent applicants from being left out, the farmers should register at the earliest and pay the premium accordingly.
16 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murdering elderly couple||The Erode district police arrested three persons in connection with the murder of an elderly couple on Saturday. The police said the deceased were identified as Ramasami (58) and his wife Arukkani (56) of Rasampalayam here. On Friday, Ramasami got into a quarrel with Surya and his friends reportedly for misbehaving with Ramasami’s daughter. Feeling humiliated, Surya, his father Saminathan and friend Kiruba Shankar went to Ramasami’s house on Saturday and hacked the couple to death. Ramasami’s son Boopathi found the bodies and alerted the Kodumudi police. They arrested the three persons.
16 November 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Rectified spirit seized||The Chinna Salem police seized 320 litres of rectified spirit and 520 litres of illicit distilled arrack from a farmland in Eeriyur near Kallakurichi on Saturday night. Following a tip-off, a team conducted surprise check at a farm in Eeriyur at 9 p.m. The team found 320 litres of rectified spirit packed in 16 plastic cans and 520 litres of arrack.
16 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephant found dead||A wild elephant was found dead near Thenkanikottai in Hosur here on Sunday. District Forest Officer S. Prabhu said a herd of elephants from Banerghatta had been camping at Thalli near the State border for the past few days. Two elephants got separated from the herd and were roaming in Udaidurgam forest areas. One of them, a 35-year-old tusker, was found dead at an agricultural land in Kavipuram on Sunday and the villagers alerted forest officials. A team led by wildlife veterinarian Dr. Prakash conducted the autopsy. Officials said the elephant died due to electrocution from the fences at the agri land.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale vegetable market goes back to Paravai||The Paravai vegetable wholesale market, which was temporarily functioning at Uchapatti-Thoppur Satellite Town Division for the past four months due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, was shifted back to its old premises at Paravai here on Sunday. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, along with District Collector T. Anbalagan and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, inaugurated the re-shifting of the wholesale market to Paravai. A press release from Madurai Central Market Vegetable and Perishable Commodities Merchants Co-ordinated Association said that the market was shifted to Paravai, following relaxation of lockdown norms and the commencement of north-east monsoon. Sales would take place in the market from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m. Separate time slots will be allocated for loading and unloading of vegetables in lorries to avoid crowding inside the market premises. Based on the instructions from the Collector, retail sales will take place temporarily at a spot identified near the market. This will help residents and hoteliers to purchase vegetables without crowding, said the release. All those who enter the market will have to wash their hands using soap or hand sanitisers. They also have to undergo thermal screening and must wear face masks. All safety measures will be followed as per the rules framed by the Collector, Corporation Commissioner and police officials, according to the release.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli registers 44 COVID-19 cases||Madurai recorded 35 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,318. A total of 49 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 362. The district recorded one death, taking Madurai's death toll to 429. Virudhunagar district reported 13 new cases that took the total number of positive cases to 15,682. Meanwhile, with the discharge of nine more patients, the total number of patients who have been discharged till date has increased to 15,363. The death toll in the district remained at 225 with 94 active cases. Theni saw 20 new cases and the tally moved to 16,439. There were 24 discharges from hospitals, 65 active cases and 193 have succumbed to the virus. Dindigul recorded 38 new cases and the tally stood at 10,055. The hospitals have discharged 44 people, 144 active cases were undergoing treatment and so far 189 patients have died. Sivaganga saw 22 new cases taking the tally to 6,149. There were 31 discharges from the hospitals, 143 active cases and 126 people had died. Ramanathapuram saw 11 new cases after which the tally moved to 6,124. The hospitals have discharged 12 patients. Till date, there were 61 active cases and 130 people had died due to the virus in the district. Southern districts Thoothukudi had 33 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 15,467. There were 56 discharges, 274 active cases and 135 persons have succumbed to the virus till date. Tirunelveli accounted for 44 new cases and the total number of cases moved to 14,603. The district discharged 38 patients from hospitals after treatment, 273 active cases remained and 209 have died, according to the medical bulletin. Kanniyakumari saw 46 new cases and the tally moved to 15,412. The hospitals discharged 83 patients, there were 209 active cases and 249 people have died due to the virus. Tenkasi recorded 11 fresh cases taking the tally to 7,937. The hospitals discharged 18 people, 65 active cases were undergoing treatment and 155 have died.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Poor patronage for government and private omni buses||The patronage for private omni buses has been lower during this festival season when compared to previous years with the occupancy ratio standing at around 60%, say bus operators. Similarly, patronage was poor for the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) buses, say officials. R. Muthusamy, president of Madurai Omni Bus Owners Association, says that while usually around 120 private omni buses operate from Madurai, only around 30 buses were being operated currently, in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “Although a limited number of buses are plying, only up to 60% of seats are filled in most of the buses as customer patronage has been lower this Deepavali festival,” he says. While many bus operators had initially doubled the ticket fare for Sunday and Monday, some started reducing the ticket fare from Sunday afternoon due to poor patronage, says M. Bala, an agent. With Chennai being one of the major bus routes for omni buses, the current practice of working from home for employees of Information Technology companies in Chennai, has been the major reason for low demand for omni buses, says A. Mydeen Basha, a bus operator. “The closure of colleges and other educational institutions has also affected the passenger footfall. The movement of tourists during this period has also drastically reduced after the spread of COVID-19 pandemic,” he says. Many people are travelling to other districts by private vehicles including cars and two-wheelers, says A. Sundara Pandian, a bus operator. “COVID-19 safety precautions like complete disinfection of buses before the commencement and end of each trip, usage of face masks by passengers and providing sanitisers to the passengers are strictly followed. But, people are still scared to travel in buses,” he says. The spending capacity of people has also reduced due to the financial distress caused by COVID-19 pandemic, he adds. Although, the government had issued guidelines instructing that buses must operate with only 50% occupancy, the bus operators try to completely fill the buses to cover the expenses, says Mr. Muthusamy. No subsidies “While the government has not announced any subsidies for bus operators, it becomes difficult to operate buses with 50% occupancy ratio. But, most buses have only up to 60% occupancy ratio,” he adds. Sources from the transport department say that even TNSTC and SETC buses were being operated with nearly 100% occupancy ratio. A senior official from the SETC says that a total of 58 buses was being operated between Madurai and Chennai. There has been at least a 40% dip in passenger footfall when compared to previous years, he says. However, patronage for city buses saw an increase because of the Deepavali festival, says a senior TNSTC official. “Many people from rural areas travelled to the core city spots for their Deepavali shopping,” the official pointed out.  Initially, many bus operators doubled the ticket fare for Sunday and Monday, but seeing the poor patronage from Sunday afternoon some operators started reducing the fare M. Bala An agent
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||154 cases registered in Madurai||Madurai City Police have booked 154 cases for violating the rules pertaining to bursting of crackers. Based on the Supreme Court’s directive on reducing pollution on Deepavali day, the State Government had issued certain guidelines on bursting of crackers. The government had asked people to burst only green crackers. It had also issued timings for bursting crackers. “As per the Government order, people were allowed to burst crackers only for two hours on Deepavali day-- between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m.” a police officer said. Stating that every police station had registered cases against those who violated the Supreme Court order, a police officer said that in order not to disturb the celebrations, the police booked those who were causing trouble to others by bursting crackers on the road or in a drunken mood. The police have booked them under various Sections of Indian Penal Code -- Section 188 for violating the order duly promulgated by a public servant, Section 268 for causing public nuisance that could endanger others lives and under Section 285 for negligent conduct with respect to fireworks. The police arrested these people under these sections and they were then let go on personal bail.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Kanda Sashti festival begins||The seven-day Kanda Sashti festival commenced at Subramaniya Swamy Temple at Tirupparankundram here on Sunday, with the ‘kaapu kattudhal’ ceremony for the deity. An official from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department said that devotees were not allowed to tie the ‘kaapu’ (holy thread) inside the temple due to COVID-19 pandemic. “Devotees were allowed only for a darshan inside the temple. While usually hundreds of devotees would be allowed to stay within the temple premises during the festival, this year they will not be allowed to stay inside the temple due to COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. A large number of devotees made a beeline for the Poonga Murugan Temple near Gandhi Museum here on Sunday, to tie the ‘kaapu’ as part of the Kandha Sashti festival. Temple beshkar Meenakshi Sundaram said that around 2,000 devotees tied the ‘kaapu’ at the temple on Sunday. 'Soorasamharam', the highlight of Kanda Sashti festival, will take place on November 20.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||2 firemen killed while fighting blaze in Madurai textile shop||Two firemen, P. Krishnamoorthy, 31, and K. Sivarajan, 33, were killed after the roof of a textile shop collapsed on them while they were battling a fire in the early hours of Saturday. Two other firemen, M. Chinna Karuppu, 30, and R. Kalyana Kumar, 37, who were also trapped under the debris of the building, however, managed to come out, and were admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Director of Fire and Rescue Services, Jaffer Sait, who rushed to Madurai, paid his last respects to the two men, and offered condolences to their family members. He also visited the injured in the hospital and went to the accident site on Saturday. Firemen from various fire stations were deputed at various vantage points in the city as a precautionary measure during Deepavali. Textile shops in busy bazaar areas of the old city were shut at 1 a.m. Just as the firemen, who were on duty right from the evening, were getting ready to head home, they received an alert about a fire at Sanjay Textile, on Navabath Khana Street, off South Masi Street, at around 2.30 a.m. Immediately, three fire tenders, stationed at different locations, rushed in and started battling the flames. As the fire that broke out on the ground floor had spread to the first floor too, firemen started to cool off the building using ladders, placed against the opposite building, said Madurai station fire officer R. Venkatesan. “Four of our men had gone into the shop and were spraying water from the ground floor, when the first floor came down crashing,” he said. While Mr. Karuppu and Mr. Kumar managed to come out, Krishnamoorthy and Sivarajan were trapped inside. Earth movers were rushed to the spot, and after clearing the debris, the firemen were pulled out. They, however, succumbed to the injuries. “Since the building was over 50-years-old, the Madras roofing structure caved in,” DFO Kalyanakumar said. The police have registered a case. Makkal Needhi Maiam on Sunday demanded that the State government enhance the relief to the families of the two firefighters who died, to Rs. 1 crore each, and a government job to their kin.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||815 tonnes of garbage cleared||Around 815 tonnes of garbage, mainly consisting of the waste generated from bursting crackers during Deepavali, has been cleared from 100 wards of the city on Saturday evening and Sunday. A Corporation official said that while around 398 tonnes of garbage was cleared on Saturday, around 417 tonnes of garbage was lifted on Sunday. “A total of 2,100 conservancy workers were deployed to clear garbage from commercial areas and main streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple on Saturday evening. Around 4,100 conservancy workers were engaged on Sunday for removal of garbage from the entire city,” he said. Highest quantum of garbage was collected from Zone 4. The maximum waste was lifted from the four Masi Streets, Aavani Moola Streets, Chithirai Streets, Kamarajar Salai, Nelpettai and Arasaradi, said the official. Pandiammal, a conservancy worker who was on duty on Saturday, said that residents often dumped waste outside the dumper bins, even when the bins were empty. “Most people throw away burnt crackers carelessly and conservancy workers tend to get hurt. It would be better if people take efforts in disposing burnt crackers in a safe manner,” she said.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Firemen disappointed over relief||Even as the State Government announced Rs. 25 lakh solatium to the families of the deceased, firemen have expressed their anguish through social media about the amount of relief being given. Two firemen – Krishnamoorthy, a 2013-batch fireman from Tiruppuvanam, and Sivarajan, who belonged to 2009 batch, a father of two small sons – were killed in the fire accident reported in the early hours of Saturday. “While a policeman, who was killed in a bomb attack few months back in Thoothukudi, was given Rs. 50 lakh, why should firemen, who sacrificed their lives during the call of duty be discriminated against,” one of them said. Check begins Meanwhile, the Director (Fire and Rescue) has instructed the officials to inspect all the textile shops in the city to check their stability and whether they had installed minimum fire-fighting equipment/system in place. An official said that textile shops were over stocking inflammable materials and were also keeping them on the staircase, in violation of fire safety rules.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||water mdu||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 122.45 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 834 cusecs and a discharge of 1,167 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 49.80 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 965 cusecs and a discharge of 69 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 4,373 mcft. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Peranai 6, Gudalur 3.4, Shanmuganathi dam 2.5, Uthamapalayam 1 and Kodaikanal 0.6.
16 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death||B. Muruganandam, 24, of Uthangudi was beheaded by an unidentified gang near St. Mary’s Church junction on Sunday. The police said that the deceased, a police constable aspirant, had been preparing himself for the examination. He left home at around 3.30 p.m. on Sunday. He had told his mother that he was going for a combined study. Sources said his family had moved to Madurai from Kamuthi recently. They suspect that the murder could have been committed due to mistaken identity. One of his friends, Muniyasamy, sustained stab injuries in the attack. “Two other friends who had come with him are absconding”, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), R. Shiva Prasad. The perpetrators of the murder and the motive behind the crime were yet to be established. Keeraithurai police are investigating.
16 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Special drive for summary revision of electoral rolls||The Election Department will carry out a special drive for summary revision of photo electoral rolls aimed at publishing the final electoral roll for the Union Territory by January 20, as per a directive of the Election Commission of India. A press note from Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh said the revision drive would reference January 1, 2021, as qualifying date for all the Assembly Constituencies in the Union Territory of Puducherry, as per the following schedule. The publication of integrated draft electoral roll is scheduled for November 16 and the period for filing claims and objections will be from Monday to December 15. The special campaign dates are November 28 (Saturday) and 29 (Sunday), December 12 (Saturday) and 13 (Sunday). The disposal of claims and objections will be undertaken by January 5, checking of health parameters and obtaining Commission's permission for final publication by January 14 and updating database and printing of supplements and final publication of electoral roll on January 20. The applications for inclusion, objections to inclusion, and corrections in entries can be filed through voterportal.eci.gov.in. This service is fully free of cost. The electors can also obtain forms and submit filled forms at the respective polling stations, office of The Electoral Registration Officers / Asst. Electoral Registration Officers from November 16 to December 15 and also on the aforementioned four special campaigns days.  Produce documents The applicants will have to produce any one of the following documents as proof of their ordinary residence to get registered as electors in the respective Assembly constituency. First-time voters require copy of the EPIC of the father/mother, copy of proof of birth (Birth Certificate/TC). The left out/migrated electors require a copy of the EPIC of their immediate relative, copy of the EPIC issued to them at the previous place of residence, copy of proof of birth (birth certificate/TC), copy of Bank Kisan or Post Office/bank current pass book or ration card or passport or driving license or Income Tax assessment order or latest water/telephone /electricity /gas connection bill for that address either in the name of the applicant or in the name of his/her immediate relation or postal department's posts received /delivered in the applicant's name at the given address. The declaration in Form 6 indicating the address of the previous place of residence should be mandatorily filled. According to the CEO, as per law, only names of citizens ordinarily resident in the area concerned will be included in the voters list and hence names of shifted voters will be deleted, even if they possess EPIC. Therefore, whenever a voter shifts residence, he/she has to apply for enrolment in the Assembly constituency of current residence and has to furnish details of previous residence without fail.
16 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Health officials in U.T. plan to ramp up random testing||When the course of the COVID-19 pandemic in the region will largely be determined over the post-Deepavali fortnight, health officials plan to ramp up random testing across multiple locations. The arrival of a mass-participation festival like Deepavali at a time when the health administration has been able to lower the COVID-19 caseload as well as related deaths may prove to be a double-edged sword as large number of people had confidently ventured out on the days leading up to the festival of lights. On Sunday, the Union Territory posted only 25 new cases though the test numbers were also low at 475 samples. The number of active cases also slipped below the 1,000 mark for the first time in several months. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The overall tally in the Union Territory was 608 deaths, 984 active cases, a cumulative total of 36,324 cases and 34,732 recovered patients. Starting Monday, the Health Department will be ramping up testing across the city. “We will have to maintain high testing volumes probably till the end of the month to be able to definitively rule out a second surge,” said S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health. Case analysis The COVID war room will also be monitoring neighbourhoods where cases surface in a bunch. “Based on case analysis by the war room, we have been able to quickly deploy three-pronged interventions in potential hotspots with teams carrying out intensive testing, enforcement and awareness,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary. The target is to ramp up testing to between 4,000 to 5,000 every day at least over the next fortnight. The department has formed ten joint mobile enforcement teams comprising officials drawn from health, police and revenue departments who are covering the length and breadth of the city every day to carry out random tests. Shopping zones, malls, markets and the beach are among the high-footfall sites where random testing is being carried out. An awareness campaign for the festive season is also carried out aimed at spreading the core prevention message of masking, social distancing and hand-sanitising across vantage locations. On Deepavali day, the celebrations were probably on a scale bigger than previous years with the city turning on the pyrotechnics virtually through the day, almost as if the residents were venting their frustration over the hardships induced by the pandemic in the preceding months — this was in spite of restrictions on timings that stipulated bursting of firecrackers only between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. With tourists filing in over the weekend, the Promenade Beach was chock-a-block towards the evening hours posing a crowd management challenge in the times of a pandemic for police teams in deployment at the premises.
16 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||School launches e-learning app||Amalorpavam Higher Secondary School has launched an e-learning app that consumes less data and is user-friendly for students, especially in the remote learning environment prevailing in the pandemic. While most of the online classes these days were being held through Zoom, Google Meet and Microsoft Teams, wherein students face interrupted network connectivity, the advantage of the ‘Amal Vision’ app was that it allowed students to stream vidoes without burning data, a press note from the school said. For instance, a single HD video streamed on YouTube consumes approximately 750–800 MB whereas viewing the same video file with high quality resolution on the app will consume a maximum of 200 – 250 MB only. While launching the app, S.A. Lourdusamy, founder, correspondent & senior principal of Amalorpavam Higher Secondary School and Amalorpavam Lourds Academy, Puducherry, said that another feature of the app is file compression where video files provide buffering-free experience. The online videos can be downloaded to the device’s internal storage and the students can watch their classes at their own convenient time without any bandwidth problem. The app has a special monitoring system which tracks the exact duration of the students watching the videos, thereby assisting the school to keep track of those taking up the online classes. The students can raise their doubts at any time and the doubts will be immediately answered by the teachers. Students can log in to the app with a combination of their registration number and birth date.
16 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CAP denies violations in construction of stadium||The Cricket Association of Pondicherry has refuted all allegations in the construction of Seichem Cricket Stadium at Thuthipet. Honarary Secretary of Cricket Association of Pondicherry V. Chandran, in a release on Saturday, said the promoters did not encroach or trespass or use any waterbody in the construction of the stadium. It might be recalled that Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi had directed District Collector to initiate action against the promoters for “irregularities,” in the project. “Out of around 45 acres of leased land, only three acres is government land inside our campus. That’s kept as greenfield with government authorities’ permission,” he said. The promoters had filed necessary applications with fees paid to the concerned government authorities. “We are of the opinion that there is absolutely no problem with the construction. Some RTI activists have started false propaganda with vested interests. Clarifications in this regard were given to Lt Governor,” Mr. Chandran said. Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao and Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy on Saturday night visited the stadium and watched the ongoing T-20 match. Mr. Rao, who is also handling sports portfolio, said the Lt Governor was unnecessarily interfering in this affair. The government will provide all support to Cricket Association, he said.
16 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors take charge in south||Dinesh Ponraj Oliver assumed office as the new Collector of Ramanathapuram district here on Sunday. He told reporters that the best practices adopted in the management of the covid-19 virus had resulted in keeping the numbers well under control till date. “I will work with all the heads of the departments and ensure that covid-19 continued to be effectively distanced and sought the people's cooperation in this mission since it was a Herculean task,” he added. He said that he would focus on carrying forward the government's programmes — development and welfare aspects to the people. Establishing industries in the district, which would provide job opportunities to the youth, school education and health aspects would also get special attention, he added. Prior to the new posting, he had served as Director, Rehabilitation & Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils, Chennai. Earlier, Collector K Veera Raghava Rao handed over the charge to Mr. Oliver. Sivaganga P. Madhusudhan Reddy has assumed charge as the Collector of Sivaganga district here on Saturday. Prior to the new posting, he had served as Deputy Commissioner, (Health) Greater Chennai Corporation, Joint Commissioner Land Reforms, Sub-Collector, Dindigul and Perambalur districts and AC (training) Vellore district. A 2011 batch IAS officer, Mr. Reddy took over from J. Jayakanthan, who has been posted as Director, Fisheries and Managing Director TN Fisheries Corporation, Chennai. In a brief interaction with media persons, the new Collector said that he would accord priority to development work, COVID-19 management and ensure that the State government’s welfare assistance reached the needy in the district. After holding a meeting with officials, he visited the isolation ward at the government medical college hospital and inquired with the doctors about the number of active cases among other things, a press release said. On Sunday, the Collector visited Tirupuvanam in the district and consoled the family members of P. Krishnamurthy, attached with the TN Fire & Rescue Services Department. While he was fighting a fire accident in Madurai, he died. The Collector paid homage by laying a wreath. He was accompanied by District Revenue Officer K. Latha, Project Director S. Vadivel, MLA S. Nagarajan and others. Tirunelveli V. Vishnu assumed office as the new Collector of Tirunelveli district here on Sunday. The 2011 batch IAS officer had served as Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation. He had also served as Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi. Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has been transferred as Joint Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Chennai. She was posted here in May 2018 and was instrumental in enhancing waterbodies, especially the Tamirabharani. In a brief interaction with reporters, Mr. Vishnu, the 37th Collector of the district, said that he was aware of the issues and priorities of the district. When reporters raised a volley of questions, on the Smart City, among issues, he said he would list out his priorities soon after a review with the officials concerned. Radhapuram MLA Inbadurai greeted the new Collector. Tenkasi G.S. Sameeran, a 2012 batch IAS officer, took over as the new Collector of Tenkasi district here on Sunday. The district, which was formed in November 2019 by bifurcating Tirunelveli district, had G.K. Sundar Thayalan as the first Collector. The new Collector Dr Sameeran served as Fisheries Director in Chennai prior to the new posting. Thoothukudi K. Senthil Raj, 2012 batch IAS officer, took charge as the new Collector of Thoothukudi district. Prior to that, he served as Mission Director, National Health Mission. His predecessor Sandeep Nanduri, who was here since May 2018, was posted as Collector Thiruvannamalai district. In a brief chat with reporters, Dr. Senthil Raj said that he would give priority to the development of the district.
16 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public throng tourist spots post-Deepavali||The COVID-19 pandemic did not deter the public from thronging tourist spots and enjoy their Sunday post-Deepavali. Kurumbapatti zoological park, the nearest picnic spot for city dwellers here, was reopened recently and it has brought cheers to visitors, especially children. Long queues were seen in front of the park on Sunday and officials advised the public to maintain physical distance, wear mask and use hand sanitisers. Forest officials said temperature of the visitors was checked and they were asked wet their legs in a tub filled with potassium permanganate solution as a preventive measure. The visitors were also advised not to carry plastic bottles or eatables into the park. The children’s park outside the zoo was closed as a precautionary measure, the officials said. Zoo officials said the park collected Rs. 17,095 on the Deepavali day. About 1,083 adults and 51 children visited the park on Saturday. Yercaud saw heavy flow of tourists from neighbouring districts and from Bengaluru on Sunday, leading to traffic congestion on Ghat Road. Significant number of visitors was noticed at the six parks in Yercaud. Officials said around 3,000 persons visited the parks on Sunday.
16 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Pocket guide to birds launched||Members of the Salem Orinthological Foundation and District Forest Department launched a pocket guide to birds spotted in Salem here on Thursday. Collector S.A. Raman released the guide and Conservator of Forests A. Periasamy and District Forest Officer R. Murugan received the first copies. Mr. Murugan said the guide had been issued to mark the birth anniversary of ornithologist Salim Ali. S.V. Ganeshwar, member of the organisation, said they had included details of 165 commonly spotted birds in Salem and mentioned their characteristics. He said they were ready to donate the guides to government school students and it could be bought online for Rs. 25.
16 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Teenager arrested for murder||The Salem City Police on Sunday arrested a 17-year-old boy for allegedly murdering his relative. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Yuvaraj (30) of Angammal Kovil Street here. He was living with his grandfather and the 17-year-old nephew. On Saturday, Yuvaraj advised his nephew to give up liquor and this led to a quarrel between them. Later, the teenager hit Yuvaraj’s head with a stone while he was sleeping and fled the place. Neighbours alerted the Annadhanapatti police. The boy was arrested on Sunday.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage heaps found across Tiruchi||Tiruchi residents woke up to unsavoury scenes of heaps of garbage on Sunday with the generation of trash of crackers, plastics and food leftovers. Piled up cracker waste, plastics used for wrapping crackers, boxes, food leftovers and domestic waste were a common sight at Srirangam, Woraiyur, Thiruvanaikoil, Varaganeri, East Boulevard Road, Cantonment, Thillai Nagar, K.K. Nagar, Karumandapam, Bheema Nagar and many other places in the city. Garbage generated on commercial streets, including NSB Road, Super Bazaar, Chinna Kadai Street, Big Bazaar, Main Guard Gate, Singarathope and Chathiram Bus Stand, also added to the regular garbage. According to a senior official of the Corporation, the city generates about 450 tonnes of solid waste on a normal day. It was added by about 50 to 70 tonnes of garbage on Saturday generated on account of Deepavali. Though the additional collection could not be termed as a real burden, the accumulation of garbage generated on Friday, the day prior to Deepavai, has actually added to the burden. Around 1,000 tonnes According to a rough estimate, the total garbage piled up in the city on Friday and Saturday is said to be around 1,000 tonnes. The officials made it a point to collect at least 60 % to 70% of garbage on the next day after Deepavali in recent years. But it is claimed that they could not repeat it this year as the next day of Deepavali happened to be a Sunday. Being a holiday, only 50% of regular sanitary workers of the Corporation reported for duty. The contract employees, who generally take weekly off on Sunday, also did not turn up for duty. The intermittent rain compounded the woes of the civic body. Sanitary workers said the garbage, particularly papers, were soggy and it was not conducive to remove the drenched garbage. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that nearly 30% of the garbage generated on Friday and Saturday had been cleared with the deployment of regular workers. The entire strength of sanitary workers would be involved in garbage clearance and disposal duty on Monday. Equal importance would be given to clearing garbage piled up on commercial, residential and interior areas, he said.
16 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nod for electric loco-hauled trains||Statutory clearance has been given for introduction of electric locomotive-hauled passenger and freight trains on the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur electrified stretch. Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, Abhai Kumar Rai, gave the clearance after mandatory inspection on the 68-km section on November 11. The official travelled on board a electric loco-hauled special train accompanied by top officers of the Southern Railway, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), and the Tiruchi railway division. A speed trial was also formed the exercise on the same day. The RVNL, a Government of India enterprise, had executed the project on the entire mainline section from Villupuram junction to Thanjavur junction via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam in phases. The last portion was the stretch from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur. The entire project on the mainline section was executed at a cost of around Rs. 300 crore. Railway officials said the authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety for introduction of electric loco-hauled passenger and freight trains on the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur energised stretch came on Friday. The clearance has paved the way for operation of electric loco hauled passenger trains on the entire mainline section from Thanjavur to Villupuram and from thereon to Chennai. Passenger and freight trains hauled by diesel locomotives were being operated all these years on the old mainline section which has a single track. Cto the authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Railway commenced operation of some electric loco-hauled express trains such as Tiruchi - Chennai - Tiruchi expresses via mainline section, Mysore - Mayiladuthurai express via Thanjavur and Kumbakonam, Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi expresses on November 14.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor worth Rs. 17.52 crore sold during weekend||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) has sold liquor worth Rs. 17.52 crore on Friday and Saturday through its outlets across the district this Deepavali. Though liquor sales on weekends used to be high throughout the year, the sales figure for the two days coinciding with the festival was well above the average transaction for the State-run corporation. It registered a sale of Rs. 9.17 crore on Friday, the day before Deepavali. The sales clocked Rs. 8.35 crore on Saturday, the festival day. Huge crowds were seen in most liquor shops on Sunday too. On an average, TASMAC does business to the tune of Rs. 4 crore on weekends. But it was a four-fold increase on Friday and Saturday. Expecting record sales, the TASMAC had filled the racks in its outlets with a variety of bottles Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). “This year Deepavali sales was more than that of last year. However, it cannot be compared with last year’s sales as the rates saw an upward revision a few months ago,” said a TASMAC official. The Sunday sales was also expected to create a record. The field reports suggest that the extent of sales was on expected lines. The brisk liquor sales is likely to continue for a few more days. It might stretch up to the next weekend, TASMAC officials hope.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||40 booked for violating cracker bursting norms||On the basis of time restrictions imposed by the State government on bursting of crackers amid the COVID-19 pandemic, those who were found violating the norms were penalised. Firecrackers were permitted to be burst only between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m., and from 7 p.m to 8 p.m. A large section of the public was unaware of the restrictions as people continued to burst crackers throughout the day, especially in the evening. “People were bursting everything from loud bombs to crackers emitting large extent of smoke. The people have forgotten that COVID is still around,” said K.C. Neelamegam, secretary of Thanneer, a voluntary organisation. Piles of paper and plastic bags were found strewn across the city, Mr. Neelamegam said. “Even though the government has enacted a rule, the people were not informed. Awareness programmes with warning messages should have been organised beforehand so that the people know the intention of the government. The effect on the environment is immense,” he said. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the smoke emitted from the crackers could trigger breathlessness and breathing difficulties for patients, and for non-COVID asthmatic patients. Meanwhile, Tiruchi City Police on Saturday booked 40 persons for bursting crackers beyond the permitted time. “We warned the people through patrolling throughout the stipulated time, and when it was beyond that time, we booked them for violating the norms,” a police official said. Survey on A senior official of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board in Tiruchi said that the department was undertaking a survey at Gandhi Market and Ramalinga Nagar stations in the city to monitor the air quality in the district prior to and post Deepavali to prepare a comprehensive report. “There was no sizeable difference before and during Deepavali. The air quality remains satisfactory. The amount of nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and particulate matter in the air, too, was well below permissible limits,” District Environmental Engineer R. Lakshmi said.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Contests planned for National Library Week celebration||District Central Library in Tiruchi, in association with its Readers’ Forum, plans to celebrate 53rd National Library Week by conducting competitions for children, students and readers. Tamil story-telling contest will be conducted for children below 10 years, and Tamil essay writing competition for students aged above 10, and readers. Children participating in story-telling contest are required to record their videos, not exceeding five minutes, and send the same to the following WhatsApp numbers: 98945 48445, 94436 73565 and 82207 12329 by 5 p.m. on November 18, with details encompassing name, date of birth, class and the residential address, District Library Officer A.P. Sivakumar said in a press release. Topics for Tamil essay contest constitute ‘Corona kalathil katrathum, petrathum’ for 6th to 8th standard. students; ‘Padithen Viyanthen’ for 9th to 12th standard students; and ‘Entha noolkal ethanal pidikkum’ for readers. The essays should be in the format of a minimum of 20 lines per page, not exceeding six pages. All the entries bearing the name, class, date of birth, mobile phone number and the complete address must be submitted to The Librarian, District Central Library, 144, West Boulevard Road, Singarathoppu, Tiruchi 620 008 either in person or through post within 5 p.m. on November 18 The top 10 entries of essay contest in each of the three groups will be invited for a personal interaction, to be held on November 20 at the District Central Library. Based on the interactions, the top three prize winners will be chosen. The first, second and third prize winners in both the categories of story-telling and essay contests will get shields and certificates, the release said. Additional information will be provided over phone: 0431 2702242.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in COVID-19 cases in central region, no deaths||The central districts on Sunday recorded 163 fresh cases of COVID-19. The region recorded no death, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID cases in the region with 39 patients testing positive. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 31 new COVID cases. In Thanjauvr, the patients were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and those with a history of respiratory illnesses, while in Tiruchi, patients were from existing containment zones or those who were in self-isolation. In Karur, the 28 new cases included patients from Thanthonrimalai, Santhanakalipuram and Kulithalai. Meanwhile, five patients were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur on Sunday after recovering from the infection. At present, 19 patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital. Meanwhile, in Tiruvarur, 24 fresh cases were reported while in Nagapattinam, 21 patients tested positive. Pudukottai reported a sharp decline with 14 fresh cases on Sunday. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Ariyalur also reported a further drop in cases with only four fresh cases for the viral infection. Among the patients who tested positive, one person each were from Ariyalur, Sendurai, Andimadam and Jayankondam. The addition of these patients further increased the total number of COVID-19 recorded in the district to 4,502. The total number of containment zones in the district was reduced to six. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, only two patients - one each from Perambalur and Alathur blocks - tested positive. Meanwhile, a total of 351 throat swabs were lifted at government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
16 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tipsy man drives away bus in Tiruchi||A tipsy man who created a flutter by driving away a State Transport Corporation bus from the Central Bus Stand here on Sunday was later found to be undergoing psychiatric treatment. After passengers alighted from the bus that had come from Karur, the man, in his early thirties, who was identified as Ajit Kumar, took the driver’s seat.   Refreshment break The driver and the conductor, who had taken a refreshment break, noticed the bus on the move and rushed inside to prevent further movement. A traffic police constable, who noticed the incident, also boarded the bus and stopped it after the vehicle had covered a short distance. The intoxicated man was taken to the Cantonment Crime Police station by the bus crew. During inquiry, it was found that he was in an intoxicated state after smoking marijuana (ganja). Police said he had been undergoing psychiatric treatment. The police registered a case and are conducting further investigation.  During inquiry, it was found that the man was in an intoxicated state due to smoking ganja
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Banned plastic bags are back||With street vendors and small shops hoping to make a quick buck during the festival season, plastic bags to pack their wares have returned. With authorities focussing on controlling the spread of COVID-19, the banned material has returned to markets. While most large textile shops and grocers have made the switch to cloth bags and other sustainable options, the small vendors are yet to do so. “Unlike big stores, we cannot afford to charge our customers an extra Rs. 5 or 10 for a bag. If we do not give them bags to carry the products, they will go to another shop,” said Lakshmi, a fruit vendor at Woraiyur market. The Corporation had, in 2018, banned the use of single-use plastics, including carry bags, cups, straws, a year ahead of the government ban announced in January 2019. Since then the civic body conducted searches, seized these items and slapped fine on those selling them. “However, there has been a lapse over the last few months. When we asked the vendors where they buy the bags from, they said it was available in bulk in Dindigul,” said K.C. Neelamegam, secretary of Thanneer, a voluntary organisation. Some vendors said that while customers used to bring their own bags earlier, many insist on plastic bags nowadays. “A customer who regularly purchases groceries from me asked if I could pack all the items in a plastic bag. She said that to avoid the spread of COVID-19, they would dispose of them after reaching home,” said another vendor. The only viable solution is to ensure stringent laws are enacted. “Hefty fines and even imprisonment will instil fear and ensure that the norms are followed,” Mr. Neelamegam said. Awareness programmes must also be conducted, specifically targeting street vendors, he said.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Aged couple found dead in house||An aged couple were found dead in their house at SIMCO Colony in E. Pudur area here on Sunday. R. Mohandass, 70, was found hanging while his wife M. Sumathi, 65, was found dead on a mat. The couple’s son, who resided in the upper portion of the house with his family, got suspicious after his parents did not come out in the morning. He peeped through the window and found his parents dead and informed the police who broke open the door. Post-mortem was conducted at the Government Hospital. The health of the woman, who had been taking treatment for breast cancer, had deteriorated, it is learnt. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
16 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Sunday stood at 94.15 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,520 cusecs and the discharge 3,001 cusecs.
16 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors assume office||V. Vishnu assumed office as the new Collector of Tirunelveli district here on Sunday. The 2011 batch IAS officer had served as Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation. He had also served as Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi. Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has been transferred as Joint Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Chennai. She was posted here in May 2018 and was instrumental in enhancing waterbodies, especially the Tamirabharani. In a brief interaction with reporters, Mr. Vishnu, the 37th Collector of the district, said that he was aware of the issues and priorities of the district. When reporters raised a volley of questions, on the Smart City, among issues, he said he would list out his priorities soon after a review with the officials concerned. Radhapuram MLA Inbadurai greeted the new Collector. Tenkasi G.S. Sameeran, a 2012 batch IAS officer, took over as the new Collector of Tenkasi district here on Sunday. The district, which was formed in November 2019 by bifurcating Tirunelveli district, had G.K. Sundar Thayalan as the first Collector. The new Collector Dr Sameeran served as Fisheries Director in Chennai prior to the new posting. Thoothukudi  K. Senthil Raj, 2012 batch IAS officer, took charge as the new Collector of Thoothukudi district here on Sunday. Prior to that, he served as Mission Director, National Health Mission. His predecessor Sandeep Nanduri, who was here since May 2018, has been posted as Collector Thiruvannamalai district. In a brief chat with reporters, Dr. Senthil Raj said that he would give priority to the development of the district.  Ramanathapuram Dinesh Ponraj Oliver assumed office as the new Collector of Ramanathapuram district here on Sunday. He told reporters that the best practices adopted in the management of the covid-19 virus had resulted in keeping the numbers well under control till date. “I will work with all the heads of the departments and ensure that covid-19 continued to be effectively distanced and sought the people's cooperation in this mission since it was a Herculean task,” he added. He said that he would focus on carrying forward the government's programmes — development and welfare aspects to the people. Establishing industries in the district, which would provide job opportunities to the youth, school education and health aspects would also get special attention, he added. Prior to the new posting, he had served as Director, Rehabilitation & Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils, Chennai. Earlier, Collector K Veera Raghava Rao handed over the charge to Mr. Oliver. Sivaganga P. Madhusudhan Reddy has assumed charge as the Collector of Sivaganga district here on Saturday. Prior to the new posting, he had served as Deputy Commissioner, (Health) Greater Chennai Corporation, Joint Commissioner Land Reforms, Sub-Collector, Dindigul and Perambalur districts and AC (training) Vellore district. A 2011 batch IAS officer, Mr. Reddy took over from J. Jayakanthan, who has been posted as Director, Fisheries and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Fisheries Corporation, Chennai. In a brief interaction with media persons, the new Collector said that he would accord priority to development work, COVID-19 management and ensure that the State government’s welfare assistance reached the needy in the district. After holding a meeting with officials, he visited the isolation ward at the government medical college hospital and inquired with the doctors about the number of active cases among other things, a press release said. On Sunday, the Collector visited Tirupuvanam in the district and consoled the family members of P. Krishnamurthy, attached with the TN Fire & Rescue Services Department. While he was fighting a fire accident in Madurai, he died. The Collector paid homage by laying a wreath. He was accompanied by District Revenue Officer K. Latha, Project Director S. Vadivel, MLA S. Nagarajan and others.
16 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||water||Water level in Papanasam dam was 100.80 feet (143 ft) with an inflow of 2242.76 cusecs and a discharge of 1,389.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 81.60 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 1120 cusecs and a discharge of 75 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was as follows: Papanasam: 20, Servalar: 11, Manimuthar: 3, Cheranmahadevi: 2.40, Radhapuram: 19, Nanguneri: 2, Palayamkottai: 6 and Tirunelveli recorded 3 mm rainfall, PWD officials said.
16 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand repair of damaged road||Residents of Colony Mattam in Adhigaratty panchayat near Coonoor have appealed to the local panchayat to repair the highly damaged road connecting the village to Ketti Palada, the nearest village. According to local residents, the road has become extremely damaged after recent rain. “As mud and soil from nearby farms gets washed down onto the road, it becomes extremely treacherous to drive through the stretch for motorists,” said S. Mani, a local resident. The road gets damaged each year during the rain, say the residents, and called on the Adhigaratty panchayat to find a lasting solution to the problems. “This road is extremely useful during the tourist season, as people travelling to Kundah can use the road to pass through, so it makes sense for the road to be maintained,” said Paul Joseph, another resident. As buses do not ply to the village, most residents of Colony Mattam, numbering around 25 families, have to walk through slushy road each year to Ketti Palada. Residents said that school children too have to walk to the village to board their school buses.  Inter-lock bricks “Some stretches of road, which get washed away each year can be replaced with inter-lock bricks so that they do not get damaged each year,” said another resident, calling on the local panchayat to re-lay the roads.
16 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||44 persons test positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,724 with 44 new cases reported on November 15. While a total of 18,173 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 229. The district's death toll is 322. In Ranipet district, 36 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,336. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,041 with 24 new cases on Sunday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 26 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,256. Out of this, 17,651 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 336.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. sees decline in cases||Salem district reported 87 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, of which 70 were indigenous including 39 in the Corporation limits. Seventeen patients returned from Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri and Namakkal. In Namakkal district, all the 43 cases reported were indigenous. In Erode, 59 indigenous cases and one death were reported. In Krishnagiri, 27 persons tested positive and in Dharmapuri, 13. Decline Coimbatore district reported 171 new cases, registering a decline from Saturday’s 182 cases. The district had 886 patients under institutional care as on Sunday. The Health Department said that 253 persons were discharged on Sunday. The district’s toll increased to 586 with the death of a 70-year-old patient. In Tiruppur district, 73 persons tested positive on Sunday. A total of 181 persons were discharged and the district has 765 persons under treatment. The district reported 76 cases on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 23 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,112. The toll in the district so far was 41. According to the district administration, as many as 192 persons are undergoing treatment.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three killed, four injured after walls collapse in cylinder blast||Two women and an eight-year-old boy were killed and four others critically injured after a wall collapsed due to an LPG cylinder blast in Arni, Tiruvannamalai district, on Sunday morning. The victims have been identified as Kamakshi, 38, her son Hemanth, 8, and their neighbour Chandrammal, 59. The injured, two of whom sustained burns due to the explosion, have been admitted to Government Vellore Medical College Hospital. The police have registered a case and further investigations are on. According to police, Muktha Bai, 55, owns a house on Pudhukamur Road in Arni town. She lives with her daughter Meera, 15, in the house. She had let out an adjacent room on rent to Janakiraman, 40, and his family comprising his wife Kamakshi and sons Suresh, 15, and Hemanth. “A very weak wall separates the two houses and another neighbour of Muktha Bai was Chandrammal,” said a police officer. On Saturday night, since it was raining heavily, Muktha is suspected to have closed her kitchen windows before going to sleep. “It is suspected that there was a gas leak in the kitchen and on Sunday morning when she attempted to light the stove without opening the windows, the cylinder exploded,” said a police officer. Damaged in impact In the impact, the entire house was damaged and the walls collapsed. “On one side it fell on Janakiraman and her family and another wall fell on Chandrammal who was sleeping in her house. While Kamakshi, Hemanth and Chandrammal died in the collapse, Mukthabai suffered 90 per cent burns and Meera sustained 50 per cent burn injuries. Janakiraman was also injured and his son Suresh suffered a fracture,” said a police officer. Upon hearing the explosion, neighbours alerted the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) helpline. Fire service personnel rushed to the spot and carried out a rescue operation. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to Arni Government Hospital. Sevoor. S Ramachandran, Minister, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, K. S. Kandasamy, Tiruvannamalai Collector and S. Aravind, SP, Tiruvannamalai all visited the spot. The Arni town police have registered a case. Further investigations are on. CM announces solatium Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday condoled the death of three persons in an LPG gas leak accident in Tiruvannamalai district and announced a solatium. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the three persons, who died in the accident at Arni. He also announced a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to those who suffered serious injuries and Rs. 50,000 to those with minor injuries. The CM has also directed HR&CE Minister Sevvoor S. Ramachandran and Tiruvannamalai Collector to ensure medical treatment who all those injured in the accident. Mr. Palaniswami appealed to the general public to exercise caution while operating stoves with gas cylinders.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pollution levels dip in Chennai this Deepavali||For instance, the TNPCB's manual station in Besant Nagar recorded PM2.5 — particulate matter of 2.5 micron size — of 37 microgram/cubic metre in the ambient air. This was a 24-hour average. Last year, the same station recorded PM2.5 of 58 microgram/cubic metre. This was true of other stations at T. Nagar, Nungambakkam, Triplicane and Sowcarpet as well. However, levels of nitrogen oxide were higher than last year in all the stations. The PM10 recordings ranged from 52 microgram/cubic metre to 111 microgram/cubic metre during Deepavali as against the prescribed standard of 100 microgram/cubic metre. Likewise, the PM2.5 levels ranged from 32 microgram/cubic metre to 59 microgram/cubic metre, the permissible limit being 60 microgram/cubic metre for 24 hours, the TNPCB said. It attributed the reduction in pollution levels to the directives of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal and its own efforts to create awareness. The Board's report said ambient noise levels ranged from 71 to 78 DB during Deepavali. The Central Pollution Control Board’s Sameer App's air quality index (AQI), recorded across seven automatic stations for 24 hours from 4 p.m. on Saturday, showed that the city had an AQI of 98, with PM2.5 and CO as prominent pollutants. Maximum levels touched 500 microgram/cubic metre in Arumbakkam around 9 p.m. At Manali, the highs were around 300 microgram/cubic metre around the same time. Velachery's maximum level was 150 microgram/cubic metre, also recorded around the same time.  Though the State government had stipulated that crackers can be burst between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., there was minimal bursting of crackers in the morning. It was during the evening that people began bursting crackers, from 6 p.m. In most localities, residents said it stopped by 9 p.m., well beyond the time slot. Former member secretary of the TNPCB, K. Karthikeyan, said he was happy that pollution values recorded during Deepavali were low. "At the same time, it is important to arrive at a geo-spatial distribution of pollutants in a 540 sq km area to plan the assimilating capacity of air to hold pollutants in desired ambient standards. This will create awareness among policymakers and people on using crackers at an appropriate time and area," hesaid. Activists said it was high-time that the TNPCB began monitoring more stations for Deepavali and Bhogi. "They have procured equipment worth crores of rupees. We are yet to see that data being made public. Hopefully, by Pongal, we will see data from those 10+ automatic stations," said an activist.  In most localities, residents said the bursting of crackers stopped by 9 p.m., well beyond the time slot stipulated by the government
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Holiday crowd||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Risking life||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali celebration||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader's Mail||Roadside eateries sell snacks like ‘chips,’ ‘vada,’ ‘bajji’ and ‘bonda’ mainly around government offices, private offices and hospitals. Employees of these institutions, public and daily wagers frequent these shops. Unfortunately, the oil used for cooking these snacks is heated repeatedly till it turns dark and unfit for consumption. This is a big threat to consumers. The snacks are also kept in the open exposed to dust. The Health Department officials should check these shops frequently.  M. Sainithii  Madurai   Many industrial parks are located around Chennai. There is no balanced growth across the State. Due to this unhealthy trend, educated youth from the southern districts move to Chennai in search of jobs. Further, the migration of people in large numbers to Chennai makes the living conditions in the State capital worse as the basic services there have already reached a saturation point. Therefore, it is high time that the government sets up new industrial and manufacturing units in southern districts so that Tamil Nadu can become a developed State in its true meaning. The Nanguneri Special Economic Zone and the Gangaikondan IT Park, which were introduced with much fanfare, have not become fully operational. The hurdles to develop the SEZ and the IT park should be removed without any further delay so that they can provide job opportunities to hundreds of youth.  S. Nallasivan  Tirunelveli   Traffic congestion at the five road junction in Bibikulam poses difficulties for vehicle users. The Income Tax office, BSNL office etc. are located here and yet this strategic location lacks an automatic traffic signal. The one that was installed earlier is now defunct. Manual regulation of traffic is difficult. The authorities concerned should look into this problem and reinstall an automatic signal post at the junction.  C. Gunasekaran  Madurai   The Tirunelveli-Tenkasi Road needs a revamp like the Virudhunagar-Kanniyakumari Highway. The road that is frequently used by many people is dilapidated. Repair of the road would be very useful to many office goers.  Adithyan Ramkumar Tenkasi
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The condition of speed-breakers at the roads converging at Karattampatti from where routes branch out towards Manaparai, Puthanampatti, Tiruchi and Thuraiyur requires attention. The speed-breakers at places with poor lighting and absence of signboards need to be painted for the convenience of motorists, particularly so during night hours.  M. Periyamalaiyan,    The width of Utthamarkovil overbridge on the Tiruchi-Namakkal highway has become inadequate for the increasing number of vehicles. Only a few street lights along the stretch of the bridge are functional. Since widening work is being undertaken along the Karur road, there is heavy vehicular traffic on the Uttamarkovil overbridge. The insufficient lighting must be attended to by the authorities concerned for the safety of the travelling public.  Saravanan Natesan,      There are fears that COVID-19 virus will wreak havoc during winter months due to the low humidity level that creates conditions for air-borne spread of the virus. There are known instances of spike in respiratory illnesses such as SARS, influenza and COVID-19 during winter season. As there are festivals ahead, it has become all the more important for people to exhibit COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing diligently.  M.A. Aleem,    Though wearing of face masks and social distancing are the best methods to prevent COVID-19, the carelessness of the people in ignoring the safety norms while thronging marketplaces defies logic. At a time when there must be extreme caution in preventing the spread of infection, it becomes imperative for one and all to adhere to safety guidelines.  S. Raghavan, Cantonment   Service-minded people require guidance on admitting the homeless people, beggars, wandering mentally ill people and destitute women in rehabilitation centres. Many such people are found suffering from hunger in railway stations, Central Bus Stand, Chathiram Bus Stand and Srirangam. The contact numbers of the rehabilitation centres must be publicised in various places of the city.  M. Raja,    Canals branching out from Uyyakondan river are choked with weeds hindering the water flow during the rainy season. The weeds must be removed on a war-footing to prevent overflow of water into residential areas.  Kanagaraj Arthur,   Ramalinganagar South    The work on construction of underground drainage network keeps prolonging in Kumbakonam. Though most of the work is complete, the dug-out roads and ditches cause immense inconvenience to motorists and pedestrians. The public expect the local administration to re-lay roads at places where the underground drainage work has been completed. The poor condition of the roads is the reason for severe traffic congestion at some spots.  S. Krishnan, Thippirajapuram
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Invest in southern districts||Many new industrial units in the State are set up in and around Chennai and there has not been a balanced growth across the State. Due to this unhealthy trend, educated youth from southern districts move to Chennai in search of jobs. Further, the migration of people in large numbers to Chennai makes the living conditions in the State capital worse as the basic services there have already reached a saturation point. Therefore it is high time that the government set up new industrial and manufacturing units in southern districts so that Tamil Nadu can become a developed State in its true meaning. The Nanguneri Special Economic Zone and the Gangaikondan IT Park, which were introduced years ago with much fanfare, have not become fully operational. The hurdles to develop the SEZ and the IT park should be removed without any further delay so that they can provide hundreds of job opportunities to the youth. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli.    The Tirunelveli-Tenkasi Road needs a revamp like the Virudhunagar-Kanniyakumari Highway. The road that is frequently used by many people is dilapidated. Repair of the road would be very useful to many office-goers. Adithyan Ramkumar,  Tenkasi.
16 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ex-MP Ramesh Katti re-elected chariman of Belagavi DCC Bank||Ramesh Katti, former MP and BJP leader, was re-elected chairman of the Belagavi District Central Cooperative (DCC) Bank on Saturday. He was elected unopposed. The present victory makes him the longest-serving head of the cooperative body. His tenure ends in 2025 and he has been the chairman for over 20 years already. Subhash Dhavaleshwar, who was the vice-chairman in the last term, has won another term. His election was also unanimous. Though there were other aspirants like Laxman Savadi, Deputy CM, Anna Saheb Jolle, MP, and Mahantesh Dodagoudar, MLA, senior leaders hammered out an understanding between them. It has been agreed upon that Mr. Savadi will be the bank’s representative at the Apex bank board and Mr. Jolle and Mr. Dodagoudar will play more active roles in the district cooperative sector. Mr. Katti said all the directors had acted as per the directions of the RSS and senior BJP leaders to avoid polling and to ensure unanimous selections. “DCC bank elections in 2015 had led to some differences among leaders and divisions among the party. There were three factions in the district BJP. But, we overcame such differences, and ensured smooth elections,” he said. Umesh Katti, his brother and former Minister, said they avoided elections as the bank was celebrating its centenary year in 2020-21. The results were declared after two rounds of meetings Balachandra Jarkiholi, KMF chairman, held with directors and other leaders in the bank and in a private hotel on Friday and Saturday. Mr. Jarkiholi said all major decisions of the BJP in the district would be taken jointly by the three leaders- Ramesh Jarkiholi, Umesh Katti, and Mr. Savadi. Mr. Savadi said there were no disappointment or dissent in him or other directors. Our leaders wanted us to ensure unanimous elections. They also wanted us to re-elect the outgoing board of directors. As disciplined soldiers of the party, we have done that, he said. He said no decision was taken about the post of the apex bank representative yet.
16 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Leaders gravitating to Jarkiholi raises eyebrows||Several BJP MLAs and leaders seeking out Minister for Medium and Major Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi in the recent past has raised many eyebrows in political circles. While a section of those gravitating towards him are aspirants for berths in the proposed State Cabinet expansion/reshuffle, others are those unhappy with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa family “interfering” in the running of the government. Last week, Mr. Jarkiholi met some BJP legislators, who aspire to join the Cabinet, at his home over dinner. Though he claimed that the meeting was apolitical, few buy that. He also had other visitors at his house, such as the newly-elected MLA Munirathna. On at least three occasions in the recent past, Mr. Jarkiholi has said that his fellow defectors such as Mr. Munirathna and N. Nagaraj (MTB) should be made Ministers. “It is a solemn promise that the party made to them. It needs to be kept,” he had said. Mr. Jarkiholi also makes no bones about his cozy relationship with the Katti brothers, who are upset with the State BJP leadership. He calls Umesh Katti, former Minister, a close friend and guide, and his brother Ramesh Katti, former MP, his childhood friend. “Dissenters are rallying around Mr. Jarkiholi because they are upset with B.Y. Vijayendra, the Chief Minsiter’s son and BJP State vice-president,” said a senior party leader. “Some people in the party and the government think that Mr. Vijayendra is unfairly interfering in everything. They want the party high command to discipline him. They are gathering around Mr. Jarkiholi, hoping he will mobilise support for their cause and reach out to the high command.” Mr. Jarkiholi’s proximity to Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra, is seen as another of his strengths and the reason for his access to the high command. Another leader pointed out the irony of party leaders seeking out Mr. Jarkiholi, a recent migrant, to reach out the top leaders. Some feel there is more to it than meets the eye. “Mr. Jarkiholi, or any other BJP leader worth his salt, cannot do something like encouraging dissenters unless they have the support of the Sangh Parivar or the party high command,” said a BJP leader and former Minister. RSS links Mr. Jarkiholi is said to be in regular touch with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leaders since he convinced them to allow his follower Mahesh Kumathalli to contest from Athani and to nominate Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi to the Legislative Council. “Mr. Jarkiholi may not like to spoil the benefits of this proximity if all this is not sanctioned by the party high command or the Sangh Parivar,” said another leader. Mr. Jarkiholi, however, has dismissed suggestions that he is either involved in or encouraging dissidence. “I have clarified already that the dinner at my home was non-political. I have nothing against Mr. Vijayendra. He is doing his job of party vice- president. He gets the credit for the party’s win in the recent bypolls,” he said.
16 November 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘BJP against dynastic politics’||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s posts against political dynasties led to some debate on social media on Sunday. A post on his social media handles on Saturday said the BJP high command would not allow dynastic politics in the party. Mr. Yatnal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken clearly against dynastic politics. This was seen as a reference to B.Y. Vijayendra, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son. Ayanur Manjunath, BJP leader, said party workers would welcome Mr. Vijayendra as a successor to Mr. Yediyurappa. He also said the party would discipline Mr. Yatnal.
16 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CM has assured help to pay salaries of RTC staff: Savadi||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has assured of help in releasing salaries of workers of State transport undertakings like BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC. He told presspersons here on Sunday that the public transport corporations had no funds to pay salaries of workers as their earnings had hardly improved. We need Rs. 390 crore every month to pay salaries. We are not making that much money. Our current revenue is enough only to fill diesel and keep buses running. STU employees have not been paid for October-November. But the Chief Minister has assured us help, he said.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KLLADS funds: Only 11% spent till end of Sept.||There were as many as 69 questions pertaining to the release of Karnataka Legislators Local Area Development Scheme (KLLADS) during the recent legislature session — an indicator of the anxiety over the delay in their release. However, MLAs seem less anxious to actually spend what is already in the kitty. Data shows that till September-end, they had spent no more than 11%  of the allocated funds on an average. Till the end of September, just about Rs. 88 crore had been spent on local development works, despite a total of Rs. 814 crore being available with the district administrations at the beginning of the year. On an average, just about 11%  of the funds had been utilised by the end of September, with funds in five districts not being spent at all, the data shows. However, under pressure, the government had, last month, released about Rs. 150 crore. It approved another tranche of Rs. 150 crore for the legislators to take up works in their constituencies last week. In the past three years, funds under KLLADS have been trimmed on account of various reasons, including floods, rain damage, and COVID-19 pandemic. Under KLLADS, each of the 225 MLAs and 75 MLCs receive Rs. 2 crore annually (a total of Rs. 600 crore) that can be used for the construction of community halls, for water projects and roadworks, among many other local work. However, during 2019-20 when the State severely battered by rains and floods, which affected 23 districts and left a trail of destruction, the funds were cut down to 50%. In 2018-19, the funds were cut by 25%. “The government has been under pressure from ruling party legislators. Though the State is short on cash because of reduced receipts, the funds were released to keep the legislators in good books,” said a government source.  “The amount earmarked for the legislators’ fund is not big, but it indicates the direction of public expenditure, especially during the pandemic situation. In normal times, we see a progress of about 70%, and it isexpected to come down drastically,” said the source. Though there were efforts to divert the available funds towards pandemic management, the Finance Department did not approve this. “The officials and legislators also did not take up any work under the scheme, resulting in just about Rs. 88 crore being spent till September, including the Rs. 34 crore spent in that month,” added the source.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges get ready for reopening; staff members undergo COVID-19 test||As colleges are set to reopen on Tuesday for final year students, managements who have conducted COVID-19 tests, have asked staff members who have tested positive to isolate themselves and follow the home isolation protocols laid down by the government. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal of the National College, Basavanagudi, said that out of the 70 teaching and non-teaching members who were tested, two tested positive. “We have decided to sanitise the whole college and we will now reopen on November 18,” she said. Regular tests To ensure that COVID-19 infection does not spread on the campus, Bangalore University has decided to conduct regular tests for its students and staff members every fortnight. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said, “Merely asking students and staff members to undergo one test prior to the commencement of classes is not enough. We will have to ensure that they are tested regularly, so that those who are tested positive are isolated and don’t spread the infection to other students and staff,” he said. He also added that theory classes would be conducted only for final year commerce and arts students, while practical classes would be conducted for final year science students. Many decide to wait Colleges are unsure of how many students would attend these classes and have decided to chalk out plans for theory classes only after the practical classes are completed. However, many educational institutions have decided not to start classes immediately.  Practical classes K.N. Subramanya, principal of the R.V. College of Engineering, said they would begin practical classes from next week and then decide whether to conduct classes based on the response from students. “We hope to conduct practicals in batches of 15 students,” he said. Fr. Abraham V., vice-chancellor, Christ deemed to be University, said classes would restart in January and they would conduct semester-end examination in December. He said those who have to write examination have to mandatorily get tested for COVID- 19. “However, the university would give all students the option to write exams online as well,” he said, adding that they wanted to keep the interests of students, particularly those from other Sates, in mind.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deepavali not entirely dimmed by pandemic||The ‘boom” of firecrackers could be heard across the city on Sunday even as people in various areas reported haze. Rain in parts of the city did not dampen bursting of crackers. In many areas, people started bursting firecrackers as soon as it stopped raining on Sunday evening. Meera D., a resident of Malleshpalya, said she could not even step out of her house on Saturday evening as the air outside was thick with the smoke of crackers. “Bursting of crackers went on beyond 11 p.m. What worries us more is the fact that there could be more people bursting crackers on Monday as against on Sunday and Saturday,” she said. Vijay Nishanth, activist and urban conservationist, said enforcement of the ban on the sales of “regular” crackers was not strict and restrictions on the timings of bursting crackers was not at all followed. Regulations a few days before the festival was just an “eyewash”, he said. “Talks and actions on regulating production and transportation of firecrackers should begin months earlier. Until then, nothing is going to change,” he said. N. Deepak, a resident of HSR Layout, said the government’s order to allow the use of only “green crackers” had been “ineffective” because by the time the government specified what “green crackers” meant, many had already purchased firecrackers and arrangements were in place for the sales of all kinds of crackers. “As far as enforcement of timings is concerned, people are hardly aware of it and I do not see anyone taking action against those violating the rules or anyone deployed for its enforcement,” he said. Meanwhile, KSPCB officials said they were facing roadblocks during enforcement. “The other day, when our officials along with the police went to take action against shops that were selling non-green crackers in Rajajinagar, they faced resistance from the public, apart from the sellers,” an official said.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for extorting Rs. 1.25 crore from woman||The Whitefield police have arrested two people for allegedly blackmailing and extorting Rs. 1.25 crore from a woman. The accused, Aparna and Mahesh, have been charged with extortion and criminal intimidation. According to the police, Aparna recently learnt about an alleged pre-marital affair of her friend. The victim, who is married to a businessman and has a son, had shared her secret with Aparna. Aparna hatched a plan to cash in on the information as the victim is well off, the police said. She discussed a plan with her friend Mahesh. Mahesh then started calling the victim posing as her former boyfriend and blackmailed her claiming that he had private pictures and videos of them and would upload them online if his demands were not met, according to the police. Fearing backlash, the victim transferred Rs. 1.25 crore to the account of Aparna. However, the accused continued to demand more money and harassed her. Unable to bear the harassment, the victim narrated her ordeal with her husband, who then complained to the police. Based on the complaint, the police arrested the two accused.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,565 COVID-19 cases reported in State||As many as 1,565 COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka stands at 8.61 lakh. Of the new cases, 840 were reported in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, there were 2,363 were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 8.22 lakh. 21 deaths According to a media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 21 new deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities in the State to 11,529. Out of the total 27,146 active cases, 746 patients are admitted in intensive care units in different hospitals across the State. As many as 99,606 tests were conducted on Saturday and the test positivity rate for the day was 1.57%, while the case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.34%.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hostels to be sanitised||The Social Welfare Department has said that all hostels which had doubled as quarantine centres need to be sanitised “thoroughly” before students return on November 17. The standard operating procedures for reopening of hostels states that preference should be given for students with disability and students from other States to reside in hostels. It also states that only 50% of the total occupancy will be allowed to be filled at a time.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) may see demand within to strengthen second-line leadership||Smarting under a series of poll debacles, including the latest in the Sira bypolls, the Janata Dal (Secular) could be looking into changing strategies for its survival. Insiders say calls might grow louder within the party to strengthen the second-rung leadership and to restrict the influence of the family of party patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda in political affairs, besides making the party more organised. The defeat in Sira, according to sources, has not gone down well in the Gowda clan as the entire family, including the octogenarian leader, was on the ground during the campaigning. Bypassing seniors While Mr. Gowda and his son H.D. Kumaraswamy are the undisputed leaders of the party with a large following, Nikhil Kumaraswamy being allowed to address a rally on the last day of the campaign, bypassing several other leaders on the stage, was seen as a move to stifle others. “He is young and has to learn the ropes by being in the backstage. He has a star value as a film actor, but not as a politician. He can wait,” a miffed legislator said. The serial defeats aside, several legislators — unhappy over being ignored for long or not getting any opportunities when the party was in power — are looking for greener pastures, sparking off concern. A couple of senior legislators kept out of campaigning despite the party’s call. However, the leadership has made it clear that it will not stop those wishing to move out. There is also the threat of Vokkaliga votes getting divided, with another Vokkaliga leader, D.K. Shivakumar, heading the Congress. In fact, the results and vote shares in Sira and R.R. Nagar recently clearly indicated that a significant chunk of Vokkaliga voters had voted for the BJP. The JD(S) has not made serious attempts to revive its fortunes in North Karnataka either. “In many constituencies, the party, instead of nurturing the growth of leaders, waits for an outsider to come and contest. How can the party create a base?” a senior leader asked. “The feeling is that new faces should come from outside the family, which will help nurture the second-rung leadership,” he said, adding that these issues would be conveyed to the party leadership. Research team Structurally, the leader pointed out, a research team has to be set up to understand the pulse of the people on the ground. “We have made wrong choices in the past, but we have the opportunity and time to revive the party. Mr. Gowda is also very keen on having a research team and feels it will help in the party’s revival,” the leader said.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP-JD(S) pact likely in DCC bank election||The JD(S) and the BJP could be headed for an understanding in the election to the post of chairman in Mandya DCC bank, scheduled for Tuesday. JD(S) sources said the BJP could support the regional party in the election to keep the Congress out of power. While the JD(S) has five members, the BJP has three members, and the Congress seven in the 15-member committee, sources said. Discussions between the two parties took place on Friday evening when the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The meeting had triggered speculation in political circles about their increasing proximity; it was their second meeting in the past three months. “The two leaders have inched closer on ties in the DCC bank election,” a source said. The source also said the meeting had not primarily been about the DCC bank elections, but about funds for pending projects in some constituencies represented by JD(S) legislators. Party legislator C.S. Puttaraju was also present with Mr. Kumaraswamy.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cattle being illegally taken to abattoir rescued||The RMC Yard police, in association with members of a city-based NGO, rescued 30 head of cattle that were allegedly being transported in a goods van illegally to a slaughterhouse on Saturday. The police intercepted the van near Goraguntepalya and found 30 head of cattle in it. The driver escaped while his assistant was caught. The accused told the police that he got the cattle from the outskirts and was heading to a Shivajinagar slaughterhouse. The police have booked the accused under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and efforts are on to trace the driver.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Newly-wed found dead||A newly-married woman allegedly ended her life owing to harassment by her husband and in-laws. The deceased has been identified as Ashwini, 25, who married Yuvaraj in February. According to the police, Yuvaraj had consulted an astrologer who predicted that he would not beget children from Ashwini. Since then, he, along with his parents, allegedly harassed Ashwini. Unable to put up with the harassment, she ended her life, the police said.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three cases of eye injury||The State-run Minto Ophthalmic Hospital reported three cases related to eye injury on Sunday. A 13-year-old boy watching people bursting crackers near his house at Sampigehalli Layout was hit by a bijli cracker on his left eye. He has developed lamellar corneal tear with epithelial defect, doctors said. In a similar case, a 4-year-old boy was injured in the left eye while watching people burst crackers on Magadi Road. He has developed epithelial defects, doctors said.A 11-year-old boy was injured by crackers at Sunkadakatte, doctors said.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP election dates||The Karnataka State Election Commission might announce the dates for the gram panchayat elections in the first week of December. Sources said that following the High Court order on the conduct of gram panchayat polls, senior officials of the commission would hold a videoconference meeting with Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of all the districts soon to secure the ground report on the preparation for the elections. “The election process, including the announcement of results, could be completed before the end of December,” a source said.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State keen to seek more aid||Last week, the Union government approved Rs. 577.74 crore as financial assistance for the flood-hit districts of Karnataka. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that his government would try to get additional funds from the Centre. In October, the Chief Minister had written to the Centre seeking relief of Rs. 10,000 crore.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointment cancelled||The State government has cancelled the appointment of M.B. Maramkal as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political adviser. A notification from the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms said the appointment was cancelled with effect from November 13. A senior journalist, Mr. Maramkal had been appointed as political adviser with Cabinet rank in October. Sources said that whatever he advised Mr. Yediyurappa had not gone down well with the Chief Minister’s family members.
16 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held; fake currency notes seized||The Mico Layout police have unearthed an inter-State fake currency racket and arrested three persons who were allegedly trying to smuggle fake currency into the city. The racket was unearthed when the police, who are on a special drive to check if people are wearing masks, stopped a car coming from Tamil Nadu. The police noticed that three people in it were behaving suspiciously and checked the car. They recovered three bundles of currency notes from the dashboard. The accused have been identified as Suman S., 36, Devarajan Y., 31, and Munishekhar, 29, from Tamil Nadu. Printer seized The police found 389 fake currency notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination along with a few more bundles of plain sheets cut into the sizes of currency notes of Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 denomination. The police also seized a colour printer. Festive season The accused confessed that they were planning to stay in a hotel and circulate fake currency in the city during the festival season. The accused have been remanded in judicial custody, while the police are investigating further to ascertain possible involvement of other people.
16 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four bodies found||A woman and her three children plunged into the Harangi canal near Torenuru in Kodagu district on Saturday. The bodies were found in Konanuru police station limits in Hassan district later in the day. They have been identified as Channamma, 34, Vijay, 6, Vinay, 4, and Deeksha, 3. Channamma was a resident of Inahalli Kurubarahatti in Chitradurga taluk. She and her husband, Devaraju, had gone to Kodagu district to work on a ginger farm, recently. According to the police, Channamma called her brother before taking the extreme step. She complained that she had become dejected because of her husband’s continuous torture. Devaraju, who was addicted to alcohol, allegedly used to beat her daily and hardly took care of the family. The Konanuru police with the help of Kushalnagar police retrieved the bodies on Saturday. The Konanuru police have registered a case and taken Devaraju into custody. The bodies were handed over to the relatives of Channamma after post-mortem.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)
16 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tank repairs prioritised||Minister for Law and Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy instructed officers of Minor Irrigation Department to take up repairs of all tank bunds damaged by heavy rain in Hassan district. He reviewed the works of the department in Hassan on Saturday and asked that all pending works be completed as per schedule so that the tanks could regain their past glory. The Minister suggested officers select a tank in each Assembly constituency and develop it as a tourist attraction. He told officers to prepare an action plan in this regard and submit a proposal to the government. Earlier in the day, he visited Halebidu in Belur taluk to inspect Dorasamudra tank bund, a portion of which had caved in recently. Speaking to journalists, he said that as the tank was full, temporary repair work could be taken up at present. The department would take steps necessary to strengthen the bund, he said.
16 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba temple draws crowds||Hundreds of devotees visited Hasanamba Temple in Hassan on Sunday, as the district administration relaxed the restrictions. Earlier, the administration had decided not to allow people to visit the temple during Hasanamba Jatra Mahotsava, citing COVID-19 pandemic precautions. Only Ministers, legislators and other elected representatives had visited the temple since November 5, when the doors were opened. This had attracted the wrath of the devotees, particularly locals people of Hassan, who have been visiting the temple during the festival for decades. The district administration allowed devotees in on Sunday morning. Hundreds stood in long queue and did a ‘darshan’ of the deity. The doors of the historic temple are opened only during this festival. The festival comes to an end on Monday and the doors will be closed in presence of senior officers and elected representatives at noon on the day.
16 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||26 new cases in Hassan||As many as 26 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Sunday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases has risen to 26,374. Among these, so far, 25,334 have recovered and 616 are undergoing treatment. Including two deaths on the day, so far 445 people have died in the district. Among cases reported on the day, two are from Alur, five from Arsikere, two from Belur, five from Channarayapatna, nine from Hassan, one from Holenarasipur, and two from other districts, stated a bulletin issued by the district administration.
16 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||I’m not a ticket aspirant for Basavakalyan bypoll: Vijayendra||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra elucidated that he is not an aspirant for ticket to contest the bypoll in Basavakalyan constituency of Bidar district. He was speaking to media persons in Kalaburagi on Friday before his departure to Basavakalyan constituency where the bypoll is likely to be held soon as the seat fell vacant after the death of MLA B. Narayan Rao. Mr. Vijayendra reiterated though he is not a ticket aspirant, he would abide by the party’s decision on whether he needed to contest from the Basavakalyan seat or not. Replying to a question, Mr. Vijayendra said he would follow the directions given by State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel. His [Mr. Vijayendra] visit to the constituency is to gauge the public mood and mobilise party cadres for the bypoll, for which the Election Commission is yet to announce the dates, he added. When asked about monitoring the poll management if the byelections to both — Maski segment in Raichur district and Basavakalyan segment — take place at the same time, Mr. Vijayendra said both segments were challenging to the BJP and the party would leave no stone unturned to win both seats, he added. “The voters will weigh the achievements of the BJP-led government against the failures of the then Congress government in State. Refuting the allegations of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah that official machinery was used in the Sira byelections by the BJP, Mr. Vijayendra said that the Congress leaders were speaking out of sheer frustration and disappointment. Despite a hectic campaign by almost all prominent Congress leaders, their candidate, who represented Sira constituency six times, had to bite the dust, Mr. Vijayendra said. The BJP won 12 out of 15 Assembly segments in the bypolls held earlier, and to win the Sira segment was a big challenge for the BJP, he said. Mr. Vijayendra remained tight-lipped and did not disclose the names of the shortlisted candidates for the Basavakalyan seat.
16 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tapal Ganesh writes to PM, Shah over Karnataka-A.P. border row||Taking exception to the way in which the Survey of India was working on the demarcation of the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh inter-State border in Ballari district, activist Tapal Ganesh, on Friday, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah appealing to give relevant directions to the survey agency before it submits its final report to the Supreme Court. The task of demarcation was assigned by the Supreme Court of India after the complaints were raised of alleged destruction of the border by Obulapuram Mining Company. In the letter, Mr. Ganesh raised an objection to the reliance of Survey of India on the Ballari reserve forest map of 1896, which, he argued, was not a primary map as mentioned by the earlier Surveyor General of India in his letter to the Director of Mines and Geology, Government of Andhra Pradesh. He argued to consider 1887 traverse data measurements and readings for the missing boundaries of cluster village. Mr. Ganesh also observed as per the Deepak Sharma committee, the chicken neck portion on the border had two tri-junctions – one at Anthara Gangamma Konda connecting Tumti, Malapanagudi and Siddapura and other at Thimmappana Gudda connecting Tumti, Tittalapura and Malapanagudi. He noted that the former tri-junction was intact and the latter was destroyed in the illegal extraction by the mining company owned by BJP leader and former minister Gali Janardhan Reddy in 2007 and 2008. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ganesh said taking the Ballari forest map of 1896, which is essentially not a primary map, as a baseline in the survey for determining the interstate border destroyed in the illegal mining, would result in showing Timmappana Gudda a part of Andhra Pradesh and covering up encroachment by miners.
16 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hampi Utsav sees low-key celebrations||Hampi Utsav, an annual fair to shed light on the Vijayanagara Empire, was celebrated with minimal rituals and crowd at Hampi in Ballari district recently. The utsav, which used to be celebrated for three days previously, was confined to one-day celebrations because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Forest Minister and Ballari in charge B.S. Anand Singh flagged off the celebrations on the Uddhan Veerabhadreshwar Temple premises on Friday evening. “I assure you all that the celebrations will continue to be held for three days from next year with all the extravaganza,” Mr. Singh said. The inauguration was followed by the Shobha Yatra, a procession of different performing cultural teams that began from at Uddhan Veerabhadreshwar Temple and culminated at the Virupaksha Temple. Cultural teams from across the district performed in the procession and showcased the cultural traditions of the State. The demonstrations of Veeragase, Dollu Kunita, Halage Badita, Kahale Vadana, Nandidhwaja Pradarshana, Keelu Kudure, Maragalu Kunita, Goravara Kunita, and other forms of cultural performances, apart from decorated elephants, were part of the procession.
16 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||RPF personnel recover stolen items worth Rs. 2.2 lakh||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel attached to Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., (KRCL) on Saturday arrested a person on the charge of stealing valuables from a woman on board a train and recovered items worth Rs. 2.2 lakh. A communique from KRCL here said that Vanita Shetty, travelling from Udupi to Mumbai, on Friday reported the loss of her handbag. She said the bag contained one gold bangle, one gold mangalsutra, one phone, keys, Aadhaar card, ATM card, Mediclaim card, and one purse with Rs. 6,000 in cash, together worth Rs. 2.2 lakh. RPF Inspector (Crime and Intelligence), Madgaon, Vinod Kumar, analysed CCTV camera footage and noticed a suspect on the train at Udupi station, wearing a designer cap. The picture of the suspect was shared and the suspect, who was still wearing the cap, was apprehended on another train at by RPF constable R.D. Vinayak at Karwar railway station on Saturday. All the items in the stolen bag were intact, the communiqué said. The accused, identified as Nikhil Kumar, a native of Kannur in Kerala, was heading home after committing the theft, RPF said. He was brought to Madgaon and the Konkan railway police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC observes World Diabetes Day||The Department of Endocrinology at Kasturba Medical College and Hospital, Manipal, observed World Diabetes Day by displaying a sand sculpture to promote awareness on the disease at Malpe beach in Udupi on Saturday. Unveiling the work, Sharat K. Rao, Dean, KMC, said that India was second in the world regarding the number of patients with diabetes. In India, about two-third are from the south. This year’s theme is ‘nurse and diabetes’. “Nurses play a key role in providing lifelong care for people with diabetes, including screening, regular check-ups, psychological support and information on self-management and healthy living,” he said. C.G. Muthana, Chief Operating Officer, and Avinash Shetty, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, jointly inaugurated the selfie stand.
16 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||2 deaths, 48 new cases in DK, Udupi||While two patients died owing to COVID-19, 34 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. With 86 patients being discharged on the day, the active cases stood at 766. The total deaths reported so far in the district stood at 693. Udupi district reported 14 new cases on the day. Of them 10 patients were asymptomatic and four were symptomatic. The active cases stood at 240. The district has reported 187 deaths so far.
16 November 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for market building||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) has urged Mangaluru City Corporation to build a market building at Pakkaladkka in the city. If built it will help people of Jeppinamogaru, Bajala and Kankanady B.
16 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No power supply||There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi district on November 17 owing to maintenance work. The areas are Manipal Syndicate Circle, MGC School, Vidyaratnanagara, Eshwaranagara, Saralebettu, Nehuru Nagara, Shanti Nagara, Manipal KMC Hospital area, Bailuru temple, Udyavara, Padukere, Pitrody, Kadekar, Guddeyangady, Chandu Maidan, Shankarapura, Katpady, and Shirva.
16 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The Department of Posts will conduct its quarterly dak adalat and pension adalat for Mangaluru division on November 18 at 11 a.m. in the office of Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Balmatta. Complaints if any should reach the same office by November 17. The complaints can be sent on Whatsapp to 9448291072, a release said.    Mangalore University has extended the last date for applications to PG courses for 2020-21 under government quota to November 21. Log on to www.mangaloreuniversity .ac.in for details.
16 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cracker sale: Team acts tough against traders||Curbs remained in place in Mysuru against the sale of non-green crackers with officials from the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and police continuing to inspect the stalls selling crackers in different places in the city. A team of officials from KSPCB inspected the cracker stalls at J.K. Grounds here on Sunday. Traders were asked to remove the non-green crackers from the stalls, lest they were confiscated. The sale of crackers was allowed only after the team checked the stock for green logos and license numbers. Many traders even shifted non-green crackers to their godowns. When it was brought to the notice of KSPCB team about the argument made by traders recently that all the crackers they were selling were green, KSPCB’s scientific officer Kavitha told reporters that only a small percentage of the crackers sold at J.K. Grounds were found to be green. Most of them were non-green, she stressed. Green crackers CSIR’s National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had come up with technology to manufacture crackers without the use of conventional chemicals like potassium nitrate and barium nitrate to bring down the pollution load by upto 30%. The crackers produced without the use of the conventional chemicals bear a green logo and also the license number. Ms. Kavitha also said that the order against sale and bursting of non-green crackers has remained in force since last year. The law against use of non-green crackers is being implemented seriously this year in view of growing air pollution and the threat of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the city police has instructed its officials to remain vigilant against bursting of crackers after 10 p.m. and sale of non-green crackers in their jurisdiction. Legal action Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) A.N. Prakash Gowda asked the inspectors of all police stations to instruct officials in their jurisdiction to take legal action against offenders.
16 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Creation of new TPs, CMC may help push development without burdening the MCC||The State government’s decision to create four new Town Panchayats (TPs) and one City Municipal Council (CMC) on the outskirts of Mysuru is expected to upgrade the civic infrastructure of the new areas without burdening the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). The recent Cabinet decision to create four new Town Panchayats of Bogadi, Srirampura, Kadakola and Ramanahalli, besides one CMC comprising Hinkal, Koorgalli, Belavadi and Koorgalli comes not only just before the impending gram panchayat elections, but also in the midst of a raging debate over the inclusion of areas on the outskirts of Mysuru into the jurisdiction of MCC. Former corporator and JD(S) leader K.V. Mallesh, who had mooted the idea of upgrading the gram panchayats on the outskirts of Mysuru instead of directly merging them with the MCC, hailed the government’s move as a step in the right direction. “The MCC’s resources and infrastructure would have been stretched beyond capacity if the new areas were included under its jurisdiction, leading to the creation of a Greater Mysuru City Corporation. Also, had they delayed the vexed issue till the gram panchayat elections, the areas would have gone to polls and the matter would have been put off till the term of the elected representatives ends, which is another five years,” said Mr. Mallesh. Haphazard development Many areas on the outskirts of Mysuru falling in various GP limits had witnessed quick, but haphazard development with the creation of residential areas. The absence of or limited civic infrastructure in newly-developed areas had become a source of concern to authorities. Upgrading GPs into urban local bodies will entitle them to funds that will help take care of much-needed civic infrastructure of the areas on the outskirts of Mysuru. Property tax In addition to the government funds flowing to the urban local bodies, Mr. Mallesh said the TPs and CMC will be able to generate additional revenue by collecting property tax from residents of the new layouts. He even hoped the garbage menace on the outskirts would be addressed by the upgrading of the gram panchayats into urban local bodies like TPs and CMCs. The bodies will be better equipped both in terms of financial resources and manpower to address the civic needs of the areas - including good roads, drinking water supply, underground drainage, street lights etc. Former Mayor Byrappa welcomed the move but sought to draw attention to the conditions in more than 70 revenue pockets inside the MCC limits and hoped measures would be taken to regularise the houses in these under the Akrama Sakrama scheme. Chandraprakash, of Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP), a voluntary organisation aimed at protecting the interests of Mysuru and its residents, said a question mark will hang over the new urban local bodies’ ability to stem the rot that has been unleashed in the outskirts due to Mysuru Urban Development Authority’s (MUDA) indiscriminate approval of new layouts. “The question is whether the newly-created urban local bodies will be able to perform their duties or not,” he stated.  The MCC’s resources and infrastructure would have been stretched beyond capacity if the new areas were included under its jurisdiction, leading to the creation of a Greater Mysuru City Corporation. K.V. Mallesh JD(S) leader
16 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Paddy procurement to begin in Chamarajanagar from Nov. 30||The Chamarajanagar district administration has initiated measures to open procurement centres to purchase paddy from farmers. A preliminary meeting was held in the town recently and Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi reviewed preparations to procure paddy and other cereals by paying the minimum support price fixed by the government. The registration of farmers for paddy procurement will commence from November 30 and the government has fixed the MSP at Rs. 1,888 for grade A paddy and Rs. 1,868 for ordinary paddy for the year 2020-21. The registration process will continue till December 30 and flour mills have to create necessary infrastructure to store agricultural produce based on the number of farmers registered with a particular mill. The DC directed the officials to take measures to train staff to ascertain the quality of the crop and grade it accordingly. The procurement centres have to be opened in the respective taluk APMC yards and TAPMC offices in case there was no APMC yard in any taluk. The guidelines pertaining to paddy procurements have to be complied in full, said Mr. Ravi. He told the staff that not more than 40 quintals of ordinary paddy can be procured from a farmer. Post procurement, the farmers should be paid for the crop within three days and the amount should be credited to their respective accounts, he added.  Calendar of events The district administration will also publicise the calendar of events related to paddy procurement so as to reach all farmers. Publicity will be through the Raita Samparka Kendras and gram panchayat offices where posters and pamphlets will be on display while other outreach programmes will also be conducted to inform the farmers.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Home stay hasn’t done them much good||Shivaji Bamane worked as a labourer in Mumbai for years. He lost his job during lockdown and came back to his village Kotha near Hukkeri in August. He has not gone back and has no such plans in the near future. However, days in his village are not idyllic. He does not find work every day and has to keep in touch with farmers in the surrounding villages constantly, learn their crop patterns and keep moving from village to village on his bike. While several migrant workers who had returned home during lockdown have returned to cities, there are a sizeable number like Mr. Bamane in North Karnataka districts who have decided to stay back and look for alternative avenues in their native villages. Sizeable numbers Labour welfare activist and lawyer N.R. Latur estimates that only around 25% of the labourers have returned to cities. “This is putting pressure on villages and creating labour scarcity in cities,” he said. Mr. Bamane said he is learning new skills in his village. “Now I have to find work as a farm labourer, which is different from the construction work I used to do,” he said. What he is earning is only a fraction of his wages in Mumbai. “My expenses are limited here. I have my own house. My children will be going to a government school. My wife is working too and we are somehow managing,” Mr. Bamane said. He has also gone to work in MNREGA sites a few times, but is not happy with the quantum of work available. Grameena Koolikarara Sangha convener Vishveshvarayya Hiremath argued that the government should expand MNREGA to give 200 days’ jobs, from the present 100. Farooq Pathan and his brother Yadulla Pathan, who worked in Namma Metro in Bengaluru, are in their village near Hosur near Ramdurg. They commute to Bagalkot and Belagavi for construction work which does not come by easily. Yet, they are not planning to go back. “We will start some business here,” Mr. Farooq said. Back and forth The situation of Lakshmi, a labourer from Mandeval village at Jewargi taluk in Kalaburagi district, is worse. Her family of three, working as construction labourers in Bengaluru, earned between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000 a month. They returned to their native village in April but were unable to find work. They went back to Bengaluru in May, but could not find work there either. Now again back in village, she said, “Whatever little savings we had were all spent on grocery and essentials for four months. When we found it very difficult to survive in the city, we came back to our native a fortnight ago.” Presently, she has no thoughts of going to Bengaluru again. Gundappa, a painting contractor from Warvi village in Yadrami taluk of Kalaburagi district, is among the few who is back home and happy. Having a team of around 30 members, all from Warvi, he was earning around Rs. 30,000 a month. “Fortunately, I am getting enough work here in Kalaburagi. My monthly earning almost matches what I was earning in Bengaluru. So, there is no point in returning to Bengaluru,” he said.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Against the current||When a large number of migrant workers were struggling to reach their hometown during lockdown, Mahantesh from Kalaburagi was busy establishing his food parcel service in Bengaluru. Mahantesh, an ITI diploma holder, who lost his job during the lockdown, invested his savings in the food service business. He started parcel catering to employees who were stuck due to the lockdown in the city. After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, he has been running a mess in a rented commercial shop. “The business is still dull as most of the employees have returned to their hometown. I don’t know when my business will pick up,” says Mahantesh.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Message in the sand||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Not a happy harvest||A few labourers, who had gone back to the city seeking work, are also now back in the village since it is the harvest and festival season. Two important crops, green gram and black gram, are harvested across Kalyana Karnataka region and some Bombay Karnataka districts. However, most of the crops in KK region have been damaged due to floods and there is very little harvesting work in the fields. This has made work hard to come by. “It is normal for labourers to come home for harvest season and the holidays between Navaratri and Deepavali. Every year, it is the period of celebration as men who work in cities come back bringing gifts for their children and relatives. But this year has been very bad. There is despair all around,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, farmers leader. Joint Director of Agriculture Shivanagouda Patil said there is a problem of excess farm labour in villages.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Online admission for PG courses||Kuvempu University has introduced online admission process for postgraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21. B.P. Veerabhadrappa, Vice-Chancellor, said the system has been introduced in the wake of COVID-19. Students can apply by filling up fixed forms and uploading relevant documents. For details, visit the linkhttp://kuvempu.ac.in/admission 2020-21/index.phpor call call 08282-256301, 302, 303, 304, 305 or 306 for details.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Row over roadwork Prajwal Revanna, JD(S) MP, and Preetham Gowda, BJP MLA, (both in picture)recently had a bitter verbal duel over a minor repair of a stretch of Race Course Road in Hassan. Mr. Revanna took exception to the work and demanded that the road be left as it was. However, Mr. Gowda insisted that the repair work was being taken up in the interest of the MP, whose residence was close by. A few years ago, when the Congress was in power, a vacant government building next to the SP’s office was allotted to former Prime Minister and the then MP for Hassan H.D. Deve Gowda. During the same time, the road, right in front of his residence, was dug up and then covered so that the road surface was below the entry to the residence. It is said Mr. Deve Gowda’s son H.D. Revanna got this done by Public Works officers, following the advice of an astrologer. Motorists on the road used to experience a sudden jerk on that stretch because of the undulating surface. Now, Mr. Prajwal Revanna stays there occasionally. Last week, the PWD took up pothole-filling work in the city. As part of it, they dug up the stretch to heighten the road surface, attracting Mr. Revanna’s wrath. He wanted to know how the officers could dig up the road when their job was to fill the potholes. With the MLA insisting it was important in the interest of motorists, the officers were caught between the leaders. MPM and its woes   The cash-strapped State government seems to be running out of ideas on the revival of the government-run Mysore Paper Mills (MPM), located in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga. Hopes of reviving the 84-year-old public entity faded when an order was issued last year on halting its operations. Though the government wanted to revive the plant through private participation, there did not seem to be much interest among private players to invest in the “sick” plant. MPM started incurring losses after private players were allowed to import newsprint from abroad following the liberal economic reforms in the 1990s. About nine years ago, the plant was declared sick and referred to the Board for Investment and Financial Restructuring. To strike a settlement with the existing staff by awarding them a voluntary retirement scheme, it approached the government seeking funds. Mr. Yediyurappa(in picture), who chaired a meeting with top officials of MPM and elected representatives recently, suggested that they cut trees in the forests and sell them in order to pay the salaries of the employees. A short-sighted idea, surely? MLA’s actions Image management of celebrities has become a huge industry, but now politicians, big and small, too use PR services extensively. Recently, Siddu Savadi, MLA from Terdal in Bagalkot district, was seen pushing women members of Mahalingpur Town Municipal Council as he wanted to prevent them from voting in the elections to the post of president and vice-president of the urban local body. A supporter of Mr. Savadi was seen pulling Chandani Naik, one of the women, by her hair and throwing her on to the ground. The MLA also succeeded in preventing Godavari Bat, another member, from entering the council hall where the votes were cast. All this was because the MLA suspected the three women members of the BJP would vote for Congress candidates. The aspirational TMC members had asked for Mr. Savadi’s help in becoming president and vice-president of the ULB a week earlier. But he was not willing to concede, resulting in the women speaking to the Congress and offering their support. Video clips of the attacks went viral, but only after the poll process was completed and the two candidates supported by Mr. Savadi were elected. The MLA, in a release, denied it and said it was merely Congress leaders spreading rumours. He even claimed he was trying to “protect” the women who were being assaulted by some Congress members. Mr. Savadi’s PR team either had not seen the video clips or was confident that the leader could get away even with the video telling another story.  Satish G.T.   Nagesh Prabhu   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai
16 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LDF lists all 52 candidates for Alappuzha municipality||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has announced all 52 candidates for the Alappuzha municipality. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will contest in 32 seats and Communist Party of India (CPI) in 14 seats. While the Kerala Congress (M) []KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani will contest in two seats, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Janata Dal (Secular) [JD (S)], Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), and Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS) will contest in one seat each. The CPI(M) candidates are Linda Francis (Thumboli), Monisha Shyam (Kommady), A. Shanavas (Kalath), G. Moni (Kottamkulangara), K.K. Jayamma (Nehru Trophy), Shwetha S. Kumar (Thirumala), Beena Ramesh (Pallathuruthy), V.N. Vijayakumar (Kalarcode), M.O. Arun Kumar (Kaithavana), C. Aravindakshan (Pazhaveedu), M.V. Althaf (Palace), M.R. Prem (Karukayil), R. Rakhi Rejikumar (Thondankulangara), Gopika Vijayaprasad (Ashramam), K. Babu (Kidagamparambu), A.S. Kavitha (Municipal Office), Prajitha Kannan (Housing Colony), M. Manisha (Sanathanapuram), Indu Vinod (Eravukadu), T.A. Nazar (Mullathuvalappu), B. Ajesh (Municipal Stadium), V.P. Prabhath (Lajaneth), Remya Surjith (Gurumandiram), Mary Leena (Vadackal), Prabha Sasikumar (Railway Station), Simi Shefeek (Civil Station), P. Rahiyanath (Vada Canal), Helen (Power House), Jyothi Prakashan (Kalappura), K. Hamsa (Vattayal), Priya Unni [Avalookunnu-CPI(M) Independent] and Ushakumari [Karalakam-CPI(M) Independent]. The CPI candidates include Vineetha Vishnu (District Court) Remi Nazeer (Mannath), Geetha Bali (A.N. Puram), R. Ramesh (Thiruvambady), P.S.M. Hussein (Alissery), B. Nazeer (Valiyakulam), Claramma Peter (Kuthirapanthy), Elgin Richard (Beach), Najeetha Harris (Zachariya Bazar), K.S. Jayan (Chathanad), D.P. Madhu (Arattuvazhi), Mary Sebastian (Kanjiramchira), V.J. Alphonsa (Mangalam), and Geetha Sasidharan (Thathampally). Two KC(M) candidates are Beena Sibi (Punnamada) and Bindu Thomas (Vazhichery). The JD(S) will field A. Nizar Ahammed from Sea View while Sathidevi of NCP will contest from Mullakkal. V.D. Ratheesh is the JSS candidate from Poonthoppu and Nazeer Punnakkal of LJD will seek votes from Valiyamaram ward.
16 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF finalises 17 candidates||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Sunday announced 17 out of the 23 candidates for the Alappuzha district panchayat. The Congress will contest 17 seats while the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) will contest in one seat. The Congress candidates are T.H. Salam (Aroor), Rajeena Salim (Poochakkal), Sajimol Francis (Manakodam), Thuravoor Devarajan (Vayalar), K. Purushothaman (Kanjikuzhy), C.C. Nisar (Aryad), Bindu Baiju (Ambalappuzha), Sreedevi Rajan (Pallippad), A.K. Rajan (Karuvatta), John Thomas (Muthukulam), Vishak Pathiyoor (Pathiyoor), K.P. Sreekumar (Krishnapuram), Avinash Gangan (Bharanikavu), P. Sreedevi (Mannar), Usha Bhasi (Mulakuzha), Anitha Saji Thekkethalakkal, and (Venmony). RSP candidate Sunitha Das will contest from Nooranad.
16 November 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Begin Kappithode rejuvenation immediately: Minister||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has sought a report from the Irrigation Department executive engineer on delay in rejuvenating Kappithode, one of the highly polluted waterbodies in the district. In a statement issued here, Mr. Sudhakaran said that he had written a letter to the executive engineer directing to begin the work immediately. “While other canals are being rejuvenated in Alappuzha, a delay in starting the work to revive Kappithode is a failure,” the Minister said. After an inordinate delay, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government allocated Rs. 21 crore under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board for rejuvenating Kappithode. The plan is to deepen and widen it to ensure smooth flow of water. The 14.5-km canal has been reduced to drainage owing to waste dumping and encroachments over the years, posing a major health risk to people.  Poisonous gases The pollution of Kappithode first came to light more than three decades ago when a few students of two schools, situated by the side of the canal, fell ill after breathing poisonous gases from it. Today, the waterbody is filled with all kinds of detritus and its dark water is stagnant. Noxious gases emanating from Kappithode pose a health hazard to local residents and students of Government Higher Secondary School and Sree Narayana Vilasom TTI school, both at Kakkazhom in Ambalappuzha North grama panchayat. The pollution is owing to the solid and liquid waste being dumped into the canal, mostly from prawn-peeling sheds in the area. Meat-processing centres, hotels, auditoriums, houses, and TD Medical College also contribute to the problem.
16 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pengal Otrumai not in the fray||On the lines of High Range Samrakshana Samithi, another non-political body which came to the electoral arena following a massive agitation in Munnar, is also out of the electoral fray this time. Pengal Outrumai, a collective of estate workers, which successfully organised a massive agitation inside the walls of tea plantations in 2015 took international media attention as it was an all-women body. It continued the agitation for long challenging the political organisations which it termed “supported the exploitation of workers” in the plantations. Massive support The agitation by the women who plucked tea leaves for generations got massive support from across the States. The economically backward women collective got financial support from cultural organisations and prominent persons without political affiliations. Many cultural leaders came to Munnar to support the agitation. To an extent, the stir succeeded as the government was forced to revise the minimum wage of estate workers in the State. Pengal Outrumai entered the electoral scene in the last local body elections and successfully fielded Gomathy to the Devikulam block panchayat in addition to two other members to the Munnar grama panchayat. The degeneration soon started with inherent divisions after it entered the political scene. It had to face other political parties having strong trade unions and had to stand on its own feet when political decisions were taken and got sidelined. Entry into politics According to an analyst, the seed of the degeneration was within when it entered politics and power. The organisation itself was against the two. Moreover, it failed to garner support and influence outside the plantation area. The wave of support it enjoyed subsided with the change in its moto, he said. Pengal Outrumai president Lisy told The Hindu that it had decided not to contest elections. She said that those who got the support of the people later supported a coalition and even decided which front should rule Munnar grama panchayat. Collective decision “We still have 2,000 members and it was a collective decision not to contest the elections. However, we will continue as a body for protection of workers’ right,” she said. According to her, it was true that the body lost its sheen as a political entity and should exist as a non-political body. Ms. Gomathy said she would not contest the local body elections. She said it was true that they cannot have any entity in local bodies by standing alone. Resolve to fight However, we will continue to fight for the plantation workers’ issues, Ms. Gomathy said. People would support, but they cannot deliver when elected to a body outside plantations even if it was a local body, she added.  The body lost its sheen as a political entity and should exist as a non-political body.   Lisy   Pengal Outrumai president
16 November 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Panel to look into poll code violations in Kannur district||A monitoring committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of the Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash, who is also the District Electoral Officer, to look into poll code violations and resolve grievances expeditiously. The Panchayat Deputy Director is the convener of the five-member committee. The members are the District Police Chief, Deputy Collector of Elections, and the District Information Officer. Resolving doubts The functions of the monitoring cell are to examine and resolve doubts and complaints received from candidates, party representatives, the public, and officials, take action against violators of the code of conduct, and to send a report to the Election Commission. The committee will meet every two days. The Collector said that no graffiti, posters, banners, or cut-outs shall be placed at government offices and their premises. He said that promotional materials should not be placed in a manner that causes inconvenience to the public. Expenditure of campaigns will be included in the candidate’s election expenses. Parties or candidates should not distort any public or private space by placing advertisements or writing slogans, he said. Such promotional materials should be removed by the parties concerned, failing which, they will be removed by officials, and the cost will be added to the election expenses of the candidates, the Collector added. Green code Mr. Subhash has said that the campaign for local body polls should be in compliance with the Green Code of Conduct. Parties and candidates should use only environment-friendly, soil-soluble and recyclable materials for campaigning. Boards, banners, and flagpoles made of plastic and PVC are not allowed, he said. Also, plastic, threads, or ribbons should not be used. Mr. Subhash said parties and candidates should remove advertisement boards and other materials after the elections on their own or hand them over to the agencies concerned for recycling. If they are not removed within five days of voting, local body secretaries shall remove them and charge candidates who benefit from advertisements, he added. The Collector said only eco-friendly materials like cotton, paper, and polyethylene should be used for all official purposes. Local body secretaries should make available separate carry bags for depositing organic and non-organic waste separately at polling stations, and distribution, reception and counting centres. The Collector also directed them to set up yellow and red carry bags for collecting used masks and gloves.
16 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Police summon MLA’s staff for questioning||The police team investigating a case related to the threatening of a prosecution witness in the actor attack case has issued a notice to Pradeep Kottathala, the office secretary of K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, to appear for questioning. He has been asked to appear at the Bekal police station in two days. The probe followed a complaint by Vipin Lal, the witness, that he and his family were threatened by a person. He said he was asked to change his statement in the case. Vipin lodged a complaint that the person initially offered him money and a house and later threatened him through letters. Evidence Based on the complaint, the Bekal police launched a probe. The documents provided by Pradeep at a Kanhangad lodge, the statement of the auto driver who took him to Kasaragod, the CCTV footage from a jewellery shop in Kasaragod, and the SIM card he used to call Vipin prompted the police team to zero in on Pradeep. The SIM card was in the name of a Tirunelveli resident. The team found that Pradeep had the SIM card. The threatening letters were posted from MG Road, Aluva. Vipin was made an approver in the assault case after he claimed he wrote a letter to actor Dileep on behalf of Pulsar Suni from the Ernakulam sub-jail, demanding money. Vipin was in jail in another case.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waterlogging key poll plank in central areas of Kochi||The unrelenting waterlogging menace takes pride of place in the ongoing election campaign for the Kochi Corporation divisions in the heart of the city. Political fronts and candidates have identified waterlogging as the most pressing issue in the central parts of the city and are promising to find solutions to it. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is using the severe waterlogging experienced over the past few years as ammunition against the outgoing United Democratic Front (UDF) regime. “The biggest problem in Kochi’s central area is waterlogging. Close to the end of council that was in office from 2000 to 2005, Esteem Developers had studied the issue and made suggestions based on the area’s topography, including setting up more ‘petti and para’ systems, and creating more outlets into the backwaters. Not much was done in the past ten years to implement the suggestions in this report,” said M. Anil Kumar, LDF candidate from Elamakkara north, who is leading the CPI(M) campaign. “The LDF aims to implement the suggestions made in the report, besides proposing another comprehensive study based on recent changes to the area’s topography,” he said. The UDF is also promising a scientific study to find a permanent solution to the waterlogging problem, besides getting a map of the drains and canals prepared, and restructuring the drains for smooth flow of water, according to Congress leader N. Venugopal. Several centrally located areas in the city, including the area around the KSRTC bus stand and a few parts of MG Road, have been severely waterlogged after spells of rain. “The interconnected canal network and drainage systems are not well maintained, and they will have to be restored to their original width,” said Nipun Cherian, campaign controller, V4 Kochi. Unscientific construction of roads at a height had contributed to the problem and these would be fixed, he added. Candidates have been raising the issue at their campaigns. M.G. Aristottil, UDF candidate for Kathrikadavu, said that solutions to waterlogging on Azad Road and the issues caused by the Sina thodu in the division were on top of the agenda. The waterlogging problem was serious in the area around the Mullassery Canal, though drain work in a few places had helped alleviate it, said Sudha Dileep Kumar, Bharatiya Janata Party councillor representing Ernakulam Central, who will contest again. Completion of work on the Thammanam-Pullepady road was also a pressing issue, she said.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Prominent rebels giving jitters to parties||Giving the jitters to fellow party workers and alliance partners, prominent rebel candidates have intensified their campaign for the civic polls despite conciliatory efforts. A former Mayor and two former corporation standing committee chairpersons are in the fray this time, as a mark of protest against denial of seats. K.J. Sohan, former Mayor and chairman of the town planing standing committee, has fielded himself as a candidate, protesting against denial of seat to the Lokthanthrik Janatha Dal. “The LDF, while accommodating other front partners, refused to consider the demand of the party. Hence the decision to contest the election,” said Mr. Sohan, who will contest from Fort Kochi Veli, which he had earlier represented in the corporation council. “The impact of the decision will not be confined to the division but will be felt in nearby divisions too,” he cautioned. As the Congress decided not to entertain her application to return to the party fold for the time being, Gracy Joseph, chairperson of the outgoing development standing committee, decided to flex her muscles in Kaloor North, which she once represented. “The campaign machinery has gone full-throttle, with posters and graffiti appearing in various parts of the division. Now, there is no question of withdrawing from the competition,” said Ms. Joseph. T.K. Ashraf, Muslim League councillor and former chairperson of the health standing committee, is leading the fight against his party and front partners in the West Kochi zone. While Mr. Ashraf will contest as an Independent from Kalvathy, Naseema Noufel will contest against the League candidate at Mattancherry. Independent candidates will also be in the fray in other divisions contested by the League, asserted Mr. Ashraf. Delina Pinheiro, the Congress councillor who represented the Vaduthala West division in the last election, has fielded herself from the Pachalam division where she resides. “Though the Congress denied me ticket and did not assign any reason for its decision, the people of the area wanted me to contest,” said Ms. Pinheiro. The former councillor said there was tremendous public pressure on her to be in the fray. “Supporters expressed solidarity with me after posters declaring my candidature appeared in the division,” she added.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District’s active caseload drops below 10,000 mark||Ernakulam recorded 489 new cases of COVID-19 and 828 recoveries on Sunday. The district’s total active caseload has dropped to 9,785. The caseload had remained at a figure over 10,000 from the first week of October onwards. Eleven health workers tested positive on Sunday. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Koovappady, Edathala, Vengola, Mattancherry, Eloor and Rayamangalam. A total of 29,820 people remain in quarantine. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 147 patients are being treated, while 46 patients are admitted at PVS Hospital. A total of 7,426 people are recovering at home and 872 people are FLTCs.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Gramaphone still rules here||The sound of music wafting through the house of Rajeevan T.Y. has an old-world charm. No great fan of cutting-edge modern music systems compatible with multiple devices and play everything from a CD to micro pen drives, this 58-year-old retired government servant from Thoppumpady loves to play his prized collection of gramophone records in vintage record players from another era. “The sound these records produce is something very unique and fills me with so much energy,” said Mr. Rajeevan who continues to listen to a few records without fail every day. It was in the 1980s that he started collecting records from across the State. He got quite a few of them even from scrap shops after being dumped by their original owners. Now, nearly four decades down the line, he boasts of a collection of over 3,500 records accounting for some 10,000 songs. Being active in social media, his passion for records is now well known and some people reach out to him even now to share the few records in their possession. Among his collections are rare songs like the one sung by Jose Prakash for the movie Shariyo Thetto in the1950s. “Jose Prakash emerged as a singer first before turning towards acting,” said Mr. Rajeevan. Two theatre songs by actor Kaviyoor Ponnamma and rare songs of Kozhikode Abdul Khadar also take pride of place. There is also a very rare publicity song for the fertilizer major FACT written by late Vayalar Ramavarma, composed by M.B. Sreenivasan, and sung by K.J. Yesudas. Records of Malayalam songs dominate his collection though there are quite a few records of Hindi songs sung by Mohammed Rafi and Kishore Kumar. But his most valuable assets remain the collection of Yesudas songs from the 60s. He has his records lined up neatly in a small hall on the first floor to go along with three vintage gramophone record players.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Seafood shipped using new technology from CIAL||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) cargo division on Sunday facilitated temperature-controlled air cargo containers for transporting frozen cooked shrimp to the United States. This is for the first time in Kerala that an airport is facilitating shipment of cargo in the most advanced RAP–t2 cargo containers in which around a tonne of dry ice is kept to maintain the temperature at minus 20 degrees during the entire transit time, claimed a press release from the airport authority here on Sunday. The cargo was handled for a Kochi group in association with the Emirates Sky Cargo to carry the consignment to New York. 188 cartons The first of these containers, loaded with 188 cartons of frozen, cooked shrimp and cocktail sauce was airlifted from the airport’s state-of-the-art centre for perishable cargo to John F. Kennedy International Airport, New York, by Emirates Airlines on Sunday morning. The cargo forwarding work was done by Concord. Generally used to carry pharmaceuticals and high-value perishables, these containers are being used to carry seafood from Kerala for the first time. Restrictions during the pandemic have led to serious loss of production time and this forced the group in Kochi to look beyond conventional means of shipping the cargo in order to honour their commitment to customers.  Around a tonne of dry ice maintains the temperature at minus 20 degrees during the entire transit time
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Commuters endure a back-breaking ride on this road||Little is being done to repair dilapidated parts of Thammanam-Pullepady road, despite mounting traffic hold-ups, and oftentimes accidents, resulting in the Kochi Corporation inviting commuters’ wrath. Their grievance is maximum about the condition of the narrow Kathrikadavu-Pullepady stretch, which is even otherwise narrow and bottlenecked. The stretch was last relaid by metro agencies as part of the Kochi metro’s preparatory works a decade ago, to divert vehicles from Banerjee Road and other arterial roads. “It is shocking that civic agencies are turning a blind eye to the condition of the road which runs parallel to Banerjee Road and also S.A. Road. With the Palarivattom flyover declared out of bound for vehicles in May 2019, more people are commuting through the road to the city and back. The corporation must urgently repair the stretch, since far too many people are relying on private vehicles for commute in the pandemic situation,” said Rajesh K., a regular commuter along the corridor whose widening work hit a dead end despite efforts that began three decades ago. With the government announcing that the Public Works Department (PWD) would take over the stretch and develop it as a 22-m wide road, the department carried out a survey and also soil testing, earlier this year. “We are willing to take over the stretch and develop it as a four-lane road, provided the Kochi Corporation hands it over to us in motorable condition,” said a senior official of PWD (Roads wing). “The State government has not yet intimated the Kochi office formally of the impending takeover. Development of the road as a four-lane stretch, with a dedicated duct to carry utilities, is a long-term project that would be funded by KIIFB. A preliminary survey is over, as part of PWD’s project-preparation wing readying its DPR. A design and other elements have to be finalised, prior to works kicking off,” he said. The road may also have a dedicated cycle track, as part of measures under way to promote non-motorised transport in the city, it is learnt. Sources in the Kochi Corporation confided that many road repair works were lagging, despite contractors calling off their months-long agitation. The Traffic Police too are peeved at the plight of the road, despite them sending letters to the civic agency, pinpointing ill-maintained and accident-prone areas on the road. With local body polls on the anvil, the District Collector, who has been placed in charge of the civic body, is expected to take a call on road and allied works that need urgent attention.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fostering a sensitive culture of reading||Encouraging people to read books is an easy thing to do. Make books available to them, and they will read, says K.R. Prabhakaran, a retired professor of Sanskrit from NSS College, Changanassery. The conviction has prompted him to create a chain of libraries around his home at Thiruvaniyoor village, near Kolencherry, in Ernakulam district. He said that he had been trying to create a chain of libraries around Thiruvaniyoor with the help of his friends, who had come forward with both books and money.  Permanent space From trying to build a permanent space for the library to getting books, they had been of great help, he said describing the success of the Bodhi Public Library in Thiruvaniyoor. Over the past three years, friends and well-wishers had contributed about 5,000 books as well as 15 book cases, tables, chairs and about 1,000 sq.ft. of space, making it one of the best libraries in Ernakulam district, he said on Sunday. The success of the Bodhi Library has prompted him and his friends to create a chain around the Bodhi Public Library, which has around 120 readers now on a regular basis. The 20-year-old Galaxy Library near Chemmanad and the nearly 50-year-old Chemmanad Public Library are set to get affiliated to the Kerala public library system, which gets support from the government. Prof. Prabhakaran said that he expected ten libraries to be fully established within the next few years to ensure that people of the area had a lot of good books to read. He acknowledged the help of noted academic K.G. Paulose and dozens of others, who came forward to support both with money and books. Contribution  Thousands of books had been contributed by people to different libraries in the area, he said. The Kodumboor Union Library, Chamgampuzha Memorial Library, Venmani Library, Friends’ Library in Athani and Anaswara Library in Panikkarupady are part of the chain of libraries, which will will join online programmes now to invite readers and engaged them in activities ranging from reading books to discussing and critically appreciating them.
16 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Protest to be staged against medical negligence||A people’s collective will observe a day-long fast on Monday protesting against the alleged medical negligence at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, and demanding action against those responsible for it. The fast is in support of Dr. Najma Salim and others who had pointed out instances of negligence in treatment at the hospital, said a release. The protest, to held in front of the hospital, will be inaugurated by Justice B. Kemal Pasha.
16 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traco Cable gets conductor supply order from KSEB||The State-owned Traco Cable has been given an order worth Rs. 143 crore for conductor production by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). This is the first time the public sector company has received such a big order in one bulk, said a communication from the company here on Wednesday. The KSEB order takes the total volume of orders with the company to Rs. 334 crore, Managing Director Prasad Mathew said. He said the total volume of business in the company would now exceed Rs. 250 crore for the current financial year. The public sector company had been able to increase its capacity through modernisation and expansion of its facilities.
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||UDF set to block LDF from scoring a hat-trick||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has managed to wrest control of Kollam Corporation for last two decades, a strong testimony to remarkable local governance as per its leaders. While they plan to continue the winning streak in upcoming local body elections, the United Democratic Front (UDF) is pulling out all stops to bounce back in power after losing back-to-back polls. The Front feels it is the right time with the prevailing political climate being quite favourable. At the same time Bharatiya Janata Party, which only has a minuscule presence in the council, is all geared to pose a stiff opposition to both the fronts in some parts. According to outgoing Mayor Honey Benjamin, they hardly need any elaborate pre-election exercise as the civic body’s performance speaks for itself. “The Corporation has been focussing on overall development and we have achieved nearly all the goals. Infrastructure of the city got a major boost as all the roads, including every nook and cranny in the Corporation area, are in an excellent condition. We could also successfully implement the drinking water project and more than 4,000 homeless families were provided a roof over their heads through LIFE-PMAY project,” said Ms. Benjamin, who took over from V. Rajendrababu last year. She lists projects to renovate three major markets in the city, sewage treatment plant at Kureepuzha, and construction of 140 anganwadi buildings among other achievements. “All procedures have been completed for the sewage treatment plant that will be functional within a year. Also, Kollam Corporation came out with exemplary planning during the pandemic. Apart from preventive and containment activities, we provided three meals a day for around 5,000 families in the initial days. We have done everything to ensure the continuity of the LDF rule,” she says. ‘No planning’ According to UDF councillor A.K. Hafeez who represents the Thamarakkulam ward in the council, Kollam city remains the same while all other Corporations in the State saw development in massive scale. He points out that Chinnakkada, the bustling business centre at the heart of Kollam city, has come to a standstill after the construction of underpass, a project implemented without any planning or insight. “There is not much change in the infrastructure and civic amenities while Corporation’s waste management system is a disaster. Even when panchayats have a facility to collect waste from houses, we have no such provision. Crores of rupees have been spent on waste disposal projects, but they were abandoned midway. Streetlight installation and replacing the existing lights with LED are instances of corruption.” He says the latest on the list is an illegal survey conducted by Uralungal Technology Solutions (ULTS), a subsidiary of the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), as part of the Corporation’s e-governance and office digitalisation projects. “The survey had more than 100 unnecessary questions related to the medical history of the residents and they were conducting this unauthorised data collection in the midst of a pandemic,” he says. B. Shylaja, one of the two BJP members in the council representing Thevally ward, says Kollam Corporation failed in every aspect of administration during the last five years. “They took credit for all Central government projects like Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana (PMAY), using the funds to build homes and presenting it as LIFE project of the State government.” ‘Poll tactic’ She adds that the council’s latest farce of promising housing to all is nothing but an election tactic. “The LDF has been ruling the Corporation for two decades, but it could not properly address the issue of waste disposal. A couple of months before the polls they started laying interlock tiles and road tarring. It is nothing but an eyewash,” she says. Ms. Shylaja also says that several projects that were announced with much fanfare never reached the beneficiaries. “Since the BJP is a minority in the Corporation with only two councillors, we were not treated fairly and we had to fight for expediting project implementation in our wards. But I am confident that the Corporation will see more BJP representatives in the next council,” she adds.  Chinnakkada has come to a standstill after underpass construction A.K. HafeezUDF councillor
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||341 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 341 new COVID-19 cases and 591 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 333 contact cases, five persons without any known source, two health workers, and a person who had travelled from another State. A 21-year-old Kundara resident and 65-year-old Kottarakara resident are the heath workers who contracted the infection. Patients with no known source include a 77-year-old Kollam resident, 23-year-old Pathanapuram resident, and three others from Kottarakara aged 37, 67, and 41. The district currently has 19,623 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,06,689. At present, the district has 5,207 active cases. Data collection Meanwhile, the district administration has initiated the procedures for COVID-19 vaccine distribution. Initially, the vaccine will be made available to health workers, frontline workers that include police personnel and volunteers, persons above the age of 50, and those with health issues. An expert committee under the District Medical Officer will be in charge of distribution and the department has already started data collection for the purpose. The support of Ayush Department and private labs will be sought.
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||RT-PCR testing||Travancore Medicity has launched RT-PCR testing facility, a provision rarely offered by private hospitals in Kerala. The hospital has the first National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited molecular lab in the district.
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Accused in attack case arrested after 24 years||Kottiyam police on Sunday arrested Shaji, a resident of Mukkam, Mayyanad, an accused who had been absconding for the past 24 years. He was arrested as part of a special drive launched by Kollam District Police Chief. In 1996 The case is related to an incident that took place on 1996 when Shaji forcefully entered the house of Naushad, a resident of Mukkam, and attacked him with a machete. A case was registered in Kottiyam police station for criminal trespass and attempt to murder and the court had issued an arrest warrant. But Shaji went missing after the attack and he was arrested after 24 years by a special squad led by Kottiyam Sub Inspector Sujith G Nair. Shaji was produced before Kollam Sessions Court and remanded in judicial custody.
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacant seats at Govt. ITI for Women||Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) For Women, Manayilkulangara, will accept applications for the vacant seats till 3 p.m. on November 18. Spot interview will be held on November 19. Prospectus and application forms are available on http://www.womenitikollam.kerala. gov.in. Ph: 0474-2793714.
16 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||‘Restore train services’||N.K. Premachandran, MP, inaugurated a hunger strike by Southern Railway Passengers Association in front of the railway station here on Saturday demanding restoration and rescheduling of train services.
16 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||LDF seals seat pact in Kottayam||After days of intense wrangling, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has finally managed to iron out the differences between the constituent parties and sealed a seat-sharing agreement on the Kottayam district panchayat on Sunday. According to the new agreement, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Kerala Congress(M) led by Jose K. Mani will contest in nine divisions each while the remaining four divisions will go to the Communist Party of India (CPI). The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Janata Dal, which had contested to the district panchayat last time, will not contest this time. Instead, they have been guaranteed adequate representation in other local bodies. Announcing the decision, CPI(M) district secretary V.N. Vasavan said the constituent parties would decide on the divisions to contest by Monday. Seat discussions at the municipal, block, and panchayat levels are in the final stages and will be completed by the next day itself. “As more constituent parties come in, it naturally takes more time to draw a formula acceptable to all. We have four more days left for filing the nominations,” he said. ‘Misquoted by media’ Regarding his statement that the KC(M) was the second biggest ally in the coalition, Mr. Vasavan clarified that he was misquoted by the media. “What I had actually said was that the Jose K. Mani faction was the bigger party when compared to the P.J. Joseph group,” he said. The other day, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran had asserted that the party was the second biggest constituent of the LDF. Seat-sharing talks in the LDF had hit a stalemate with the Kerala Congress(M) Jose K. Mani faction demanding 11 district panchayat divisions. The CPI(M), at the same time, offered nine seats by ceding three of its seats while taking back two seats from the CPI and the lone seats in possession of the NCP and Janata Dal (S). The CPI, however, insisted on giving up not more than one seat. Contrary to the practice, the United Democratic Front (UDF) this time had finalised their seat-sharing agreement on the district panchayat much earlier. According to the agreement, the Congress will contest from 13 seats while the Joseph faction will field candidates in the remaining nine divisions. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, appears to hold a clear edge in the first stage with the coalition already clinching a seat-sharing agreement between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) and even announcing its candidates to most of the divisions.
16 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||266 cases in Kottayam||As many as 266 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. According to officials, all but one contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 20 children and 43 persons above 60years of age. With 57 cases, Kottaytam municipality witnessed a rapid surge, followed by Changanassery with 26 cases. With 470 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,626 active cases. 496 in Alappuzha The district logged 496 cases on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 486 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. Meanwhile, 623 people who were undergoing treatment recovered from the disease. The active caseload stands at 8,521.
16 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. move to ban diesel autos may affect over 700 drivers||The State government’s decision to ban diesel-powered autorickshaws older than 15 years is likely to affect over 700 drivers within the Kozhikode city limits. The move, to be effective from January next, comes as a shocker for many who have been going through acute financial crisis since the outbreak of COVID-19. Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) officials say the move is part of the Union and State governments’ policies to promote green energy and reduce pollution. To continue the service, such diesel vehicle owners will have to opt for new vehicles powered by electrical energy, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied natural gas (LNG). In Kozhikode, there are 4,337 autorickshaws with special permits for operating within the Corporation limits. A majority of these vehicles are diesel-powered, and the new rule may affect many of them in the years to come. “Only very limited number of autorickshaws operate now, as the pandemic threat continues. No driver will be able to think of selling or disposing diesel vehicles to purchase electric or gas-powered ones,” says A.K. Sajeevkumar, a union leader in the city. According to him, there are around 250 drivers who operate LPG, CNG or LNG-powered autorickshaws in different parts of Kozhikode, but they are yet to get city service permit. “If the government is only focused on promoting electric-powered vehicles, people like us will again be in trouble,” he adds. Vehicle loans The repayment of vehicle loans is pending for a majority of drivers. Union leaders say the new rule will gradually displace many poor drivers who fear taking loans again for purchasing new vehicles. Krishnakumar, an autorickshaw driver from Mavilikkadavu, says the steep fall in daily revenue will never prompt anyone to take such a risk. Meanwhile, road transport workers in the city are planning to launch a joint protest against the government move from November 17. Functionaries of the Kerala State Auto Taxi and Light Motor Workers’ Federation say they will stage a three-day satyagraha near the KSRTC bus stand. “What we seek is possible extension of the proposed rule or proper rehabilitation support for the affected section of drivers,” they add.
16 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Election campaign hots up in Kozhikode Corporation||With the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coming up with a near-complete list of candidates, the poll campaign in the Kozhikode Corporation has gained momentum. 68 wards The LDF, the current ruling front of the Corporation Council, on Saturday announced the names of candidates in 68 out of the 75 wards. The CPI(M) is fielding candidates in 57 wards, of which 55 names have been announced. Five seats each have been given to the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Communist Party of India (CPI), while the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) gets three seats and the Indian National League (INL) two. A Congress (S)-supported Independent candidate will be fielded in one of the wards. However, candidates for Kuttichira, East Hill, Kinasseri, Mukhadar, Chalappuram, Vellimadukunnu and Chevayur wards will be announced later. CPI(M)-supported Independent candidates will be fielded in Chalappuram and Mukhadar. The LDF had a fallout with the Janata Dal (Secular) [JD(S)] over seat-sharing, following which the latter has decided to contest alone in some wards. JD(S) leaders alleged that the front had allocated wards where chances of winning were slim to them. Azhchavattam, Valiyangadi, Vellayil, Thoppayi, and Mankavu are some wards coveted by the JD(S). Meanwhile, the BJP has come up with a list of 65 candidates in two phases. The first list released on Friday consisted of candidates in 54 wards, while the remaining 11 candidates were announced on Saturday. The candidates for 10 wards are yet to be announced. Discussions are on with the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) that has demanded some seats. The United Democratic Front (UDF), meanwhile, is yet to come up with a list of candidates. No nominations filed No nominations have been filed by candidates in any of the wards in the four days since returning officers began accepting nominations to the Kozhikode Corporation.
16 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Squads to enforce mining rules strictly||Revenue squads led by senior officers have sprung into action to crack down on quarry operators who collude with tipper drivers to cart away quarry products beyond permitted limits to make a quick buck. Taluk-level squads led by tahsildars will conduct surprise inspections and instantly impound vehicles illegally used. The District Collector and an Assistant Collector will also carry out independent surprise inspections to check violations. The first round of inspection conducted by the District Collector’s squad last Saturday impounded 17 trucks for flouting rules. According to Revenue Department sources, attempts to violate mining rules were found to be on the rise since the local body elections were notified. Henceforth, vehicles carrying quarry materials would be checked at all possible points and suspicious vehicles would be instantly impounded, they said. VACB checks The Revenue Department action is also a follow-up to a special drive conducted by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) squad to expose truck drivers who colluded with quarry operators to transport excess quantity of crusher products in violation of Geology Department guidelines. In Kozhikode district, the drive had impounded 21 such trucks used to cart off excess quantities of stones from nine large-scale quarries. The VACB report had also called for better vigil in the area and field-level action by the checking squads concerned. Noticing the increasing instances of malpractices in the sector, a number of local action councils and collective of environmental activists had called for better vigil on the part of the Revenue, Geology and Local Self-Government departments. One of the main issues raised by them was the damage of renovated village roads due to the frequent plying of overloaded trucks. The Thamarassery Ghat Road was one of the most affected roads in the district.
16 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||574 new positive cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode recorded 574 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, of which 523 were of local transmission of the disease. Four new patients had recently returned from foreign countries, while 11 came from other States. The source of infection is unknown in 36 cases. Four new patients are health workers. As many as 831 people were cured and discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Sunday. At present, there are 8,303 active cases and 1,53,363 people under observation in the district.
16 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||173 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 173 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 150 people contracted the virus through local contact and of this, the contact source of 27 people were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 22 cases, followed by Kadambanad with 16 cases. With 174 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,859 active cases.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Light Metro project may cover Technopark||Linking Technopark, one of the country’s largest IT parks and where 60,000 techies are working, to the proposed 21.8-km Light Metro corridor from Pallipuram to Karamana has been found to be feasible. Leading transport consultancy Urban Mass Transit Company Limited (UMTC) tasked to look into linking the IT hub with the proposed MRTS corridor has found it feasible and feels it will have a daily ridership of 31,000. A 5.4 km branch line from a new Light Metro corridor with a station near Kazhakuttam junction along the NH 66 bypass with stations connecting all phases of the Technopark and ending at Karimanal junction has been proposed. The board of Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Limited (KRTL), the SPV set up to execute the Light Metro, that met on October 19 through video conference has approved the feasibility report submitted by UMTC. The board has decided to proceed with the preparation of the Detailed Project Report, official sources said. The proposal to link the IT hub to the MRTS corridor was mooted by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the board of the KRTL on July 24, 2019. The UMTC, while looking into the feasibility, has suggested the linkage after considering several issues. The inability to change the alignment of the upcoming 2.7-km four-lane flyover at Kazhakuttam, along the NH 66 and the NH 66 Bypass to Karode from near the main gate of Technopark to the CSI Mission Hospital was the major challenge before the UMTC. Similarly, alignment for Light Metro along the NH 66 Kazhakuttam-Karyavattom corridor cannot be altered, as the gradient is steep. In 2014, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) that had looked into re-routing the elevated MRTS through the IT hub had abandoned the proposal in view of the gradient and cost. Instead, the DMRC had proposed re-routing Reach 1 from Kazhakuttam Junction through the periphery of the Technopark to rejoin Reach II, which extends from Karyavattom to Kesavadasapuram. To incur Rs. 316-cr. Land to the extent of 0.5 hectares was needed to set up a station in the IT hub and that additional line will incur Rs. 316 crore. In addition, the DMRC had found that 86 cents was needed for laying MRTS line to link Phase I of Technopark.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) bid to outpace scandals ahead of polls||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has attempted to outpace the scandals that seemed to have dogged it at every step since the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case appeared above the political horizon in August. The party seemed to radiate confidence that it had ceased to be a magnet for salacious scandals unleashed by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) given the recent change at its helm. By one account, the CPI(M) felt that State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had, at a stroke, denied the Opposition the initiative in the electoral battle and rendered the party less of a target for slander by going on leave for medical treatment. The party believed it was better poised to break out of the “smokescreen of lies” laid down by the Opposition and coast to victory in the local body polls on the strength of its accomplishments. Finance Minister Thomas Isaac told The Hindu that there were two forces at play in the “battle for the minds” of the people. The strategy of the Congress and the BJP to create an environment of suspicion against the government had double-edged consequences. For one, they had attacked Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)without offering the people a credible alternative to mobilise funds for development. Vilification campaign The vilification campaign might confuse voters temporarily. But, people have experienced the tangible benefits of the development. “Development works estimated at Rs. 50,000 crore are on a roll. The change is perceptible in every panchayat and municipality. The people see no dividend in denying the LDF a second term. They would reject the smear campaign,” he said. The Congress and the BJP have harped on about the moral degeneration in the CPI(M) leadership and government to woo voters. BJP State president K. Surendran said corruption scandals had swamped the government and the voters were fired-up to punish the LDF by throwing their lot with the NDA. Welfare pension UDF leader C.P. John said welfare pension, food kits, free rations and development claims would not alone help the CPI(M) pull off a victory. The party leadership had mislaid its moral compass. Its cadres wanted the party to fail in the hope it would change for the better. The CPI(M) best not forget that it won the 2016 elections by seizing the high moral ground. “That place has now fallen into the hands of the UDF,” he said.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to bring organ donations under one entity||Kerala is taking the decisive step to set up the State Organ and Tissue Donation Transplantation Authority, which will be the ‘appropriate authority’ with quasi-judicial powers, as envisaged under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act (THOA), 1994. None of the States have set up such an authority with overarching powers as envisaged in THO Act. Kerala would be the first State to do this. Coordination It will be the single umbrella organisation to coordinate the organ donation and transplantation process, both live and deceased donation, in the State. Though it has been eight years since the government launched the deceased donor organ donation programme, Mrithasanjeevani, lack of an organised administrative machinery, human resources, a proper technical agency with expertise and legal authority to guide has left the programme in a mire of mistrust. With thousands of patients suffering from chronic end-stage organ failure in the State, the huge mismatch in the demand for and supply of organs has been driving people to desperate measures to procure organs, raising the spectre of a possible commercial trade in organs. Despite the measures taken to ease administrative hurdles, both deceased donor and live donation in the State has more or less been centred around a handful of corporate hospitals, which has also raised serious questions. Though Kerala had initially set up a Core Committee for Cadaver Transplantation to facilitate organ donation, the said committee has rarely met. “The daily administrative aspects of transplant activities were being managed by the Directorate of Medical Education. While this arrangement might have worked on a case-by-case basis, Kerala now has some 45 hospitals registered as organ transplant centres. Mrithasanjeevani still does not have a State Nodal Officer, and Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS), which has been coordinating the transplant activities till now, does not even have a proper administrative structure,” says Noble Gracious, nodal officer, KNOS. “A good organ transplantation programme can be built only on the foundation of public trust. And to build that trust, it is important that the processes is subjected to regular and intense scrutiny,” he adds Money trade The recent police enquiries into possible organs for money trade in the State is just one more reason why a unified transplant programme needs to be built around the public sector hospitals, which as of now have been burdened by the issues of shortage of critical care staff, facilities and overcrowding. Health experts have been advocating a private-public partnership to strengthen the organ transplantation programme in government hospitals. A uniform transplantation authority will hence be better placed to enter into partnerships with other hospitals or health systems. A legal body like that can reinstate public’s confidence in the organ transplantation programme, eliminate organ trade, and focus on providing a better quality of life to those donating organs. “We are talking about bringing in quality control measures, equity in organ distribution, improved access to organs for all and a well-equipped system of documentation and data banking,”a senior Health official said.  The huge mismatch in the demand and supply of organs has been driving people to desperate measures to procure organs.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prohibitory orders lifted||The district administration has lifted the prohibitory orders that were in place for a month-and-a-half since October 4 to tackle the surge in COVID-19 cases. Even while deciding against extending the restrictions beyond Sunday midnight, District Collector Navjot Khosa appealed to political parties to exercise restraint while campaigning for the local body elections. While restrictions will hereafter will imposed only in containment zones, the Unlock 5 guidelines will be prevalent in other areas. Only essential services will be permitted, while gatherings will be limited to 20 people in containment (or micro-containment) zones. Dr. Khosa told The Hindu said the clamping of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been effective in reducing a surge and slowing down the COVID-19 spread. The enhanced vigil also ensured the enforcement of social distancing to a large extent. While another surge is anticipated in December largely owing to the upcoming polls, the district administration will evaluate the situation after two weeks to adopt appropriate measures to tackle the unfolding situation. “We have urged the political parties to refrain from organising mass rallies. While we will continue to evaluate the situation, we also expect a clear direction from the State Election Commission in this regard,” Dr. Khosa said. the district authorities deployed sectoral magistrates across the district to detect violations of the COVID-19 protocol while the prohibitory orders were in effect. Legal action was initiated against 29,272 people during the period.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vet congress lays stress on native breeds||Speakers at the 12th Kerala Veterinary Science Congress underscored the need for conservation of native breeds, a ‘One Health approach’ for tackling animal diseases, and the need for incorporation of cheaper, easily available cattle feed for sustainable animal husbandry. The two-day event organised by the Indian Veterinary Association (Kerala), which was partly conducted online, concluded here on Sunday. The ‘One Health’ approach is advisable in priority areas of management of zoonosis, antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and food safety, a lead paper on the theme presented on Sunday, stressed. The two-day event underlined the need for conservation, characterisation and improvement of local native germ plasms of desi cattle varieties of Wayanad, Indian murrah buffalo, Vechur cow, Malabari goats and the Thalassery breed of poultry. Cheaper feed Incorporation of cheaper and easily available unconventional feed in animal rations is imperative for sustainable animal husbandry, the science congress noted. Mislabelling of meat products, according to a paper presented at the two-day event, has emerged a matter of concern in the country. Meat adulteration Meat speciation using genomic techniques such as PCR-RFLP (Polymerase chain reaction-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism) was suggested as a reliable method for meat species authentication even in highly processed food. ATR-FTIR (Attenuated Total Reflectance-Fourier Transform infrared Spectrometry) can be used to determine the adulteration when chevon is blended with veal, speakers noted. Inaugurating the two-day event on Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had stressed the need for strengthening immunity in animals and birds, which form an important link in the ecosystem, for preventing disease outbreaks.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||314 new cases, 571 recoveries in capital||Thiruvananthapuram reported 314 COVID-19 cases and 571 recoveries on Sunday when the number of active cases stood at 6,341. Barring two imported cases, all others have been attributed to local transmission. The sources of infection were unknown in 67 cases. Seven health workers are also among those affected. With 4,012 people being subjected to testing during the last 24 hours, the COVID-19 test positivity rate stood at 7.82. On Saturday, as many as 468 out of the 5,678 people who were tested were diagnosed with the disease, indicating a test positivity rate of 8.24. The death toll continued to mount unabated with the pandemic claiming six more lives in the district. The deceased included a 60-year old woman who hailed from Nedumangad, a 79-year old man who hailed from Amaravila, a 72-year old woman who hailed from Venganoor, a 64-year old woman who hailed from Sreekaryam, an 82-year old woman who hailed from Nannattukavu, and a 57-year old woman who hailed from Kunnathukal. The district administration placed 1,645 people under quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for any COVID-19 symptom to 25,097. Manakad and Mottamoodu areas in Parappara, Tholicode grama panchayat, have been declared containment zones.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) refuses to accept INL’s choice of Poonthura Siraj||The sudden shift of People's Democratic Party (PDP) vice chairman Poonthura Siraj to the Indian National League (INL), which has announced him as an LDF candidate in the Manikyavilakam ward of the city Corporation, has not gone down well with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. The CPI(M) district committee has conveyed its displeasure to the INL, demanding that the party field another candidate from the ward. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said that the LDF cannot accept any alliance with those associated with radical communal organisations. “Siraj announced one fine day that he is shifting to the INL and soon they announced his candidature too. This is not acceptable to CPI(M). The LDF cannot deviate from its stated policy just with the aim to secure an electoral victory. We might win or lose elections, but we cannot associate with parties like PDP, of which Siraj was the vice-chairman. We have conveyed this to the INL district president. We are hoping that they will find a suitable candidate to replace him, else someone else from the LDF will have to contest in that ward,” said Mr.Nagappan. However, INL district treasurer A.L.Kasim, who was previously announced as the candidate for Manikyavilakam ward, said that the party district committee will convene on Monday and announce its decision. “We intend to go forward with Siraj's candidature,” he said. The CPI(M)'s refusal to have any kind of alliance with those associated with organisations like PDP comes at a time when it is attacking the United Democratic Front (UDF) of having electoral understandings with Islamist organisations including Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Jamaat-e-Islami. Poonthura Siraj has been a former councillor of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation over three terms in 1995, 2000 and 2005. He has been known as a trusted aide of PDP founder Abdul Nasser Maudany. Manikyavilakam is the sole ward that LDF- constituent INL has been allocated in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Its candidate had managed to win the ward by a considerable margin in the previous elections.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KRTL gives consent to reworked Light Metro DPR||The ‘reworked’ Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Light Metro proposed for cities of Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode has got the approval of the Kerala Rapid Transit Limited (KRTL), the spv set up to execute the MRTS project, after a delay of 35 months. The board of the KRTL that met on October 19 through video-conference gave the approval for the revised DPR submitted by the DMRC in December 2017 as per the revised Metro Policy-2017 of the Union government, official sources told The Hindu . As per the revised DPR prepared under the DMRC Principal Adviser E. Sreedharan, the cost for laying Light Metro along the 35.12 km in the two key cities will go up by Rs. 700 crore from Rs. 6,728 crore. The DMRC also found the ambitious project ‘viable and socially justified’ and that it has the needed ridership. The Peak Hour Peak Direction Traffic (PHPDT) for Thiruvananthapuram is 10,000 while for Kozhikode it is 6,000, as per the revised DPR, the DMRC says. Before placing it in the KRTL board, the revised DPR was scrutinised by a high-level committee comprising the Principal Secretaries of Finance, Public Works, Transport, Law, LSGD, and the MD, KRTL. Revised cost The cost for laying the MRTS has gone up with the incorporation of parameters such as transit-oriented development plan, value capture finance, and public-private partnership (PPP) in the new Metro Rail policy. The FIRR, an indicator to measure return on investment, for Thiruvananthapuram has gone up to 7.24% and 8.66 % for Kozhikode. The 17.99% Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for Thiruvananthapuram project and 17.39% for Kozhikode have also gone up. Automatic fare collection and operation of lifts and escalators in light metro stations in the two cities is included in the PPP mode. Additional floor area ratio (FAR) at a price has also been suggested along the corridor for value capture finance along with Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA). Another change is recommendation for Linear Induction Motor (LIM) technology for the rolling stock to negotiate sharp curves. The DPR prepared by the DMRC was reworked based on guidelines for metro rail project proposals of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). The reworked DPR was made an essential component for seeking Central assistance as per the Metro Rail policy. The supplementary DPR now needs Cabinet nod to be forwarded to the MoHUA, official sources say, adding this will come up in the Cabinet only after the local body elections.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF agitation today||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is set to organise a State-wide demonstration on Monday to protest against the alleged attempts being made by Central enforcement agencies to derail the State’s development. Each booth The agitation will be held in each booths in municipal corporations and in each wards in panchayats from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. Senior leaders of the coalition will lead the demonstration in the capital district. LDF convener and CPI (M) State secretary in-charge A. Vijayaraghavan will participate in Kannettumukku. Others who will participate include Anavoor Nagappan (Peroorkada), M. Vijayakumar (Palayam), Koliyacode Krishnan Nair (Venjaramoodu), V. Sivankutty (Pappanamcode), Pannian Ravindran (Chala), Binoy Viswam, MP, (Nettayam), Prakash Babu (Pattom), Sathyan Mokeri (Vanchiyoor) and C. Divakaran, MLA (Nedumangad).
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||National Press Day observance||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate online the National Press Day observance and the ‘Praveshanolsavam’ for the PG diploma courses of the Kerala Media Academy at 11 a.m. on Monday. Academy chairman R. S. Babu will preside. The academy is organising a week-long observance, in association with press clubs, from November 16 to November 22 upholding the right to know the truth. The valedictory event will be held on November 20 in association with the Kesari Memorial Journalist Trust.
16 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister denies closure of Nirbhaya homes||Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja has denied that Nirbhaya homes (women and children home) in the State where victims of abuse and trafficking are housed are being closed down. The Minister, in a statement here on Sunday, said the residents of the homes were being shifted to a model home in Thrissur that could accommodate 200 people. The Thrissur model home had been set up so that children living in Nirbhaya homes who were interested in pursuing their studies could get better facilities. Drawbacks The statement said the Nirbhaya homes, run by non-governmental organisations, housed 350-odd residents, including children and adults. All these homes functioned from rented buildings in densely populated areas. There were attempts to harm or influence the children in favour of accused persons. Moreover, the children were forced to remain confined inside the structures and mix with only adults. The Women and Child Development Department intended to their rehabilitation in a scientific manner.  The Thrissur model home was set up a cost of Rs. 5 crore on the recommendation of experts. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights too had recommended such a home, the statement said. The district homes will accommodate children for the short-term, while the Thrissur home has been envisaged for their long-term care.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||B.Des ranklist published||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) has published the rank and category lists of those candidates who have applied for admissions to the Bachelor of Design (B.Des) course in the self-financing College of Architecture, Thiruvananthapuram and also submitted marks of the qualifying examination. The lists can be viewed through the websitewww.cee.kerala.gov.in. While a few applications have been withheld due to anomalies, they will be included in the rank list if the same are rectified within 3 p.m. on Monday.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested with ganja||The City police on Sunday arrested two people with alleged possession of over 2 kg of ganja in separate cases. Vipin Babu, 21, of Kochulloor was apprehended by the Pettah police near the Anayara bridge allegedly with 1kg of the contraband. He had been placed under surveillance by the members of the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) following a tip-off received by Assistant Commissioner, Narcotics, Sheen Tharayil. In another case, the Poojappura police arrested Suresh alias Pallan Suresh, 40, of Njalikkonam with alleged possession of 1.1kg of ganja. He was caught after being found roaming near a temple in Njalikkonam under suspicious circumstances,hte police said. Following his arrest, the police purportedly received several calls from youths on his phone demanding supply of the contraband.  Efforts were on to nab those who supplied such substances to the accused in both cases, official sources said.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Collector interacts with children||Her experiences after assuming charge as District Collector and the secret behind her command over Malayalam were some of the questions posed by children living in child care institutions to District Collector Navjot Khosa at an interaction here on Saturday. The programme was arranged by the District Child Protection Unit of the Women and Child Development Department as part of the Children’s Day celebrations. The children also wished Ms. Khosa on the occasion of Deepavali.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held in POCSO case||The Poonthura police arrested a 59-year old man for indecent exposure. The police identified the accused as Mohanan of Vaduvath in Muttathara. He has been accused of committing the crime near the victim’s house. The police have booked him under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
16 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP declares candidates for 5 more wards||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has declared its candidates for five more wards in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation for the upcoming local body polls. Nishanth Sugunan is being fielded in the Palayam ward while M. Biju will contest from Thampanoor. The other three candidates are Minimol W. (Mulloor), Manju Ayyappan (Vizhinjam) and Indulekha (Venganoor). With this, the BJP-led NDA has announced its candidates for all the Corporation wards.
16 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||425 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 425 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 892 persons recovering from the disease. There are 8,388 active cases in the district and 84 patients from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 51,168 cases have tested positive in the district and 42,396 people have recovered. Seven health workers According to the official statistics, 413 people, including seven health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. This includes 64 people above the age of 60 years and 19 children below the age of 10. In all, 5,863 people are under home observation. In all, 224 people got admitted to various hospitals on Sunday. As many as 5,368 samples were collected for testing on the day. Meanwhile, toll collection at Paliyekkara toll plaza, which was stopped recently after the workers tested positive, resumed on Sunday. A fresh batch of workers was deployed after training at the plaza.
16 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||LDF to hold protest meetings today||The Left Democratic Front will organise protest meetings in various parts of the district in protest against ‘Narendra Modi government misusing Central agencies to scuttle State government projects in the guise of investigation.’ “The protest is also against the anti-people policies of the Union government and the unholy alliance between the BJP and the Congress attempting to denigrate these projects,” said convener M.M. Varghese. At 3,331 booths The protest meetings will be held at all the 3,331 booths in the district between 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Monday by maintaining COVID-19 protocols and physical distancing. Around 100 people will attend each meeting. CPI(M) State secretariat member Baby John will inaugurate the protest meeting near the Thrissur Corporation and CPI central committee member C.N. Jayadevan at Manalur. Various LDF leaders will address the protest meetings across the district. Candidates’ list The LDF on Sunday announced the list of candidates to Thrissur Corporation and district panchayat. The CPI(M) is contesting for 38 seats in the 55-seat Corporation. Of these, seven are Independent candidates. Other candidates include : CPI - 8; LJD -3; KC(M) - 2; JD(S) - 2; Congress (S) - 1 and NCP - 1. In the district panchayat with 29 divisions, CPI(M) will contest in 16 seats, CPI in eight seats, LJD in two, and NCP, INL and KC(M) in one seat each. Not contesting Former district panchayat presidents Sheela Vijayakumar (CPI) and Mary Thomas [CPI(M)] are not contesting this time. The BJP was the first to announce candidates to Corporation and district panchayat this time. The Congress also came up with their initial list soon.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stepping into the past||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival season||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hitching a ride||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Star players||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Locking horns||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Custom intact||
16 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||24-hour bhajan concludes||Ahead of the 95th birth anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Baba, a Global Akhanda Bhajan 2020 was organised for 24 hours beginning 6 p.m. on Saturday and concluded on Sunday evening. The bhajan was led by devotees at Kulwant Hall in the Prashanthi Nilayam at Puttaparthi in the district and several devotees joined the spiritual programme from the midnight of November 14 (IST), according to a release from the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust here on Sunday. Sri Sathya Sai Baba had believed in challenging the oddities of life and always preached it to humanity, and in the pandemic times, the Sri Sathya Sai Global Akhanda Bhajan took a new dimension of ‘Unity In Diversity,’ virtually connecting the world around, the release said.
16 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers of garment units continue stir||About 4,000 workers of two garment manufacturing units in Thumukunta Industrial Estate near Hindupur abstained from work for the fifth day seeking payment of minimum wages. On Diwali day, Joint Commissioner of Labour S.Y. Srinivas held talks with the representatives of workers and management, but the talks failed with India Designs Garment Company and Nisha Designs Garment Company giving in writing that they would not increase salary for the next three months. “The women workers are being forced to stay on factory premises for 12 hours with a meagre payment of Rs. 5,000 per month,” said Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State leader Kanhdarapu Murali, who represented workers during the talks.
16 November 2020||BAPULAPADU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||1 killed in cracker explosion||A daily wage labourer died when fire crackers exploded in the Bapulapadu village on Saturday. The mishap occurred when the victim, Rajesh Kumar (32), was bursting crackers along with his friends. Rajesh Kumar was a native of Bihar. One more worker suffered injuries in the accident. The Bapulapadu police registered a case.
16 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physically-challenged Intermediate girl ‘ends life’||A 17-year-old physically-challenged girl, studying Intermediate, committed suicide after being allegedly harassed by a relative. The man had allegedly extorted money from her and molested her. The girl took to the extreme step on November 11, and it came to light on Sunday. According to information, the girl, who belonged to Utuvanka of Bangarupalem mandal, was pursuing her Intermediate second year. Suffering from 80% disability, she depended on share autos and known persons riding two-wheelers for commuting between the village and the government junior college at Bangarupalem. A married youth, Jyothi Kumar (23) of Bangarupalem, a distant relative, occasionally used to pick her up from college and drop her at the village. After the college reopened early this month, he started helping her again. However, during the last fortnight, the youth reportedly took Rs. 9,000 in small sums at various times from the girl with a promise to repay at the earliest. In order to meet his requirement, the girl kept “stealing” cash at home. On November 11, the girl returned home in a disturbed mood and opted to work in the field nearby. Late in the evening, her parents found that she had consumed poison when she came home in a semi-unconscious state and collapsed on the bed. She was rushed to the government hospital at Bangarupalem, and later shifted to the SVRR Hospital in Tirupati, where she died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. Sub-inspector (Bangarupalem) V. Ramakrishna said during interrogation it was found that the youth had collected Rs. 9,000 from the girl. As her disability was more than 80% with crippled legs and arms, the girl naturally showed interest to seek the help of a relative for transport, but the youth had taken advantage of her weakness, he added.  POCSO Act In their complaint to the police, the parents also alleged sexual harassment of the girl. “During the post-mortem, an abrasion was found on the back of the girl. Further investigation is going on,” the police officer said. A case was registered under POCSO Act, and the accused taken into custody. Persons in distress can dial 100 for help.
16 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pumpkins steal the limelight from crackers||This year may have seen a few takers for crackers during Deepavali, but unusually, what stole the limelight this time were pumpkins, lemons and coconuts. These are the items that people use to ward off the evil eye, also called ‘dishti’ locally. Those performing the ritual at commercial outlets and households admitted that they haven’t witnessed such a zeal to perform the ritual in their career. Such an enthusiasm is directly attributed to the COVID-19 scenario. In tune with the rising demand, the prices of these items also spiralled in the last two days. A moderate sized pumpkin was sold at Rs. 100, and the range went up beyond Rs. 250. A small-sized coconut too had commanded Rs. 30 a piece, followed by a lemon at Rs. 5. Guravaiah (70) of Nagari, on the job of “dishti remover” for four decades, said he broke pumpkins and coconuts for as many as 15 shops and 32 households between Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon. “It is the highest figure in my career so far,” he said. The reason, for such heightened activity this time, was rooted to the pandemic. Till October, people had to confine themselves to their home and give a miss to major festivals. “With COVID-19 unlock series almost complete, followed by remarkable drop in the virus cases, the public are once again on the track. With the fear of things going bad again still lingering in their hearts, people are praying for revival of businesses. Deepavali is the best time to perform the ritual,” said Ravi Shankar, a priest in Pakala village.
16 November 2020||JAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Unaccounted cash seized||Police seized about Rs. 50 lakh unaccounted cash being transported from Telangana to West Bengal in a car on Sunday. A bullion merchant, who was carrying the money, was taken into custody, said Circle Inspector P. Chandrashekar.
16 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s nod awaited to procure discoloured paddy: Kannababu||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said the State government appealed to the Centre to permit procurement of discoloured paddy and paddy with fair average quality as the rains in October led to damage of the standing paddy crop across the State. Speaking to the media here on Sunday, Mr. Kannababu said the State government already wrote to the Central government appealing it to allow procurement of discoloured paddy. The same request has also been made to the six-member Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) that visited the State last week to assess the damage of crops and infrastructure facilities due to recent floods. “The Central team, after taking stock of the situation, assured the State of timely aid from the Central government,” said Mr. Kannababu. “The procurement process began in the State. The government’s plan of action to procure discoloured paddy will soon be announced. All the Rythu Bharosa Kendras have been converted into procurement centres,” said the Minister. Input subsidy The State government would release input subsidy of Rs. 133 crore on November 17, compensating the damage of crops due to recent rains. Over 1.7 lakh farmers suffered crop loss, said Mr. Kannababu.
16 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pending ‘zero interest’ of Rs. 700 crore will be released tomorrow, says Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Sunday said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would release Rs. 700 crore towards reimbursement of the ‘zero interest’ on crop loan to farmers, which had been kept pending by the TDP government for the 2014-19 period. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kannababu said that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had not reimbursed ‘zero interest’ amount of Rs. 1,200 crore for a period of five years. “The Union Finance Ministry has given its nod to release the pending ‘zero interest’ amount to the farmers. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will release the amount on November 17, which will be directly deposited into the bank accounts of the farmers who have already paid the interest to the banks on the crop loan availed,” the Minister said. “The YSRCP government has made a promise to the farmers in the State to reimburse the amount for the pending period beginning from 2014 kharif season ” he said. Input subsidy “Input subsidy of Rs. 510 crore for kharif-2019 will also be released on November 17. However, claims of just Rs. 205 crore have been received from the farmers by Sunday. More than 10.63 lakh farmers will get input subsidy for the season,” the Minister said.
16 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID makes Diwali a low-key affair||Deepavali was celebrated with religious fervour across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh sans any social gatherings in view of COVID-19. As rain threat fizzles out, revellers made a last-minute purchase of green crackers and lit up the sky in Nellore and Ongole. Avoiding big social gatherings to keep COVID-19 at bay, people celebrated the festival in a low-key manner. Shopkeepers put up makeshift stalls to sell crackers at the eleventh hour due to uncertainty on sale of crackers, while hawkers delivered crackers at the doorstep of people by taking them on pushcarts. Puja performed It was less of crackers and more of lights during the low-key fete. Women in new attire tastefully decorated their houses with LED serial lights as also traditional oil lamps to invite the goddess of wealth and performed ‘Lakshmi Kubera' puja seeking health, wealth and prosperity. Both young and old alike relished mouth-watering sweets and savouries after bursting crackers and visiting temples adhering to COVID-19 norms like wearing of masks and cleaning hands with soaps. However the social gathering to mark the ‘'Narakasura vadha’, an event to celebrate the annihilation of the demon king symbolising the victory of the good over evil by lighting up the effigy of the son of 'Bhudevi' packed with choicest crackers was missing in view of the restrictions imposed by the authorities in view of incidence of coronavirus.
16 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police trace missing girls within hours in Prakasam||Four teenage girls ran away from their homes at Padamatipalem, near Podili, in Prakasam district, after reportedly being chided by parents for being preoccupied with their mobile phones for long hours. However, Prakasam police, using high-end technology, located the girls within four hours in Guntur district, Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police K.Prakasa Rao said on Saturday. The parents of the school-going girls had bought them mobile phones recently to attend to online classes conducted by their schools. On a complaint from the parents about the girls going missing, all police stations across the district were alerted by the Command Control Centre here and vehicle checks were held. Using latest technology tools, the quartet were located near Vinukonda by a technical assistant(TA) at Podili police station.
16 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh cases fall to a new low of 67 in South Coastal A.P.||Fresh COVID cases dipped to a new low of 67, while no death was reported from the two districts in south coastal Andhra in the last 24 hours. With no change, Nellore district’s toll remained at 490 and Prakasam district’s at 576, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. The number of recoveries were double the number of new cases, which went up to 1,33,401 in Nellore and Prakasam. With 136 persons winning the battle against the dreaded disease, the caseload declined to 2,132 in the region. The incidence of the viral disease has gradually come down in the fortnight of November. With just 30 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose a bit to 62,450 in Nellore district, where as many as 65 patients were reported to have recovered, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,406. In Prakasam district, the total number of positive cases increased slightly to 60,951 with just 37 persons getting infected in the last 24 hours. The caseload dipped further to 575 with 71 getting cured of the disease during the period.
16 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) slams Centre’s ‘anti-people’ policies||CPI(M) Srikakulam district secretary Bhaviri Krishnamurthy has alleged that all the public sector wings in the country have been badly affected in the regime of the BJP-led NDA government at Centre. Addressing a public meeting held here on Sunday as part of the party’s awareness programme, the CPI(M) leader alleged that properties worth crores of rupees of telecom, aviation and other departments were given away to corporate companies at throw away prices in the name of reforms. Mr. Krishnamurthy said that 44 labour laws had become toothless with the introduction of four Labour Codes. Party Srikakulam city secretary T. Tirupati Rao, CPI(M) secretariat members D. Govinda Rao and K. Nagamani spoke.
16 November 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengalis in city recall meet with Soumitra Chatterjee||A few Bengali old timers fondly remembered the evening when Dadasaheb Phalke awardee Soumitra Chatterjee, who is lovingly called as Soumitra Da, by all Bengalis had visited them. The 85-year-old Thespian died at a hospital in Kolkata fighting the side effects of COVID-19, on Sunday. Going nostalgic and emotional, they remembered when he visited Bengali Association, a cultural club established by the Bengali diaspora, in 1973. The then secretary of the club, Ratan Pal, said that the actor had come to Visakhapatnam to shoot for a film by name ‘Epaar Opaar’ with co-star Aparna Sen, some time in 1973. “He was down to earth and after going around the club and understanding our activities, he appreciated us by giving a pat on our shoulders,” said Mr. Debu Chatterjee, then member of the executive committee.
16 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmi Haram reaches Tiruchanur||The famous Lakshmi Kasula Haram reached Tiruchanur to be decorated to the goddess during Gaja and Garuda vahana sevas on Sunday and Monday respectively. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy handed over the jewel to the Joint Executive Officer at Tiruchanur temple on Sunday. Special pujas were performed to the Haram. Senior temple officials were present.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to facilitate funding to energy-efficiency projects||The Energy Department has set up a committee comprising the officers of Union Bank of India, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, YES Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank Of India, HDFC Bank, NABARD, Power Finance Corporation and IIFL to facilitate funding to the energy-efficiency (EE) projects. These Financial Institutions (FIs) will get the benefits of Partial Risk Guarantee Funding for Energy Efficiency (PRGFEE) scheme on being empaneled with the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), according to a release by State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM) CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy, who has been appointed the committee convener. He said under the PRGFEE scheme, the BEE will provide partial guarantee to loan amount for EE projects implemented through the BEE- empanelled energy service companies. The committee will propose policy initiatives for increasing EE financing and development of EE market in the State. Policy initiatives The SECM will invite EE proposals in different sectors such as industries (large or small), buildings and agriculture, do technical appraisal of the projects and will recommend the viable ones among them to the financial institutions for funding. The SECM will also pave the way for signing of MoUs with the BEE, which leads to project financing under the PRGFEE. In the meeting, Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the BEE has formulated a risk sharing mechanism to provide financial institutions with a partial coverage of risk involved in extending loans for energy efficient projects. It (BEE) has allotted around Rs. 312 crore for the PRGFEE at the national level. Loan guarantee Under the PRGFEE scheme, the BEE will provide guarantees up to 50% of the loan or Rs. 10 crore per project, whichever is less, to the financial institutions which offer loans to industries or others to take up the EE projects in the State. In case of default, the fund will cover the first loss subject to maximum of 10% of the total guaranteed amount and cover the remaining default (outstanding principal) amount on pari-passu (equal footing) basis up to the maximum guaranteed amount.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre is usurping powers of State govts.’||The week-long protest campaign against the Central and State governments concluded with the CPI(M) staging a sit-in at the Dharna Chowk here on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, party State Secretariat member M.V.S. Sarma alleged that the Central government was hatching conspiracies to rewrite the Constitution. “The Centre is usurping the powers of the State governments and wants to control the States with an iron fist. India is a union of States as per the Constitution. The autonomy of States is at stake. With this, the Constitution and integrity of the country are in danger,” Mr. Sarma said, and alleged that the BJP was instigating people on community and religion lines. Party State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao said farmers and working classes were like two eyes of the country. The Centre, however, was ignoring both, he said.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports lowest single-day tally||The State reported 1,056 new COVID-19 infections and 14 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It is the lowest single-day tally of infections in the last four months. The daily positivity rate too is one of the lowest at 1.98% after testing 53,215 samples during the period. The overall positivity rate after testing 91.54 lakh samples is 9.3%. The new infections and fatalities have pushed the overall tally to 8,54,011 and the toll to 6,868. The mortality rate remains at 0.80%. The number of active cases has come down to less than 20,000 for the first time in the last four months and stands at 18,659. Recovery rate up With 2,140 persons recovering in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries has increased to 8,28,484 and the recovery rate has gone up to 97.01%. The tests per million ratio has also increased to 1.71 lakh and the confirmed cases per million ratio has gone up to 15,993. Anantapur, Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhpatnam reported two new deaths each while East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported one death each. There were no fatalities in the remaining three districts in the past one day. Guntur reported 206 new cases, and it was the only district to register more than 200 cases. West Godavari, Krishna and East Godavari reported 154, 153, and 139 new cases. Three districts reported less than 100 cases, and they were Chittoor (87), Anantapur (70), and Visakhpatnam (57). Six districts reported less than 50 cases – Kadapa (47), Prakasam (37), Nellore (30), Kurnool (27), Vizianagaram (25) and Srikakulam (24). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,20,441), West Godavari (90,258), Chittoor (82,062), Guntur (70,996), Anantapur (66,173), Prakasam (60,951), Nellore (60,884), Kurnool (59,942), Visakhapatnam (57,295), Kadapa (53,615), Srikakulam (45,019), Krishna (43,197), and Vizianagaram (40,283). East Godavari has more than 27% active cases (5,210). Krishna and Guntur districts (2,611 and 2,220) have nearly 26% active cases. West Godavari (1,741), Visakhapatnam (1,439), and Chittoor (1,281) have nearly 24% active cases and seven other districts have less than 1,000 active cases.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boating operations to begin in State soon||Here is good news for the tourists. The government has given permission for operating boats to various tourist destinations across the State. More than 150 boats will offer services during the ‘Kartika Maasam’, which begins on Monday. Air-conditioned and non-AC boats, pedal boats, and house boats will be operated in the Bay of Bengal, and the rivers and water bodies in Krishna, West and East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Nellore and other places. The Port, Irrigation, Revenue, and Police departments and the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) have made foolproof security arrangements for safe water transport. Nine control rooms have been set up along the water bodies to monitor the boating operations.  The government had suspended boating after the tragedy at Kachluru, near Devipatnam, on September 15 last. In all, 51 tourists, who included a few children and women, from Telangana, A.P., Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and other States died when the private boat – Royal Vasista Punnami – capsized in the Godavari. The local tribal people could rescue 26 people. Boating had resumed at select places (12-seater boats) in the State in January this year. However, all the tourist places were closed due to the pandemic. 20 destinations Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, APTDC General Manager (water fleet) Ch. Pavan Kumar said about 170 boats, including 50 owned by the corporation, would resume operations in the sea, reservoirs, rivers and other water bodies soon. “Boating to more than 20 places, including the famous Papikondalu, Bhavanipuram Island (Vijayawada), Dindi (near Palakol), Pavitra Sangamam (Ibrahimpatnam), Rushikonda Beach (near Visakhapatnam), Pulicat Lake (Nellore), Nagarjuna Sagar and Srisailam reservoirs, Hope Island (near Kakinada), Tatipudi (in Vizianagaram), Kakinada Beach and other places would be launched in one week,” Mr. Pavan Kumar said. The Maritime Board (Port Department) would issue the boat fitness certificate and the Irrigation department would give the route permit. The APTDC would issue the ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC) for the boats. Staff at the Integrated Boating Control Rooms would check the licence, fitness, capacity and other aspects at each point, he aid. Safety norms West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said drivers should be certified by the National Institution of Water Sports (NIWS), and the staff and tourists should follow all safety norms. “About 60 private boats have applied for permission for operating from Rajamahendravaram, Pattiseema, Pochamma Gandi (temple), Polavaram and Singanapalli to Papikondalu. Two APTDC boats will be operated in the Godavari on the same route, where the demand during ‘Kartika maasam’ will be high,” he added. K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana said expert swimmers would be kept at the control rooms along the Godavari in West Godavari district. “Priority will be given for safety and the tourists, boat owners and staff are appealed to follow safety norms and not to carry inflammable material,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP meeting from tomorrow||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) is organising its State functionaries’ meeting at its office near Mangalagiri in Guntur district on November 17 and 18. Party president Pawan Kalyan will address the cadres, along with Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar. The meetings will focus on organisational matters and membership drive besides issues concerning farmers, particularly the situation arising from the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s proposal to develop 'three capitals', and other current developments in the State. According to a press release, Mr. Pawan Kalyan will also give away certificates of insurance which the party is providing to its members, on the occasion. Mr. Pawan Kalyan will also interact with the party leaders from Icchapuram, Razole (SC), Mangalagiri, Nellore rural and Anantapur constituencies and those from Krishna, Guntur and West and East Godavari districts.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP creating chaos in Palnadu region, says TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has said it would take up the issue of the attack on Naik’s family in Palnadu region in Guntur district. Addressing the media on Sunday, TDP Politburo Member Varla Ramaiah said that the party would lodge a complain with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the issue. The TDP would also lodge a complaint with the Guntur Rural SP, he said. “The State government was creating anarchy and chaos to threaten people and loot property in Palnadu region. The YSRCP regime is resorting to attacks on all sections of people. The attack on the Naik’s family reflected that the ruling party was harassing people. The police and anti-social elements joined hands to create terror in the minds of the commoners,” said Mr. Ramaiah. The TDP leader said that when the farmers were tilling the disputed land relating to the Saraswati Industries, YSRCP Macherla MLA Ramakrishna Reddy sent goondas and rowdies to attack them. ‘Attacks on farmers’ Alleging that farmers were coming under attacks during the YSRCP regime, Mr. Ramaiah said though the farmers from the capital region had sacrificed their land, the State government was hurting and humiliating them. “If the farmers are betrayed, it would not bring good to the State,” he added.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector reviews progress of TIDCO houses||As many as 27,872 houses are being built in the district by Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APTIDCO) for allotment to beneficiaries and housing schemes, according to District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. The Collector was holding a review meeting on the progress of works via teleconference here on Sunday in the backdrop of some beneficiaries announcing that they will occupy flats as they paid their share long ago. The Collector exhorted the public not to worry as the construction of the houses was at different stages and would be allotted to the eligible families soon. “The lists of beneficiaries have been displayed at ward secretariats,” he added. Work on basic amenities like roads, electricity, water supply, and internal roads was under way, said the Collector. “As many as 6,576 houses are being built in Jakkampudi of Vijayawada and 3,168 at Jaggaiapeta. In Gudivada, 8,912 houses are being built.” He asked beneficiaries not to be carried away by rumours being spread by some people. Meanwhile, officials asked people not to gather at the housing complexes and action would be taken against those violating the rules.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crackdown on meat shops||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials seized three unauthorised meat shops and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on the owners in Currency Nagar and Barathi Nagar areas on Sunday. VMC's Veterinary Assistant Surgeon A. Ravichanda, who inspected the areas along with other officials, found that three persons were selling mutton without any shop licence and clearance from the VMC's slaughterhouse.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two ‘end life’ after losing money in cricket betting||Two students – Urra Suresh (21) and his cousin U. Komaraiah (22) – reportedly committed suicide after they lost money in cricket betting. They wagered about Rs. 1.10 lakh on the recently concluded IPL cricket. They could pay only Rs. 30,000 but the bookies allegedly mounted pressure for the remaining amount. The students from Peddakurapadu and Budigajangala Colony had been pursuing different courses in Guntur district. Recently, Suresh and Komaraiah reportedly consumed pesticide near the Bellamkonda railway tracks and took selfie videos stating that unable to bear pressure from the bookies they resorted to the step. Suresh died on the spot while Komaraiah died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. The police registered a case and took the alleged bookies, Tirupati Rao and Baji, into custody. Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial 100 for counselling.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prohibitory orders in city||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu has said that Section 144 Cr.Pc. will be in force under the Suryaraopeta police limits for 46 days – from November 16 to December 31. The orders will be implemented at State Guest House, Rythu Bazar road, Gopala Reddy Road, Nakkal Road and Dornakal Road to prevent inconvenience to the public and to maintain law and order, Mr. Srinivasulu said in a press release. Public were requested not to move in groups and carry any lethal weapons. Stern action would be taken against the violators, the Police Commissioner warned.
16 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu condoles death of Y.T. Raja||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national President and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has expressed his condolences over the death of Tanuku former MLA Y.T. Raja. Mr. Naidu said that the former legislator had made untiring efforts for the all round development of the Tanuku area. His contributions as the MLA were unforgettable. In a statement on Sunday, Mr Naidu said the death of Y.T. Raja had done an irreparable loss to West Godavari district and also to the Telugu Desam Party. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members .
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 152 cases in 48 hours||As many as 152 fresh COVID-19 infections were reported in the last 48 hours in Visakhapatnam district, taking the case load to 57,807. In the last 24 house, the district reported 57 new cases, said to be the second least single-day tally after July. On November 9, the district had reported only 42 cases. Between Friday and Saturday, the number of COVID-19 infections reported were 95. Two persons succumbed to the coronavirus since Friday night, taking the death toll to 494. Compared to the previous months, the death rate has declined. In the first 15 days of November, the district reported 16 deaths. In the same period last month, the number of deaths reported was 52. Recovery rate has shown a marked increase since the past few weeks. Since Friday night to Sunday morning, as many as 194 persons have completely recovered from the virus. With 55, 874 recoveries as on Sunday, the recovery rate is at 96.6 %. Similarly, the number of active cases has further dropped to 1,439.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hare Krishna Movement celebrates ‘Govardhan puja’||‘Govardhan Puja’ was celebrated by the Hare Krishna Movement at CMR Function Hall at Venkojipalem on Sunday evening. A replica of Govardhan hill with 100 kg of cake and 200 varieties of sweets like ‘ragi laddu’, ‘ragi janthikalu’, ‘kaja’, ‘Mysore pak’, ‘sugar ariselu’, ‘jaggery ariselu’ and dry fruits was made and offered to Lord Krishna. Later, it was distributed as ‘maha prasadam’ to all the devotees. Along with replica of Govardhan hill, items made with milk like ‘rasgulla’, ‘gulabjamun’, ‘sandesh’, ‘paneer’ and ‘doodh peda’ were also offered to Lord Krishna. ‘Go puja’ was performed. As part of Deepotsava, the venue was lit up with multiple traditional lamps and devotees offered ghee lamp to Lord Krishna. Niskinchana Bhaktha Dasa, president of Hare Krishna Movement, delivered a lecture on the importance of ‘Govardhn Puja’ and ‘Go puja.’
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of man found on railway track||The body of a 33-year-old man was found on the railway track near Meghadrigedda under Gopalapatnam police station limits, on Saturday. Police suspect that it is a case of suicide. The deceased was identified as M. Satish Kumar, resident of Appala Narasayya Colony, Kothapalem, and was employed as a Fitter in the Naval Dockyard. According to the police, the victim’s family had lodged a missing complaint with the police three days ago. Sub-Inspector of Government Railway Police (GRP) Visakhapatnam, T. Kamesh, said that they received information on Saturday and got the body shifted to a hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC. According to Mr. Kamesh, no suicide note was recovered from the victim. People in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Obsession with losing weight potential threat to developing diabetes’||One in three Indians is a diabetic, and the number is growing. The obsession with losing weight to look slim has become a potential threat to young persons, especially women, developing diabetes, says Y.S. Vishnuvardhan, consultant physician, Medicover Hospital. At an awareness programme organised by the hospital as part of the World Diabetes Day, observed on November 14 every year, the participants were told about the dangers of high blood sugar, the long-term impact of diabetes, eating the right quantity of food at the right time and keep body weight under control. Eating at irregular intervals or fasting can cause diabetes and damage vital organs like kidneys in the long run. Diabetics should have a balanced diet, adopt an active and healthy lifestyle to keep their blood sugar under control, says Dr. Vishuvardhan. Diabetics should avoid meat, oily and junk foods. They should prefer vegetarian diet and include green leafy vegetables and fruits in their diet. Exercising every day will reduce the risk of heart disease. Though there is to need to totally avoid salt, its intake should be minimised. “There is no truth in the belief that diabetes is hereditary. Eating a balanced diet and adopting a health lifestyle will reduce the risk,” says Dr. Vishnuvardhan. Diabetes mellitus is a metabolic disorder of multiple etiology characterised by chronic hyperglycemia with disturbances of carbohydrate, fat and protein metabolism resulting in from defects in insulin secretion, insulin action or both. Development of diabetes is projected to reach pandemic proportions over the next 10 to 20 years, says R.V. Ravi Kanna, consultant, internal medicine, KIMS ICON Hospital.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA officials seal hotel in Vizag||In an early morning crackdown, officials of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) sealed a hotel, located adjacent to Gurajada Open Air Theatre, at Siripuram here on Sunday on the charge that the proprietor Harshavardhan had got the lease extended in violation of the norms. The leaseholder had got his lease extended by the erstwhile Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (VUDA) in 2015 reportedly in violation of the rules. The then VUDA Vice Chairman had extended the lease by nine years, without considering the fact that the State government had already rejected the plea for extension of licence/lease, according to the vacation notice issued by VMRDA. The VMRDA officials seized the hotel and sealed it reportedly after issuing a notice saying that the leaseholder had got the lease extended in violation of the rules. Mr. Harshavardhan reportedly is a Telugu Desam Party (TDP) sympathiser. It may be recalled that an employee of Mr. Harshavardhan's restaurant at the airport had attacked the then Opposition Leader and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy with a knife at Visakahaptnam Airport in October 2018. “The lease for my hotel was renewed till 2024. I was not served any notice and last night, they got the notice printed, though it was a holiday on account of Deepavali, and pasted it on the gate. The land was leased to me and I had constructed the hotel building, after obtaining permission from VUDA, under PPP mode. I have paid all dues and I am not directly connected with any political party,” Mr. Harshavardhan told The Hindu . Officials of the VMRDA could not be reached over the phone for a clarification.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals take out rally against Odisha officials||A rally was organised by tribal people of Dekkaparu, Bodlamamidi, Kollaput and Nettamamidi seeking protection of tribal podu lands and revenue lands, alleging that the neighbouring Odisha was occupying the Andhra Pradesh side of the border with an eye on mining. At meeting organised under the auspices of Gasaba panchayat, former Sarpanch P. Suresh Kumar, CPI(M) State Committee member Killo Surendra alleged that the Odisha officials had intruded half-a-kilometre into Andhra area, which was resulting in encroachment of 500 acres of forest, revenue and patta lands in Dekkaparu, Kollaput, Bodlamamidi. He demanded protection of the land in the State.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 youth held on charge of robbery||The city police on Saturday arrested three youths, aged between 19 and 20 years, who were allegedly robbed a man to earn easy money at Midhilapuri Colony under PM Palem police station limits. The arrested were identified as E. Venkatesh (20) of Chandrampalem, a polytechnic first year student, T. Anil (20) of Ganesh Nagar and G. Lokesh (19) of P.M. Palem area, both Class X students. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that at around 2.30 a.m., a resident of VUDA Haritha apartments was heading to his house from Car Shed Junction on foot. The accused reportedly came on a motorcycle, assaulted the complainant and took him to nearby Midhilapuri Colony. The trio allegedly threatened and robbed about Rs. 8,800 from the victim. Based on the complaint on November 14, the police registered a case. The accused were nabbed at around 2 p.m. on the same day.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stickers on ‘safety awareness’ pasted on autorickshaws||Stickers on ‘safety awareness’ were pasted by the youth wing of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation, Vizag district, on autorickshaws on Sunday in connection with the forthcoming 95th birth anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Baba.
16 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP official dies in road accident||An official of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) died when the motorcycle he was riding reportedly hit a median at Ukkunagaram on Sunday. The incident occurred while he was returning home after completing his shift. The deceased was identified as Mallepudi Chandrapal (53), working as a Senior Manager, Blast Furnace department, VSP.
16 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 62, he continues to scale new heights||Former principal of Vizianagaram Police Training College (PTC) Kakumanu Raja Sikhamani has received an award from the Telugu Book of Records for his achievements in mountaineering in different parts of the world.In a function organised in Hyderabad on Sunday, the organisers of the Telugu Book of Records presented Mr. Raja Sikhamani the award, while recalling the modernisation of the PTC during his tenure.  Next adventure Mr. Raja Sikhamani (62) has successfully scaled 5,642-metre-high Mount Elbrus in Russia, the highest peak in the Europe, despite the inclement weather. Last year, he scaled Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. The 5,895-metre-high mountain is the highest peak in Africa. Mr. Raja Sikhamani spends around three hours a day on physical fitness training. “I am planning to make adventure trips to Argentina and Australia in 2022. I have been taking special training under the supervision of experts to achieve my goals,” said Mr. Sikhamani from Prakasham district.
16 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People are happy with YSRCP govt.’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government could fulfil a majority of the promises within one-and-a-half-year rule. Addressing a public meeting at Cheepurupalli of Vizianagaram district after participating in padayatra on Sunday, '  ‘False allegations’ Mr. Satyanarayana said that the people from all sections were happy with the welfare and developmental activities in the State. The TDP was making false allegations against the government as it was unable to digest the development and welfare of the people. Vizianagaram Member of Parliament Bellana Chandrasekhar and YSRCP political coordinator of Vizianagaram district Majji Srinivasa Rao were present.
16 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children’s Day celebrated||Children Unite for Action (CUFA), a wing of Leprosy Mission, celebrated Children’s Day on its office premises. Speaking on the occasion, project’s programme facilitator T. Deepthi said that more awareness was needed on children's rights in the country. “Compulsory education for children is not being implemented in spite of many laws and guidelines from the government. CUFA is taking initiative with awareness programmes in the rural areas. It is also working to eradicate child labour,” she said.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP insists on CBI probe into Nandyal suicide case||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has reiterated its demand that a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) be ordered into the Nandyal family suicide incident. Addressing the media on Sunday, TDP spokesperson Kommareddy Pattabhi Ram accused the State government of covering up the post-mortem reports and the local police investigation to save the accused in the case. “The police authorities rushed through the case by conducting post-mortem in the night in violation of the rules. No prior permission was taken for it. There are no facilities at the Nandyal hospital to conduct the post-mortem during the night. In just three and a half hours, post-mortem was performed to all the four bodies. Usually, it takes three to four hours to perform autopsy of a single body,” said Mr. Pattabhi Ram. He further said that there were many suspicions over the manner in which the police tried to ‘cover up the suicide case’ . “Only a CBI probe can bring out the facts,” he said. The TDP leader alleged that the State government had not taken any action to ensure justice to Abdul Salaam’s family so far. “Moreover, the government behaved disrespectfully in conducting the last rites for the deceased. No proper burials were made. Salaam’s family members were humiliated both before and after their death,” he alleged. ‘Police acted late’ On November 3, Mr. Pattabhi Ram said, Salaam’s mother-in-law lodged a missing complaint with the Nandyal police, but the latter didn’t take any action till November 8 when the railway police transferred the case, he said. “The YSRCP leaders and followers of MLA Silpa Kishore Reddy nade arrangements for sureties for securing the bail for the police CI and the head constable who were responsible for the suicides,” alleged Mr. Pattabhi Ram.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sparkles of joy||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burning bright||
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur youth ‘ends life’ in Canada||A 29-year-old software engineer hailing from Anantapur city, P. Pranay, ended his life in Canada at 2 p.m. (IST) on Saturday. According to the family members, they received the information late and the people from the Telugu community living there dissuaded them from going to Canada as stringent containment measures for the COVID-19 was in force. Pranay was said to have resorted to the extreme step owing to some personal reasons. It is learnt that the Telugu community in Canada is helping the family members get the post-mortem done and send the body back to Anantapur. Saturday and Sunday being holidays, the body will be flown from Canada on Thursday and likely to reach India on Friday. Pranay is survived by his parents and an elder sister living in the U.S. Helpline People in distress may get help by dialling 100 or 9989819191. They also may seek help by sending mail to ananthapuramu police@gmail.com.
16 November 2020||ARJUN NAIK TANDA,TELANGANA||Curtains come down on ‘Suggi Panduga’||Chandi Bai is a farmer in this tanda of Zaheerabad mandal. On Saturday, she handed over about 1kg of jowar to Tanmayi, a consumer from Hyderabad at Pastapur, the headquarters of Deccan Development Society (DDS). Earlier in the day, many consumers visited the fields at this tanda, interacted with women farmers, enquired how the crop was grown, and how they got rid of the pests. The women explained them that they used cow dung and urine mixed with jaggery to control the pests, and in the process avoided the use of pesticides. It was a festive mood among women farmers and consumers as it was a win-win situation for both. The produce includes millets, black gram, green gram and four varieties of jowar. The consumers took whatever they required, for which they have already paid. The festival is termed ‘Suggi Panduga,’ an innate way of celebrating farmers’ produce which brings the farming season to an end. About 50 consumers have invested about Rs. 10,000 each, and some of them even more, to each farmer, under the guidance of Beyond Organics, in association with the DDS. The cultivation was taken up on about 100 acres in Arjun Naik tanda by women farmers. Though farmers have grown different varieties of crops, they lost hugely. “We are happy that people are ready to consume our produce by investing in our farm and we are getting it interest-free. Now, we are repaying them in the form of produce,” said Ms. Chandi Bai. This is for the third year that the consumers are purchasing farm produce directly from farmers without middlemen. DDS is the facilitator between consumers and farmers. “See this not only as organic food, but try to understand the soul of Beyond Organics. This is a revolutionary movement,” said DDS director P.V. Satheesh. Those who bought the produce were happy on getting completely organic food for their families.
16 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||A tragedy has befallen on a group of friends, who ventured into the Godavari after attending a birthday party when four of them drowned at Rangarajapuram in Venkatapuram mandal of Mulugu district on Saturday. The tragic incident left the bereaved families of the four drowned youths in agony on the Deepavali festival day. Sources said that around six youths of the village had gone to the Godavari banks soon after attending the birthday party of one of their friends in the village on Saturday afternoon. Four of them ventured into the river for a swim and got trapped inthe strong undercurrents before being swept away by the gushing waters in the river, sources added. Two of them were painters and one was an outsourcing employee of the forest department.
16 November 2020||BOBILLIGAMA (SANGAREDDY DT.),TELANGANA||Rising debts have broken this family||M. Mallesham, a native of Vikarabad, migrated to Bobilligama village in Sadashivapet mandal to permanently stay with his in-laws’ family and be a support to them, following the death of his father-in-law. He has the burden of repaying the debt of his father-in-law Talari Srisailam, a cotton farmer, who hanged himself to death about three years ago. Srisailam was a marginal farmer owning about half-an-acre of land. He took on lease another 23 acres and had sown cotton. The lease amount varied between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 21,000 per acre. He invested about Rs. 11lakh on the land expecting high returns. Somehow luck did not favour him and the cotton yield did not cross more than three quintals whereas the normal yield would have been more than eight qunitals. Whatever little he got was taken away by the trader who extended him seeds, fertilizer and pesticides. Hand loan Srisailam’s consistent efforts to get at least Rs. 50,000 as hand loan to meet the family’s immediate requirements failed, forcing him to resort to suicide by hanging to a tree in February 2018. More than two years have passed and the situation has not changed for the better for Mallesham either. Along with his wife and mother-in-law, Mallesham took about 20 acres of land on lease, paying a lease amount of Rs. 15,000 per acre in addition to investing Rs. 30,000 per acre in the form of seeds, fertilizer and pesticides. Two weeks before the cotton crop was ready for harvesting, the entire crop was damaged due to the heavy rains and floods. Now Mallesham is facing the same predicament as Srisailam. “We do not know what to do. The workers landed yesterday and plucking of cotton balls has not yet started. We may get three qunitals of yield as most of the cotton balls were damaged,” Mr Mallesham told The Hindu .
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New COVID-19 cases fall as testing dips||Only 661 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Telangana on Saturday as 21,264 people were examined. Usually, around 40,000 to 45,000 samples are put to test every day. The tests could have dropped by 50% because of Diwali on November 14. The cases might be low on Sunday too as the number of samples examined decreases on the last day of every week. When the daily cases are considered from July 1,the 661 positives are the second lowest number recorded in a day. The lowest of 582 cases were recorded when only 14,729 samples had been put to test on October 25. The new cases on November 14 include 167 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 57 from Rangareddy and 45 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. The lowest of zero cases were recorded from Narayanpet, and two each from Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Rajanna-Sircilla, and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. Results of 457 persons were awaited. From March 2 till now, as many as 48,74,433 samples were tested and 2,57,374 were detected with the novel coronavirus. Of the total cases, 15,425 were active while 2,40,545 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,404 with three persons dying on Saturday. At the 61 government hospitals, 4,675 oxygen beds and 1,465 ICU beds were available on Saturday. In the 224 private hospitals, 2,849 oxygen beds and 2,264 ICU beds were vacant.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC on park beautification spree||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is developing 50 major theme parks across the city with an estimated cost of Rs. 134.23 crore this year (2020-21). These parks are expected to be open for public in phases. As part of the concept, a total of 30 themes have been finalised by the officials. Of the 50 theme parks to be developed, 13 each would come up in L.B. Nagar and Khairatabad zones, nine in Serilingampally zone, six each in Kukatpally and Secunderabad zones and three in Charminar zone. The Pachatatva park developed within Indira park is based on a therapeutic concept and a total 17 parks would be developed on the same concept out of 50. The acupressure walking tracks as part of Panchatatva parks would come up in L.B. Nagar (6), Khairatabad (4), Kukatpally (3), Charminar (2), and Serilingampally and Secunderabad (1 each) zones. The government has sanctioned Rs. 4 crore for the development of Indira park, spread over 67 acres, with international standards. Another 406 open spaces are also being developed as tree parks with dense sapling plantation as part of the Haritha Haram, including provision for walking tracks and seating areas. According to officials, the GHMC has 19 major parks having more than five acre extent. A total of 919 colony parks have been developed with greenery, 648 of them being maintained by community welfare associations. Besides, GHMC is also developing three urban forest parks around the city in forest blocks Suraram (455 hectares), Madannaguda (97 ha) and Nadergul (43 ha), with an outlay of Rs. 17.75 crore that are nearing completion.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoEF panel wants additional member in expert team||An expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF) on river valley projects has suggested inclusion of one additional member dealing with environmental violations in the seven-member panel as directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to assess the extent of environmental damage caused with Kaleshwaram project works till clearance was given in 2017. Accordingly, the expert committee would now have eight members. The EAC that met on October 29 virtually, took up the October 20 order of NGT Principal Bench on Kaleshwaram project for discussion along with other listed issues. The additional member would help achieve the work specified by the NGT within the given time frame of six months, it was observed at the meeting. The MoEF panel was of the opinion that the additional member from EAC dealing with the violation cases would help the expert committee in assessing the extent of damage caused while executing the project works prior to grant of environmental clearance in 2017. No green nod Some components of the project, earlier known as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Pranahitha-Chevella Lift Irrigation Project, were executed without green nod during 2008-17. It is stated that the additional member would also help identify the appropriate restoration measures pertaining to the environmental and impact and damage caused by the project works carried out from 2008 to 17. As per the NGT order, the expert committee is basically tasked to look into the relief and rehabilitation measures adopted with regard to works executed without environmental clearance from 2008 to 2017 and measures to be adopted further required to undo the damage to possible extent. One Md. Hayath Uddin moved the NGT in 2017 alleging that construction activities of Kaleshwaram project were commenced both in the forest and non-forest land without requisite clearances. A team of NGT regional bench in Chennai visited the project works from August 6 to 9 in 2017 and submitted a report to the ministry later in the month stating that diversion of forestland was also involved in the project and a proposal was submitted seeking forest clearance for 2,866 hectares land. The MoEF accorded the environmental clearance to the project during the last week of December 2017 following due procedure.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CSE emerges top choice for engineering students||Computer Science Engineering (CSE) continues to be the top choice for engineering students this year as well, as 92.47% of seats filled after the final phase of admissions. ECE second choice Out of the 16,981 seats, 15,703 were filled with just 1,278 seats remaining vacant in CSE. Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) was the second most opted course with 10,298 seats taken out of the 13,657 seats followed by Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) in which 3,738 seats were filled out of the 6,920 seats. Information Technology (IT) was another sought-after stream with 4,613 seats out of the 4,755 available. IT is generally opted by candidates who fail to get a seat in CSE course in what is considered a good college. Both CSE and IT are considered almost same in terms of curriculum and career opportunities. In Civil Engineering stream, 55.75% seats were filled with 3,579 seats taken out of the 6,420 available seats. It was followed by Mechanical Engineering stream with 2,910 seats filled of the 6,135 seats on offer. On trend New age courses such as Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning), CSE (Data Science) and CSE (Cyber Security) and CSE (Internet of Things) were some of the other preferred courses by students with more than 60% seats filled. 100% seats filled Some courses that saw 100% seats filled include Chemical Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Automobile Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Metallurgical Engineering, Bio Medical Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering, Electronics and Telematics and Mechatronics, among others.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi blows GHMC poll bugle||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday encouraged parents to empower their daughters with good education, even as he appeared to blow the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls bugle saying that soon the party would organise public meetings. Mr. Owaisi was speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of the Najmunnisa Educational Campus of the party-backed Salar-e-Millat Educational Trust. “I promise you in the next few days, the civic polls will be conducted. Our journey began with Bihar and will continue. There will be public meetings in Chandrayangutta,” he said. “Those who were not seen during times of trouble will be seen during the elections. Let them come. The public will decide. In Bihar, they shouted a lot and alleged that we are B-Team (of the Bharatiya Janata Party), vote-splitters, God showed them the result,” he said. Mr. Owaisi said that if ‘jihad has to be waged’, it should be to seek education. “Ensure that you educate your children, especially your daughters. You know well the bad state of society. The social evil of dowry is rampant due to which there are a lot of problems. I will say that more than sons, educate your daughters, empower her with education. When this happens, her future will be bright,” he said, and encouraged Muslims to make use of 4% reservations for BC-E Muslims. The Hyderabad parliamentarian rued the state of education among the Muslim community and said that low literacy rate, especially among women, is a key factor for the community’s backwardness, which in turn leads to injustices being meted on it, and a lesser access to rights. “The Government of India-released Census data shows that illiteracy is seen the most in Muslims. This is around 42.87% in our beloved country. If you see the trend in women, among our Hindu, Jain, Christian, Sikh brethren, the lowest literacy levels are seen among women of our community. This is why it is important to establish and run such educational institutions,” Mr Owaisi said.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Unfinished temple of Kakatiya era lies in ruins||The Kakatiya rulers, who built magnificent religious structures like the famous Ramappa temple and Thousand Pillar temple (Rudresvara), left a structure midway. Now, the ruins of the unfinished temple stand as a stark reminder of the vicissitudes the rulers underwent during the later period of their rule. The 13th century ‘shrine’, which has been found in Mamunoor village in Hanamkonda of Warangal Urban district, is unfinished but extraordinary and exquisite in its architecture. The splendid incomplete temple is considered a marvellous architectural edifice constructed during the Kakatiya era with all perfect architectural components as per constructional norms and practices of that period. It contains a very wide ground plan possibly for a trikuta shrine with spacious provisions for erection of entrance portico, vestibules as well as sanctums. “The foundational plinth as well sub-plinth platforms are laid with impeccable strength and very harmoniously designed to bear the load of the superstructure,” said D. Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, Temple Survey Project (Southern Region), Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai. He said that giant stone slabs meant for flooring are miserably strewn over the site. “The plinth is delightfully decked with upward lotus flower motif all around. Trees are well grown over the site and their deeply penetrated strong roots caused by protuberance at some portions of this solid shrine,” he said. Expert take Mr. Babu has been conducting an extensive exploration and survey to ascertain the architectural pre-eminence of ancient temples that flourished under the Kakatiyas. According to him, the character of the temple is identical with the Thousand Pillar temple built by Rudradeva Maharaja – the illustrious king of Kakatiya dynasty. If it was fully constructed with all its admiring components and enshrinement of deities, it would have definitely enjoyed similar status of celebrated temples at Hanamkonda, Palampet, and Manthani, he believes. Although reasons for the mega edifice remaining unfinished is not known, it is reasonable to presume that King Ganapati Deva (A.D.1199-1262) might have started the edifice during last years of his rule and it was not carried out by his successors either Rudramadevi or Pratapa Rudradeva due to their expeditions against enemies and revolt by chieftains, though both of them were known for their patronage, Mr. Babu said. “Whatever the causes might be, the dream of an elegant shrine died with the decline and end of the Kakatiya dynasty in 1323 A.D,” he said. However, at present it stands in its aloofness as a testimony of a glorious past and deserves conservation and preservation for its longevity, Mr. Kanna Babu added.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP ready for GHMC polls any time: Laxman||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party is ready to fight the GHMC elections any time and is geared up to expose the TRS government’s ‘failures’ in providing succour to people for COVID, relief and rehabilitation during recent floods, two-bedroom housing for the poor, roads’ maintenance and so on. “We have information that the KCR government is considering advancing the polls to check the gaining strength of our party among Telangana people especially in light of the Dubbak by-election victory and to prevent exodus of TRS leaders. But, we are geared up for the elections as it will decide the future of TS politics,” said national OBC Morcha president and former MLA K. Laxman. Addressing a press conference on Sunday after being declared as the party’s convenor of GHMC election committee, he said that KCR and KTR can try any kind of ‘gimmicks’ before the elections but people are not going to easily forget the manner in which this government has let people suffer from ill-equipped government hospitals and fleecing corporate hospitals in the current pandemic. The ‘apathy’ with which the government dealt with large-scale loss of lives and property during the recent floods was only matched with paltry monetary compensation of Rs. 10,000 and that too looted mostly by the TRS cadre, he alleged.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Just one cracker-related injury reported at OGH||As compared to previous years, this Diwali saw fewer people suffering injuries and getting admitted to Osmania General Hospital a day after the festival. Hospital superintendent B. Nagender said only one person who had sustained injuries while bursting crackers on festival day had consulted them on out-patient basis on Sunday. Last year, around 17 such cases were attended at the hospital.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panchatatva park to have acupressure walkway||Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao on Sunday inaugurated the Panchatatva park, a theme park developed in one-acre area within Indira Park with eight blocks, including an acupressure walking track. GHMC Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, Minister for Tourism V. Srinivas Goud, Musheerabad MLA M. Gopal and others participated in the event. The theme park, which was thrown open to general public from Sunday evening, was developed with a cost of Rs. 16 lakh. It has eight blocks (components) including 20 mm stone, 10 mm stone, 6 mm chips, river stone, rough sand, tree bark, black soil (tank silt) and water. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rammohan said that the GHMC has plans to develop similar Panchatatva parks in all zones, keeping in view the increasing interest among citizens on healthy habits. Such parks would provide both health and relaxation to walkers since the area within the walking track shaped number eight (digit) and outside the track would have about 40 varieties of medicinal and herbal plants. According to GHMC officials, the acupressure concept-based walking track of the Panchatatva park was developed with five elements of nature in focus – ‘panchabhutas’ or earth, water, fire, air and sky, having their own character and celestial elements.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy to lead BJP’s GHMC poll panel||Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy will be leading the 23-member BJP’s GHMC election committee, in which newly-elected Dubbak MLA M. Raghunandan Rao too finds a place. National OBC Morcha president K. Laxman is the convenor with co-convenors being Vivek Venkataswamy, Garikapati Mohan Rao and Ch. Ramachandra Reddy. Senior leaders Muralidhar Rao, N. Ramchander Rao, N. Indrasena Reddy, N.V.S.S. Prabhakar, D.K. Aruna, P. Sudhakar Reddy, M. Narasimhulu, R. Bhaskar, D. Aravind, Soyam Babu Rao, T. Raja Singh, A.P. Jitender Reddy, G. Premander Reddy, D. Ravindra Naik, K. Ramulu, D. Pradeep Kumar and Bangaru Shruthi are part of the committee. The list was announced after a meeting of top leaders was presided over by State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday. It was also announced later by Mr. Laxman that national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav will be the observer.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Home-maker throws 14-day-old baby to death||A 27-year-old home-maker threw her 14-day-old baby to death from the third floor of their apartment complex at Sanathnagar on Friday evening. Sanathnagar inspector K. Chandra Shekar Reddy said that the accused, N. Lavanya, lived with her husband Nuti Venu Gopal of Quthbullapur. They got married on October 12, 2016. “Just a few days after their marriage, the couple started having frequent altercations over various issues and were counselled several times by elders,” he said. They have a three-year-old boy. On October 29, Lavanya attempted to end her life by consuming poison at her parents’ house at Fathenagar and was soon rushed to a private hospital, where she was treated and next day, gave birth to a baby boy. A murder case was registered
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Army recruitment rally from Jan. 18 to Feb. 28||Army recruitment rally under Unit Headquarters Quota will be held at AOC Centre, Secunderabad, from Jan.18 to Feb. 28 for enrolment of Soldier Tech (AE), Soldier General Duty, Soldier Tradesmen, Outstanding Sportsmen (Open Category). Outstanding Sportsmen (Open Category) are required to report at Thapar Stadium, AOC Centre Secunderabad, at 8 a.m. on Jan.15 for sports trial. Outstanding sportsmen who have represented in the field of boxing, football, volleyball, basketball, handball, hockey, swimming, wrestling, athletics and kabbadi can participate along with their certificates of national or international competitions either at senior or junior level. The certificate should not be more than two years old on the date of screening. The qualifying age bracket for the Soldier GD category is 17½ to 21 years. Qualifying age bracket for Soldier Tech (AT), Sol Clk/SKT & Sol Tdn categories is 17½ to 23 years. Educational qualification for the Soldier GD is Matriculation/SSC with 33% in each subject & 45% aggregate. Education qualification needed for Soldier Tradesman (10th Standard) is ‘passed 10th standard (33%)’ and that for Soldier Tradesman is ‘passed 8th standard’. The same for Soldier Tech (AE) is 10+2/ Intermediate Pass in science with (PCM & English) with 50% marks in aggregate and 40% in each subject. For Soldier Clk/SKT, it is 10+2/ Intermediate pass in any stream with 60% marks in aggregate and minimum 50% in each subject.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for probe into Dharani portal contract||BJP city president N. Ramchander Rao demanded an “inquiry into a private scam tainted firm IL& FS which was awarded a contact by the TRS government to promote its Dharni portal for land record management” on Sunday. He charged that the firm has been involved in ‘serious financial scams’ in various States with the Central government suspending the board of directors and investigating the case. ‘No transparency’ Alleging lack of transparency in governance, Mr. Rao reminded that the TRS government had earlier awarded a contract to Ms Globerena firm for processing Board of Intermediate students exams by flouting all procurement norms which resulted in tragic suicides of over 20 students after publication of results due to errors in software developed by the company. The MLC held the government responsible for loss of revenue due to stoppage of registration in the name of Dharani portal with citizens and business establishments facing several problems. The property tax concession announced by KTR is an “election gimmick” and to divert the people’s attention from the government’s failure to provide 2-bedroom housing and developing Hyderabad as “another Dallas”.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contract lecturers can work in other colleges||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to prepare guidelines for contract lecturers who wanted to work in junior colleges other than where they were employed, if they are found to be eligible and stand a chance of being absorbed in such institutions. He issued the instructions at a meeting organised by him to discuss the problems of contract lecturers, a release said. Mr. Rao recalled that the government had already taken some initiatives in respect of contract lecturers in junior colleges. It’s efforts to regularise their services were held up due to court cases. Nevertheless, their salaries were doubled. They were earlier getting salaries for ten months a year but they were paid for all twelve months after the formation of Telangana State. The government also extended to them service benefits like increase in leaves and introduction of casual and maternity leaves. The government is committed to their welfare to the extent possible, guidelines permitting, Mr. Rao said.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minorities Commission seeks report on Parsi Aram Ghar encroachment||The Telangana State Minorities Commission (TSMC) granted Nizamabad district administration and police a month to file a detailed report on the alleged encroachment of a Parsi Aram Ghar in Kanteshwar Village, Nizamabad district. The TSMC was dealing with a petition filed by Omim Maneckshaw Debara, who said that the Parsi Aram Ghar, spread over 1 acre and 39 guntas, was being encroached upon. He had also claimed that excavation work was being carried out in and around the property by the alleged encroachers. A special hearing of TSMC led by Chairman Mohammed Qamaruddin, attended by vice-chairman Shankar Luke, and members Gusti Noria, T Gopal Rao and Syed Raheem, was convened. The Nizamabad district administration, and police sought a month to submit a detailed report on the issue. The officials also stated that it was ‘by mistake’ that a private company had erected a signboard on the Parsi Aram Ghar land parcel. The TSMC directed the district administration to submit a factual report on or before December 12.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam seeks immediate relief for flood-hit residents||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the water-logged areas in Osman Nagar and surrounding places after several weeks of flooding have exposed the inefficiency of the TRS government and lack of coordination among Municipal, Irrigation, Revenue, Energy and other relevant departments. “As the entire State celebrated Diwali, the residents of Osman Nagar and surrounding areas were undergoing a painful experience with no access even to safe drinking water,” he said and urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to extend immediate relief. In an open letter to the CM, Mr. Reddy requested him to order enumeration of damages and pay compensation of Rs. 1-5 lakh to each family. He said steps should be taken to find a permanent solution by removing encroachments. He said residents of Osman Nagar, Saif Nagar, Abdullah Yehya Nagar were living in miserable conditions as their houses remained submerged for nearly a month.
16 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special wing for protection of water bodies in city soon||The State government will soon set up a special wing for the protection and conservation of water bodies in GHMC limits. It also has plans to come up with an action plan on water bodies and nalas in GHMC limits inside the Outer Ring Road. This was stated here on Sunday by MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao at a review meeting on water bodies. Mayor B. Rammohan, principal secretaries Arvind Kumar (MA&UD) and Rajath Kumar (Irrigation) and other officials of GHMC attended the meeting. The Minister stated that the special wing would be headed by one of the chief engineers from the Irrigation department and a special commissioner from GHMC. This wing would focus on protection of water bodies from encroachments and also take up conservation activities. The boundaries of all lakes and nalas would be fixed on a war-footing. Further, a task force would be set up for the development of lakes and nalas to strike coordination between departments.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Scrap LRS and waive off property tax to all: Cong.||Congress has demanded the Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao to scrap the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS), that would fetch thousands of crores to the government, rather than just waiving off 50% property tax in the municipalities. “On one hand you snatch thousands of crores from people for no fault of theirs through the LRS and on the other hand you give a concession of few hundred crores with GHMC elections in mind,” AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said at a press conference on Sunday. Claiming that property tax waiver was just a political gimmick of the TRS to influence the gullible voters of the city of Hyderabad, he urged the voters to realise the true colours of the TRS and defeat it in the upcoming GHMC elections. While welcoming the increase of salaries to municipal sanitation workers, the AICC spokesperson however questioned why it can't it extend the similar benefit by increasing salaries or incentives to all the frontline workers like health workers.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nominated to Council||The Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday nominated Gorati Venkanna, Basawaraju Saraiah and Boggarapu Dayanand to the Legislative Council on the recommendation of the State government. The order of nomination was issued by the Governor, and Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel.
16 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs||The 43rd Raising Day of NTPC-Ramagundam was celebrated on November 14 with enthusiasm while adhering to COVID guidelines. Chief General Manager of Ramagundam and Telangana power plants of NTPC, Sunil Kumar, hoisted the NTPC flag on the occasion and addressed the gathering. He narrated the journey of NTPC-Ramagundam power plant and its contribution in the nation building for the last 42 years. He also explained the progress of Telangana Project Phase-1 (2×800 MW) and 100 MW floating solar PV project.
16 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI(M) to launch 10-day mass contact programme||The CPI(M) district committee is all set to launch a ten-day mass contact programme across the district from November 16 to bring the issues concerning farmers, agricultural workers, labourers and other toiling masses to the fore. The party district committee has chalked out an action plan to organise the ten-day long campaign at the grassroots level by involving all its frontal organisations to highlight the issues of working classes and their concerns, the party sources said. The campaign is expected to mobilise public support for the ensuing nationwide general strike called by the central trade unions including the CITU, the AITUC, the INTUC, and the HMS on November 26 in protest against the "detrimental effects" of the new labour codes on workers. ‘Anti-farmer policies’ In a statement, CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao called upon the party cadres to actively spearhead the ten-day long campaign starting from Monday to mobilise people against the "anti-farmer" and "anti-labour" policies of both the BJP-led Central government and the TRS regime in the State. "The Centre's new farm laws pose a serious threat to the livelihoods of crores of farmers and food security," he charged, alleging that the BJP dispensation is going ahead with its pro-corporate policies at a time when the working classes are reeling under the coronavirus pandemic induced economic turmoil. He demanded that the State government ensure Rs. 2,500 minimum support price per quintal of the sannalu variety of paddy and Rs. 7,000 MSP per quintal of cotton without any conditions by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI).
16 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||A four-year-old girl’s body was found in a tank at Malkapur of Kondapur mandal on Sunday. The reasons for the death of the girl were not known. The body wax shifted to government hospital for post-mortem. Police registered a case and are investigating.
16 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Siddipet and Sangareddy Collectors shifted||As expected, Collectors of both Siddipet and Sangareddy were shifted to their earlier posts. P. Venkatarami Reddy, Collector of Sangareddy, was shifted to Siddipet, the post earlier he held. He was also given additional responsibilities of Medak district as well, also one of the previous responsibilities. Medak Collector M. Hanumantha Rao was shifted to Sangareddy. Mr. Venkatarami Reddy was transferred a few weeks ago from Siddipet as the Election Commission of India took a serious note of complaints lodged by the opposition parties that he favoured the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the elections.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||For a few bright moments||The Telugu romance drama Maa Vintha Gaadha Vinuma that’s streaming on Aha, is written by its lead actor Siddhu Jonnalagadda and marks the directorial debut of Aditya Mandala. In its duration of 1 hour 41 minutes, an aspect that stands out is gender sensitivity. At one point when Siddhu (retaining his original name for the on-screen character) talks to his father (Sishir Sharma) about not being able to win over his lady love Vinita Venugopal (Seerat Kapoor), the dad doles out a well meaning guideline of first asking her out as a friend and making her feel comfortable in his presence over time. Siddhu wonders what if the girl turns him down months later. “Move on,” says the dad, urging him to respect the girl’s decision. It’s a much-needed guideline in these times of brutal attacks on women by so-called jilted lovers.  Maa Vintha ... traces the journey of a regular guy in engineering college who takes a shine to a beautiful fellow student. We hear the story from Siddhu’s point of view, when the relationship has gone sour, as he narrates it to an ageing cop (Tanikella Bharani). Nothing much happens for nearly an hour. We basically get an introduction to the lead characters, their friends and family members. The story doesn’t make any headway, until a viral video forces things to take a sudden detour, almost justifying the ‘ Vintha Gaadha ’ (a strange tale) in the title, which is a line borrowed from the yesteryear song ‘ Raavoyi chandamama’ from Missamma . The rest of the film tries to capture the ramifications of that incident on Siddhu, Vinita and their families. As things spiral out of control, one character nudges Siddhu to be supportive of Vinita because such incidents take a greater toll on the woman. Again, this understanding and articulation deserves a mention.  Maa Vintha … has these small moments of appreciable writing but in the larger picture, is neither entertaining nor does it make us empathise with the couple. Siddhu is good as the guy who is impulsive and a tad egoistic. He shoulders the film, having also co-edited it (with Vamsi Atluri). Though it looks like another lover boy act after Krishna and his Leela , he proves that he is an artiste of promise. Seerat’s character could have been fleshed out better. The calm and composed demeanour almost turns into a mask and we don’t get to know enough about her. Cinematography by Sai Prakash Ummadisingu and the film’s music, by Sricharan Pakala, Rohit-Joy and Ravi Sharma, work well for the romance. Had it been narrated more effectively, Maa Vintha … would also have been a coming-of-age story of a youngster, showing how one has to be man enough to admit his fallacies.  (For longer version, check www.thehindu.com)
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||TRS treads a very cautious path||With the shocking defeat in the by-election to Dubbak Assembly constituency in Chief Minister’s home district Siddipet, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) appears to be treading a very cautious path ahead of elections to GHMC, a few other urban local bodies and Graduates’ Constituencies in the Legislative Council. Although the party leadership has put a brave front for public consumption after the Dubbak defeat, the attempt is being seen as a step to prevent further damage to the morale of the party rank and file gearing up to the elections lying ahead. Increase in wages of sanitation staff and 50% rebate given in the property tax for those paying tax up to Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000 a year in GHMC and other ULBs, respectively, is also being seen as a measure to assuage the feelings of the poor and middle-class that was battered badly in the October rains and flood in the city as the sop of financial assistance did not heal the wounds much, a party insider said. One need not be surprised with more sops coming Hyderabadis way before the issuance of election notification.     As the GHMC elections are all set to be conducted soon, the most feared with them are the TRS sitting corporators as rumours are agog that nearly 30 corporators may not get renomination. Party heads have already done the exercise as per the internal surveys and the corporators have got the message indirectly from their sources that they may not be favoured. Several corporators feel the poor image of their MLAs is reflecting on them. “We rarely had freedom to take up developmental activities with Ministers and MLAs hogging the limelight in whatever was done. “The MLAs kept us away and the people’s perception is that we failed while the party heads worked,” said a corporator.   The sudden decision of government to waive off 50% property tax for residential units for this year just before the GHMC elections is being criticised by the opposition parties as an election sop. The Congress and BJP leaders argue that the decision reflects the fear of the ruling party after the defeat in Dubbak by-polls. If the government was concerned about people, it should actually scrap the present Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) or waive off all the charges to those who have applied for the scheme, is their argument. Quite understandably, the TRS leaders are mum on the issue. (B. Chandrashekhar & R. Ravikanth Reddy)
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Decked up for Deepavali||
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi to conduct over 1 lakh tests a day||At a meeting called by Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday to evaluate the COVID-19 situation in the Capital, it was decided that 750 ICU beds would be added for the virus-infected patients and the number of tests would be increased to over one lakh in Delhi. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that COVID-19 have been on the rise since October 20 and while Delhi has sufficient number of hospital beds for COVID-19 patients, the number of ICU beds are getting exhausted. “The Centre has assured that it will add 750 ICU beds at the DRDO facility to deal with the increased demand. They will also provide BiPAP machines to Delhi government hospitals so that ICU beds can be increased,” Mr. Kejriwal said. A decision to increase the number of tests being conducted was also taken at the meeting. The Chief Minister said: “The number of tests will be increased to over 1 lakh with the ICMR’s help. Currently, we have been conducting approximately 60,000 tests, which is the government’s maximum capacity.” Union Home Minister tweeted that the number of RT-PCR tests in Delhi will be doubled and mobile vans at COVID-prone areas will be set up. Containment measures He added that paramilitary medical professional from across the country will be flown to Delhi to overcome the shortage of doctors and healthcare workers. He stressed on reviving all containment measures that were in place in Delhi such as marking containment zones, contact tracing quarantine and screening. He said that a high level committee under Dr. V.K Paul, AIIMS and ICMR has been constituted that will prepare a protocol for high-risk patients to receive “plasma donation.” According to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday, the Capital recorded 3,235 new COVID-19 cases, 95 deaths and 7,606 recoveries in a 24-hour period. The number of tests conducted was 21,098 with a positivity rate of 15.33%. Of them, 9,221 were RTPCR tests and 11,877 were rapid antigen tests. On November 14, the Capital recorded 7,340 new cases with 96 deaths. The number of tests conducted was 48,645 with a positivity rate of 14.79%. The total cases now stand at 4,85,406 with 7,614 deaths and 1,37,801 recoveries. There are 39,990 active cases, out of which 28,6819 are under home isolation.
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court orders inspection of living conditions at detention centre||The Delhi High Court has ordered a judge to visit the Sewa Sadan Deportation Centre in Narela and inspect it after the wife of a detainee complained about its ‘pathetic’ condition. A Bench of Justice J.R. Midha and Justice Brijesh Sethi directed the Principal District and Sessions Judge concerned here to depute a judicial officer to visit the detention centre and inspect the conditions. The High Court’s order came on a plea by Ruma Bibi, whose husband Asif Hussain is detained at the centre. She complained that there was no cleanliness, hygiene or any medical facilities being provided to detainees. No legal aid Ms. Bibi also alleged that the detainees are not allowed to communicate with the family and counsels and that no legal aid was provided to them. Taking note of the allegations, the High Court said if the judicial officer concerned finds any shortcomings in the detention centre, immediate steps shall be taken by the authorities to tackle them within a specified time. “The judicial officer shall again visit the detention centre to verify whether the shortcomings have been rectified or not. The report will be submitted to this court in a sealed cover before the next date of hearing,” the High Court said, posting the case for further hearing on December 16. Ms. Bibi has filed a habeas corpus plea seeking to produce her husband, claiming he has been illegally detained at the centre since April this year. She claimed that her husband is a permanent resident of India and was residing in Kolkata with their two children.
16 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Clashes in U.S. after Trump supporters protest||After several thousand supporters of President Donald Trump protested the election results and marched to the Supreme Court, nighttime clashes with counter-demonstrators led to fistfights, at least one stabbing and more than 20 arrests. Several other cities on Saturday also saw gatherings of Trump supporters unwilling to accept Democrat Joe Biden’s Electoral College and popular vote victory as legitimate. Cries of “Stop the Steal” and “Count Every Vote” rang out despite a lack of evidence of voter fraud or other problems that could reverse the result. Trump’s motorcade The demonstrations in the nation’s capital went from tense to violent during the night and early Sunday. Videos posted on social media showed fights, projectiles and clubs as Trump backers sparred with those demanding they take their “Make America Great Again” (MAGA) hats and banners and leave. A variety of charges, including assault and weapons possession, were filed against those arrested, officials said. Two police officers were injured and several firearms were recovered by police. Mr. Trump himself had given an approving nod to the gathering on Saturday morning by sending his motorcade through streets lined with supporters before rolling on to his Virginia golf club. People chanted “USA, USA” and “four more years,” and many carried American flags and signs to show their displeasure with the vote tally and insistence that. “I just want to keep up his spirits and let him know we support him,” said one loyalist, Anthony Whittaker of Winchester, Virginia. He was outside the Supreme Court, where a few thousand assembled after a march along Pennsylvania Avenue from Freedom Plaza, near the White House. On Sunday, President Trump appeared to acknowledge publicly for the first time that Mr. Biden won the November 3 U.S. presidential election but asserted that it was “rigged”, reiterating his false claims of widespread voting fraud. ‘Election was rigged’ “He won because the Election was Rigged,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday morning, not referring to Mr. Biden by name. “NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn't even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more!” About an hour later, Mr. Trump wrote, “He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION!” A broad coalition of top government and industry officials has declared that the November 3 voting and the following count unfolded smoothly with no more than the usual minor hiccups — “the most secure in American history,” they said, repudiating Mr. Trump’s efforts to undermine the integrity of the contest. In Delray Beach, Florida, several hundred people marched, some carrying signs reading “Count every vote” and “We cannot live under a Marxist government.” In Lansing, Michigan, protesters gathered at the Capitol to hear speakers cast doubt on results that showed Mr. Biden winning the State by more than 1,40,000 votes. Phoenix police estimated 1,500 people gathered outside the Arizona Capitol to protest Mr. Biden’s narrow victory in the State. Protesters in Salem, Oregon, gathered at the Capitol. Among the speakers in Washington was a Georgia Republican newly elected to the U.S. House. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has expressed racist views and support for QAnon conspiracy theories, urged people to march peacefully toward the Supreme Court. The marchers included members of the Proud Boys, a neo-fascist group known for street brawling with ideological opponents at political rallies. Multiple confrontations appeared later in the day as small groups of Trump supporters attempted to enter the area around Black Lives Matter Plaza, about a block from the White House, where several hundred anti-Trump demonstrators had gathered. Videos posted on social media showed some demonstrators and counter-demonstrators trading shoves, punches and slaps.
16 November 2020||Islamabad,||Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly poll concludes; counting begins||Wearing face masks, the people of Gilgit-Baltistan in northern Pakistan voted on Sunday in the third legislative Assembly election amidst tight security. India has slammed Pakistan for its decision to hold election in Gilgit-Baltistan and said any action to alter the status of the militarily-occupied region has no legal basis. The voting, which commenced at 8 a.m. (local time), ended peacefully without any break at 5 p.m. and no untoward incident was reported. The counting of votes has started and complete results are expected by tomorrow. Earlier, the polling officials said that the voters present inside the polling stations would be allowed to cast ballots even after the end of polling time. There are 24 seats for the contest but polling on one seat was postponed, leaving 23 seats up for grabs. As many as 330 candidates, including four women, are in the contest, they said. India has opposed Pakistan’s plan to hold election in Gilgit-Baltistan. “Any action by Pakistan to alter the status of the militarily-occupied so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ has no legal basis whatsoever and is totally void ab-initio,” Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Anurag Srivastava said at a virtual media briefing in September.
16 November 2020||BANGKOK,||Thai protesters rally again, call for reforms||Pro-democracy protesters in Thailand rallied again on Saturday, promoting a diversity of causes and taking an opportunity to display their rejection of the country’s power structure directly to the monarch. Some 20 groups called the rally at Bangkok’s Democracy Monument under the name “Mob Fest” as the latest in a series of protests calling for significant reforms in government. Secondary school students, women’s right advocates and LGBTQ activists were among them. The core demands of the student-led protest movement are that Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha step down, the constitution be amended to make it more democratic, and the monarchy be reformed to be made more accountable. The movement has put pressure on Mr. Prayuth’s government, which after failing to stop it through the use of police force has now scheduled a session of Parliament for Tuesday and Wednesday to debate changes to the Constitution. The protest movement, anticipating that the lawmakers will not take substantive action, has already called what it expects will be its biggest march so far for November 21. The demand over the monarchy is controversial because the royal institution is traditionally regarded as the heart and soul of the nation, and to be treated with the respect. It is protected by a law that makes defaming the monarch punishable by up to 15 years in prison. The has declared defence of the monarchy to be one of its main duties, and many ordinary citizens also regards it with devotion. The protest movement, however, has prioritised the issue of reforming the monarchy because it believes that the institution holds too much power and that change is the key to establishing true democracy.
16 November 2020||Khartoum,||25,000 Ethiopians flee to Sudan||Around 25,000 Ethiopians fleeing conflict in the Tigray region have crossed into neighbouring Sudan, state news agency SUNA reported, as the UN said it was working to find them shelter. “The number of Ethiopian refugees who have arrived in Gadaref and Kassala states since Saturday has reached 24,944,” the agency said. Sudan’s commissioner for refugees Abdullah Suleiman toured the border region on Saturday with UN refugee agency assistant representative in Sudan Jan Hansmann to discuss the influx. Mr. Hansmann, quoted by SUNA, said the priority of the UNHCR was to provide the refugees with shelter, food and water and then to transfer them to regions far from the border “for security reasons”. He said the UN refugee agency was working to establish new camps in Sudan for the Ethiopians. Sudan has already said it would shelter thousands of Ethiopians fleeing the conflict at the Um Raquba camp, which in the 1980s hosted thousands of Ethiopian fleeing famine. Meanwhile, the leader of the Tigray region on Sunday claimed responsibility for rocket strikes on the airport in neighbouring Eritrea’s capital, a move that ratcheted up fears of a wider conflict in the Horn of Africa region. Diplomats told AFP on Saturday night that multiple rockets had struck the capital, Asmara, landing near the airport, though communications restrictions in Tigray and Eritrea made the reports difficult to verify. Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed announced November 4 he had ordered military operations in Tigray in a dramatic escalation of a long-running feud with the region’s ruling party, the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). “Ethiopian forces are also using the airport of Asmara,” TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael said, saying this made the airport a “legitimate target” for the strikes. UNHCR said it expected the number of refugees to grow if the conflict in neighbouring Ethiopia worsens.
16 November 2020||Washington,||Judge rejects limits on DACA programme||A judge on Saturday rejected the White House’s limitations on a programme protecting 7,00,000 so-called “Dreamers,” undocumented migrants brought to the U.S. as children. The federal judge in New York ruled that President Donald Trump’s acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf was not lawfully serving in his role when he issued the new rules for the DACA programme in July. The ruling is another victory for proponents of the Barack Obama-era programme after the U.S. Supreme Court in June rejected Mr. Trump’s cancellation of it. President-elect Joe Biden, who defeated Mr. Trump in the November 3 polls, had pledged to reinstate the programme when he takes office on January 20. Authority questioned Mr. Wolf, who has not been confirmed in his role by the U.S. Senate, issued new restrictions on the programme in response to the Supreme Court ruling. Saturday’s court decision said his restrictions “effectively suspended” DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, while the Trump administration reviewed how to proceed. Mr. Wolf’s rules said new applications would not be accepted and renewals would be limited to one year instead of two. They are now invalid because “the court holds that Mr. Wolf was not lawfully serving as Acting Secretary of Homeland Security under the Homeland Security Act” when he issued them, the ruling said. Judge Nicholas Garaufis said the correct order of succession had not been followed for the acting secretary appointment. It was not the first time Mr. Wolf has seen the legality of his appointment as acting secretary in 2019 drawn into question. Mr. Trump entered office promising to halt almost all immigration and to expel the more than 10 million people estimated living in the country, many for decades, without legal immigration documents. The Obama administration sought to address the issue in 2012, with the DACA policy offering protection at renewable two-year periods, including authorisation to work, to people brought into the United States illegally as children and then growing up here. DACA, and the subsequent DAPA programme — Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents — were executive actions by Mr. Obama to eliminate the constant threat of deportation for more than four million undocumented migrants. Mr. Trump cancelled DAPA after coming to office and then went after the more established DACA, but faced court battles over it.
16 November 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israeli military strikes Hamas targets in Gaza||The Israeli military said it struck Hamas targets in the Gaza Strip early on Sunday after militants fired two rockets from the Palestinian territory. In a statement, the military said fighter jets, attack helicopters and tanks hit Hamas underground infrastructure and military posts. It said two rockets were launched into Israel, with one reaching the southern Israeli city of Ashdod and the other stretching into central Israel. There were no immediate reports of injuries on either side. The military said the rockets landed in open areas. There was no immediate claim of responsibility from any militant group in the Palestinian territory. A number of Palestinian militant groups operate in Gaza, but Israel holds Hamas responsible for all attacks and typically responds to rocket fire with airstrikes on militant targets. "I caution the terror groups in Gaza- Even during the coronavirus crisis, don’t try us,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement. “The price of continuing the aggression will be heavy, very heavy.” Israel and Hamas have fought three wars and several smaller skirmishes since 2007.
16 November 2020||LONDON,||Normal life possible by next winter: scientist||One of the scientists behind the experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by BioNTech and Pfizer said on Sunday that he was confident it could halve the transmission of the virus, resulting in a “dramatic” curb of the virus’ spread. Professor Ugur Sahin, chief executive of BioNTech, said it was “absolutely essential” to have a high vaccination rate before next autumn to ensure a return to normal life next winter. “If everything continues to go well, we will start to deliver the vaccine end of this year, beginning next year,” Mr. Sahin said. “Our goal is to deliver more than 300 million of vaccine doses until April next year, which could allow us to already start to make an impact.” “I’m very confident that transmission between people will be reduced by such a highly effective vaccine — maybe not 90% but maybe 50%,” he said. Pfizer and BioNTech said last week that interim results showed the vaccine was 90% effective in preventing people from getting ill from COVID-19, though they don’t yet have enough information on safety and manufacturing quality. “What is absolutely essential is that we get a high vaccination rate before autumn/winter next year...,” he said.
16 November 2020||Kalbajar,||Kalbajar, Azerbaijan, Nov 15, 2020 (AFP) -||Azerbaijan said on Sunday it had agreed to extend a deadline for Armenia to withdraw from a disputed district as part of a peace accord that ended six weeks of fierce fighting over the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The withdrawal deadline for “Armenian armed forces and of illegal Armenian settlers” has been extended until November 25.AFP
16 November 2020||Nicosia,||Nicosia, Nov 15, 2020 (AFP) -||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday he favours a permanent division of Cyprus into two States, during a visit to the breakaway Turkish-held north decried as a “provocation” by the internationally recognised Greek-speaking south. “There are two peoples and two separate states in Cyprus,” he said.AFP
16 November 2020||Brussels,||Brussels, Nov 15, 2020 (AFP) -||Britain will not change its stance as it seeks a post-Brexit deal with the European Union, negotiator David Frost said on Sunday as he arrived in Brussels for talks. “We are working to get a deal, but the only one that's possible is one that is compatible with our sovereignty and takes back control of our laws, our trade, and our waters. That has been our consistent position from the start and I will not be changing it,” Mr. Frost said in a tweet.AFP
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Protect our Republic, my lords||The facts are brief. Mr. Arnab Goswami of Republic TV, a media group perceived to be supportive of the ruling party, was arrested by the Mumbai Police on November 4, 2020 on a charge of abetting the suicide of Anvay Naik. The suicide note mentioned that the channel had not paid bills amounting to Rs. 83 lakh and this was a proximate cause of the act of suicide. The accused was remanded to judicial, not police, custody. He moved a writ petition for habeas corpus before the Bombay High Court, wholly unusual, since that only applies to detention without cover of law; in this case he should have moved the Sessions Court for bail or discharge and then come to the High Court if unsuccessful. A contrast that is worrisome The High Court heard his case for five hours on a holiday, and said exactly this on November 9. Mr. Goswami did file such a petition. Strangely, he also moved the Supreme Court and his case is listed on November 11. It takes up the whole day, and that evening he is set free, and emerges pumping his hands in the air, much like a conquering public hero. Two whole days of judicial time of top constitutional courts have been spent in deciding whether this one man should get bail, when his case for precisely this relief was coming before the Sessions judge the next day. As regards the release itself, suffice it to say that once a court thinks there is no tenable case for continued detention, no man should be held imprisoned. There is however the disturbing contrast between the breakneck speed of the Supreme Court in this case with other cases which involve large scale and serious violations of fundamental freedoms. And at the back of the discourse looms large two questions, almost too frightening to voice. Has the Court done the one thing which a separate and equal judicial arm never does, and that is to cease being the counter-majoritarian check to a powerful executive? Has the Court abandoned its role of judicial review over acts of government, reducing itself to an arbiter of private disputes? What is of import I cannot but help recall what happened at Rashtrapathi Bhavan when the then chief Justice of India M.N. Venkatachaliah was sworn in to his office in February 1993. Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao said that he looked forward to a cordial relationship between the Court and the government. He received a riposte which can only be described as classical — “Mr. Prime Minister, the relationship between us has to be correct, not cordial. Cordiality between court and government has no place in our constitutional scheme of checks and balances.” When comes another such Chief Justice of India? And what must the Bheeshma Pitamah, recently turned 92, be going through when he surveys the present Court and notes that there is not one decision in the recent past where the Court has held against the executive? Judgments never made And that there are several where it is the writ of the executive that runs, simply because there is no judgment of the Court. Witness the petitions against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, preventive detentions in Kashmir, and the challenge to the dilution of Article 370. And the appeal against the gag order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court preventing the reporting of the first information report about land grabbing by those with proximity to high places is still awaiting listing after two months. And in one case, a decision comes in after the issue no longer survives, that of the Shaheen Bagh protest, where the Court decried the unregulated use of public spaces for protest. Leave aside the merits of the decision, the question is whether a gentler factual backdrop would not have been more advisable. Context matters, my Lords, context matters. It is not just every word of what you say that is examined, but in what kind of case you say it, as well as the cases where you say nothing. That all adds up to tote the balance you hold between us the people and our rulers. It also determines another balance, that of power between you and the ruling forces in politics and government. The unstated major premise of judicial realpolitik is that your power comes not from Articles 32 and 226 but from the public esteem and regard in which you are held, and that proceeds from the extent you act as our constitutional protector. In direct proportion. Sans that, there are only the trappings. Words of caution Following on the heels of the Arnab Goswami release comes the Attorney-General for India’s nod to book the stand-up comedian, Kunal Kamra, for contempt of court for his tweets about the Supreme Court in the instant scenario. (Incidentally, this is the man the Ministry of Civil Aviation banned from flying for accosting and berating Arnab Goswami on a flight.) What kind of message is being sent out here? The staple fare of comedians is to exaggerate to make a point; has our Supreme Court really come to the stage that it should be pricked by this? And then again, remember that in all courts, there was a special place reserved for the jester. Not just for humour, he also had the licence of satire to make pungent observations. In so doing, he served a valuable purpose — of telling the king what he needed to know, not what he wanted to hear. A stratagem to ensure that truth got spoken to power sans aggressive posture. Great kings valued their jesters like Akbar did Birbal and Krishnadevaraya did Tenali Raman, good kings tolerated them, the others beheaded or banished them. Mark you, also, it is very difficult to use the blunderbuss law of contempt to deal with a nimble jester, who incidentally, has now become nationally famous. Speaking of the Attorney General, one hopes that he will soon revert to what he is constitutionally mandated to do — to appear in Court in major cases of constitutional importance. He is our seniormost lawyer of constitutional vintage, with unmatched erudition and experience, and knows perfectly that he is the first law officer of the Union, not the lawyer for the government of the day or party in power, a distinction that seemingly evades his deputy, the Solicitor General. They remain unheard May I present, my Lords, a solution. Extend the grace of your early hearing to Varavara Rao, poet, aged 80, suffering neurological and urological health issues. To Sudha Bharadwaj, aged 59, civil liberties defender, suffering hypertension, heart disease, diabetes. They have been incarcerated from August 2018. To Siddique Kappan, the journalist from Kerala detained on his way to Hathras in October this year. Take heed of the pitiable plight of Stan Swamy, activist, aged 83, suffering abdominal pain and multiple falls in jail; he is unable to hold a glass because of Parkinson’s disease, his plea to use a sipper/straw in jail has been adjourned by three weeks to November 26. Let their cases too be posted emergently before the same Bench — which so instantly gave relief of personal liberty to Mr. Goswami — and let them be judged according to law. And then lead us on the path of constitutional purity so that our Republic may prosper. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A recipe to tear down trade unions||Labour law ‘reform’ has been on the table since 1991 as every government’s favourite solution for economic growth. Yet, there was no consensus between governments, political parties, workers and their trade unions, and employers, on what this meant. Unlike other political formations, the BJP has been in unqualified agreement with employers that the existing labour laws needed to be replaced. During its rule in 1998-2002, the BJP constituted the 2nd National Labour Commission and limited trade union representation in it. The consequent recommendations of the Commission were rejected by trade unions across the country. This time too, the BJP-led Central government has actively excluded trade unions from pre-legislative consultations on drafting the new labour codes, repealing all existing labour laws and replacing them with four new labour codes. It saw these through Parliament in the absence of the Opposition, whilst ignoring substantive recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee. The BJP portrayed the now-repealed laws as serving only a small, exclusive section of working people, while claiming that what has now been legislated has a universal reach. This is just political chicanery. What is common to all the four codes is that they dilute workers’ rights in favour of employers’ rights, and together undermine the very idea of workers’ right to association and collective action. Long history Trade unions first emerged in the 19th century as self-managed organisation of workers in the face of extreme exploitation. They provided, and continue to provide, a collective voice to working people against employers’ exploitative, unfair and often illegal practices. It is through trade unions that workers have been able to win better wages, fairer employment conditions, and safe and secure workplaces. In India, workers won the legal right to form trade unions under the colonial rule in 1926, when the Trade Union Act (TUA) was adopted. The law provided a mechanism for the registration of trade unions, from which they derived their rights, and a framework governing their functioning. The TUA also bound workers’ actions within a legal framework by providing for deregistration if a trade union “contravened any provisions of the Act”. The TUA gave workers the right, through their registered trade union, to take steps to press their claims, and where necessary, as in the case of a malevolent employer, agitate for their claims and advance them before the government and the judiciary. It also provided members (workers) and elected officers of a union a degree of immunity, including against the law on criminal conspiracy. Importantly, the law recognised that actions based on collective decisions by workers were legal and did not constitute criminal conspiracy. The so-called “simplifying” of labour laws, repealing the TUA, the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and creating the Industrial Relations Code (IRC), has a very sinister outcome for workers’ right to association. The code enormously widens the grounds under which a trade union may be deregistered. Under the TUA, deregistration was limited to the internal functioning of a union — in case a union violated the financial rules set down under the law or its own constitution. The Standing Orders Act and the Industrial Disputes Act were concerned with conditions of employment and settlement of disputes respectively. They had nothing to do with the internal functioning, and, therefore, with the existence of a trade union. Vague definitions Under the new IRC, a trade union can be deregistered for contravention of unspecified provisions of the code. It simply says that deregistration would follow in case of “contravention by the Trade Union of the provisions of this Code”. The possibility of deregistering a trade union in this unspecified manner shifts the balance completely in favour of employers, who continue to enjoy protection under the Companies Act. This violates the principles of equality before the law and of natural justice. When a trade union is deregistered, it can no longer represent its members (the workers) before the dispute resolution machinery or in court. And, the moment a trade union loses its registration, any collective decision taken by its members and elected officers can be treated as illegal. For example, a decision for strike action would leave employers free to either dismiss striking workers or charge them huge penalties for their claimed losses. It also means that the trade union’s members and elected officers lose their immunity from prosecution for criminal conspiracy for collective decisions and actions, which is exactly what the TUA protected them against. The new code has cut and pasted from the TUA the provisions granting immunity against charges of conspiracy, but this is meaningless if the trade union itself is deregistered. The new code appears to be designed to deter collective action by workers’ unions, and make them fearful of getting trapped in the cross hairs of the new, supposedly “simplified” code. Extra-legal formations With the threat of deregistration ever-present, workers and their unions will be pushed to create extra-legal formations like ‘struggle committees’ and ‘workers’ fronts, such as existed before the TUA, in order to advance their demands against unreasonable employers. This would have two outcomes: first, it will push employment dispute resolution outside the legal framework, which, in turn, will lead to the second, even more damaging outcome, which is criminalising working class dissent, since workers’ agitations will have to take place through extra-legal formations. The freewheeling provision for trade union deregistration in the IRC, apart from being an attack on a century-old universal right is, very importantly, also the withdrawal of an absolute right. Once a trade union is deregistered or is effectively silenced by a constant and amorphous threat of deregistration, workers effectively lose their fundamental right to freedom of association. This has grave implications for the working class’s ability to defend its rights at a time when it is up against a capitalist class whose greed is insatiable, a vengeful government, and a capricious judiciary. Undermining trade unions, as the new code does, bodes ill for democratic rights in this country. The author is general secretary of the New Trade Union Initiative
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. Progressives in the cross hairs||It was clear, at least as far back as October, that Joe Biden would win. I recall discussing this with friends, including Americans, who were no fans of Donald Trump. They were not expecting Mr. Biden to romp in, as some polls were predicting. But they were expecting him to squeak through. In the event, he did better than we expected, winning by around five million votes and garnering 36 more electoral votes than he needed. Sanders was a north star The reasons why all of us, except one very pessimistic American friend, expected Mr. Biden to squeak through were many. Of these, two were purely negative: Mr. Biden was not a woman, and would get the sexist votes that Hillary Clinton lost by virtue of her gender, and Mr. Trump had made a huge mess of the coronavirus crisis. But the third reason was positive: mainstream Democrats and progressive Democrats had united in an impressive way, and the progressives, pushed by Bernie Sanders after he was once again manipulated (not cheated) out of a shot at the Presidency, had hit the streets and the screens to motivate many previously inactive voters. This had flipped States like Georgia. Note that Mr. Trump’s vote tally did not decrease. In fact, it increased by around three million. But Mr. Biden still beat Mr. Trump by five million votes. In short, contrary to moderate and mainstream Democrat expectations, Mr. Trump did not lose voters to the moderate Democrats. His voters mostly stayed faithful to him. He lost because Democrats managed to get a lot of voters, who had not voted in the past, to come out and endorse Mr. Biden. This was largely due to the work that the progressives, guided by the north star of Mr. Sanders, did. But it was also clear that a Biden victory would immediately change this equation. Once the unstable, potentially destructive scarecrow of Trump was removed, mainstream Democrats and their moderate allies in the media would no longer find Mr. Sanders too attractive. Their essentially ‘nice’ corporate interests (which gave us Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, and, as a stupid and ineffective reaction to them, Mr. Trump) would ensure that much. I wondered then, way back in October, how soon this ‘moderate’ reaction would set in? In the event, it took only a few days, and started happening even before the Democrats have managed to boot Mr. Trump out of the White House. There was a flurry of attacks on the progressives by leading Democrats and their allies in the mainstream media. It reminded me of what happened to Jeremy Corbyn and his leftists in the United Kingdom some years ago, when leaders in the Labour Party and publications like The Guardian combined to put him beyond the pale of electability. Moderates vs. progressives Mr. Sanders is a more charismatic and less doctrinaire leader than Mr. Corbyn. He is also at the end of a long and illustrious career. There is a good chance he will be let out to grass, with just a prod or two, by the ‘moderates’. Their fire will be concentrated on the progressives associated with him, in particular the women known as the ‘squad’. The term ‘squad’ is already indicative of the potential: the fact that it is applied to a bunch of young progressive and popular women Democrats and not to the obstructive Republican gang around Mitch McConnell is revealing. I would say ‘shocking’, but I stopped using that word to describe such developments way back in the 1990s. The epithet, ‘squad’, evades their many differences — all of them are from different sections of multicultural America — and poses them as potentially undemocratic and a quasi-gang, which they are not. A fightback The attacks have been increasing. Interestingly, the progressives are not taking it lying down. In particular, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, popularly known as AOC, seems to have gone on a counter-offensive, strongly pressing for the progressive demands that gained the Democrats many million votes. However, the mainstream Democrat responses to these demands have already changed. They range from dismissive criticism by conservative Democrat senators to studied silence in circles closer to Mr. Biden, who have the excuse of Mr. Trump not vacating the White House and the coronavirus crisis to hide behind for the time being. More interesting, the response from a certain kind of establishment Democrat voter has also taken on acerbic ‘Cold War’ tones. For instance, on November 14, AOC tweeted reminding her party of their progressive commitments: “Can we please get people stimulus checks and mortgage relief and rent forgiveness and small business support and free testing and hazard pay and health care for the uninsured (and underinsured) in the middle of a pandemic or is that too socialist too?” As is always the case when progressive demands are stressed, she was immediately accused of harming the party, and of not having the courage to make such demands to the Republicans — as if the progressives have not been making these demands all over the place from day one! I wonder if AOC and the progressives know what is going to hit them? Are they prepared to deal with it? Because this is how it will happen: The media response to them will change. Their demands will no longer be reported, as they were when scarecrow Trump was around, as legitimate and popular. They will be reported as doctrinaire, dated and divisive. Soon they might find themselves in the position in which Mr. Corbyn found himself. And then we can safely wait for Trump II. Tabish Khair is Associate Professor, Aarhus University, Denmark
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Universal values and partisan interests||There are queries, sarcastic comments and angry rebuttals, both for and against the way The Hindu handled the developments relating to the arrest of the chief of Republic TV, Arnab Goswami. The reactions included a cartoon by Satwik Gade published on November 13, which commented on the fast-track hearing of Mr. Goswami’s case by the Supreme Court, while many were forced to wait, and an editorial, “For one and all”. The editorial pointed out the court’s “recent record of evading and postponing hearing on many matters concerning fundamental rights and constitutional questions that affect the rights of large sections of society is a veritable story of judicial abdication”. I wanted to write about the advertising policy of this newspaper, and the areas where the editor vetoes an advertisement that may infringe upon the editorial policy. Though queries from readers directed me to this issue, I have decided to keep that column for the year-end as it has many generic features. The volume of mails relating to the intervention of the apex court changed the theme of this week’s column. One reader, J. Seetharaman, came up with two questions about the cartoon. He asked: “Where were you when he [Mr. Goswami] was illegally arrested or when his staff after staff were harassed by Mumbai Government through Police? Why this cynicism against a co-journalist?” I do not indulge in whataboutery. Another reader, Dharmalingam Chandran, from Lovedale, asked counter questions. His questions were: How often did his channel cross the Lakshman Rekha to harm not only communal and social harmony but also individual privacy? Can one categorise Mr. Goswami’s prime time programmes as journalism, when he has no compunction or regrets in hurling murder charges on individuals in a case involving death by suicide? My firm position is that the questionable nature of Mr. Goswami’s journalism cannot be used as an excuse to deny him his individual rights. Journalism has its core values and cardinal principles, and many news organisations have their own code of ethics and values that guide their vocation. If any reader is interested in knowing the different codes that guide journalists and journalism, they can visit the Accountable Journalism database (https://accountablejournalism.org) where over 400 codes are listed. These vary from the ones that are drafted by individual news organisations to the ones that are adopted by professional associations of journalists. The fundamental principle is ‘journalistic expression is not a free for all, but rather speech which is constrained by ethical values’. These codes are an indication of ethical deficiency among some media players, and a reminder not to clump all forms of journalism under a single rubric of news media. Journalistic ethics I not only follow some of the printed codes that govern good and accountable journalism, but also dig into the vast literature that governs our lives. From Hans Christian Andersen to A.K. Ramanujan, many storytellers have collected innumerable folk tales that have distilled the collective wisdom of the human race over three millennia. The enchanting, yet cautionary tale of ‘The Emperor’s New Clothes’ has been a constant source of inspiration for fair evaluation of complaints without any blinkers. I see a parallel between those who adorned the court of the emperor, and who, out of sheer pride, refused to see the obvious and misled the sovereignty, and the institutions that do not maintain the critical distance with the ruling regime. I am of the firm opinion that both journalism and the Readers’ Editor (RE) should be like the child, who, without malice, calls out the fact, and should not behave like the members of a Royal Court. I do not see any reason to change this perspective.   As an RE, my tools are universal and they refrain from exceptionalism to the privileged and those in power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the UNGA in 2019, invoked the 192nd entry from the Tamil anthology Purananuru, “Yaadhum Oore; Yaavarum Kelir” (To us all towns are one, all humans our kin). There is another brilliant line in the same poem, which roughly translates to read: “It is despicable to genuflect before those who are above us; and it is worse to look down on those who are below us.” I expect this equanimity not only in journalism but in all our institutional arrangements.  readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Headed towards deadlock||After U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, Republican Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, is likely to hold the key to the future trajectory of American politics. In the post-Trump era, as the senior-most Republican in Washington, with an increased concentration of power in his hands, he will determine the Senate’s agenda if, as is expected, the Republican Party retains control of the Upper House after the Georgia runoffs. Mr. McConnell has been leader of the Republican Party in the Senate since 2006 — the longest-serving Senator to hold this position. He repeatedly demonstrated his obstructionist streak during the Obama presidency. In October 2010, Mr. McConnell declared, “The single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president.” Although he failed to prevent Barack Obama’s re-election in 2012, he continued his obstructionist attitude during Mr. Obama’s second term. He was principally responsible for blocking many of Mr. Obama’s judicial nominees, including Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland in 2016, on the spurious excuse that the President did not have the authority to fill a Supreme Court vacancy in his last year in office. He, of course, ate his words when he steered Trump-appointed Justice Barrett’s nomination through the Senate, just a month before the presidential election this year, in order to stack the court before Mr. Trump left office. Committed Republican Mr. McConnell’s obstructionist attitude towards Democratic administrations could be a recipe for frequent deadlocks and policy paralysis during Mr. Biden’s presidency. Mr. McConnell is committed to the Republican economic and political agenda far more than Mr. Trump, for whom the Republican Party was a convenient tool to enhance his personal interests. Mr. McConnell is a dyed-in-the-wool Republican, committed to the party’s long-time goal of reshaping the judiciary, overturning Roe v. Wade, the landmark decision of the U.S. Supreme Court legalising abortion, and opposing healthcare reform and economic policies aimed at redistributing wealth and income. Mr. McConnell is expected to obstruct Mr. Biden’s legislative initiatives on environmental policy, healthcare, COVID-19-related relief measures, immigration, and many other issues, on which Mr. Biden is expected to reverse Mr. Trump’s policies. The Republican stalling is expected to begin immediately after the inauguration, when the Senate would ratify Mr. Biden’s cabinet appointments. In the words of Senator Chris Murphy of the Democratic Party, “Mitch McConnell will force Joe Biden to negotiate every single Cabinet secretary, every single district court judge, every single U.S. attorney with him … my guess is we’ll have a constitutional crisis pretty immediately.” This anticipated gridlock does not augur well for the functioning of the American government for the next four years. Of late, the Senate has become more rigidly divided on party lines and its members have been subjected to unprecedented control by party leaderships. The Senate traditionally had independent-minded members, who acted like elder statesmen, and not merely as partisan politicians. The situation has now come to resemble a Westminster-style parliamentary system, where the party whip has to be obeyed unquestioningly, because the political costs for dissenters can be very high. This is understandable in a parliamentary system because it provides stability to the government. But in a presidential system based on separation of powers, such rigid party discipline is a recipe for perpetual impasse. This is particularly so because in addition to its legislative role, the Senate also exercises the important function of “advise and consent” in the executive sphere. If past experience is any guide, Mr. McConnell is likely to contribute to the gridlock, not ameliorate it. Mohammed Ayoob is a Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations at Michigan State University
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Border on the boil||With a series of ceasefire violations by the Pakistan Army that targeted civilians, and heavy artillery fire by the Indian Army, the LoC is once again on the boil. Six civilians, four Indian Army personnel and a BSF jawan were killed in the firing from Pakistan across three sectors, and official Pakistani media said one Pakistani soldier and five civilians were killed by Indian cross-border shelling. The government accused Pakistan of firing as a way of providing cover for terrorists infiltrating into India before the winter snow closes the passes and underground routes, and issued a démarche to Pakistan’s top diplomat in New Delhi on Saturday decrying the “coordinated firing along the length of the LoC using heavy caliber weapons, including artillery and mortar, on Indian civilians” by the Pakistan Army. The temperature has been further raised by political words from the highest level. Prime Minister Modi’s speech, as he stood atop a tank during a Deepavali visit to the Longewala post, warned of a “ prachand jawab ” (fierce reply) to Pakistan, and criticised China’s “expansionist mindset”, albeit without naming either neighbour. Hours later, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted that there should be “no doubt” of Pakistan’s ability and “national resolve” to defend its borders. Pakistan’s assault at the LoC was followed by allegations against India on terror. In a new diplomatic tactic, its Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi appeared at a press conference along with Pakistan’s military spokesperson, claiming to have a “dossier” on Indian involvement in terror attacks inside Pakistan that he said primarily targeted China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) infrastructure projects. India termed the press conference a “futile anti-India propaganda exercise” and said the charges were fabricated. The present situation at the LoC cannot be normalised and must be taken seriously. Army officials now say 2020 has seen the highest levels of firing since the 2003 India-Pakistan ceasefire agreement, with a record number of 4,052 ceasefire violations by Pakistan since January. Pakistan’s intentions are to provoke India ahead of its two-year term at the UN Security Council from January 2021, as well as to rake up trouble before the Financial Action Task Force review in February. By naming the CPEC, Pakistan also appears to want to further strain India-China relations that have undergone what Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla called their “worst crisis” since 1962, as a result of PLA aggression at the LAC in Ladakh and the stand-off. Studied with the escalation by Pakistan at this time, it should be evident that India’s threat matrix includes the very real possibility of a two-front situation where the Army will be engaged at the LoC and the LAC simultaneously, along with a possible spike in terrorist activity in Jammu and Kashmir.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Suu Kyi again||The National League for Democracy’s landslide victory in the November 8 general election in Myanmar indicates that a vast majority of its nearly 38 million voters continue to think that Daw Aung San Suu Kyi is a bulwark against the military, which ruled the nation with an iron fist for about half a century. While full results are yet to be announced, the Election Commission has stated that her party has won at least 346 of the 476 elected seats in Parliament, well past the 322-mark needed to stay in power. The military-linked main opposition Union Solidarity and Development Party has won 25 seats so far. When Ms. Suu Kyi’s NLD came to power after winning Myanmar’s first truly contested election in 2015, hopes were high that the pro-democracy icon would spearhead the transition into full democracy. Ms. Suu Kyi, who is barred from becoming the President by the military-era Constitution, took the levers of power as the State Counsellor in 2015. But during this time, instead of confronting the Generals or pushing to end the military’s outsized influence, she appeared to have bought peace with them. Her public defence of the Generals’ handling of the operations in Rakhine State that led to the exodus of at least 740,000 Rohingya Muslims dented her image as a pro-democracy fighter and raised questions about her commitment to the country’s transition. Those who support Ms. Suu Kyi say her critics outside the country do not understand the complexities of Myanmar’s power dynamics. Even though the military allowed free elections, it made sure that its interests were preserved. A bloc of seats in Parliament is reserved for soldiers, which would prevent any amendment to the Constitution. And the military would control three key government ministries, including the Defence Ministry. More importantly, the military continued its campaigns against the country’s ethnic minority rebel groups despite her promise to reach out to them. All these suggest that the power struggle between the popular civilian leadership and the powerful military establishment is an ongoing reality despite the elections. While Ms. Suu Kyi avoided confronting the Generals, she remained a force between the military and the people. In a country where the memories of the military dictatorship are still fresh, it is unsurprising that Ms. Suu Kyi, who built her moral and political capital in the long fight against the junta, remains the most popular leader. But when she begins her second term with another decisive victory, she would face tough questions again. Did she win just to act as a buffer between the Generals and the voters or to lead the country into full democracy? As the elected ruler, she will also have to address allegations of genocide and walk her talk of making peace with the ethnic minority groups.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||"Danger to the Nehru Tradition"||[NEW DELHI, Nov. 15] Mr. R.K. Khadilkar, Union Minister of State for Supplies, said here to-day he saw a “real danger” to the Nehru tradition as some of his erstwhile colleagues in India had begun an attack on the tradition. The fight against “attempts to denigrate Nehru” should not be confined merely to one party, the Congress (R). It should be taken to a “broad platform”, Mr. Khadilkar told an Afro-Asian convention on Nehru to mark his 81st birth anniversary. Mr. Khadilkar said Nehru's erstwhile colleagues were not even prepared to recognise what Nehru had said and done. “The breakaway Congress did not care to observe Nehru's birthday as the united Congress used to do.”
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the power of compounding serve you||Often, a question comes to me from a client, viewer or reader. ‘When should I start investing for retirement?’ My answer is, ‘The day you earned your first income. The day we start working.’ If you experienced your first day of work, it also means that some day you would retire. On retirement, we all will need a ‘money’ tree that will feed us when our income stops. Sowing a seed Anyone who has ever sowed a seed will know that all seeds do not blossom. Many fail to germinate. Out of the few that survive, not all go on to become large trees. Some will die after a few weeks, or months. In some cases, there could be external factors such as adverse weather conditions, an animal eating away the leaves and the like. This can be compared with our savings that may suddenly get wiped out on account of contingencies such as income loss due to an adverse economy or health-related spending. Sometimes, our investment decisions go wrong. For example, we may end up investing in an instrument that fails to deliver returns. Take the example of a mutual fund scheme where investment decisions by the fund manager go wrong; by the time they get rectified, it is possibly be too late.If we have invested in such schemes, we may miss out on adding to our savings. However, if these things happen at the beginning of our career, we would have the time to rectify them. What happens to an individual who has to face such a situation with his retirement corpus? The bigger the tree, better it is. The larger the tree, the more the shade, flowers, and fruits; and the stronger it will be as it will be deep rooted. It takes time for a sapling to grow into a large tree. The more the time the tree gets, the bigger it will grow. Therefore, the sooner we start our retirement planning, the better it is for us. Let us try and understand the above concept with the aid of a simple numbers table, as above. Length of time matters If we notice here, those who start off early go on to create a much larger corpus than those who begin late. What counts is not the rate of return but how long we keep investing. While calculating compound interest, what is important is ‘n’ i.e. the number of years we keep investing and not ‘r’ i.e. the rate of return. Albert Einstein is said to have termed compounding the eighth wonder of the world. The longer the tenure, greater the compounding. Investment is a habit. So, develop that habit in early stage of life. Let us also consider this concept from the perspective of different stages of life. At a younger age, generally, there are fewer responsibilities. Chances are that there are no dependents. Parents could still be working or independently generating income. An individual could be living with his/her parents and hence, there would be nil-to-less household expenses. They may not also experience the need to purchase a house independently. In such situation, it is easier to save. As an individual grows in life, parents may become dependent, one’s own family would need support, a house purchase may be necessary, and the like.  (The author is a financial planner and the author of Yogic Wealth)    Einstein is said to have termed compounding the eighth wonder of the world. The longer the tenure, the greater the compounding. Start investing early in life
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||ASKUS||Q.I have never invested in the equity market. However, in the belief that it will rise over time, I am considering investments in it but for the long term. I just want to know whether this kind of belief is helpful or should I still refrain from investing in the equity market? Kavya Vijay  A.Before you decide to invest in equities, it would help to understand how equity returns are generated. Shares are said to outperform other assets over the long term because when you buy shares (equity) in a company, you become a part owner of a business. Any successful business must generate profits that are higher than its borrowing costs and compensate its owner for the risks he takes, which is why equity returns over the long-term are believed to be higher than debt returns. Whether you make high returns from equity in practice, though, depends on whether you are able to select companies that can grow their earnings or profits at a healthy pace over time. Selecting the right stocks to invest in involves taking a long-term view on a sector and business, and gauging whether it can generate strong returns on your invested capital. If the business turns loss-making, suffers a downturn or fails due to its inability to repay debt, you, as an equity shareholder, will have to suffer losses too. Successfully investing in equities therefore requires not just understanding the key drivers of a sector’s prospects and profitability, but also the sources of competitive advantage for a company within a sector. Stock prices in the long run reflect a company’s earnings or profits on a per share basis. If these are rising, stock prices will rise; if they fall, stock prices will follow suit. Now, while stock prices do broadly track a company’s profits per share over long periods of five or 10 years, in the short run, there’s no saying how they may move. While companies certainly don’t experience any changes in their business fundamentals or financial position on a daily basis, the stock markets constantly mark up or mark down the valuations that they’re willing to pay for a business based on how a majority of investors view the sector or business growth prospects over the next 1, 3 or 5 years.  Such a valuation is commonly measured by the price-earnings, or PE ratio, which captures the market price for every rupee of earnings generated by the company on a per share basis. To ensure that you make good equity returns in the long run, it is essential not just to identify good businesses to invest in, but to also to enter them when their valuations are reasonable. Therefore, there are two factors that decide whether you make good equity returns in the long run. One, your ability to pick successful companies that deliver long-term profit growth. Two, your ability to buy them at the right price or valuations, so that you don’t overpay for that growth. If you aren’t an expert at analysing businesses or stocks, you can solve the first problem by buying into equities through an index fund owning the top 50 or 100 stocks in the market (say a Nifty50 or Nifty Next50 index fund) or any of the actively-managed equity funds offered by mutual fund houses, where a professional manager picks stocks that he thinks will outperform. Addressing the second issue though, is left to you. If you invest a lump sum into equities when stocks are expensively valued, your long term returns can suffer. Today, the PE ratio of the Nifty50 is above 30, which is well above the long-term average of about 18 times. Investing a lump sum into equities or equity funds at this time is therefore not ideal for a first-time investor. At the same time, waiting for valuations to correct (which can take months or years) can lead to missed opportunity to make a start on your long-term equity portfolio. To get around this, you can make a start on your equity investments for the long run by starting an SIP (systematic investment plan) in either a broad-based index fund (Nifty100 or Nifty 500 fund) or in a multi-cap equity fund with the help of an adviser. An SIP will help you invest a small sum each month into a select basket of stocks (held by your fund) so that you can participate in their growth over the next 7-10 years. Do not invest any funds that you may need within the next five years, in equities.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
16 November 2020||Augusta,||Johnson pulls away to four-stroke lead||Top-ranked Dustin Johnson seized command of the Masters on Saturday, matching the 54-hole record at Augusta National and grabbing a four-stroke lead in quest of a second Major title. Pulling away from an elite field, the 36-year-old American fired a seven-under 65 to be 16-under 200 after three rounds. “I’ve got a lot of confidence in everything I’m doing,” Johnson said. Johnson is the first player to shoot 65 or better twice in the same Masters after a first-round 65. Im Sung-jae, a 22-year-old South Korean who could become the first debut Masters winner since 1979, closed with a birdie to shoot 68 and share second on 204 with Mexico’s Abraham Ancer, another Augusta newcomer, and Australia’s Cameron Smith. Im could become only the second Asian man to win a Major after South Korean Yang Yong-eun at the 2009 PGA Championship. Johnson, the 2016 US Open champion, is trying to become the first top-ranked golfer to win the Masters since Tiger Woods in 2002. Woods soldiers on Defending champion Woods, who began four strokes off the pace, battled through back pain to shoot 72 and stand on 211, answering bogeys at the par-5 eighth and par-4 11th with birdies at the par-3 12th and the par-5 15th. Woods, a 15-time Major winner who turns 45 next month, seeks a sixth green jacket and an 83rd career PGA Tour victory to break the record he shares with Sam Snead. McIlroy fades Fifth-ranked Rory McIlroy, needing only a green jacket to complete a career Grand Slam, shot 67 to stand on 208, but sees little hope of swiping the green jacket. “Being a realist here, I just need to go out and shoot a good one tomorrow and see where it puts me,” McIlroy said. “But I have zero thoughts about winning this golf tournament right now.” US Open winner Bryson DeChambeau, who many thought would overwhelm Augusta National with his power-driving game, tested negative for COVID-19 on Friday after feeling dizzy on the course. He shot 69 on Saturday to stand on 213.  The scores: 200: Dustin Johnson (65, 70, 65); 204: Im Sung-jae (66, 70, 68), Abraham Ancer (68, 67, 69), Cameron Smith (67, 68, 69); 205: Dylan Frittelli (65, 73, 67).   206: Justin Thomas (66, 69, 71); 207: Sebastian Munoz (70, 68, 69), Patrick Reed (68, 68, 71), Jon Rahm (69, 66, 72).   208: Rory McIlroy (75, 66, 67), Brooks Koepka (70, 69, 69), Tommy Fleetwood (71, 66, 71), Hideki Matsuyama (68, 68, 72).
16 November 2020||Paris,||Kante’s strike sinks Portugal, puts France in the finals||World champions France and Germany rode on the influence of their Chelsea stars to rack up Nations League wins on Saturday while Spain’s Sergio Ramos missed two penalties on the night he celebrated a record-setting 177th international appearance. Chelsea midfielder N’Golo Kante scored just his second international goal as France defeated European champion Portugal 1-0 in Lisbon to secure a place in next year’s Nations League finals. Kante was quickest to react to a rebound as he netted the winner on 53 minutes that clinched France top spot in its group. France lead Cristiano Ronaldo’s Portugal by three points ahead of Tuesday’s clash with Sweden in Paris but is guaranteed first place by virtue of its superior head-to-head record. Kante’s teammate at the English Premier League side Timo Werner scored twice on his return to Leipzig as Germany enjoyed a 3-1 win over Ukraine. The win leaves Germany undefeated in its last 12 games and top of its group, a point ahead of second-placed Spain with the sides due to meet in Sevilla on Tuesday. Late equaliser In Basel, Ramos missed two penalties as Spain needed a late equaliser from Gerard Moreno to draw 1-1 with Switzerland. Ramos was making his 177th appearance to break the international appearances record for a European player, pulling clear of Italy’s Gianluigi Buffon, who has 176. But it was a night to forget for the defender, who saw one spot-kick saved by Swiss goalkeeper Yann Sommer but backed himself to score a second, only to miss again with a dreadful attempted ‘Panenka’.  The results:   League A: Group 3: Sweden 2 (Kulusevski 36, Danielson 45+2) bt Croatia 1 (Danielson 82-og); Portugal 0 lost to France 1 (Kante 53).   Group 4: Switzerland 1 (Freuler 26) drew wit Spain 1 (Gerard Moreno 89); Germany 3 (Sane 23, Werner 33, 64) bt Ukraine 1 (Yaremchuk 12).   League C: Group 1: Cyprus 2 (Kastanos 34-pen, 71) bt Luxembourg 1 (Kousoulos 5-og); Azerbaijan 0 drew with Montenegro 0.   League D: Group 1: Malta 3 (Emili Garcia 56-og, Degabriele 59, Dimech 90+3) bt Andorra 1 (Rebes 3); Latvia 1 (Kamess 59) drew with Faroe Islands 1 (G Vatnhamar 60).   Group 2: San Marino 0 drew with Gibraltar 0.
16 November 2020||Sydney,||Indian cricketers undergo net session||Indian cricketers had their first full-fledged net session on Sunday with simultaneous training for both red and white ball formats. While Saturday’s first training session was mostly about gym and running workouts, the players were seen hitting the straps right away on the second day itself. It is understood from the videos of the practice session that the BCCI shared on its social media feed that since the Test specialists are also travelling, the red ball training will also happen along with usual white ball nets. Slip catching Captain Virat Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara, India’s two specialist slip fielders, were seen taking catches with the red ball for a considerable period of time. On the other hand, India’s newest pace sensation T. Natarajan was bowling with the white kookaburra at the nets. Natarajan had an extended bowling session at the nets on the day and bowled to almost all the top-order white ball batsmen. “We have seen him bowl with a lot of success in the @IPL and here is @Natarajan_91 bowling in the #TeamIndia nets for the first time after his maiden India call-up! A dream come true moment,” the BCCI tweeted. His Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor VVS Laxman termed it an “inspirational story“. The likes of Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Prithvi Shaw, Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant, Ravichandran Ashwin will be training only with red ball and the others who are in both the squads will be doing a “mix and match”. The reason for having nets with players of both formats is to get acclimatised to the red ball as most of the players haven’t played red ball cricket since the first week of March.
16 November 2020||LONDON,||Sweet revenge for Thiem||Dominic Thiem beat Stefanos Tsitsipas to launch his bid for a first title at the elite eight-man ATP Finals on Sunday. In a repeat of last year’s final at London’s O2 Arena, won by Tsitsipas, US Open champion Thiem stumbled after winning a first-set tie-break but found his range in time to win 7-6(5), 4-6, 6-3. Thiem was impressive in the first set, winning 79% of his service points, but failed to convert three break point opportunities against the Greek World No. 6.  The Austrian third seed found himself in deep trouble while trailing 4-1 in the tie-break but battled back and made his first set point count when Tsitsipas went long with a backhand lob. Tsitsipas produced a forehand winner in the third game of the second set to break the Austrian and haul himself back into the contest. He faced no break points as he levelled the match at one-set all. The defending champion appeared to have the momentum in the decider, but it was Thiem who drew first blood, earning a break with a delicately dinked forehand at the net in the second game. The fifth game ultimately proved to be decisive. Tsitsipas had a chance to break but his powerful backhand caught the net. He could not engineer another break point in a game that contained six deuces. Earlier, Novak Djokovic received the ATP Tour No. 1 trophy after finishing the year at the top of the rankings for a record-equalling sixth time. Djokovic super proud The Serbian, who has drawn level with American Pete Sampras, said: “Obviously I am super proud of it, but I have mixed emotions because of what is going on in the world. I can’t be ignorant to that, although I have achieved one of the biggest goals in sport.”  The results:   Group London 2020: 3-Dominic Thiem (Aut) bt 6-Stefanos Tsitsipas (Gre) 7-6(5), 4-6, 6-3.   Doubles: 5-Wesley Koolhof (Ned) & Nikola Mektic (Cro) bt 3-Kevin Krawietz & Andreas Mies (Ger) 6-7 (3), 7-6(4), [10-7] .
16 November 2020||Augusta,||Ailing DeChambeau barely makes the cut||After struggling to make the cut at the Masters, Bryson DeChambeau said he’s just not feeling well. He’s not sure what the problem is, but he did get tested for COVID-19 again just to make sure that wasn’t the issue. It came back negative. DeChambeau, who was the betting favourite to win the Masters after a dominating triumph at the US Open, did manage to shoot a three-under 69 in the third round on Saturday. But that left him a whopping 13 shots behind leader Dustin Johnson. “Not good, to say the least,” DeChambeau said after finishing up his second round on Saturday morning, before heading back out to play the third. “As I kept going through the round, I started getting a little dizzy. I don’t know what was going on, a little something weird. “I don’t know what it is or what happened, but these past couple days, I’ve felt really, really odd and just not 100%,” he said. DeChambeau plans to finish the Masters, but he’ll get more extensive testing after he returns home. “Every time I’d bend over and come back up, I’d like lose my stance a little bit,” he said. “I don’t know what’s going on. I’ve got to go and do some bloodwork and get checked out and figure out what’s going on for this off-season.”
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Have a better squad than last year: Cuadrat||Bengaluru FC (BFC) coach Carles Cuadrat believes that he has a better squad than last year’s and is confident of competing for the Indian Super League (ISL) title. BFC finished third in the league last season before losing to eventual champion ATK (now ATK Mohun Bagan) in the playoff semifinal. “We will be competitive,” said Cuadrat, looking ahead. “The technical staff have identified the good and the bad from last season. We have a better squad and it is my job now to make it competitive enough.” Solid defence In 2019-20, BFC was strong defensively, conceding just 13 times leading into the playoffs. Goalkeeper Gurpreet Sandhu kept a league-record 11 clean sheets, including one in the first leg of the semifinal. But the 22 goals BFC scored in the league stage was just one more than bottom-placed Hyderabad FC’s. In the upcoming campaign, it will also miss the vibrant presence of midfield creator Raphael Augusto. “The truth is we created chances last year,” insisted Cuadrat. “Even when we lost Augusto for half of the season, we created nearly seven per game. Some of them were from set pieces, but not all. This year, we have players who can finish, like [Cleiton] Silva, Kristian [Opseth], along with [Deshorn] Brown and Sunil [Chhetri].” “Cleiton is creative, sees good passes, can dribble well and also finish. Opseth has a powerful left leg. He is a big guy who uses his body to protect the ball and brings other players into play.” If Udanta Singh and Ashique Kuruniyan can recover from last year and live up to their potential, it will be like two new signings for Cuadrat. “We were talking to Udanta about the 2018-19 season, his best. He needs to start from there. He is a mentally strong and has shown that in the way he is training now. It’s the same with Ashique. He is a physical monster and we have to use that talent.” Real test Even as Cuadrat felt that BFC and ATK held a slight edge owing to the “continuity” in their projects, he said life in the bio-bubble will test all teams. “Normally after a bad game you go home and connect with the family. Now you will be with teammates and have to be more conscious. The real challenge will be during Christmas. Some who do well will feel good during the festive time, and the others not so. That will be a real test.”
16 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Indian boxers celebrate Diwali in Italy||Away from home on a 52-day exposure trip, the elite Indian men and women boxers celebrated Diwali at their bio-secure training base in Assisi, Italy. The 27-member Indian contingent, including coaches and other support staff, lighted candles and relished traditional Indian cuisine. “Everybody loves to be with the family during festival times. The Indian team is also our family and we had a lot of fun. “We had Indian food like poori and kheer on this special occasion,” said World championship silver medallist Amit Panghal. ‘Wonderful’ Asian Games bronze medallist Pooja Rani said, “It was a wonderful celebration, especially during these tough COVID-19 times. Everyone enjoyed it. “As we have been training here in a bio-secure environment such celebrations make us happy. The focus will be again on training as we want to make the most of this opportunity.”
16 November 2020||Sao Paulo,||Brazil huffs and puffs past Venezuela||Liverpool striker Roberto Firmino scored the crucial goal as Brazil laboured to a 1-0 win over a well organised but limited Venezuela in its World Cup qualifier on Friday. Elsewhere, star forward pair Edinson Cavani and Luis Suarez, from the spot, were on target as Uruguay rolled over Colombia 3-0 away in Baranquilla. In the day’s other match, Arturo Vidal’s brace was enough for Chile to coast past Peru at home in Santiago. Deadlock broken  Firmino broke the deadlock on 66 minutes in Sao Paulo, poaching a goal after Venezuelan defender Darwin Machis’ attempt to clear an Everton Ribeiro cross fell to him a few yards out. Firmino’s 16th goal in 47 appearances for the Selecao was enough to maintain their 100 percent record in the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. Brazil tops the South American qualifying table with Argentina second.  Venezuela, which lost its first two qualifiers, was set up to contain and held the Brazilians scoreless at half time in the deserted Morumbi stadium. The hosts missed the injured Neymar’s creativity in midfield, but even with an attack sporting Firmino, Gabriel Jesus and Richarlison, they could find no way through the mass Venezuelan defence in the first half. Richarlison did have the ball in the net early on but the Everton striker’s celebrations were cut short when Firmino was adjudged to have been narrowly offside in the build-up. A worried Brazilian coach Tite will have seen how sorely his side missed Neymar’s invention. The Paris Saint-Germain star is also set to miss Tuesday’s match with Uruguay in Montevideo. Venezuela hosts a resurgent Chile in Caracas on Tuesday.  The results: Brazil 1 (Firmino 66) bt Venezuela 0; Chile 2 (Vidal 19, 34) bt Peru 0; Colombia 0 lost to Uruguay 3 (Cavani 5, Suarez 54-pen, Nunez 73).
16 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Najeeb is Gokulam ’s reserve team coach||Gokulam Kerala has appointed former State Bank of Travancore coach N.M. Najeeb as the reserve team coach for the new season. Najeeb, a former India player, had a fruitful stint with SBT in the National Football League (which later became the I-League). He had won more than 40 trophies for the bankers and 12 players he trained were picked for the Indian team during that period. Before that, he played for East Bengal, Titanium and Mohammedans. He also represented Kerala at the Santosh Trophy for six years. After his playing career, he trained SBTtate Bank of Travancore for 15 years. “I am glad to be with Gokulam,” Najeeb said. “Kozhikode is my home city and I am honoured to be the coach of the developmental side of a club from my home city. Our aim is to win the Kerala Premier League and also develop as many youngsters for next year’s I-League. Najeeb was instrumental in mentoring several Kerala players and he has helped them to play for India,” said the Gokulam Kerala CEO B. Ashok Kumar. “We believe he would be able to replicate the success he had at SBT and develop several players for the senior side.”
16 November 2020||New Delhi:,||Award for Batra||The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra was on Sunday conferred with the Capital Foundation National Award for his contribution in sports. He was honoured with the award at the Capital Foundation Annual Lecture and Awards 2020 which was held online to commemorate the 106th birth anniversary of renowned jurist Justice Krishna Iyer. Batra is also the president of International Hockey Federation (FIH) and a member of the IOC.PTI
16 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Five skippers named for ATK-MB||Antonio Habas, coach of reigning champion ATK Mohun Bagan, announced that five players, in rotation, will be given the captain’s armband during the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season. Out of the five, four figured in the team which triumphed last season — Fijian striker Roy Krishna, Spanish midfielder Edu Garcia, Pritam Kotal and Arindam Bhattacharya. The seasoned Sandesh Jhingan is the other player in the list of captains. Habas insisted that he chose five skippers as he did not want any player to be recognised as a star in what is a team game. Rewarding experience The Spanish coach has rewarded experience and performance while choosing who would wear the armbands from the 27 members in the squad.
16 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Northern Alliance wins||Neil Devaney-trained Northern Alliance (M. Prabhakaran up) won the Karnataka Police Trophy, the main event of the races held here on Saturday (Nov. 14). The winner is owned by Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas & Mr. Dean Stephens.  B.A.R.I. PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20: MRS THATCHER (Mark) 1, Perfectgoldenera (T.S. Jodha) 2, Fierce Fighter (A. Imran) 3 and Phoenix Reached (Irvan) 4. Not run: Master Of War and Altair. Nk, 3 and 2. 1m, 30.38s. Rs. 38 (w), 18, 10 and 12 (p), SHP: 29, THP: 39, FP: 186, Q: 122, Trinella: 469 and 545, Exacta: 1,886 and 2,424. Favourite: Perfectgoldenera. Owner: Capt. Jamshed J. Appoo. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  CHINTAMANI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: SPLASH (Suraj) 1, Torosanto (Rayan) 2, Legendary Princess (Srinath) 3 and Legend Is Back (R. Pradeep) 4. 1-1/4, Shd and 3. 1m, 17.74s. Rs. 27 (w), 14, 11 and 38 (p), SHP: 42, THP: 75, FP: 220, Q: 80, Trinella: 263 and 55, Exacta: 6,579 (carried over). Favourite: Torosanto. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Sanjay Kumar Shinde, M/s. DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep by. Mr. D.R. Thacker & Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  CHILDREN'S DAY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): HOPE ISLAND (Antony) 1, Lake Tahoe (Trevor) 2, Mystic Eye (Kiran Rai) 3 and Griffin (Anjar Alam) 4. Not run: Sparkling. Hd, Lnk and 1. 1m, 29.02s. Rs. 76 (w), 15, 16 and 26 (p), SHP: 27, THP: 87, FP: 1,019, Q: 149, Trinella: 6,446, Exacta: 3,840 (carried over). Favourite: Pissarro. Owners: Rajagiri Rubber & Produce Co. Ltd. rep by. Mr & Mrs. Dilip Thomas. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  MASTER KEY PLATE (1,600m), rated 15 to 35: SOVEREIGN LEGEND (Mark) 1, Arabian Mist (Neeraj) 2, Drusilla (Trevor) 3 and Super Gladiator (Rayan) 4. Not run: Track Striker. 2, Lnk and 1. 1m, 42.49s. Rs. 117 (w), 23, 14 and 12 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 52, FP: 762, Q: 1,365, Trinella: 717 and 224, Exacta: 1,400 and 1,200. Favourite: Drusilla. Owners: Mr. S.R. Sanas, M/s. DT racing & Breeding LLP, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & Mr. Inderraj Anand. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  KARNATAKA POLICE TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 & above: NORTHERN ALLIANCE (M. Prabhakaran) 1, Anjeze (Trevor) 2, Manchester (Arshad) 3 and Starry Wind (Jagadeesh) 4. 1-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3-1/4. 1m, 28.14s. Rs. 80 (w), 15, 15 and 174 (p), SHP: 53, THP: 278, FP: 165, Q: 55, Trinella: 3,577 and 1,533, Exacta: 7,923 (carried over). Favourite: Anjeze. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas & Mr. Dean Stephens. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  ROYAL CACUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), 3-y-o, (Terms): MISS PAREIL (Neeraj) 1, Watchmystars (Trevor) 2, Ansaldo (Srinath) 3 and Lagarde (Suraj) 4. 1/2, Nk and 34-3/4. 1m, 29.14s. Rs. 631 (w), 19 and 16 (p), SHP: 26, THP: 26, FP: 283, Q: 401, Trinella: 810 and 1,042. Favourite: Lagarde. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  CHINTAMANI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: SONGKRAN (Trevor) 1, Amazonite (Md. Aliyar) 2, Estella (Naveen K) 3 and Paradiso (Darshan) 4. Hd, 3-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 17.35s. Rs. 41 (w), 17, 15 and 27 (p), SHP: 48, THP: 58, FP: 493, Q: 486, Trinella: 1,582 and 452, Exacta: 5,651 (carried over). Favourite: Dragon Mountain. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: S. Domonic.  RED BARON PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50: HOKKAIDO (Suraj) 1, Venus Bay (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Papparazi (Neeraj) 3 and Bold Move (Vaibhav) 4. 9-1/4, 2-3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 27.94s. Rs. 45 (w), 11, 18 and 10 (p), SHP: 53, THP: 36, FP: 393, Q: 410, Trinella: 1,526 and 523, Exacta: 1,960 and 1,680. Favourite: Papparazi. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi. Jackpot: Rs. 30,882 (carried over); Treble (i): 2,591 (carried over); (ii): 4,202 (one tkt).
16 November 2020||Cary (USA),||Prajnesh in final||Fourth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran got a walkover from Mikael Torpegaard of Denmark in the semifinals of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here on Saturday. The 31-year-old Prajnesh recovered from being 1-5 down in the deciding tie-break to beat qualifier Thomaz Bellucci 3-6, 7-5, 7-6(5) in the quarterfinals. Prajnesh was scheduled to face second seed Denis Kudla of the US in the final.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Semifinals: Prajnesh Gunneswaran w/o Mikael Torpegaard (Den).   Quarterfinals: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Thomaz Bellucci (Bra) 3-6, 7-5, 7-6(5) .
16 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Agarkar, Maninder, Chetan and SS Das in the fray||For the second time this year, some of the renowned former cricketers have thrown their hat in the ring for the selector’s job. On a day when the deadline for submitting applications for the three vacant posts in the National selection committee came to an end, Ajit Agarkar, Maninder Singh, Chetan Sharma and Shiv Sunder Das (SS Das) mailed their applications as prescribed by the BCCI. Agarkar, Maninder, Chetan and Das confirmed to The Hindu about having applied for the post. Besides these four, former India pacer Abey Kuruvilla and Bengal stalwart Ranadeb Bose have also entered the fray. The posts have been vacant since three of the five members — Sarandeep Singh (North), Devang Gandhi (East) and Jatin Paranjpe (West) — have served their maximum tenure, according to the BCCI rulebook. While the advertisement posted by BCCI on its website hasn’t specified the zones that the applicants are required to hail from, a precedent was set in March when Joshi and Harvinder Singh replaced M.S.K. Prasad and Gagan Khoda as the representatives from the South and Central zones respectively. If the zonal policy is adhered to, Agarkar and Kuruvilla will be a key contender from the West, Das and Bose from the East, and Chetan and Maninder from the North. Interestingly, since Chetan has represented Bengal as well — he was Sourav Ganguly’s teammate in the 1993-94 Ranji Trophy final — he could be considered from the East as well. The rulebook prescribes that the one with the most number of Test caps will be the chairman of the committee. Should Agarkar (26 Tests), Maninder (35) or Chetan (23) be picked in the panel, Joshi (15) will be replaced as the chief selector.  With inputs from Shayan Acharya
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Shergill stars for Jindal Panther||Simran Shergill scored five goals in helping Jindal Panther to a 7 1/2 goals to 4 victory over Sahara Warriors in a league match of the Sir Pratap Singh Cup 14-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur polo ground here. In the six-goal DGST Trophy final, Army Service Corps beat Cavalry Redy 8 1/2 goals to 6.  The results:   Sir Pratap Singh Cup (league): Jindal Panther 7 1/2 (Simran Shergill 5, Abhimanyu Pathak, Dhananjay Singh) bt Sahara Warriors 4 (Daniel Otamendi 4).   DGST Trophy (final):   ASC 8 1/2 (Basheer Ali 6, Abhimanyu Singh Parmar, Ravinder Mang, handicap 1/2) bt Cavalry Red 6 (Vishal Chauhan 3, Aman Singh 2, A.K. Panda).
16 November 2020||Augusta,||Langer — still going strong!||Two-time Masters champion Bernhard Langer of Germany became the oldest player to make the cut in tournament history at Augusta National on Friday. The 63-year-old winner of green jackets in 1985 and 1993 finished 36 holes on three-under 141 after completing a four-under 68 first round and a second-round 73. Langer beat the record held by Tommy Aaron who was also 63 but a month younger when he made the cut in 2000. “To be the oldest to make the cut, it’s certainly an achievement,” Langer said. “Hopefully, I get to play a few more years and enjoy this place. It’s certainly not easy to do it.” Langer has competed in a Major against Gene Sarazan (born 1902) and Abel Galleges (born 2002), that’s opponents born 100 years apart! Sarazan figured in his last Major at the 1976 Open championships, Langer’s first!
16 November 2020||Cairo,||Salah has mild COVID-19 symptoms||Liverpool striker Mohamed Salah has mild symptoms after testing positive for the coronavirus and is due to spend at least the next week self-isolating in Egypt, the national team doctor Mohamed Abou Elela said. Salah’s positive tests came on Friday on the eve of Egypt’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Togo. He’s now set to miss Liverpool’s first game after the international break against Leicester in the Premier League next Sunday. Salah now has to isolate for seven days under Egyptian health guidelines.
16 November 2020||MELBOURNE,||Smith dares Indian pacers||Steve Smith has dared the lethal Indian fast bowling unit to bring on the short stuff in the upcoming Test series, saying he has faced a lot of it in his life. According to the former captain, trying short-pitched bowling against him could work in Australia’s favour. “If teams are trying to get me out like that it’s probably a big benefit for the team because it takes a lot out of people’s bodies if you continually bowl short,” said Smith. “I’ve faced a lot of short bowling in my life and I haven’t had too many stresses with it. I suppose we’ll just wait and see.”
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||How will the WTC finalists be decided?||The ICC will consider percentage of points earned from the contested matches in deciding the finalists of the inaugural World Test Championship (WTC), which has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a report in ESPNcricinfo , this option was being considered by the ICC’s cricket committee for the first edition of the championship but a final decision will be taken by the chief executives’ committee this week. “Finalists for the World Test Championship (WTC) will be decided by the percentage of points they have earned from those they have actually contested for,” the report said. Meeting begins today The ICC’s last quarterly meeting of the year begins on Monday. India has played four series so far and are currently at the top with 360 points, followed by Australia (296) and England (292).
16 November 2020||Associated Press,||UEFA cancels Norway’s game||UEFA said it cancelled a Nations League game because Norway could not travel to Romania after a COVID-19 case in the squad. Norway risks a 3-0 loss by forfeit for not fulfilling the match scheduled on Sunday in Bucharest. There are no clearly available dates in the international calendar to make up the game. UEFA said it sent the case to its disciplinary committee for a decision. The case could cost Norway dearly.AP
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Practice of dhyana yoga||Practice of yoga or penance is shown to be the most efficacious path in spiritual sadana. Proficiency in this sadana is possible only by renunciation of worldly attachments and associations and to engage in meditation of the Supreme Truth. The rishis and sages of yore have shown us the efficacy of dhyana and tyaga by which they have felt the reverberations of the eternal truth in the inner recesses of their selves. The Gita emphasises the benefits of renunciation that takes firm root and is supported by the vairagya and viveka of the aspirant whose only aim is to realise the Supreme Truth and gain salvation, pointed out Swami Omkarananda in a discourse. All the sastras say that there is no other path. Penance or yoga is demanding in the sense that one has to train the body, mind and intellect and engage in it. It implies the will power to forego many common and basic requirements such as hunger, thirst or the comforts of living. When Ravana or Hiranyakasipu did penance, it was an act of extreme austerity. But the purpose of their penance was to attain worldly power and not the Parama Purushartha, moksha. But one whose aim is moksha is bent on the search for the self within and wishes to get united with it rather than the world outside and its attractions. He aims to bring about a union of the mind intellect and. the self. Assuming that he is well versed in the sastras and aware of the Mahavakyas and the meaning propounded in them by sages and acharyas, he still has to make the leap from intellectual awareness to direct perception or realisation. Unless one is ‘Nirashi’, that is, free from any desire except the very strong urge for moksha, the meditation will not be effective. It requires tremendous maturity of mind to control the senses and remain single-minded in dhyana.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 09:06 IST,||Sudoku - November 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The new-age English teacher||Now that the Tamil Nadu government has made Professional English a specialised and mandatory course for all undergraduate students, there is a row over who should teach it. The view of teachers’ organisations that only language teachers can do so contradicts the government’s position. This raises certain significant questions: who would be better, subject or language teachers; how different is this from teaching general English, whichc pedagogical approach should be adopted and how far can the expected outcomes be realised? Subject and language ‘Professional English’ has already been integrated into the curriculum of most engineering colleges from the 1980s as ‘English for Engineers and Technologists’. However, the outcome has not been all that was desired as most companies reject the graduates due to lack of communication skills. This is mainly because the English teachers have never been exposed to the field of engineering and technology and, therefore, fail to deliver the expected results. However, the teachers could not be faulted entirely, as they were expected to be informed of technological developments and trends. But, in the new educational ecosystem where the boundaries of disciplines are collapsing, English teachers can no longer be content with explicating poems and prose pieces, or claiming to develop communicative competence. Yet another paradox is that only one common course is offered for the multiple engineering streams. The language skills required for printing technology would differ from that of civil engineering and it would be something totally different for Information Technology. Even assuming that English teachers have some knowledge of these domains, it would be impossible to teach those who specialise in them. However, sidelining English teachers is not an option; they have to engage themselves dynamically in acquiring some specialist knowledge in some domain or the other to survive. Letting subject teachers teach English may lead to a focus on the subject and defeat the idea of the Professional English programme. Specific to the career All over the world, ‘Professional English’ courses have taken on different avatars: Content and Language-Integrated Learning (CLIL), Content-Based Language Teaching (CBLT), and Content-Based Instruction (CBI), all broadly under the nomenclature of English for Specific Purposes (ESP). ‘English for Business’, ‘English for Tourism’, ‘English for Nurses’, ‘English for Waiters’, ‘English for Lawyers’ and ‘English for Aviation Industry’ are some of the popular courses that attempt to cater to prospective careers. Their popularity is attributed to their occupational relevance and to the targetted learner/learning-centric approaches. Professional English ought to be treated as a continuum of general English, not as a distinct course, on the assumption that learners already possess a basic level of linguistic competence. The objective of this course should be distinctly established as being geared towards acquiring a better command of the language in a specific domain. Collaborative enterprise If the Professional English courses are to be successful, content and subject teachers should work collaboratively to select relevant material and devise the pedagogical process to focus on lexical and grammatical items and the features of discourse and genre. This would enable learners to acquire both content knowledge and linguistic competence. It, however, necessitates a structural transformation; instead of an exclusive department of English, one language teacher at least should be attached to different departments to carry out the teaching-learning processes on an on-going basis. Team teaching of language and subject would engender a transformative process, causing maximum learning outcomes. However this seems highly idealistic in our context. The writer is National Secretary, English Language Teachers’ Association of India & Professor of English, (former), Anna University  Professional English ought to be treated as a continuum of general English, not as a distinct course,
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Beyond the usual scope||“Why Vice-President, why not President?” This hilarious meme of an Indian parent in the wake of Kamala Harris’ historic win made me laugh but it’s also a reminder of the pressure caused by our parenting style. Every year, I meet students who say they want to study Economics or Computer Science or Math, or some form of Engineering, with little idea of why beyond the ‘scope’ the parents insist these fields offer. The bad news is that this formula simply doesn’t work anymore. The world is littered with engineering professionals stuck for growth or even jobs. And economics students have no clue about or interest in finance, policy or even data. The good news is that technology, globalisation and digitisation have opened the doors to success today, and there is money — and other forms of success — everywhere. Here are some exciting options outside the engineering-economics zone:  Sales, Marketing, Advertising, Digital Marketing: Consistently ranked among highest paying careers, this is a skill that cannot be replaced by technology. Those with the flair to connect with people and creatively influence them truly make businesses move.  Psychology, NeuroScience, Cognitive Science: This is one of the few areas outside pure science designated as “STEM” by the U.S. universities. Psychologists can read people, data and language to uncover insights and manipulate positive outcomes. The real scope lies in combining Psychology with business (industrial psychology), biology (neuroscience), language, data science or computer science (cognitive science).  Media, Music and Film: The lasting opium of the masses, nothing — not even a pandemic — can keep us away from entertainment. There are high-growth roles in media management, music production, blogging and event management. Film is generally considered to be poised for another explosion, given its extensive use in education and training, marketing videos and home entertainment.  Design: An online world spends heavily on user experience design as well as on redesigning work and home spaces, WFH fashion, furniture, and gadgets. Design is often the lifeline of companies looking to reinvent themselves. Combining design with business skills and technology opens growth opportunities in luxury brand and fashion management, web, app and game design, among others.  Law: Negotiating contracts and settlements, debating disputes and designing cyber law cases ... here is something that artificial intelligence cannot easily replace. As the volume of business increases, so does the demand for professional legal services.  Academics and Education: University professors are among the highest paid in many countries. It takes a fair amount of passion, study, and patience to get here, of course with doctorate degrees — or a decade of teaching experience. But, if education gets you going, the rewards are only as far away as that.  Social Sector, think tanks, policy research: The scope lies in building expertise — whether it is water and environment, public health, pollution, education or conflict. Again, you need to build expertise, usually at a doctorate level. Numerous government-funded and privately-funded think tanks hire specialists to research, analyse, write and implement policy recommendations. Then, there is fund-raising. A bit like marketing, it rewards persuasion skills, creativity and persistence with leadership and financial opportunities. In all, don’t get stuck choosing fields that people say have “scope”. Look for what gets you going. The writer runs Inomi Learning, a career and college guidance firm that offers services across colleges in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Singapore and India. info@inomi.in
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Real-world ready||Of late, people have been talking about “coming of age”, or whether students with mild to moderate learning disabilities will be able to succeed in their lives. The transition of these children into adulthood is often replete with struggles, as they find it hard to find a job after completing their education. Preparing young adults for a working environment requires comprehensive transdisciplinary vocational support and training after school. As for young adults with special needs, vocational training has to focus not just on academic skills but also on adaptive behaviour skills, social and interpersonal skills, social development and independence. It should also reinforce activities that develop autonomy and minimise the need for assistance. Benefits/Adaptability Vocational training increases the number of options open to these youngsters and also encourages companies to to hire them. Apart from this, it also offers psychological and social benefits. Instead of being isolated and confined at home, these youngsters will be in a more engaging environment, leading to a sense of independence that improves both their daily routine and quality of life. Many institutions now offe vocational training to young adults with special needs. For instance, a certificate programme in Functional Skills and Employability offered by London Learning Centre has been created to help these students develop the skills required to transition from a school to a college setting and towards leading a more independent life, looking for career options, understanding work environments, and engage in social settings. In addition to teaching them hacks to survive in the real world, vocational training also has a positive psychological impact and steers them further towards holistic development and growth. The writer is the Vice Chancellor, Sushant University
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Multidisciplinary endeavour||The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed many thousands of lives globally and put enormous strain on healthcare systems around the world. Those suffering from other conditions such as cancers, heart diseases, strokes, COPD, infections and diabetes have been the worst affeected and the demand to produce a constant stream of new chemical entities (NCEs) as therapeutic drugs has never been higher. The process From discovering a new disease to a drug reaching the market is an enduring and expensive process called drug discovery. Drug discovery and development are interconnected and overlapping areas. While drug development primarily focuses on formulation, production, clinical trials and approval, drug discovery mainly involves design, synthesis and testing of a large number of compounds to find lead compounds that can stop or reverse the effects of a disease. This is achieved by targeting one or more specific macromolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, lipids or carbohydrates) in the human body and having the right specifications for a drug candidate. At the end of the discovery process, only a small number of compounds look promising and can be pushed into the development process. Therefore, drug discovery is a science involving multidisciplinary endeavours from computer science, chemistry (especially synthetic organic chemistry), pharmacology and various other biological specialties. Appropriately trained graduates in drug discovery science who can apply their expertise effectively in research are in short supply. What it involves A M.Sc. in Drug Discovery Science is a very exciting course for graduates in chemistry, biological science, biomedical science, pharmacy, medicine or a related subject who want to be equipped with knowledge and skills to discover new drug candidates. The content varies from course to course but, typically, medicinal chemistry, drug design, drug synthesis, pharmacology and toxicology are covered in the core curriculum followed by an independent research project as the practical element. During the course, the students will not only be exposed to theories in drug discovery target identification and validation, screening platforms, optimisation of small molecule drugs and biotherapeutics, and the importance of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, but also gain hands-on experience of molecular modelling and computer-based drug design, analytical and synthetic techniques, and modern technologies including proteomics, genomics and epigenetics. The course is usually delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials and seminars supported by e-learning systems and practical classes. Assessment is through a combination of written examinations and coursework. A research project is part of the programme and is assessed through a written thesis and an oral examination. Career opportunities Drug discovery jobs are among the most challenging and rewarding. The technical and transferable skills gained through an MSc in Drug Discovery Science offer a wide range of career destinations. A research position in pharmaceutical or biotech industries, a contract research organisation (CRO) or a clinical research organisation are potential options. Many graduates also opt for a doctorate in a specific area. Others may take up jobs in regulatory bodies, pharmaceutical sales and marketing. Some even go for a career in science teaching or consulting. The writer is Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Sheffield, the U.K.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning vs applicability||Learning is a continuous process; content, curriculum and methodology need to keep pace with the changes. In the field of legal education, the teaching method has not changed for many decades. Teacher-centred themes, monologues and lectures and a theoretical approach still prevails to a large extent in almost all the law colleges across India. There is also no mandatory requirement for continued legal education (CLE) for advocates even though the Ministry of Law and Justice and the Bar Council of India have acknowledged its importance and need. The non-contentious side of the legal field is complex and knowledge of law and technicalities are not enough. The expectation of clients and employers have changed drastically over the last decade and the focus is now on commercial awareness, knowledge of market practice and trends, and understanding and appreciating the commercial objectives of the proposed transaction. Are fresh law graduates — no matter how bright they are — ready to fulfil expectations in the corporate world? The changes The traditional ways of teaching in legal education will change only when lawyers are seen ‘commercial engineers’ in the corporate-legal world. Implementation of a real and effective CLE, participatory learning and clinical legal education in the curriculum and all training progrrammes will help provide learners a competitive edge. Participatory learning focuses on learning through participation in moderated discussions by replacing the classic ‘teacher construct’ with a ‘moderator’. Instead of assuming that students lack information, this approach urges learners to apply common sense and logical reasoning. In the legal education sphere, it lays emphasis on eexperiences, real-world case studies and hypothetical situations, deal analysis, real-time assignments, and moderated discussions. The idea is not to do away with formal teaching but to achieve a balance. Clinical legal education, on the other hand, is an experiential learning process that promotes the simultaneous growth of personal skills and values and social justice at the same time. It can be one of the tools in the participatory learning technique that caters to developing soft skills and sensitising the participants on social justice and ethical issues. However for those participants who are unable to contribute to the discussions, the participator learning technique can be challenging. The moderator must be aware of this and see that the approach is all inclusive.  Disclaimer: The views expressed here are personal and do not reflect those of the organisaton.   The author is the founder, NotJustLex
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Engineers of the future||As the world evolves by the minute, today’s engineers have to acquire new skills; from complex problem solving and critical thinking, professional and ethical behaviours, to environmental awareness. The very nature of engineering is changing due to rapid digitisation and this in turn necessitates learning new skills. What’s in New engineering specialisations are being added to the bouquet of pre-existing courses. Computer Science and Engineering is now passé. Blockchain technology that allows digital information to be distributed but not copied is in. Today, Artificial Intelligence (AI) or Machine Learning (ML) are hot. An electronics and telecommunication engineer now has to learn about robotics, and a mechanical engineer should know designing. Today, solar engineering is part of the electrical engineering curriculum. Civil engineers not only learn how to build cities but also about ‘smart cities’. The rapidly changing technology environment requires flexibility, which means that an engineer might have to change his core engineering path more than once during his career. A static engineering degree may not have much value. Interdisciplinary learning Another key skill today is interdisciplinarity or the ability to learn and work among varied disciplines. It allows for synthesis of ideas and characteristics from many perspectives. An engineer does not work in isolation; he/she will have to interact with people from a number of other specialisations and blend their ideas. A software engineer creating an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution for supply chain management needs to understand transportation and product handling, while an electronics or instrumentation engineer making a biomedical instrument should have knowledge of the medical field. Soft skills Along with industry or ‘hard skills’, today’s corporate environment lays equal emphasis on soft/social skills. A technical profession like engineering may rely on concise or accurate information within its ambit. But while communicating with people outside the field it is important to be able to explain technical terms in common language. Communication often proves to be the toughest challenge for engineers. Today’s engineers also need to have Emotional Intelligence; they must learn presentation and negotiation skills and cope with stress. They must be able to work in and with a team. Capabilities like strategic planning, risk management and critical thinking, which used to be part of management studies, are being added to an engineer’s menu. With having to learn and adapt to newer technologies every day, along with enabling and leading teams of non-engineering stakeholders, the engineers of the future are charting a new course. The writer is the Vice Chancellor of Adamas University, Kolkata.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Call for action||An online platform with curated resources to support and promote high quality visual arts education.... that’s what Art Room Hero (www.artroomhero.com), a project of the Indian Art and Design Educators Association (IADEA) seeks to achieve to promote the visual arts sans physical interaction. Currrently Art Room Hero has a database of 250 lessons and now invites art educators to submit their most successful, original and popular learnings to be considered for the launch edition of this curated resource library. The selected contributioins will be credited. Lessons can be submitted as pdf or video atwww.arteducatorsindia.org/submit-your-lessonsunder the categories: Art for Emotional Well-being; Best use of Elements of Art; Innovation in the Art Room; Art Integrated Learning; Promoting Artistic Process; Collaboration in the Art Room; Art Teaching Techniques; Instilling Creative Confidence; Art Projects for Children with Special Needs.  Last date for submission: December 15, 2020.  artroomhero.com plans to launch in February with 500 curated submissions to inspire visual arts teaching and learning.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Study in The Netherlands||Beyon Education will host a virtual webinar on Study in The Netherlands, which will focus on course opportunities, application and admission procedures and scholarship options. The participating universities are VrijeUniversity Amsterdam; HAN University; Utrecht University; Tio University; NHL Stenden; The Hague University; Saxion University; and Rotterdam Business School. To register, contact +91-9500124679 or +91-9384880122 or e-mail abhinay.reddy@beyoneducation.com  On November 26, 2020, from 5.30 to 6.30 pm
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mains challenge||Every year, the Union Public Service Commision (UPSC) conducts the Civil Services Examination to recruit officers for various branches of the government. This exam has three stages — the Preliminary (known as Prelims), the Mains, and the Personality Test — and the final list is prepared by combining the marks obtained in the Mains and the Personality Test. However, the marks of the Mains exam takes the lion’s share of 1750 out of a total 2025 marks. Why it’s vital There are three reasons why the Mains exam is considered vital. One, the weightage of marks for the final list. Second, the massive syllabus of the General Studies paper and variety of optional subjects. Third is the competition among the candidates who have cleared the gruelling Preliminary stage. Therefore, a Civil Services aspirant requires a calculated strategy to crack the second stage. Many tend to worry about what they call “a good answer”. There is no single definition but broad guidelines are clarity of thought and expression and good presentation. One can write the answers as essays or as points or even a combination of the two. This will depend on the question. Remember, the Mains exam can be extremely unpredictable given the vast scope of the syllabus. So the candidate needs to be ready for surprises. When preparing, try to cover the syllabus as comprehensively as possible. While shoring up your strong points, do not neglect areas of weakness. If well prepared, you will be ready to connect all the dots as demanded by the question. During your preparation, split the syllabus so that you can deal with it from different perspectives. The two optional subjects will comprise 500 marks; the essay is a separate paper of 250 marks. The remaining 1000 marks are split as General Studies and cover a wide range of subjects. Make sure your optional subjects are well-prepared. For the General Studies papers, quite a bit would have been covered during preparation for the Preliminary stage. Use a multi-pronged strategy to cover the syllabus. Focus on content enrichment rather than looking for new resources. Candidates will need to expand their thinking and analytical abilities in order to integrate multiple perspectves. For example, you can find links between the Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice and International relations and Ethics and Integrity papers. A study of past papers will also suggest similar connections. There are plenty of ways to climb the mountain that the Civil Services Examination represents. While some strategies may be common to all, it is best to figure out which path will lead you to the peak. The writer is the Director, GS Score
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The new-age English teacher||Now that the Tamil Nadu government has made Professional English a specialised and mandatory course for all undergraduate students, there is a row over who should teach it. The view of teachers’ organisations that only language teachers can do so contradicts the government’s position. This raises certain significant questions: who would be better, subject or language teachers; how different is this from teaching general English, whichc pedagogical approach should be adopted and how far can the expected outcomes be realised? Subject and language ‘Professional English’ has already been integrated into the curriculum of most engineering colleges from the 1980s as ‘English for Engineers and Technologists’. However, the outcome has not been all that was desired as most companies reject the graduates due to lack of communication skills. This is mainly because the English teachers have never been exposed to the field of engineering and technology and, therefore, fail to deliver the expected results. However, the teachers could not be faulted entirely, as they were expected to be informed of technological developments and trends. But, in the new educational ecosystem where the boundaries of disciplines are collapsing, English teachers can no longer be content with explicating poems and prose pieces, or claiming to develop communicative competence. Yet another paradox is that only one common course is offered for the multiple engineering streams. The language skills required for printing technology would differ from that of civil engineering and it would be something totally different for Information Technology. Even assuming that English teachers have some knowledge of these domains, it would be impossible to teach those who specialise in them. However, sidelining English teachers is not an option; they have to engage themselves dynamically in acquiring some specialist knowledge in some domain or the other to survive. Letting subject teachers teach English may lead to a focus on the subject and defeat the idea of the Professional English programme. Specific to the career All over the world, ‘Professional English’ courses have taken on different avatars: Content and Language-Integrated Learning (CLIL), Content-Based Language Teaching (CBLT), and Content-Based Instruction (CBI), all broadly under the nomenclature of English for Specific Purposes (ESP). ‘English for Business’, ‘English for Tourism’, ‘English for Nurses’, ‘English for Waiters’, ‘English for Lawyers’ and ‘English for Aviation Industry’ are some of the popular courses that attempt to cater to prospective careers. Their popularity is attributed to their occupational relevance and to the targetted learner/learning-centric approaches. Professional English ought to be treated as a continuum of general English, not as a distinct course, on the assumption that learners already possess a basic level of linguistic competence. The objective of this course should be distinctly established as being geared towards acquiring a better command of the language in a specific domain. Collaborative enterprise If the Professional English courses are to be successful, content and subject teachers should work collaboratively to select relevant material and devise the pedagogical process to focus on lexical and grammatical items and the features of discourse and genre. This would enable learners to acquire both content knowledge and linguistic competence. It, however, necessitates a structural transformation; instead of an exclusive department of English, one language teacher at least should be attached to different departments to carry out the teaching-learning processes on an on-going basis. Team teaching of language and subject would engender a transformative process, causing maximum learning outcomes. However this seems highly idealistic in our context. The writer is National Secretary, English Language Teachers’ Association of India & Professor of English, (former), Anna University  Professional English ought to be treated as a continuum of general English, not as a distinct course,
16 November 2020||Mumbai,||Opposition parties claim credit for reopening of temples||With the Maharashtra government set to reopen religious places outside containment zones on Monday, Opposition parties in the State have rushed to claim credit for the move. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced the reopening of places of worship, which have been shut since the COVID-19-induced lockdown was imposed in March. He urged the people of the State to follow the government’s COVID-19 guidelines to check the spread of the virus. Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in Council, on Sunday claimed that the State government was forced to take the decision owing to sustained pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Mr. Darekar said, “We do not want to claim credit, but this State government had no intention to reopen temples. The BJP supported the demand and forced the government’s hand.” Tushar Bhosle, president of the BJP State unit’s spiritual front, said he would be heading to the temple town of Shirdi with several priests for darshan on Monday. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said the government intentionally wanted to keep temples shut. The party had spearheaded two agitations across the State to demand the reopening of temples and several delegations met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to push for the demand. Mr. Koshyari then wrote a letter to Mr. Thackeray declaring that “our gods and goddesses have been condemned to remain in lockdown” and wondering whether the CM has “suddenly turned secular”. Later, Union Home Minister Amit Shah admitted that Mr. Koshyari should have been more restrained in his choice of words. Meanwhile, the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has called for an aarti to be held at every temple on Monday. “Many priests had gone to meet Raj Thackeray after which he appealed to the State government to open temples. Only then was it approved,” the MNS said, claiming credit for the government’s decision. ‘Taking cautious steps’ Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the government never intended to keep religious places shut forever. “The State is fighting a battle against the novel coronavirus. The economy is in a shambles and the State government is taking cautious steps. We welcome the government’s decision and appeal to the people to follow the norms,” he said. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said there was no question of taking credit for the move. He said, “The SOPs drafted by the government need to be followed strictly. There is no need to take credit. It was God’s will that people stay at home, and now it is God’s will that places of worship reopen with precautions.” On the BJP claiming the move as a victory of Hindutva, he said not just temples, all places of worship will reopen. “This is not a victory or defeat of anybody,” he said. Places of worship were closed on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions, Mr. Raut said. (With PTI inputs)
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||Post-Deepavali, air quality hits ‘severe’ category in the Capital||Despite the blanket ban on firecrackers in the NCR, the air quality in Delhi on Deepavali and a day after the festival was in the ‘severe’ category. The readings were the worst in the last four years, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The prime reasons were Delhiites bursting firecrackers, violating the ban, and Deepavali being in mid-November, which is late in the year (compared to the other three years), when the meteorological conditions are unfavourable. The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi, a day after Deepavali was 435, while it was 297 in 2019, 390 in 2018 and 403 in 2017, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The AQI on Deepavali day this year was 414, while it was 312 in 2019, 281 in 2018 and 319 in 2017. The level of PM2.5, a deadly pollutant, in Delhi-NCR was 469.3 ug/m3 at 6 a.m. on Sunday, which is about eight times the safe limit (60ug/m3) as per Indian standards. According to government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research), this year’s Deepavali day had the worst air quality in the past five years. But as per SAFAR, the air quality a day after Deepavali was the best in past five years, which is different from CPCB data. “SAFAR uses data from fewer monitoring stations to arrive at the data compared to the CPCB and they take the value at a different time. This might have led to the difference,” a CPCB official said. Explaining the high pollution this year, Anumita Roychowdhury, Executive Director of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said: “Deepavali usually happens earlier in the year and since it was late this year, the winter inversion condition was much severe. The wind speed and the mixing depth was less this year. Due to it, pollutants do not get dispersed easily. Last year, Deepavali was in October-end when conditions are not that bad. Certainly, this is one of the reasons for the high pollution this year.” Due to these reasons, pollution on the days leading to Deepavali this year was also higher than last year. “Effect of crop burning was also higher in Delhi till yesterday [Deepavali day]. With bursting of firecrackers, these two have contributed to the pollution,” Ms. Roychowdhury said. SAFAR also said that there was a peak in levels of PM2.5 during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, probably due to bursting of crackers. The expert said that with data currently available, it is not possible to say whether the effect of firecrackers was more this year. “The restrictions on firecrackers is very difficult to implement because there is no long-term planning. By that time, people have already manufactured crackers and it is available in the market. If the next Deepavali has to be different, then we should have a strategy and proper roadmap now itself, so that everyone can understand it, prepare better and it will be impactful in controlling pollution,” Ms. Roychowdhury added.
16 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||West U.P.: demolishing the might of the mafia||On November 7, people of Punjabipura in Meerut woke up to a band sound and a police announcement that they had come to attach the belongings of dreaded gangster Badan Singh Baddo, convicted to life in a murder case by a Gautam Buddha Nagar court, from his bungalow. The action apparently came after the Allahabad High Court asked the Uttar Pradesh administration to put on record what action had been taken against Baddo, who escaped from police custody in March 2019 from a Meerut hotel when he was brought from Farrukhabad jail for a hearing. The court noted that the absconder is said to be active on social media and had political connections. Interestingly, it took the Meerut police more than a year to find out that Baddo, whose network is spread in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, apart from western Uttar Pradesh, had a house in the city. Political patronage Social activist Abhishek Som, who filed a public interest litigation petition in the High Court, had alleged that Baddo enjoyed the patronage of politicians and that he had been active in the region through his henchmen in extortion and illicit land deals. “It seems the government is picking and choosing in its fight against organised crime. Some are being shielded and others are being made an example,” said Mr. Som, who is also a spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party. Avinash Pandey, Suprintendent of Police (rural), Meerut, said, “Baddo had gifted the house to his sister-in-law but the loan was in his name. So we could connect it to him. We demolished whatever construction had taken place without the municipal corporation permission. Now we are looking into whether the requisite permissions of the Meerut Development Authority are there or not to decide further course of action”. Though the police are tightlipped on his location, a look at his Facebook account, in the name of Badan Sandhu, shows his location in Rotterdam, Netherlands. It carries a post against former DGP and BJP Rajya Sabha member Brijlal. In his friends list, there are local political leaders and journalists. A senior crime reporter said he received a call from Baddo when he wrote about his henchmen. “He indirectly reminded me he is no longer a land grabber and that the gangster has business interests in Australia,” he said, requesting anonymity. After the Vikas Dubey encounter, the government reportedly drew a list of 25 most wanted criminals. Out of these, at least a dozen is from western Uttar Pradesh. It included names such as Anil Dujana, Sunder Bhati, Anil Bhati, Sushil Moonch, Ankit Gurjar and Akash Jat. However, interestingly, there was no mention of Baddo, who carries a reward of Rs. 2.5. lakh on his arrest. Most of them are languishing in jails but sources said these places were more like ‘shelter homes’ for these mafias as they continued to carry out their illicit businesses from there. Locals said that in a jail, everything came for a price. Meetings were arranged in jails and dates in courts were used to pass on vital information. Threats to BJP MLA Yogesh Dhama, BJP MLA from Baghpat, has approached the Chief Minister and the Director General of Police, complaining that he was receiving threats from notorious gangster Sunil Rathi, who is lodged in the Tihar jail in connection with the Munna Bajrangi murder case. Police sources said Rathi was possibly using a 4G mobile SIM from the high- security prison to dodge the jammers. He had interests in mining in the region and wanted to push his political ambitions through his wife. The government often boasts that under the present regime, criminals either want to be in jail or want to leave the State. Those who follow the crime scene closely in West Uttar Pradesh said that sometimes, it could be part of a criminal’s plan as well. Take Sushil Moonch, he is said to be a confidante of Baddo. When Baddo escaped from police custody, Moonch surrendered. But when the noose began to tighten on Baddo, he applied for bail. It was granted by a local court in September and is now apparently untraceable. Mr. Pandey denied that the action of attachment of Baddo’s belongings came after the High Court order. He said the action against Baddo required a lot of legwork. “It was in the pipeline for six months. We had to coordinate with a number of other departments. From the outside, it looks easy for the police but in reality it is very difficult to take out even a single paper from a government department. Sometimes, we have to get the evidence from ‘other’ sources,” he noted. Similar action was being mounted against other mafias in the region, he asserted. Properties attached The Gautam Buddha Nagar police have attached and demolished the illegal properties of Anil Dujana and Sunder Bhati, and the Mathura police have seized assets of gangster Harish Sharma but sources said it was just the beginning of unravelling the complex web of organised crime in the wild west of Uttar Pradesh.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Multidisciplinary endeavour||The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed many thousands of lives globally and put enormous strain on healthcare systems around the world. Those suffering from other conditions such as cancers, heart diseases, strokes, COPD, infections and diabetes have been the worst affeected and the demand to produce a constant stream of new chemical entities (NCEs) as therapeutic drugs has never been higher. The process From discovering a new disease to a drug reaching the market is an enduring and expensive process called drug discovery. Drug discovery and development are interconnected and overlapping areas. While drug development primarily focuses on formulation, production, clinical trials and approval, drug discovery mainly involves design, synthesis and testing of a large number of compounds to find lead compounds that can stop or reverse the effects of a disease. This is achieved by targeting one or more specific macromolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, lipids or carbohydrates) in the human body and having the right specifications for a drug candidate. At the end of the discovery process, only a small number of compounds look promising and can be pushed into the development process. Therefore, drug discovery is a science involving multidisciplinary endeavours from computer science, chemistry (especially synthetic organic chemistry), pharmacology and various other biological specialties. Appropriately trained graduates in drug discovery science who can apply their expertise effectively in research are in short supply. What it involves A M.Sc. in Drug Discovery Science is a very exciting course for graduates in chemistry, biological science, biomedical science, pharmacy, medicine or a related subject who want to be equipped with knowledge and skills to discover new drug candidates. The content varies from course to course but, typically, medicinal chemistry, drug design, drug synthesis, pharmacology and toxicology are covered in the core curriculum followed by an independent research project as the practical element. During the course, the students will not only be exposed to theories in drug discovery target identification and validation, screening platforms, optimisation of small molecule drugs and biotherapeutics, and the importance of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, but also gain hands-on experience of molecular modelling and computer-based drug design, analytical and synthetic techniques, and modern technologies including proteomics, genomics and epigenetics. The course is usually delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials and seminars supported by e-learning systems and practical classes. Assessment is through a combination of written examinations and coursework. A research project is part of the programme and is assessed through a written thesis and an oral examination. Career opportunities Drug discovery jobs are among the most challenging and rewarding. The technical and transferable skills gained through an MSc in Drug Discovery Science offer a wide range of career destinations. A research position in pharmaceutical or biotech industries, a contract research organisation (CRO) or a clinical research organisation are potential options. Many graduates also opt for a doctorate in a specific area. Others may take up jobs in regulatory bodies, pharmaceutical sales and marketing. Some even go for a career in science teaching or consulting. The writer is Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Sheffield, the U.K.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire Dept. receives 205 calls on Deepavali||The Delhi Fire Service received 205 calls related to fire incidents on Deepavali, slightly less compared to last year, officials said on Sunday. The incidents include a fire at a godown in west Delhi’s Mundka in which a 28-year-old man was killed while another was injured, the police said. “We received 205 fire-related calls till Diwali midnight and only two calls were specifically related to firecracker bursting while most of the calls were about the blaze in open areas or dump yards,” Delhi Fire Service director Atul Garg said. Of the total calls received, 129 were handled by the fire service department’s control room during the peak hours (from 6 p.m. to 11.58 p.m.), the time when people usually lit diyas after puja and burst firecrackers. Despite a complete ban on the usage of all kinds of firecrackers, Mr. Garg said, “We responded to 205 calls this year on Diwali which is slightly less as compared to last year.” Cracker ban “It could be due to imposition of a complete ban but people were still found bursting firecrackers and most of the garbage dumps that caught fire are also due to fireworks,” he said. Last year, the fire department had received 245 such calls on Diwali, the officer said. The National Green Tribunal on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 to November 30. Of the 205 calls received, 175 were related to fire while the remaining were related to other requirements, including assistance for rescuing birds and animals, the senior fire official said. Only two of the 175 calls were related to fire due to bursting of firecrackers, while 71 calls were related to fire at dump yards or open areas, including fire at a cooler-cum-wood godown in Mundka area on Saturday night, he said. The deceased and injured were identified as Sunil Kumar (28), and Aditya (20) respectively, both residents of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, the official said. The official suspects that Kumar was sleeping inside the godown when the fire broke out. The fire was eventually brought under control but what led to the blaze is not known yet, he said. The Delhi Fire Service had deployed 2,500 personnel. Also, fire tenders were deployed at 24 locations across the city. The DFS said that on Sunday, they received around 57 calls from all parts of Delhi over ‘oil rain’. “It seems that the road had turned slippery due to rain, dust and other materials on the road. Hence, motorists gave the call,” said a DFS officer.
16 November 2020||New Delhi/Gurugram/ Ghaziabad,||1,300 kg crackers seized in Delhi||Delhi Police received over 2,000 PCR calls in connection with bursting firecrackers and seized over 1,300 kg of crackers from across the national capital on Deepavali, an officer said on Sunday. Bursting of firecrackers were witnessed across Delhi on Deepavali night even though a ban was imposed on its sale and use in the National Capital Region in view of rising air pollution and the pandemic. A senior police officer said they received 2,100 PCR calls from people complaining about firecrackers being burst in their neigbhourhood. “We received 2,100 PCR calls on Deepavali night alone. Most of these calls regarding bursting of firecrackers were received from Dwarka, south-west and north-west parts of Delhi,” the officer said. According to a data shared by Delhi Police, 1,206 cases including kalandras (legal notice) were registered in connection with sale and usage of firecrackers on Deepavali night. Kalandras were issued to those who were bound down in connection with the incident. The total number of people arrested, including those bound down on Deepavali, were 850. The police seized 1,314.42 kg of firecrackers on Deepavali. Plaints from Gurugram In Gurugram, the police received 59 complaints and one case was registered in connection with illegal sale of crackers. Gurugram Police said that PCR vehicles, Quick Response Teams, Police Riders and Station House Officers carried out patrolling. The police also issued challans to 537 people for not wearing masks in market areas on Saturday. Drop in sound, smoke Ghaziabad saw a drop in sound and smoke of firecrackers compared to previous years, but still the air quality was in severe category. Revellers found ways to circumvent the ban and the general impression was that the ban is on bombs, not on crackers that emanate light. So, sparklers and rockets were in good supply. The administration had a tough time imposing the ban. The complexity of the issue came out in Bulandshahr’s Khurja tehsil when a video of police detaining firecracker sellers went viral. “Following the NGT order, a police team raided temporary stalls of six persons. While they were being taken in the police van, daughter of one of them started crying and banging her head in the police vehicle. When the video went viral, higher officers and I decided to visit the residence of the firecracker seller and ensured that he could celebrate Deepavali as he had suddenly lost his means of livelihood. Also, the girl should not carry a negative image of the administration,” said Lavi Tripathi, SDM, Khurja, adding the legal procedure would continue against them. Ms. Tripathi said senior police officers also took action against the policemen who showed high handedness while imposing the order. “One head constable has been sent to the police lines on the basis of the content of the video,” said Ms. Tripathi.
16 November 2020||Guwahati,||Arunachal local body elections opposed amid COVID-19 scare||Opposition political parties and the apex students’ organisation in Arunachal Pradesh have slammed the State Election Commission (SEC) for deciding to conduct the local body elections despite COVID-19 worries. The Congress, the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA) and the Janata Dal (Secular) have also threatened to take the SEC to court if the polls are not deferred. They said the panchayat and municipal elections had already been postponed by two years and delaying them by a few more months for the sake of public health would make no difference. The parties also said the election date was close to Christmas, a major festival of people in the State, while the process would clash with the harvesting season. State Election Commissioner Hage Kojeen had on November 12 announced December 22 as the date for holding elections to 25 zilla parishads with 241 constituencies and 2,215 gram sabhas with 8,436 seats. The election to 28 wards in two municipal corporations — Itanagar and Pasighat — was scheduled on the same date. “The SEC did not hold the elections when the Gauhati High Court directed it to. It now wants to hold the polls when the situation is so vulnerable,” State Congress general secretary Toko Mina said.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Call for action||An online platform with curated resources to support and promote high quality visual arts education.... that’s what Art Room Hero (www.artroomhero.com), a project of the Indian Art and Design Educators Association (IADEA) seeks to achieve to promote the visual arts sans physical interaction. Currrently Art Room Hero has a database of 250 lessons and now invites art educators to submit their most successful, original and popular learnings to be considered for the launch edition of this curated resource library. The selected contributioins will be credited. Lessons can be submitted as pdf or video atwww.arteducatorsindia.org/submit-your-lessonsunder the categories: Art for Emotional Well-being; Best use of Elements of Art; Innovation in the Art Room; Art Integrated Learning; Promoting Artistic Process; Collaboration in the Art Room; Art Teaching Techniques; Instilling Creative Confidence; Art Projects for Children with Special Needs.  Last date for submission: December 15, 2020.  artroomhero.com plans to launch in February with 500 curated submissions to inspire visual arts teaching and learning.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Study in The Netherlands||Beyon Education will host a virtual webinar on Study in The Netherlands, which will focus on course opportunities, application and admission procedures and scholarship options. The participating universities are VrijeUniversity Amsterdam; HAN University; Utrecht University; Tio University; NHL Stenden; The Hague University; Saxion University; and Rotterdam Business School. To register, contact +91-9500124679 or +91-9384880122 or e-mail abhinay.reddy@beyoneducation.com  On November 26, 2020, from 5.30 to 6.30 pm
16 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court denies bail to riots accused||A Delhi court has denied bail application of a man, arrested in connection with the brutal murder of an auto driver, Babbu, by an unruly mob during the north-east Delhi riots. Threaten eyewitnesses Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said, the accused was “conscious of the fact that eyewitnesses in the matter are residents of the same locality; they are presumably still frightened and the possibility of applicant threatening them, if released on bail cannot be ruled out”. “I am conscious of the fact that some co-accused persons have been granted bail in this case, however, it is noted that they were those accused persons who had not been identified by any independent eyewitness, except the police constable,” the judge said. The court added that the bail applications of around 11 accused persons have already been dismissed by it on different dates and the role assigned to Kuldeep Singh in the matter is no different to those co-accused persons. Mr. Singh, in his bail plea, had argued that he was 28-year-old and the sole bread earner of his family. Mr. Singh said he has been falsely implicated in the present matter by the investigating agency. Mr. Singh also said he is not seen in any CCTV footage or clipping. He further contended that the statement of independent public witness and that of police constable witnesses are contradictory to each other. He said the public witness in his alleged statement has stated that Mr. Singh was carrying a “lathi/danda” in his hand while the police witnesses stated that Mr. Singh was carrying “stones” in his hand. The court said that the contradictions pointed out in the statement of public witnesses and police constable will be seen at the time of trial.
16 November 2020||November 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mains challenge||Every year, the Union Public Service Commision (UPSC) conducts the Civil Services Examination to recruit officers for various branches of the government. This exam has three stages — the Preliminary (known as Prelims), the Mains, and the Personality Test — and the final list is prepared by combining the marks obtained in the Mains and the Personality Test. However, the marks of the Mains exam takes the lion’s share of 1750 out of a total 2025 marks. Why it’s vital There are three reasons why the Mains exam is considered vital. One, the weightage of marks for the final list. Second, the massive syllabus of the General Studies paper and variety of optional subjects. Third is the competition among the candidates who have cleared the gruelling Preliminary stage. Therefore, a Civil Services aspirant requires a calculated strategy to crack the second stage. Many tend to worry about what they call “a good answer”. There is no single definition but broad guidelines are clarity of thought and expression and good presentation. One can write the answers as essays or as points or even a combination of the two. This will depend on the question. Remember, the Mains exam can be extremely unpredictable given the vast scope of the syllabus. So the candidate needs to be ready for surprises. When preparing, try to cover the syllabus as comprehensively as possible. While shoring up your strong points, do not neglect areas of weakness. If well prepared, you will be ready to connect all the dots as demanded by the question. During your preparation, split the syllabus so that you can deal with it from different perspectives. The two optional subjects will comprise 500 marks; the essay is a separate paper of 250 marks. The remaining 1000 marks are split as General Studies and cover a wide range of subjects. Make sure your optional subjects are well-prepared. For the General Studies papers, quite a bit would have been covered during preparation for the Preliminary stage. Use a multi-pronged strategy to cover the syllabus. Focus on content enrichment rather than looking for new resources. Candidates will need to expand their thinking and analytical abilities in order to integrate multiple perspectves. For example, you can find links between the Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice and International relations and Ethics and Integrity papers. A study of past papers will also suggest similar connections. There are plenty of ways to climb the mountain that the Civil Services Examination represents. While some strategies may be common to all, it is best to figure out which path will lead you to the peak. The writer is the Director, GS Score
16 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam’s Baghjan blowout well killed||Indian and foreign experts on Sunday “killed” a disastrous well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district 173 days after it had a blowout, ejecting natural gas and associated elements uncontrollably from a depth of 3.7 km. The blowout had hit Well No 5 in OIL’s Baghjan Oilfield, adjoining the ecologically fragile Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, on May 27. To make matters worse, the blown out well caught fire on June 9. “The well has been killed with brine solution and is under control now. Fire has been doused completely,” an OIL spokesperson said from the exploration major’s headquarters at Duliajan in the neighbouring Dibrugarh district. ‘No pressure’ “There is no pressure in the well now and it will be observed for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build-up. Further operation to abandon the well is in progress,” he added. OIL initiated the process of injecting “kill fluid” or cement-laced chemical mud, the final phase of well-snubbing operation, at about 11 a.m. to kill the blowout well.  Global experts The operation was headed by an eight-member global experts team along with officials of OIL’s crisis management team. The well was killed 12 days after 60 tonnes of the snubbing unit, flown in from Canada’s Calgary by a giant Antonov An-24 aircraft, reached the blowout site on November 4.
16 November 2020||Mumbai,||Siddhivinayak temple to allow 1,000 devotees||Only 1,000 devotees will be allowed inside Siddhivinayak temple every day beginning Monday in staggered time slots, which can be booked through a mobile application, the temple’s chairman Aadesh Bandekar said on Sunday.  He said, “Devotees will have to download ‘Shri Siddhivinayak temple’ app on their mobile phones to book slots fordarshan. They will need to fill in their details and book an appointment. Then a QR code will be generated with a time slot. QR codes for 1,000 people will be generated during the day.” Mr. Bandekar said devotees will have to place the QR code beneath a scanner at the temple. “They will be allowed inside after undergoing mandatory checks,” he added.
16 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students to be sensitised on social media||The Delhi government is set to conduct workshops on the responsible use of social media for students from classes 9 to 12. The workshop will be conducted under the Samagra Shiksha scheme of the Government of India that has approved Rs. 31.20 lakh for the workshop. The workshop will aim at creating awareness on the various kinds of threats on the Internet and also ways to secure oneself from these threats. The children will also be sensitised about responsible use of social media. A total of 52 sessions will be held online for addressing 7.3 lakh students of Classes 9 to 12 in 13 districts, the government said in a circular.
16 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana’s first woman MP dead||Haryana’s first woman Member of Parliament and former Puducherry Lt. Governor Chandrawati passed away on Sunday. She was 92. The senior Congress leader was undergoing treatment at Rohtak’s PGIMS hospital since November 5, an aide said.
