22 October 2020||Srinagar,||J&K parties team up for restoring special status||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Thursday chaired a meeting of regional political parties and announced the formation of a new grouping, named the ‘Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’, comprising the parties that had signed it on August 4 last year “to fight for Jammu and Kashmir’s special status”. “Our motive is to fight for the restoration of the August 4, 2019, position. It’s a constitutional battle to assure the return of all the rights which the people of J&K, including Ladakh, enjoyed before the abrogation of Article 370,” Dr. Abdullah, a three-time Chief Minister, said after the meeting. The meeting was held at the residence of Dr. Abdullah on Gupkar Road in Srinagar and attended by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, Peoples Conference (PC) chief Sajad Lone and CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami, among others. Dr. Abdullah, who is a Member Parliament, pointed at the larger, lingering political problem and underlined the need to address it. “We want steps taken for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. All the stakeholders should be taken on board in this regard,” he said. In a shift, the alliance of these regional forces, which includes the Awami National Conference, the J&K Peoples Movement, the Awami Ittehad Party and the Peoples Democratic Front, has not restricted its goal to restoration of J&K’s special status but also included the final settlement of the Kashmir issue in its agenda. Dr. Abdullah also hinted at taking into confidence members from all the regions of the erstwhile J&K State, including Ladakh, in the next meeting. “The next meeting will be held soon,” he added. Congress leader G.A Mir did not attend the meeting, citing a “medical emergency”. Ms. Mufti, released from detention after 14 months, on Thursday visited the grave of her father, Mufti Muhammad Sayeed, in Anantnag district and offered prayers. Several leaders accompanied her as she drove to south Kashmir’s Bijbehara town, where the late Mufti is buried. BJP protests in Jammu In Jammu, the BJP held a protest against the new alliance in the Kashmir Valley. “The political parties who were part of the meeting have been rejected by the people and that it is not the people’s alliance but a dynasty alliance by power hungry politicians, who always cheated the people for power,” BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST: Centre to borrow for States||The Centre on Thursday appeared to make a departure from its stance that States should undertake market borrowings to bridge the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore of GST compensation shortfall this year, stating that the Government of India (GOI) will now undertake the required borrowings in tranches and pass them on to States as “back-to-back loans” that will reflect on their own books. The move may help break the impasse between the Centre and States over the issue of borrowings to recompense the latter, with consensus remaining elusive despite extensive talks over three GST Council meetings. By Wednesday, 21 States and Union Territories, including Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir, had acceded to the Centre’s proposal that States undertake the borrowings to meet the GST compensation shortfall, with principal and interest repayments to be paid from future GST cess collections. States like Kerala and West Bengal, which had been insistent on the Centre undertaking the borrowing, had begun preparing to move the Supreme Court over the matter. Opposition leaders termed Thursday’s announcement as a change of stance by the Centre, while economists welcomed it as a cleaner way of raising the necessary funds swiftly and bringing the focus back to fighting the pandemic. “If the Centre has decided to borrow the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore and extend it to the States as back-to-back loans, I welcome the change of position,” former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted.
22 October 2020||KOLLURU (GUNTUR DT),||Woman delivers baby on flood bank||Recurrent floods have only made the villagers living on the river bed resilient. Over the years, the villagers living in lanka lands (dry river beds) have been undaunted by the raging flood fury. The people in lanka villages downstream of the Prakasam Barrage seemed unperturbed even as flood water has been rising for the last two days inundating vast tracts of fruit-yielding fields. On Thursday, flood discharge crossed seven lakh cusecs from the Prakasam Barrage. Even as the villagers of Kollueu began to ponder whether to evacuate their homes, a woman, Nattala Bhagya Lakshmi, started experiencing labour pains. With little time left for shifting the woman to the nearby hospital, nearly 30 km away at Tenali, the villagers got together and with the assistance of relatives of the woman, helped her deliver a baby right on the narrow flood bank, abutting the swirling flood waters. Sub-Inspector of Kolluru, S. Ujwal, who came to know about the plight of the woman, quickly got into the act. “We thought of hiring a boat but none came forward in view of surging waters. So I along with some villagers, reached the Ipurulanka by using a rope tied to palm trees. It was a risky operation and we managed to reach the woman. Meanwhile, locals helped the woman deliver a baby and I carried the baby in my arms as we helped the woman reach the hospital,” said Mr. Ujwal. For the people living on tiny islands abutting the Krishna, the floods pose a challenge as any discharge over seven lakh cusecs inundates their fields and water enters their houses.
22 October 2020||kolkata,||HC seeks response from WB govt. on Durga Puja dole||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday sought to know from the West Bengal government reasons for allocating Rs. 50,000 to thousands of puja committees for organising Durga Puja in the State. A Division Bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee also enquired whether the State government has given similar financial aid for other festivals like Eid. The court was hearing a petition filed by Sourav Dutta, a Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader, challenging relaxations for the puja committees and the Rs. 50,000 each aid to the 37,000 Durga Puja clubs in the State. The court also sought to know whether the State has laid down guideline for such expenditure. The State government replied that the grant was meant for raising public awareness on COVID-19 control, purchase of sanitisers and masks. The matter will be heard again on Friday. The Calcutta High Court will also hear another petition demanding deferment of Durga Puja celebrations in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. In 2018 Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had announced Rs. 10,000 for Durga Puja clubs, which was increased to Rs. 25,000 in 2019 and Rs. 50,000 in 2020. This was challenged in Calcutta High Court in 2018 which had refused to intervene in the matter. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee continued her spree of virtual inauguration of Durga Pujas during the day. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said the government and the Durga Puja clubs are sensitive about the pandemic and have taken adequate steps to ensure that the celebration should not lead to spread of COVID-19 infection. Kolkata Police Commissioner Anuj Sharma visited a number of Durga Puja pandals on Thursday to check the arrangements.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||CM for relief measures on a war footing||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials of different departments to take up relief and rehabilitation measures on a war footing to alleviate the problems of people on account of the torrential rain that lashed the State in the last couple of days. Steps should be taken to distribute rice, dal and other essentials to the people affected by rains besides providing three blankets each to households which suffered the damages. The Chief Minister announced immediate sanction of Rs. 5 crore to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for taking up relief measures. The government had decided to provide ex-gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of people who died during the rains. Steps would be taken to ensure construction of new houses to people whose houses were damaged fully while financial assistance would be extended to people whose houses suffered partial damage. With houses constructed on nalas suffering damages, the government had announced that the affected people would be provided with new houses constructed on the government lands. The Chief Minister directed the officials concerned to clear water that accumulated in low lying areas and the cellars of the apartments while steps should be taken to restore power supply in affected areas at the earliest. Care should be taken to ensure that power supply was resumed only after clearing water as this would go a long way in avoiding loss of human life. The Chief Minister sought the cooperation of people in this regard. He said the flood in Hyderabad was mainly in colonies surrounding tanks which reached their full tank level while problems were also being faced due to water logging in the cellars of apartments.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Won’t tolerate bid to shift film industry: CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday spoke up in support of Bollywood, which is facing several allegations ranging from drug use to nepotism, and said that attempts to shift the industry from Mumbai will not be tolerated. “Apart from being an entertainment industry, it also gives employment to many. For the last few days, a specific class is working towards maligning the image of Bollywood. This is extremely painful. We will not tolerate any attempts to finish-off Bollywood or to shift it from Mumbai,” said Mr. Thackeray. The Chief Minister’s statement, his first on the issue, came during a meeting with theatre and multiplex owners called to finalise standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening cinema halls in the State. Counter-film industry Mr. Thackeray’s reaction comes in the background of reports of attempts by the Uttar Pradesh government to set up a counter-film industry in Noida, for which a meeting was called by the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath. Mr. Thackeray said, “Mumbai is not only the financial but also the cultural capital of the country. Bollywood has taken the lead in producing films, taking on the competition from the Hollywood and its fan base is spread across the world.” Mr. Thackeray’s statement has to be seen in the context of cases filed by as many as 34 production houses and cine associations against two English news channels for defaming the film industry. Ever since the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Bollywood had come under criticism, claiming it promotes nepotism and was the cause of the actor’s death. Later, several female actors were questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) while probing into the alleged drug angle in the case. Mr. Thackeray said the Cultural Department of the State government has prepared SOPs to reopen cinema halls and once finalised, a final decision would be taken. “Some countries in Europe have gone back to lockdown after facing a second wave. There is a possibility that winter may lead to increase in the spread of the disease and therefore we have to be careful,” he said. ‘Important phase ahead’ Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh said the festive season is important for cinema halls as number of new releases are scheduled. “Health and safety will be given priority before taking any decision,” he said.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||Reopening of theatres fails to enthuse crowds||The city on Thursday saw a token reopening of its cinema halls after a gap of nearly seven months as only two theatres resumed business with safety protocols in place. The remaining will open either on Friday — when new films are traditionally released — or during Durga Puja. The theatres that reopened included INOX at Swabhumi, on the fringes of Salt Lake City, and Rupmandir in Belghoria. While the films screened at INOX included one new release, Ebhabei Golpo Hok ; the single-screen Rupmandir reopened with reruns of Dwitiyo Purush and Sushant Singh Rajput’s Kedarnath . For these theatres on Thursday, it was not so much about getting audiences back but more about finally being able to reopen after almost seven months — a better part of the year. Theatres across the country had shut in late March due to the COVID-19 pandemic and only a small number of them reopened on Thursday, including nearly 70 across West Bengal. “Eight people had booked tickets for the noon show but the tickets could not be issued for technical reasons, so I had to cancel the show. For the matinee show, when we screened Dwitiyo Purush , there were only two people in the theatre. For the evening show, my staff tell me that about 10 people have entered the hall [to watch Kedarnath ], though I am not sure,” Santanu Ray Chaudhuri, who runs the stand-alone Rupmandir, told The Hindu on Thursday evening. “It was not as if I was expecting people to pour in. As it is people hardly go to [standalone] theatres these days. The idea behind reopening the hall today — I even put posters all over — was to make people aware that we have reopened. I am expecting crowds to come in only during Puja,” Mr. Ray Chaudhuri said. At INOX, the ticket window remained empty almost the entire morning and afternoon; from time to time, there were people walking in its direction, and just when one thought that they had come to watch a film, they all turned out to be customers of the adjacent wine shop. The theatre, however, strictly followed safety protocols. There were floor markers outside the box office and it was issuing only paperless tickets, that too only for alternate seats. The guard with a metal detector now also held a thermal scanner. No one without a mask is going to be allowed in, and for the negligent, a safety kit — a mask, pair of gloves and hand sanitiser — has been put on sale for Rs. 30. A staff said five to seven people were watching Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan.
22 October 2020||Pune,||State’s recovery rate crosses 85%||Maharashtra’s active cases continued to dip further with 13,714 COVID-19 recoveries being reported as opposed to 10,226 new cases on Thursday. While the State’s total case tally has now reached 15,64,615, its active cases have come down to 1,92,459. However, a fatality spike of 337 saw the death toll climb to 41,196. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,30,483, with the State’s recovery rate at 85.04%. “Of a total of 79,14,651 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,64,615 (19.77%) have returned positive with around 76,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported a little over 1,200 cases to take its tally to 3,20,681, and 67 deaths (of which 51 are from an earlier period) saw its total death toll climb to 6,358. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate has climbed to a new high of nearly 90%, with the number of active cases dipping below 26,000. 2,211 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a big surge of 2,211 cases to take its total case tally to 2,36,721, of which 22,555 are active cases. Another 46 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 9,601. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 500 cases as its total case tally crossed 75,500. Eight new deaths saw its death toll rise to 2,022. The Kalyan Dombivali civic body reported nine deaths as its death toll rose to 966, while 250 cases saw its total case tally rise to 50,948. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a big spike of more than 1,000 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 89,687, of which 8,618 are active, while 22 deaths took the toll to 2,388. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 28 deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,329. As many as 289 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 43,754, of which 7,642 are active. Sangli reported more than 220 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 44,017 of which 5,599 are active.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Engineering student stabbed at home, dies||Two days after a young woman was allegedly set ablaze by her “stalker” in the city, a 20-year-old engineering student was allegedly hacked to death in her house in Christurajapuram by a man for allegedly rejecting his love and marriage proposal. The victim, V. Divya Tejaswini, was a student at an engineering college in Bhimavaram of West Godavari district. She was allegedly attacked with a knife by Nagendra Babu, a painter, when the former was sleeping alone at home around 11 a.m., according to the Machavaram police. Nagendra also allegedly injured himself in the neck, abdomen and wrist with the same knife. While Divya died undergoing treatment at a private hospital, Nagendra is being treated at Guntur GGH. According to locals, Divya and Nagendra reportedly knew each other since long, as the latter lived in the same street as Divya in the past. One of Divya’s cousin said that Nagendra spoke to him an hour before the incident and he had no clue that the accused would attack her. ‘No witnesses’ Local residents allege that Nagendra entered Divya's house from the back door after learning that her mother left the house to run an errand. Speaking to media, Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu said: “We received information that Divya and Nagendra were found with injuries by her mother and neighbours. There were no witnesses to the incident. The victim’s mother was talking to a ward volunteer at a distance from the house when the incident happened. Upon returning home, she noticed that the doors were locked and both were lying in an unconscious state.” As the man entered the girl’s house, the police were considering him as the culprit. They were yet to ascertain the motive behind the attack, Mr. Sreenivasulu said. The police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC based on the complaint by the victim’s parents and examination of the victim’s wounds and the scene of the offence. The victim’s mother, Kusuma, told the media and police that Nagendra was harassing her daughter in the name of love. Meanwhile, Nagendra’s brother came up with a photograph in which Nagendra and Divya are seen together. He claimed that the two got married secretly and were in a relationship for a long time. The investigation is on.
22 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Man shot dead in front of police, administrative officials in Ballia||A man was shot dead in the presence of police and administrative officials after a dispute broke out between two groups during a village meeting over the selection of a government ration shop at Ballia in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. The son of the deceased, Jai Prakash, claimed that the accused, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, was linked to the sitting BJP MLA, though it could not be independently verified. CM orders suspension Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the immediate suspension of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Circle Officer (of DSP rank) and police personnel present at the spot, said a government spokesperson, adding that strict action would be taken against the accused and the role of the officers would be investigated. The incident took place at Durjanpur village in Rewati area. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said the selection of a ration shop was on when an argument broke out between two local groups, one of them supported by the accu-sed. The SDM halted the process and when people were leaving, Mr. Pratap allegedly fired shots which hit Jai Prakash, the SP said.
22 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha zoo revives ‘Adopt-An-Animal’ scheme||The Nandankanan Zoological Park (NZP) in Bhubaneswar, which suffered a huge loss following its closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has revived its innovative ‘Adopt An Animal’ programme to mobilise resources for animals. The NZP is one of the leading zoos in the country in terms of its fauna population and species diversity. It had received a record 32 lakh footfall three years ago. With resources drying up due to the closure for more than six months, the NZP authorities revived the ‘Adopt-An-Animal’ programme. “We have received encouraging response from animal lovers. More than 100 organisations and individuals have come forward to adopt animals, pledging Rs. 22 lakh ,” NZP Deputy Director Bimala Prasanna Acharya said. When one adopts an animal or a bird, the contribution goes to its care, feeding, enclosure enrichment and renovation. The adoption scheme would bring public, corporate bodies and institutions closer to the zoo and heighten their love and passion for captive animals and birds, the park authorities said. “The NZP earns in the range of Rs. 15 crore-Rs. 17 crore from entry passes and outsourcing of boating and parking facilities every year. With a minimum of Rs. 50 lakh required per month for the upkeep of animals, the zoo faced huge hardships due to the loss of revenue following the closure,” Mr. Acharya said. Though the Odisha government had stepped in to provide funds for feed and medicines, critical gap persisted in other bare minimum necessities, he said. Adoption certificate The zoo authorities came up with the scheme urging animal lovers to provide funds from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2.5 lakh. In lieu, a ‘Thank You’ in the form of an adoption certificate, a plaque in the zoo and income tax rebates are available to individuals and organisations. They are hopeful that Rs. 1 crore can be generated through adoption. The highest of Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum has been fixed to adopt an elephant, while Rs. 1.5 lakh is required for a melanistic tiger. Similarly, people can adopt the Asiatic lion and the Royal Bengal Tiger for Rs. 1 lakh per annum.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Second highest recorded rainfall in single day||Claims making rounds about Wednesday’s rainfall being the highest ever in the recorded history of Hyderabad climate may not be true. However, it is certainly the second highest in 24 hours’ duration, assert experts from the Meteorological Centre, Hyderabad. India Meteorological Department’s weather monitoring station in Begumpet has recorded rainfall of 19.2 cm during the 24 hours starting 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. This, when compared to data of all previous years since 1891, proves to be the highest ever rainfall in the month of October, and also the second highest on any day in any month. It also exceeds the figure of the legendary deluge in 1908, when 15.3 cm was recorded on a single day on September 27. The highest recorded rainfall so far in Hyderabad as per the IMD records is 24.15 cm on August 24, 2000, as per data from the Begumpet weather station. Several localities in the GHMC’s purview on Wednesday, recorded more than the IMD’s highest, with Hayatnagar clocking over 29 cm in less than 24 hours. However, Met department officials say that the data was from the automatic weather monitoring stations installed by the Telangana State Development Planning Society, and not comparable with the IMD station at Begumpet. “Comparisons should be drawn between the data recorded from the same stations, and not two different ones,” opined Head Scientist K. Nagaratna, from the Hyderabad Meteorological Centre. TSDPS stations have been a recent phenomenon, hence the latest figures from Hayatnagar or some other location cannot be compared with those recorded at IMD station, Begumpet, in 2000, she says. Hayatnagar was not even part of the city in 2000, and GHMC was not formed then. Interestingly enough however, between 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday and 1 a.m. on Wednesday, the TSDPS station at Begumpet recorded 22.5 cm, which is higher than that recorded by IMD. IMD always records data of 24 hours starting from 8.30 a.m., while the TSDPS releases hourly data of rainfall. Devastation caused by rainfall is most often based on the duration during which the water is delivered, say experts. In 1908 floods, over 15 cm of rain was recorded for two consecutive days, on September 27 and 28. Following the floods, the twin reservoirs Himayatsagar and Osmansagar were constructed near Gandipet as the repositories of the rainwater.
22 October 2020||PATNA,||Bihar poll: Grand Alliance releases list||Amid reports of differences in the Congress over candidates for the Bihar Assembly election, theMahagathbandhan(Grand Alliance) released a joint list of candidates for all 243 seats on Thursday. The Congress’s list of 70 candidates has the names of Luv Sinha, son of actor and two-time BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha, from Bankipur (Patna), Suhasini Raj Rao, daughter of Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Sharad Yadav, from Bihariganj (Madhepura), Chandan Yadav from Beldaur, M.A. Usmani from Jale, Ajit Sharma from Bhagalpur, Kali Pandey from Kuchaikot and Amita Bhushan from Begusarai constituencies.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai police back on foot patrolling||The Chennai city police have reintroduced foot patrolling in many areas to increase visible policing. The old system was discontinued after the advent of motorised vehicles and CCTV cameras. The restoration of foot patrolling is expected to increase police visibility in busy areas, enhance the sense of safety among citizens and build bridges between citizens and the police. M.S. Baskar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Public Relations, said, “On instructions of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, this new system of patrolling has been introduced in all police districts. All officers in their jurisdictions are doing foot patrol in the interior areas.” Police officers got down from their vehicles and went around the streets of T. Nagar, Madhavaram, Washermanpet and other police districts. Uniformed personnel went door to door and listened to the grievances of the public relating to law and order issues, such as selling of ganja and narcotic drugs, illegal sale of liquor, movement of suspicious persons or disturbance caused by anti-social elements. K. Balakrishnan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Madhavaram, said, “Instead of moving on vehicles on the arterial roads, our officers have been told to visit the interior areas by foot so as to familiarise themselves with the residents...” On Wednesday night, M. Mahimaiveeran, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Valasaravakkam, led the patrolling in VOC Street, Tirumalai Nagar and Ramapuram. Mr. Mahimaiveeran said, “Our aim was to create a good interface with the public. The phone numbers of officers and men were shared with the public to get the inputs on illegal activities.” However, residents feel the existing patrolling system needs improvement, and there are complaints of policemen not visiting their areas. V. Rajagopal, president of the Anna Nagar Western Extension Residents Welfare Association, said, “Jeep patrolling is frequently done but patrolling by two-wheelers is rarely done in our areas.” K.L. Balasubramanian of R.K. Nagar Residents Welfare Association, Mandaveli, said, “The new system of foot patrolling may bring results in crime prevention... The police should better the existing system and popularise mobile applications and social media accounts so that the public can reach them easily at the time of crisis since most residents have smart phones.”
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC may ask HC to oversee Hathras probe by CBI||The Supreme Court on Thursday indicated its inclination to ask the Allahabad High Court to supervise the CBI investigation into the brutal assault, alleged rape and subsequent death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman by four upper caste men at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, orally told the petitioners and intervenors, who wanted the top court to directly monitor the probe, that “we are sending all of you to Allahabad High Court”. The Bench then reserved the case for orders. “We are here as appellate, ultimate supervisory body, but let the Allahabad HC do it... We are always here,” Chief Justice Bobde orally remarked during the hearing. The State government and the Director General of Police (DGP) left it to the wisdom of the court to decide which court should supervise the probe, saying their only purpose is to see justice in the case.  Probe on: SG “Do not be concerned... State government has raised no objections. There should not be any shadow of doubt. The CBI took over the case on October 10 and the investigation is on,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, submitted.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||LRS last date extended||The state government has decided to extend the last date for filing applications under Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) from October 15 to October 31. The decision followed representations received by government that due to recent heavy rains, there have been disruptions in Internet services and power supply at several locations due to which many people were not able to file their applications. Consequently, there were requests to extend the last date for filing applications. The matter was reviewed by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao with Minister for PR&RD, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Minister for MA&UD, K.T. Rama Rao and Chief Secretary, Somesh Kumar on Thursday and a decision was taken, a release said on Thursday night.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost in the world of books||
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Man arrested, drugs seized||The Manipal Police on Wednesday arrested Mohammad Faizal, a resident of Brahmavar, for being in illegal possession of 54 tablets of MDMA and 30 grams of brown sugar. The police said that a team led by Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kundapur Circle, on a tip-off, went near End Point and found Faizal. On inquiry, Faizal told the police that he, along with his two friends Farhan and Safa, had ordered narcotic drugs online and he had received the parcel by post at his house. He was waiting near End Point for his friends and distribute drugs to students in Manipal. The police arrested Faizal for offences under Sections 8 (c), 21 (b) and (c) and 22 (b) and (c) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The police seized the narcotic drugs, two mobile phones, two debit cards and a voter ID card from the accused. They also seized India Post’s intimation slip related to the parcel. A search is on for two other accused persons, the police said.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Four killed in road accident||Four persons, including two young girls, from Hubballi were killed after the car they were travelling in fell into a stream in Uttara Kannada district. The road accident happened on Wednesday night but it came to light only on Thursday after local residents found a submerged vehicle in the stream near Heggarani Kodanamani in Siddapur taluk. According to sources, Nishchal Hiremath, a cab driver, students Akshata Hiremath, Sushmit and Ronit had gone on a trip to Unchalli Falls on Wednesday. Nishcal Hiremath had borrowed the car from Mahaveer Devakki of Keshwapur in Hubballi. The Siddapur Police have registered a case.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||Stakeholders oppose closure of tourist places||Stakeholders in the tourism sector are up in arms against the decision of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri to close tourist places in the district during Dasara. The Deputy Commissioner announced this on Wednesday to stem the surge in COVID-19 cases in the district. Active cases She said Mysuru has over 6,800 active cases and congregation would result in a major surge and, hence, the fresh restrictions.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving to safety||
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Policy meet on M-sand in November||With rising complaints on the unregulated sale of sub-standard M-sand, the Public Works Department (PWD) will convene a meeting with stakeholders on an M-sand policy in November. The policy, which will have a legal framework for production and sale, is expected to be implemented early next year. The meeting will be held with representatives of government agencies like the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the Department of Mining, and manufacturing units and lorry owners’ associations. PWD officials said the meeting would discuss various aspects of M-sand production, transport and sales and incorporate more guidelines into the policy under consideration. The decision follows a representation from the Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Federation on Wednesday for measures against unauthorised manufacturing units, sale of poor quality M-sand and seizure of vehicles for overloading. On an average, 33,000 loads of M-sand is being transported daily. Federation president Sella. Rajamani said 200-300 units were functioning in the State without government approval. There was no check on indiscriminate quarrying and transport of M-sand to other States, and this would lead to the disappearance of hillocks, he said. “Vehicles are overloaded with M-sand and additional units of sand are not billed. But vehicles are seized and fined instead of manufacturing units or clients,” he said. The Federation has also sought regulation of the M-sand cost and a separate enforcement wing to curb over-exploitation of mineral resources. At present, 270 M-sand manufacturing units have sought the PWD’s quality approval, and 40 applications are being processed. Nearly 1,070 units have sought consent from the TNPCB to operate across the State. A PWD official said: “We will also discuss incorporating a provision for periodical inspection of quarries in the M-sand policy to prevent over-exploitation of resources. Measures against overloading of vehicles and offenders will also be discussed, as requested by lorry owners. We have also received complaints of transport of M-sand immediately after wet processing.” The policy would empower the PWD to take legal action against unauthorised manufacturing units. Sales of poor quality sand or manufacturing M-sand without licence may attract a fine of up to Rs. 5 lakh and imprisonment of up to two years. “We can only emphasise quality approval now. Once the policy is in place, the PWD would have powers, along with other Departments, to monitor and control units that function without approval,” said an official. On the demand for direct sales of M-sand by the government, sources said it would be a complicated legal process as nearly 70% of the crushed stone quarries were of private ownership and the rest were leased out by the government.
22 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,||Concern over ship that ran aground||The Bangladeshi ship MV Maa that ran aground in Visakhapatnam has become a cause of worry for environmentalists and experts who have served in the shipping industry. They feel that it has to be towed back to the high seas before it becomes a permanent feature on the coast, and end up like MV River Princess in Goa.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||BARC suspends ratings of all news channels||Days after a probe by the Mumbai police pointed at a possible tampering of Target Rating Point (TRP) by certain news channels, television rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council on Thursday announced the suspension of audience estimates and ratings for all news channels for the next three months. The decision was taken after the BARC Board directed its technical committee to “review and augment” the current standards of measuring and reporting data. It will cover all Hindi, regional and English news and business news channels with immediate effect. The effort will be, BARC said, to improve “statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes”.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi-NCR AQI slips to ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida, all part of the National Capital Region, worsened to ‘very poor’ category on Thursday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. It is for the first time this season that Delhi’s air quality has deteriorated to “very poor” and is expected to remain unchanged on Friday.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Theatres reopen to poor response in the Capital||After staying shut for more than six months due to the COVID-19 outbreak, theatres and multiplexes reopened to poor response on Thursday. Multiplexes across the Capital resumed operations as per the guidelines issued under ‘Unlock 5’. Theatre owners are hopeful of bouncing back to business during the festive season when multistarrer movies are scheduled for release.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||covid||West Bengal on Thursday registered its single biggest spike of 3,720 fresh COVID-19 infections taking the total cases in the State to 3,09,417. The active cases in the State rose to 31,984 and the discharge rate dropped to 87.77%. In the past 24 hours, 62 deaths were recorded taking the total COVID-19 mortalities in West Bengal to 5,870. Of these 62, Kolkata recorded 17 deaths taking the fatalities in the city to 1,943. North 24 Parganas district recorded 14 deaths taking the toll in the district to 1,323. Kolkata recorded 784 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total cases in the city to 67,466. North 24 Parganas registered 763 infections taking the total in the district to 62,392. The percentage of samples testing positive compared to samples tested was 8.01%.
22 October 2020||PATNA,||Bihar polls: grand alliance puts out joint candidate list||Amid reports of differences in the Congress over candidates for the Bihar Assembly election, the Mahagathbandhan released a joint list of candidates for all 243 seats in the State on Thursday. The Congress’s list of 70 had the names of Luv Sinha, son of Bollywood actor and two-time BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha, from Bankipur (Patna), and Suhasini Raj Rao, daughter of Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Sharad Yadav, from Bihariganj (Madhepura).
22 October 2020||Bhopal,||Spurious liquor kills 11 in Madhya Pradesh||Eleven persons died in 24 hours in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, after reportedly consuming spurious liquor, the police said on Thursday. While seven bodies were found on Wednesday, the police discovered the remaining four the next morning. “The persons had died after consuming some poisonous liquid,” Additional SP Rupesh Dwivedi said.
22 October 2020||Guwahati,||BJP eyes Bodoland Territorial Council||The BJP is eyeing the Bodoland Territorial Council where elections, deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, are expected to be held in December. Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the BJP would contest the elections to the council alone, hinting at the widening gap between the party and the Bodoland People’s Front.
22 October 2020||Pune,||Heavy rain claims 27 lives in Solapur, Sangli, Pune||At least 27 people have died in rain-related incidents in Solapur, Sangli and Pune districts of western Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. Over 20,000 people were evacuated to safer places in these districts.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant case probe still on, clarifies CBI||The CBI on Thursday said its investigation into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case has not concluded yet. “There are certain speculative reports in the media that the CBI has reached a conclusion. It may be reiterated that these reports are speculative and erroneous,” the CBI said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Move Bombay HC first, SC tells Arnab||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked ARG Outlier Media and journalist Arnab Goswami to have faith in the Bombay High Court rather than come straight to the top court with their plea against the Mumbai police investigation in the Television Rating Point scam case, involving allegations of rigged viewership.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Most hospitals practising ‘rooming-in’ newborns||Following emerging evidence that transmission of COVID-19 from mother to baby is very rare, most COVID-19 hospitals that were initially separating newborns from the infected mothers are now practising “rooming-in”.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Despite recent surge, positivity rate drops||Most of the city’s eight zones have reported a drop in both positivity rate and fatality rate of COVID-19 cases over the last four weeks, reveals data that Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) presented to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Floods destroy Mattu Gulla||Floods that hit Udupi district last month have destroyed the planting of Mattu Gulla, a variety of brinjal that has Geographical Indication (GI) tag, on 6.68 hectares.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||1,053 houses damaged in rain-related incidents||As many as 7,603 people from across Kalaburagi district have been shifted to flood relief centres, after water entered villages causing a flood-like situation following heavy rainfall and discharge of huge volume of water from major reservoirs, Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Govind Karjol has said. Mr. Karjol in a release here on Thursday stated that over 1,053 houses were damaged in flood-related incidents and 7,603 people from low-lying areas affected due to floods have been evacuated.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Floods keeping people on tenterhooks||Though heavy rain that lashed Kalaburagi and surrounding areas for the last two days receded on Thursday, floods continued to wreak havoc along the course of major rivers, especially the Bhima, in the district due to heavy rain in their catchment areas in neighbouring Maharashtra. A heavy discharge of water from the Ujjani and the Veer reservoirs in Maharashtra caused floods along the Bhima river course in the district on Thursday.
22 October 2020||Mysuru,||MUDA to push for vertical growth||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority will ditch plans for bulk allotment of individual sites in new layouts in future and focus on vertical growth of the city. The vertical growth areas will be designated beyond the existing heritage zones and tourist centres.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Parties brace themselves for low voter turnout||As electioneering gets under way for the bypolls in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies, political parties are keeping their fingers crossed over the voter turnout despite their efforts during the next fortnight. For, the parties are struggling to reach out to the voter in times of COVID-19.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Fear of flood persists with water discharge||Heavy rains and flooding have resulted in six deaths. Though the downpour subsided on Thursday, continued rains in parts of Maharashtra led to increased inflow into the rivers in Karnataka, resulting in greater discharge from reservoirs in Karnataka.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||32.41 lakh tonnes of grain procured at DPCs||The Tamil Nadu government procured 32.41 lakh tonnes of foodgrain from farmers through Direct Procurement Centres (DPCs) between October 1, 2019, and September 30, 2020 — the highest ever in Tamil Nadu — Food Minister R. Kamaraj said on Thursday.
22 October 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 4,410 new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu logged fresh COVID-19 cases below the 5,000 mark for the fourth straight day on Thursday as the tally rose to 6,74, 802 and 49 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,472. Of the 4,410 fresh infections, Chennai reported 1,148, Coimbatore 395 and Salem 263. A total of 5,055 patients were discharged from various hospitals.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Rajinikanth clears property tax dues||Actor Rajinikanth on Thursday paid the property tax of Rs. 6.5 lakh (including the penalty for late payment) for his Raghavendra Mandapam located on Viswanathapuram Main Road in Kodambakkam, Chennai. In a release, the Greater Chennai Corporation confirmed the payment of the property tax by the actor.
22 October 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,||Rain in Krishna basin to bring more flood||Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala projects in the two Telugu States are expected to get huge flood over the next two-three days in spite of let-up in the rain in the local catchment areas as there was a heavy rainfall in the upper Krishna, Bhima and Tungabhadra catchment areas during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Quoting IMD reports, an advisory issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC) stated that there was 140 mm rain in Ujjani dam area, 136 mm in Augumbe, 126 mm in Mahabaleshwar, 92 mm in Veer dam area, 81 mm in Almatti dam area and 64 mm in Koyna dam area during the period. “As all the reservoirs in the sub-basins of Krishna are full any flood reaching them would invariably be released downstream,” flood monitoring officials told The Hindu .  As the CWC has advised authorities of all dams in the Krishna Basin to maintain a safe flood cushion by taking up pre-depletion of water since huge flood was expected to reach them, the engineers at Jurala and Srisailam projects have already taken up the task of discharging about 6 lakh cusecs of flood each although the inflows were in lesser measure. Bhima flood level “Flood level in Bhima at Deongaon bridge in Kalaburagi district has crossed danger level of 404.5 metres on Thursday night and it is expected to go up further,” an irrigation official at Jurala said. The discharge of flood wafter at the Jurala project was about 5.9 lakh cusecs from 50 spillway gates on Thursday night and it was in the same measure at Srisailam too with 5.64 lakh cusecs from 10 spillway gates lifted for 25-foot height each and another 26,500 cusecs of fflod water from the right bank power house. In a flood warning message that was issued to the authorities of Nagarjunsagar, the Superintending Engineer of Srisailam project, Mr K. Srinivasulu stated, “The Krishna river is receiving heavy flood due to heavy rainfall in the upstream catchment. In anticipation of flood to accommodate the inflows, Srisailam reservoir water level is being depleted to 880 ft, against full reservoir of 885 ft, level to maintain buffer”. Sagar outflows At 9 p.m., the outflows at Nagarjunasagar also increased to over 5 lakh cusecs as the inflows were about 4.84 lakh cusecs. The flood water being released at the Srisailam project would start reaching Nagarjunasagar in the wee hours of Friday. In Godavari Basin, all projects including Singur, Nizamsagar, Sriramsagar, Mid Manair, Lower Manair, Kaddam, Yellampally and others were also getting good inflows of flood water.
22 October 2020||PATNA,||Grand alliance releases joint candidate list for all Bihar seats||Amid reports of differences in the Congress over candidates for the Bihar Assembly election, the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) released a joint list of candidates for all 243 seats in the State on Thursday. The Congress’s list of 70 had the names of Luv Sinha, son of Bollywood actor and two-time BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha, from Bankipur (Patna), and Suhasini Raj Rao, daughter of Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Sharad Yadav, from Bihariganj (Madhepura). Expected names Among others in the list are Chandan Yadav from Beldaur, M.A. Usmani from Jale, Ajit Sharma from Bhagalpur, Kali Pandey from Kuchaikot and Amita Bhushan from Begusarai constituencies. Most of the names have been doing the rounds in party corridors for the last two days. Earlier, delay in releasing the names, reportedly in the wake of intra-party disagreement, had caused embarrassment to the top party leadership. It was also said that the delay was rocking the Congress-RJD alliance in the State.  ‘At one go’ On Thursday, all five alliance partners — RJD, Congress, CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(Marxist-Leninist) — came together on a common platform to release the names. “We’re not like the NDA, which releases names of their party candidates separately… we are releasing the names of all the candidates at one go,” said RJD leader and party MP Manoj Jha, while releasing the list at a hotel in Patna.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘States must oppose farm laws’||A day after its leaders participated in a walkout and demonstration at Krishi Bhavan, the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM) is taking the fight to the State capitals. The umbrella body of more than 180 farmers groups across the country has written to the Chief Ministers of all States, demanding that they fight the controversial farm market reform laws in the Supreme Court on the grounds that the Centre has usurped the States’ rights to make laws on agricultural issues. They also want all States to bring out their own legislation providing a legal guarantee to minimum support price (MSP). “The State governments are limiting themselves to making statements only. They are not taking concrete steps against these laws,” RKM spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar said. “They need to step up and take responsibility. If they do not take concrete legal steps soon, then we will oppose them also, just as we have been opposing the Central government.” The letter lays out the legal argument for questioning the Constitutional validity of the three laws passed by Parliament last month. “Agriculture being a State subject under the Constitution, any Central legislation seeking to remove barriers to trade and creating a unified national market for farm produce has the capacity to start a fresh debate on federalism. Union of India lacks legislative power to bring such an enactment and in the garb of reforms, have pushed forth an ill-thought-out piece of legislation,” says the letter. Accusing the Centre of “trespassing” on a State subject, the letter argues that the new legislation could prevent State governments from bringing out marketing schemes to aid their own farmers, and urged States to approach the apex court. The RKM also urged States to fix MSP themselves and enact new laws which ban sale, purchase or contract of farm produce below MSP rates, including by corporates and private buyers. The letter is signed by RKM national convener Shiv Kumar Sharma, better known as “Kakkaji”, who has previously been associated with the Sangh Parivar, but who led the 2017 farm protests in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh when the police shot dead six farmers, sparking off a nationwide stir.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad residents relieved as water recedes||The skies cleared on Thursday after heavy rains battered the city, giving residents the much-needed relief. While water from many flood-hit colonies receded, distress calls from others continued to pour in. According to data released by Telangana State Development Planning Society, automatic weather stations (AWS) in Rajendranagar received 41 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, AWS in Hayatnagar recorded 40 mm, and Mehdipatnam witnessed 39 mm rainfall. L.B. Nagar, Kapra, and Goshamahal received the lowest rainfall in the last 24 hours. Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Thursday pointed out the hardship faced by those living on the south of Musi river, which comprises large parts of the Old City. He tweeted, “South zone too suffered a lot from the fury of heavy rains. Every PS of SZ remained alert from the first hour. Along with me many senior officers personally supervised the rescue operations. We had to call Army at Al Jubail Colony for operations. Community had faith and it helped.” After the deluge, and the subsequent receding of waters, areas such as Chaderghat, Moosanagar and Shankar Nagar, a low-lying area where several houses were submerged in the Musi flood, were dealing with muck washed up to their streets and houses. After respite for several hours on Wednesday, the rains pounded the city briefly at night. The Gurram Cheruvu in Balapur area began to overflow. Public representatives attempted to contain the water by stacking sand bags. Meanwhile, WhatsApp chat groups began coordinating relief work. Users shared information such as the need for volunteering and relief in flood-hit areas. Others began amplifying their messages. Locals, and volunteers of non-government organisations continued to deliver cooked food and dry ration packs to those in need, including the displaced. Till late on Wednesday night, pleas for help came from Uppal, Al Jubail Colony, Nadeem Colony, and Hashamabad. Some parts of these neighbourhoods continued to grapple with flooding as waters had not fully receded. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials along with elected public representatives Asaduddin Owaisi and others took stock of the situation and visited Nadeem Colony, among other places. Mr Owaisi pointed out that there was a breach in Palle Cheruvu and that the authorities have been alerted. Taking to Twitter, he said, “#HyderabadRainsToday morning we noticed some breaches in Palle Cheru. After informing the State Chief Secy., the Irrigation Department was deployed & the breach is being plugged. In the meanwhile,@aimim_nationalmembers will help in the evacuation of residents of Alinagar & Subhan Colony till the breaches are plugged. AIMIM worker Jabbar Mohammed is using a JCB Crane to help evacuate people from inundated areas. I'm in the affected areas of Karwan (Neerja Colony, Nadeem Colony, Balreddy Nagar, etc) &@KTRTRSwill be joining me today.” While power was restored in many areas in the the city on Wednesday, power in parts like Film Nagar, Suchitra, Erramanzil and Begumpet, was restored only on Thursday. Several residents working from home dealt with connectivity issues due to the power outage.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Southern States see a spurt in fresh cases||Southern States registered a spurt in COVID-19 cases and fatalities on Thursday. Kerala recorded 7,789 new cases while Andhra Pradesh saw 4,038 infections and 38 deaths. Telangana reported 1,432 cases and eight fatalities. In Tamil Nadu, Chennai continues to lead in fresh cases. Chennai accounted for 1,148 of the 4,410 fresh cases reported in the State. Kerala registered 7,789 cases on Thursday when 50,154 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 3,17,929 cases. The test positivity rate is still around 15.5%, indicating that disease transmission continues to be on a high. The State also recorded 7,082 recoveries on the day. The toll went up to 1,089, with 23 more deaths, which occurred in the past few weeks, being added on to the official list of COVID deaths. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 18 deaths, Kozhikode has two while Kollam, Ernakulam and Thrissur reported one death each. Andhra Pradesh reported 4,038 infections, taking the tally to 7,71,503. The fatalities increased to 6,357 with 38 more deaths. Also, 5,622 patients have recovered and the total number of recoveries increased to 7,25,099. The recovery rate was at 9.399% and the death rate 0.82%. As many as 40,047 patients are undergoing treatment and they account for only 5.19% of the total infected persons reported so far. Telangana recorded 1,432 cases, taking the total to 2,17,670. While 38,895 people were examined, results of 884 were awaited. Eight more patients died, taking the toll to 1,249. The new cases include 244 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 115 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 99 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 91 from Khammam, 88 from Rangareddy, 74 from Karimnagar. With the new cases, Tamil Nadu’s overall tally increased to 6,74,802. Presently, 41,872 persons are under treatment. With 49 more persons succumbing to the infection, the toll climbed to 10,472. Another 5,055 persons, including 1,257 in Chennai, were discharged. A total of 6,22,458 were discharged after treatment till date. Of the 49 fatalities (27 in government and 22 in private hospitals), Chennai accounted for 18 deaths, while Tiruvallur had five deaths.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
22 October 2020||AWANTIPORA,||‘Court of Inquiry work on Shopian encounters apace’||The Army’s Court of Inquiry (CoI) into Operation Amshipora in Shopian, in which three terrorists were killed and the Army had accepted there were excesses, would complete recording statements within the next 10 days and action taken as per the recommendations, said Maj. Gen. Rashim Bali, General Officer Commanding of the Victor Force covering South Kashmir under 15 Corps, said on Thursday. “As on today, the statements of 70%, or perhaps more, of all the essential witnesses have already been recorded. The only people left are those who not here locally. I am very certain that within a week or perhaps 10 days, the proceedings will be over. The officer concerned has been put in close arrest in a different unit,” Maj. Gen. Bali told a small group of journalists. “Whatever has to happen as per the right tenets of the law will happen”. Police probe also on As soon as the CoI gave its recommendations, the summary of evidence recording, a precursor to court martial proceedings, would start. Police investigation into the criminology part was simultaneously on. Maj. Gen. Bali said that within 20 days of the incident, an advertisement was placed in the media stating that anyone who had information should come forward. Within one week, the CoI was constituted and within 10-15 days, it had established that prima facie there was a case of violation of the Army’s code of conduct. “We are clear that our code of conduct has been flouted,” he stated. The nature of the excesses would be determined by the inquiry. The Army and its Chief were absolutely clear that “any act of negligence by omission or commission will be addressed.” “It will not be overlooked,” he asserted. Last month the Army said an inquiry ordered into the Shopian encounter of July 18 concluded that during the operation, the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act “were exceeded” and the “do’s and dont’s of the Chief of the Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court have been contravened.”
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Talks a work in progress: Jaishankar||Talks between India and China on disengagement at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were a “work in progress” and “confidential” at present, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, even as his Ministry said the two sides now had a “better understanding” of each other’s positions. “We had a discussion and we agreed on the importance of early disengagement,” Mr. Jaishankar observed at the online Bloomberg India Economic Forum, referring to his meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10. “Since then, there have been a series of meetings on-site, so to be speak between military commanders assisted by diplomats, which is at present a work in progress, so I can’t comment at present,” he stated. The MEA said the disengagement process at the LAC was “complex” but gave no indicator of how long it was envisaged to be. Its spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava said, “The two sides have a better understanding of each other’s positions. Disengagement is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. The “current momentum of communications” would continue to ensure that the decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping to “not turn differences into disputes” would be followed, he added. Despite several mechanisms for talks, including seven rounds of face-to-face meetings of military commanders at the Chushul-Moldo points at the LAC, five rounds of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), and several conversations at the levels of the two Foreign Ministers, Defence Ministers and Special Representatives, ground reports suggest that Chinese troops have not yet pulled back from positions they had taken along the LAC in the six-month stand-off, ensuring that Indian troops maintain their counter positions as well. The comments from Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Srivastava came in response to questions being asked about whether the “five-point agreement” between himthe former and Mr. Wang is still relevant.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No messages sent to Pakistan: India||The Union government on Thursday categorically denied that it had reached out for a dialogue with Pakistan, dismissing a suggestion by a senior Pakistani official that the Modi government had sent “messages” for a conversation to the Imran Khan government in the past year. “The statements are contrary to facts on the ground, misleading and fictitious. As regards the purported message, let me make it clear that no such message was sent from our side,” External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a weekly press briefing. The claim by Mr. Khan’s Special Assistant on National Security and Strategic Policy Planning, Moeed Yusuf, in an interview with Karan Thapar on the news portal The Wire earlier this week, had led to speculation and scepticism. “In the past year, we have got messages about a desire for conversation but you know why there is a desire for conversation — in my reading? So that there can be a dialogue which India can take to the world and say, ‘Oh, everything settled, Pakistan-India have agreed,’” Mr. Yusuf said. The Ministry dismissed the statements as interference in India’s internal affairs. “As always, this is Pakistan’s effort to divert attention from domestic failures of the present government and mislead its domestic constituents by pulling India into headlines on a daily basis. The official is well advised to restrict his advice to his establishment and not to comment on India’s domestic policy,” Mr. Srivastava said in his response to Mr. Yusuf's interview.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre firm on ‘one solution’, says Rio||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said on Thursday that the message from the Union government was clear that there would be only “one solution” for the Naga political issue. Mr. Rio was addressing over 150 members of civil society groups in Kohima at a discussion on the Naga peace talks and the Naga political issue. He said one of the reasons for the meeting was to convey the Centre’s “one solution” message. “Having understood that there will be only one solution, we need to deliberate and support the peace process, strengthen the negotiations and facilitate the journey towards achievement of this one solution in the earliest time possible,” he said. The Naga talks hit a roadblock in August after the NSCN(IM) leadership refused to hold any dialogue with Naga interlocutor R.N. Ravi, who is Nagaland’s Governor. A team of Intelligence Bureau officials were deputed to continue the discussions with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-(Isak Muivah). “If Nagas as a people are to achieve progress and realise our aspirations as a people, we must come together like today. We must also accept that our biggest challenge today is division. We all know that this situation is only leading to self-destruction. During the British era, a divide and rule policy was used to govern, which was inherited by India, and till today, our society is thoroughly divided, which has created too many groups and organisations leading to different opinions and voices. The only way forward is unity and oneness as one Naga family,” the Chief Minister said. Following the consultative meeting, the participants including the Nagaland government adopted a resolution appealing to the negotiating groups to come together towards achieving one solution for one people as early as possible. BJP MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon said it was affirmed to work in a collective manner. The Congress and the Naga People’s Front boycotted the meeting. The Congress demanded that the Chief minister should step down as the final agreement was to be inked soon and he should avoid being an obstacle in paving way for a post solution arrangement.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Bhanu Athaiya, India’s first Oscar winner, passes away||Costume designer Bhanu Athaiya, India’s first Oscar winner, died at her home on Thursday after a prolonged illness. She was 91. She died peacefully in her sleep, her daughter Radhika Gupta said. Ms. Athaiya won the Academy Award for Best Costume Design, along with John Mollo, for her work in Richard Attenborough’s 1983 film Gandhi which starred Ben Kingsley as the Mahatma. The lavish biopic about Mahatma Gandhi swept the Oscars with eight awards. The last rites took place at the Chandanwadi crematorium in south Mumbai. “She passed away early this morning. Eight years ago, she was diagnosed with a tumour in her brain. For the last three years, she was bedridden because one side [of her body] was paralysed, Ms. Gupta said. The Kolhapur-born Athaiya, who worked till as recently as five years ago, began her career as a costume designer in Hindi cinema with Guru Dutt’s 1956 super hit C.I.D . She went on to work in over 100 films. “It’s too good to believe. Thank you Academy, and thank you Sir Richard Attenborough for focusing world attention on India,” Ms. Athiaya had said in her acceptance speech at the Academy Awards. In 2012, Ms. Athaiya returned her Oscar to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for safe keeping. “I have wanted this for some time. I want to thank the Academy for helping me. Many Oscar winners in the past have returned their Oscars for safe keeping. It is a tradition with the Academy,” she had said in an interview to PTI. Ms. Athaiya was apparently worried about the safety of the trophy. She had previously donated “a huge collection of papers relating to Gandhi to the Academy. Recalling the moment her name was announced, Ms. Athaiya had said fellow nominees told her she was a frontrunner for the best costume award. “I was sitting in the audience with the other nominees in my category. They all told me that they did not stand a chance to win the Oscar. They told me my canvas was huge, so I would definitely win the award. In my mind, I had told myself that I had done my best, that I had done justice to Gandhiji’s name and the freedom movement. “When they called my name, I did not allow myself to get carried away. I calmly went on the stage and thanked Sir Richard and the Academy. When I went backstage, I was surprised, as there were so many photographers taking pictures. But it was a great feeling. I was happy,” she recounted. The veteran created some of Bollywood’s best remembered looks, including Vyjayanthimala’s in Aamrapaali , Waheeda Rehman’s in Guide and Zeenat Aman’s in Satyam Shivam Sundaram . Things did not change much after the Oscar win. The costume department continued to be a neglected part of the Indian film industry, she had said in 2010.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,||Nothing to substantiate terror funding: NIA court||Ninety days of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe into the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case has failed to “trace out any material to substantiate” the suspicion that the proceeds of the smuggling were used for terror funding, the NIA Special Court, Kochi, has said. Releasing 10 accused in the case on bail, NIA Special Judge P. Krishnakumar noted that it was obvious from the case diary that some of the petitioners had only funded the frontline accused persons for smuggling gold through the diplomatic channel and they had conspired with them in that respect. It was “beyond any dispute that mere act of smuggling gold would not attract the offence of terrorist act, unless it is coupled with certain other elements, which at least suggest the broad probability of an intentional act to threaten the economic security of India,” noted the judge, while refusing to accept the prosecution allegation against the petitioners. The prosecution case was that the accused committed a terrorist act by funding and conspiring with the other accused persons for smuggling gold through diplomatic cargo and hence punishable under the UAPA. Section 15 A careful reading of Section 15 of the Act leaves no doubt that the act of smuggling of gold to India from abroad would attract the said provision only if it was done ‘‘with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security of India.’’ Also, the intention to destroy economic security, and not just the knowledge, was required to justify the slapping of the Act, the NIA court noted. However, the court declined bail to P. Mohammed Shafi, Muhammed Ali, and K.T. Sharafuddeen considering the seriousness of the charges against them and the findings against them in the case diary. The bail application of Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith were withdrawn by their lawyers on the day. Even though, noted the judge, the NIA repeatedly alleged that the petitioners acted with an intention to damage the economic security of India, there was no material whatsoever in the case diary to prima facie satisfy the charge.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bar owner shot at, stabbed to death in Bengaluru||A 45-year-old businessman, who owned a bar, was shot at and then stabbed to death by unidentified assailants late Thursday night. The incident took place around 9 p.m. when the victim, Manish, alias Sarvatham Shetty, stepped outside his bar at RHP Road, off Brigade Road. “The deceased, who is the owner of the Duet Bar, was shot at with an SBBL [double barrel] gun by two assailants soon after he ventured out of the bar,” said M.N. Anucheth, DCP (Central). The duo later attacked him with a weapon to ensure that he was dead while passers-by looked on. In their hurry to escape from the scene, the assailants fell from the bike and ran off leaving the two-wheeler behind. Manish was rushed to Mallya Hospital for treatment but later succumbed to his injuries. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that Manish was a native of Koppa in Chikkamagaluru. He was convicted in the 2007 Chemmanur Jewellers theft case and was also a close associate of underworld don Bannanje Raja,” said a senior police officer. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, who along with senior police officers visited the spot, said that nine teams had been formed to track the assailants.
22 October 2020||PALAKKAD,||Malayalam poet Akkitham passes away||Legendary Malayalam poet and Jnanpith laureate Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, 94, died at a private hospital in Thrissur on Thursday. He was hospitalised two days ago following a urinary infection. The last Malayalam poet to be called ‘Mahakavi’ (great poet), Akkitham was considered the tallest among Malayalam poets. He introduced “meaningful modernism” in Malayalam poetry several decades ago. Born in 1926 at Kumaranallur in Palakkad district, Akkitham began writing poetry very early in life. He worked for nearly three decades with Akashavani as a scriptwriter. He edited magazines such as Unni Namboothiri, Mangalodayam and Yogakshemam . Akkitham was closely associated with Communist ideologue E.M.S. Namboodiripad in his early years. His work Balidarshanam won the Kerala and Kendra Sahitya Akademi Awards in 1972-73. He was awarded Padma Shri in 2017. Apart from the Ezhuthachan Award he won in 2008, Akkitham was bestowed with Odakkuzhal Award, Asan Award, Sanjayan Award, Lalithambika Antharjanam Award and several other honours. Akkitham was known for leading a life of great personal virtue. His widely quoted line “Velicham dukhamanunnee, thamassallo sughapradam” (which roughly translates as “light brings sorrow, my child, darkness is bliss”) has few parallels in modern Malayalam poetry. His body was cremated at his house at Kumaranellur, near Thrithala, in the afternoon with full State honours. His elder son Vasudevan Akkitham lit the pyre.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Apollo Hospitals plans million shots daily||Apollo Hospitals has ramped up capabilities to be in a position to administer as many as one million COVID-19 vaccines daily once a vaccine is approved by the Indian health authorities. Strengthening of cold chain supply to ensure delivery and availability of the vaccine across its network, comprising hospitals, clinics, corporate health centres and pharmacies, and imparting training to 10,000 Apollo employees, who will be stationed at its centres across the country, are key components of the plan. “It will be our privilege to work with all governments, governmental agencies and healthcare networks to ensure that a large number of people get the vaccine, quickly and safely as it becomes available,” Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson of the Apollo Group of Hospitals told media on Thursday. She expected a major role for the private healthcare after the government completes the process of inoculation initially through the public healthcare network. About 30% of India is roughly 30 minutes away from an Apollo pharmacy, which can then guarantee safe and widespread reach of the vaccine, if required, she said. Noting that clinical trials of a number of vaccine candidates were under way globally, Ms. Kamineni said Apollo would follow government directions on which among the approved vaccine must be administered. Ideally, however, it should be the doctor’s choice, she added. On the charges Apollo would be levying, she said while the cost of vaccine would be as per the government direction, the administering charges would be “insignificant” comprising the cost of consumables and a service charge. A release said Apollo has secured cold chain to manage 300 million doses per annum. A senior executive said while 6,000 nurses and 1,000 doctors had been trained in safe vaccination protocols, an additional 3,000 nurses will be completing the training soon.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre issues guidelines for stage performances, artists||The Culture Ministry on Thursday issued detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for organising cultural events during the COVID-19 pandemic. The SOPs, based on the Unlock 5.0 guidelines of the Union Home Ministry, have been finalised after considering suggestions from various stakeholders in the creative industry. The Ministry clarified that cultural activities would continue to be prohibited in containment zones. The State governments and Union Territory administrations may consider proposing additional measures after field-level assessments. “These guidelines contain standard operating procedures to be followed by the management of theatres and performance spaces, as well as the entertainment/creative agencies, artists and crew or any other persons who hire the auditoria or any other open/closed performance spaces, whether on payment or gratis,” it said. The comprehensive guidelines have been issued for artistes and crew; management of green rooms; stage management; costume and make-up trials; sanitisation of venue, including stage, open area seating and so on. The national directives for COVID-19 management, and relevant guidelines issued by the Ministries of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare and the State governments and Union Territory administrations will have to be strictly complied with during all the activities and operations. “COVID-19 pandemic has hit the cultural and creative economy all ever the world. However, cultural activities are slowly being resumed. In order to encourage those persons and agencies providing cultural services, as well as consumers of such services, it is important to lay down comprehensive guidelines for resumption of these cultural activities in India,” the Ministry said. Unlock 4.0 guidelines had allowed social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, sports and religious functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons, outside containment zones, from September 21, subject to strict adherence to protocols such as social distancing and sanitisation. The Unlock 5.0 guidelines allow congregations beyond the limit of 100 persons, outside the containment zones, after October 15, subject to certain restrictions. In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning, and use of handwash or sanitiser, will be mandatory. Any gathering in open spaces will be allowed keeping the size of the space or ground in view, and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision for thermal scanning and handwash or sanitiser. The governments will issue detailed SOPs to regulate such gatherings.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No end to violence against women: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said crimes against women continued in a “never-ending cycle” in India. In a 151-page judgment, a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said women in India faced violence and discrimination in one form or the other in their various roles as daughter, sister, wife, mother, partner or single woman. Though the judgment called a 2005 law against domestic harassment as a “milestone”, the Bench said domestic violence continued to be the least reported form of violence towards women. Women continue to be vulnerable to these crimes because of non-retaliation, coupled with absence of laws addressing their rights and ignorance of the existing statutes. Societal attitude, stigma and conditioning also made women vulnerable to domestic violence, the court said. Also, relationships outside marriage were not recognised. This set of circumstances ensured that a majority of women preferred to suffer in silence, not out of choice but of compulsion, the Bench, which included R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, said. It said the progress of any society depended on its ability to protect and promote the rights of women. The observations came in a judgment that held that the relief granting right to residence to a married woman under the domestic violence law by a criminal court was relevant and could be considered even in civil proceedings seeking her eviction from the matrimonial home.
22 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Petitioner in landmark SC judgment dead||V.J. Emmanuel, a retired college teacher, on whose petition the Supreme Court delivered a landmark judgment on the freedom of expression, died here on Wednesday evening. He was 78. Emmanuel was an ardent preacher of the Jehovah’s Witnesses sect. The case, Bijoe Emmanuel vs State of Kerala, in which he challenged the State Department of Education in 1986, stands as one of the pillars of free speech in India. It pertained to the suspension of his children Bijoe Emmanuel, a Class 10 student, Binu, and Bindu from their school at Kidangoor on July 26, 1986 on the ground that they refused to recite the national anthem during the morning assemblies. In their response, the students held that singing the national anthem was against the tenets of their religious faith. Though a commission appointed by the government found that the students showed no disrespect to the national anthem, they, along with nine other students from the same sect, were suspended from the school on the instruction of the Education Department. Emmanuel filed a writ petition in the Kerala High Court , though to no avail. He subsequently appealed the decision in the Supreme Court, which found that their expulsion was in violation of Articles 19 and 25 of the Constitution and held that “no provisions of law in the country expressly obligates individuals to sing the national anthem”. Armed with the Supreme Court order, Emmanuel got his children readmitted to the school but the family then decided not to continue formal schooling for any of their seven children.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Gunjan Saxena film: govt., IAF for deletion of scenes||The Centre and Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday insisted on deletion of certain scenes from the Netflix film Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl , saying that the disclaimer at the beginning of the film was just an “eyewash”. “If what you are showing in a so called biopic is something which is distorting the image of the IAF, then the disclaimer is not going to dilute it,” Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,||Kerala HC warns against publishing confession||The Kerala High Court on Friday warned that stringent action would be taken against media and police officers if extrajudicial confession to the police or other information obtained during an investigation was leaked out or published in media. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan made the observation while granting bail to Jollyamma Joseph, an accused in one of the Koodathayi serial murder cases. She was granted bail in a case relating to the murder of her mother-in-law Annamma Thomas in August 2002. The court noted that the extrajudicial confession of the accused in the Koodathayi murders and other details of the investigation were leaked out to the media. The court had directed the police in 2011 not to leak out investigation details to the media. In fact, the confession statement of an accused might not be admissible as evidence legally. If a court of law decided a case based on legal evidence, the general public may suspect even the judiciary if the present situation of divulging confession statement and other information collected during investigation continued. A full stop was necessary. The court observed that investigating officers should be careful at least in future.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI/BELAGAVI/ YADGIR,||Fear of flood persists with water discharge from Maharashtra||Heavy rains and flooding in the northern districts since Sunday have resulted in six deaths, the latest being that of Shivaputra Natikar, 30, who was washed away in a swollen stream at Mulasavalgi village of Vijayapura district on Wednesday night. Kalaburagi, Bagalkot, Raichur, and Vijayapura have seen heavy rains over the week. Though the downpour subsided on Thursday, continued rains in parts of Maharashtra led to increased inflow into the rivers in Karnataka, resulting in greater discharge from reservoirs in Karnataka. With huge quantities of water being discharged from the Ujjani and Veer reservoirs in Maharashtra, the inflow at Sonna Barrage in Kalaburagi district increased to 5,11,000 cusecs, forcing the authorities to maintain the same outflow level, leading to inundation of vast tracts of lands with standing crops in Afzalpur, Jewargi, Chittapur, and Sedam taluks. Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna has directed officials to evacuate residents in 148 villages along the river bank. Meanwhile, inundation of bridges and barrages has affected connectivity between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad, between Kalaburagi and Vijayapura, and between Kalaburagi and Jewargi. Similarly, connectivity between Kalaburagi and Yadgir via Wadi, Nalwar, has been cut off after the bridge near Malagatti was submerged in the Kagina river. Standing crops on 1,300 hectares of agricultural land in Yadgir district have been destroyed. Family rescued Meanwhile, police and Fire and Emergency personnel rescued four farm labourers and their cattle caught in an overflowing stream at Boodihal village of Vijayapura district on Thursday. Shivappa Mural and his wife and children had gone to work in a field on Wednesday night. After spending the night on the farm waiting for the rain to subside, they tried to cross the stream on Thursday, but were caught in the current. On being alerted by some locals, the police and fire personnel pulled the family to safety using ropes, tahshildar Sanjiv Dasar said.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||KCR for relief measures on a war footing||Expressing concern that absence of advanced planning in ensuring prevention of water logging in cellars of apartments, he directed the officials concerned to take steps to put a pre-condition that plan would encompass measures to prevent water logging in apartments/complexes while giving permission for construction. He wanted the officials to utilise the Fire Services department and metro water works for clearing water in residential complexes. The Chief Minister, Mr. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, took a serious view of high tension lines passing over houses and other residential complexes which could result in accidents and wanted the Energy department to evolve an action plan to remove these lines. The meeting discussed the action initiated to resolve the issues arising out of the deluge with special focus on the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits and the Chief Minister gave a road map to officials on the steps that should be taken in the coming days. Ministers including K. Taraka Rama Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy and T. Srinivas Yadav, senior officials led by the Chief Secretary, Mr Somesh Kumar, and others participated in the review meeting on the flood situation.
22 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Two get death for rape, murder||The district and sessions court of Hapur on Thursday awarded the death penalty to two domestic help for raping and killing a 12-year-old in September 2018. The third accused, Amarjeet, has been acquitted. In her order, Veena Narayan, additional district judge and special judge (POCSO Act), Hapur said the convicts, Ankur and Sonu, should be hanged till death and asked the officials to take them into custody. She said the order would be put on hold till the Allahabad High Court upheld it. The accused have been found guilty under Sections 302, 307, 394, 120B and 411 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The crime that happened on September 5, 2018, sent shockwaves in the region.  After the crime, the convicts hid the body of the girl beneath the cattle fodder in an adjoining room and tried to present the scene of the crime as if a robbery had been committed.
22 October 2020||KALPETTA,||Rahul denied nod to open school building||The Wayanad district administration on Thursday denied permission for the online inaugural function of a newly constructed Plus Two building of the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School at Mundery by Rahul Gandhi, MP, since the organisers failed to seek the prior approval of the parental agency, the State Minority Directorate. The building has been constructed by the District Nirmithi Kendra at a cost of Rs. 1.2 crore under the Multisectoral Development Programme (MSDP). Though the organisers of the programme, the Kalpetta municipality and school authorities, had made all arrangements for the online inaugural function at 10.30 a.m. on the day, Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla denied permission for the function. Ms. Adeela told The Hindu that the permission was denied as per the direction of the State Minority Directorate as the organisers had not sought prior approval of the directorate for the programme. However, the United Democratic Front district committee alleged that it was a conspiracy of the ruling front to tarnish the image of Mr. Gandhi by using the Collector. They also took out a march to the municipal office and staged a dharna in front of the collectorate.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Oppn. parties looted waqf land in Karnataka’||The BJP accused Opposition parties in Karnataka on Thursday of having “looted” waqf land meant for poor Muslims, citing a report by the State’s Minorities Commission. Party spokesperson and MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar said the commission had pointed out that over 29,000 acres of waqf land was “surreptitiously and illegally” transferred for commercial use. While the report was prepared in 2012, it was tabled in the State Assembly eight years and two “secular governments” later in September this year. Mr. Chandrasekhar demanded an investigation into such waqf land irregularities in other States too. The waqf board in the State holds 54,000 acres of land, of which 29,000 acres were “illegally” used for commercial purposes, he said. He named Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and C.M. Ibrahim as being among the alleged beneficiaries of the irregularities.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM seeks scaling up of sero-surveys, testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a review meeting on the research and vaccine deployment ecosystem against COVID-19, including testing technologies, contact tracing, drugs and therapeutics, said a press release by the government. At the meeting, calling for continued vigilance and a high state of preparedness against the pandemic, Mr. Modi directed that both sero-surveys and testing must be scaled up. He said the facility to get tested regularly, speedily and inexpensively must be available to all at the earliest. Global solutions “He also reiterated the country’s resolve to provide cost-effective, easily available and scalable solutions for testing, vaccine and medication, not only for India but for the entire world,” said the release. The meeting was attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior officials. The Prime Minister also took stock of the Health Ministry’s comprehensive distribution and delivery mechanism for vaccines. This includes mechanisms for adequate procurement, and technologies for bulk-stockpiling, filling vials for distribution and ensuring effective delivery.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||BARC suspends ratings of all news channels||The decision was taken after the BARC Board directed its technical committee to “review and augment” the current standards of measuring and reporting data. It will cover all Hindi, regional and English news and business news channels with immediate effect. The effort will be, BARC said, to improve “statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes”.  “Starting with the ‘News Genre’, BARC will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise. This exercise is expected to take around 8-12 weeks including validation and testing under the supervision of BARCs Technical committee. BARC will continue to release weekly audience estimates for the genre of news by state and language,” a BARC India statement read. Punit Goenka, chairperson of BARC India Board, said, “Given the most recent developments, the BARC Board was of the opinion that a pause was necessitated to enable the industry and BARC to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness.” The News Broadcasters Association welcomed the decision.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||GST: Centre to borrow and lend to States||“This is a wise, timely and non-disruptive move from the Centre, especially when some States were planning to move the Supreme Court,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, Vice-Chancellor, Bengaluru Ambedkar School of Economics University. “It will offer a big breather to States, particularly those that have high fiscal deficits and would have had to pay higher rates if they approached the market,” he said. In its original proposal put up at the 41st GST Council meeting in August, the Centre had said the shortfall on account of GST implementation would be borrowed by States through the issue of debt under a Special Window coordinated by the Finance Ministry. “The GOI will endeavour to keep the cost at or close to the G-sec (government security) yield, and in the event of the cost being higher, will bear the margin between G-secs and average of State Development Loan yields up to 0.5% through a subsidy,” it had said.  Asserting that this borrowing, to be conducted through a Special Window, would not affect the Centre’s fiscal deficit or expand general government debt, the Finance Ministry said it was being done to ensure that States would not have to pay different interest rates for these borrowings.  “The amounts will be reflected as the capital receipts of the State governments and as part of financing of the respective fiscal deficits,” the Ministry said. This would enable avoiding the prospect of individual States having to pay differential interest rates if they borrowed the amount as a State development loan, it added. Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said on Twitter: “I welcome the new announcement that Centre will borrow through special window and provide back to back loans to States in lieu of Compensation”. “Provide full compensation payment of Rs. 2.3 lakh crore this year itself. Since under the new arrangement additional borrowing does not affect the fiscal deficit of the Centre, why should it hesitate to borrow Rs. 1.7 lakh crore instead of the present offer of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore ?,” he, however, asked in another tweet.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||SC may ask HC to oversee Hathras probe by CBI||The State government and the Director General of Police (DGP) left it to the wisdom of the court to decide which court should supervise the probe, saying their only purpose is to see justice in the case. “Do not be concerned... State government has raised no objections. There should not be any shadow of doubt. The CBI took over the case on October 10 and the investigation is on,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, submitted. Mr. Mehta only objected to a plea that the chargesheet in the case should be filed in Delhi. He said the final report ought to be filed in the jurisdictional court as per the law. The DGP, to a plea that CRPF personnel and not the State police should form the security net around the victim’s family and witnesses, left it to the court to decide “whoever best protects the family”. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for the DGP, submitted, “We have not objected to anything.” Chief Justice Bobde responded, “We are not saying the State is partisan...” The government had filed an affidavit, saying it was “committed” to providing “complete security” to the family and witnesses. It detailed the security for the family members. There would be “no intrusion in the privacy of the victim’s family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want”, it said. The affidavit came in response to a petition filed by Satyama Dubey, represented by advocates Sanjeev Malhotra and Pradeep Kumar Yadav, seeking a fair probe into the crime. The government’s action of an “hasty” midnight cremation of the victim in the absence of her family members caused an uproar.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Relief on a war footing||Care should be taken to ensure that power supply was resumed only after clearing water as this would go a long way in avoiding loss of human life. The Chief Minister sought the cooperation of people in this regard. He said the flood in Hyderabad was mainly in colonies surrounding tanks which reached their full tank level while problems were also being faced due to water logging in the cellars of apartments. Expressing concern that absence of advanced planning in ensuring prevention of water logging in cellars of apartments, he directed the officials concerned to take steps to put a pre-condition that plan would encompass measures to prevent water logging in apartments/complexes while giving permission for construction. He wanted the officials to utilise the Fire Services department and metro water works for clearing water in residential complexes. CM takes a serious view The Chief Minister took a serious view of high tension lines passing over houses and other residential complexes which could result in accidents and wanted the Energy department to evolve an action plan to remove these lines. The meeting discussed the action initiated to resolve the issues arising out of the deluge with special focus on the GHMC limits and the Chief Minister gave a road map to officials on the steps that should be taken in the coming days.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC closes petition by Mehbooba’s daughter||The Supreme Court on Thursday closed a petition filed by Iltija Mufti seeking the immediate release and whereabouts of her mother and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister, Mehbooba Mufti. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul dismissed the petition as infructuous on learning from Ms. Iltija’s lawyer, advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, that Ms. Mufti had already been released. “Good,” Justice Kaul said to Ms. Ramakrishnan’s submission. Ms. Mufti was released on October 13. She had been detained under the Public Safety Act. In its previous hearing on September 29, the court had asked the J&K administration on how long it proposed to keep Ms. Mufti under detention.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||2nd highest rainfall in single day||TSDPS stations have been a recent phenomenon, hence the latest figures from Hayatnagar or some other location cannot be compared with those recorded at IMD station, Begumpet, in 2000, she says. Hayatnagar was not even part of the city in 2000, and GHMC was not formed then. Interestingly enough however, between 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday and 1 a.m. on Wednesday, the TSDPS station at Begumpet recorded 22.5 cm, which is higher than that recorded by IMD. IMD always records data of 24 hours starting from 8.30 a.m., while the TSDPS releases hourly data of rainfall. Devastation caused by rainfall is most often based on the duration during which the water is delivered, say experts. In 1908 floods, over 15 cm of rain was recorded for two consecutive days, on September 27 and 28. Following the floods, the twin reservoirs Himayatsagar and Osmansagar were constructed near Gandipet as the repositories of the rainwater.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||FB unblocked official page: Meira Kumar||Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar on Thursday said Facebook India unblocked her official page after facing protests over their move just before the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections. In a tweet earlier, the former Lok Sabha Speaker had accused the social media giant of carrying an “assault on democracy” by blocking her page in the middle of the Bihar election campaign. Ms. Kumar is a senior Congress leader from Bihar and a member of the party’s panel on election management in the State. Soon after Ms. Kumar raised the issue, several Congress leaders took to Twitter to accuse Facebook of trying to “stifle” the Opposition’s voice.
22 October 2020||Bhopal,||Spurious liquor kills 14 in Ujjain||Eleven persons died in 24 hours in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, after reportedly consuming spurious liquor, the police said on Thursday. While seven bodies were found on Wednesday, the police discovered the remaining the next morning. “The persons had died after consuming some poisonous liquid in the police stations limits of Kharakuwan, Jiwajiganj and Mahakal,” Additional Superintendent of Police Rupesh Dwivedi told presspersons. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the setting up of a special investigation team to inquire into the deaths and directed Additional Chief Secretary, Home, to submit a report. “If such substances are being sold elsewhere, strict action must be taken against those responsible,” Mr. Chouhan told officials. Superintendent of Police Manoj Kumar Singh suspended the Kharakuwan police station in-charge, M.L. Meena, sub inspector Niranjan Sharma and constables Nawaz Sharif and Sheikh Anwar for negligence. So far, 10 persons had been arrested, the police said. Ujjain Chief Medical and Health Officer Mahavir Khandelwal said the cause of the deaths was being ascertained. “Alcohol content has been found in all their bodies after examination,” said Jitendra Sharma of the district hospital. In a bid to avert the possibility of any subsequent deaths, District Collector Ashish Singh has directed municipal officials and doctors to conduct medical examinations of those living on footpaths and in temporary shelters. Accusing the BJP government of sheltering the liquor mafia, former Chief Minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath said on Twitter, “Shivraj ji , until when will these mafia continue taking the lives of the innocent. We crushed them, but after our government they have again become fearless and active?”
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to work||
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks govt. reply on use of ‘plain English’||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the government to respond to a plea to use “plain English” for drafting laws, Government Orders and notifications to make them digestible for the public. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde referred to writer Anthony Burgess’s work Language Made Plain , and said the more simple the language, the more people were attracted to it. The Bench, led by the Chief Justice of India, issued notice to the government on a petition filed by Subhash Vijayran, who also wants a new course of study in law colleges called ‘Legal writing in plain English’. The petitioner also said the oral arguments of lawyers in court should not be rambling, but made to the point so that the court gets time for all and not an elite few.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Varavara Rao’s wife moves SC for his release||The wife of Varavara Rao, poet and activist, approached the Supreme Court on Thursday for his immediate release from jail, saying his continued custody as an undertrial amounts to cruel and inhuman treatment and is in violation of his dignity. Pendyala Hemalatha blamed the Maharashtra government and the National Investigation Agency for the deterioration of her husband’s health. She urged the court to grant him bail. “The treatment meted out to Rao amounts to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. It is a form of punishment not permitted by law. He is entitled to immediately be set at liberty,” Ms. Hemalatha, represented by advocate Sunil Fernandes, submitted. Mr. Rao, 79, was arrested in August 2018 in the Elgar Parishad case. Ms. Hemalatha said her husband needed critical medical care. Mr. Rao had become very feeble in custody. He suffered from neurological problems and the after-effects of COVID-19 infection which he got while in custody, she said.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sleeper coaches will stay: Railways||Railway Board CEO and Chairman V.K. Yadav on Thursday said while no plan was afoot to completely do away with sleeper class coaches, only air-conditioned coaches would be used on select routes where trains would run at speeds of 130 kmph or higher. The Railways have designed a new AC 3-tier coach, which it is currently testing. It will be introduced next year with fares less than current charges for AC three-tier. “Sleeper class coaches will continue ... We are in the process of increasing the speeds of our trains to 130 km from 110 km, particularly along the golden diagonal and golden quadrilateral ... when train speeds will be increased, there might be discomfort in sleeper coaches due to wind and dust. Hence, we have designed a new AC three-tier coach … The fare will be kept somewhere in between AC three-tier and sleeper with the aim that more people can afford travelling in AC coaches,” Mr. Yadav said during a virtual conference. Meanwhile, the Railway Ministry released a new policy for development of goods sheds aimed at augmenting terminal capacity through private participation. Private players Under the policy, private players will be permitted to develop goods wharf, loading/unloading facilities, facilities for labour, approach road, covered shed and other related infrastructure. The facilities will be developed by the private parties through their own investments. The Railways said the facilities would be used as common user facility, and no preference or priority would be granted to the traffic of the party over the traffic of other customers. As an incentive under the scheme, private players will be given a share in the terminal charges and terminal access charges for five years, the Railways said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Many areas still in dark||Many localities, mostly in the southern and eastern parts of Hyderabad and its surrounding areas, continued to remain in darkness on Thursday, due to the delay in restoration of power supply, mainly as a measure of precaution since distribution installations such as distribution transformers and ring main unit (RMU) switches are in water-logged areas. Authorities of power distribution utilities stated that although they had restored supply to all feeders, supply was still denied to some localities and premises that continue to remain water-logged. Distribution transformers in several localities in the city are still under water and that was the reason why there were yet to restore supply to such areas as a safety measure. Besides, the RMU switch boxes in several water-logged areas still have moisture and in such a condition, supply could not be restored. “In areas such as Raj Bhavan Road, Hill Top Colony, NIMS, Jubilee Hills check-post, the RMUs were charged after removing moisture from them (normalising temperature inside them) to restore supply to the areas served,” an official of the Southern Discom said. Power supply was also not restored to apartments whose cellars were water-logged as the internal supply units with meters and main switches still have moisture even after pumping out of water. However, power supply was normal in many parts as there was let up in rain on Thursday. Meanwhile, only moderate rainfall in the range of 15.5 mm to 64.4 mm was recorded at several places in Adilabad, Kumuram Bheem, Nirmal, Jagitial, Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Khammam and Suryapet districts during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Light rainfall up to 15.4 mm was recorded at many places across the State except Mulug, Mahabubabad and Warangal Rural districts. A highest of 57.6 mm rain was recorded at Bejjur in Kumram Bheem and 53.1 mm in Gadihathnur in Adilabad districts during the period and at the remaining places, it was up to 38 mm only. According to the IMD forecast, light to moderate rainfall with thunder-showers at some places has being forecast for next three days. Irrigation damage Engineer-in-Chief C. Muralidhar has instructed all Superintending and Executive Engineers to submit the list of flood damages to the irrigation network in their purview along with approximate cost of restoration immediately by Friday forenoon.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Actor Sachin Joshi booked for ‘fake gutka brand’||NRI businessman and Bollywood actor Sachin Joshi and his father J. M. Joshi, who operates a gutka unit here, were booked by the Cyberabad police on the charges of cheating and violation of Trade Mark Act. They were illegally manufacturing pan masala in the name of Manikchand, a Pune-based multi-crore industry, Shamshabad Deputy Commissioner of POlice (DCP) N Prakash Reddy said. Based on a complaint lodged by a city-based businessman A.V Suresh Kumar, a case was registered at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport police station. The police raided Golden Fingers Food products, Gaganpahad, and seized pan masala, raw material and machinery worth Rs. 1.25 crore. The actor's father is the owner of Goa Panmasala. "The father-son duo who are operating the business across the country are using the trademark of Manikchand illegally," Mr. Reddy said, quoting the complaint copy. Their factory in Gangapahad was raided and the stock and other materials were seized for violating trademark of '7 hills Manikchand' by manufacturing and selling pan masala under brand without requisite trademark. Earlier this week, Sachin Joshi was detained by officials of the Bureau of Immigration at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Mumbai, in connection with a case of gutka seizure registered by the Bahadurpura police. in Hyderabad Police Commissionerate limits in March. He was brought to Hyderabad for questioning and was let off a few hours later after being served a notice. under Section 41 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
22 October 2020||KOCHI,||Padmapriya, Revathy seek AMMA’s response||Actors Revathy and Padmapriya have written to the leadership of the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA) seeking their stance on the comments made by Edavela Babu, the association’s general secretary, about the survivor in the sensational female actor rape case in a television interview. The letter comes three days after actor Parvathy Thiruvothu resigned from the association in protest against what she termed ‘utterly disgusting’ remarks about a woman member who had been badly let down by the organisation.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Only COVID-19 negative for Sabarimala||All devotees preparing to undertake the Sabarimala pilgrimage trek will have to produce a certificate showing that they are COVID-19 negative within 48 hours of starting the trek. They would also have to produce a medical certificate certifying that they were fit enough to make the Sabarimala trek, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Eat right movement will be a game-changer’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the “Eat Right India” and the “Fit India” movements will prove to be game-changers in the future. In a release, the Health and Family Welfare Ministry said that children suffered from wasting (21%), underweight (36%) and stunting (38%). About 50% of women and children had anaemia and the prevalence of obesity has doubled in a decade (2005-2015) from 9.3% to 18.6% among males and from 12.6% to 20.7% among females, with a corresponding rise in deaths due to non-communicable diseases, the release said. The economic cost of food-borne diseases is estimated to be a whopping $15 billion. The Health Minister said the results of the “Eat Right India” and the “Fit India” movements will be visible to all in the next 10 years. A systems-based approach can ensure food safety along with secure availability and promotion of a healthy diet, along with taking care of the environment through sustainable practices, he said. He was presiding over an inter-ministerial meet with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India and senior officials of various Ministries to build a comprehensive approach to achieve “Vision 2050” of the Eat Right India Movement.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Sushant case probe still on, clarifies CBI||The CBI on Thursday said its investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case has not concluded yet. “There are certain speculative reports in the media that the CBI has reached a conclusion. It may be reiterated that these reports are speculative and erroneous,” said its spokesperson R.K. Gaur. The statement came amid reports in a section of the media that the CBI had completed the probe and was about to submit its findings in the court. Earlier, following some media reports that a team of medical experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had concluded that it was a case of suicide, the CBI had clarified that it was probing all aspects. The CBI had taken over the case on August 6, following a reference from the Bihar police through the Department of Personnel and Training. It has examined Sushant’s flat where his body was found on June 14, questioned the suspects and also recorded the statements of several witnesses and his family members. Based on a complaint from Sushant’s father, alleging abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, breach of trust, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement, the Patna police had in the last week of July registered a case against Rhea Chakraborty, her three family members and two others. The Enforcement Directorate is conducting money laundering investigation while the Narcotics Control Bureau is pursuing the drug angle and arrested several persons, including Ms. Chakraborty. She was recently granted bail.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC issues notice to the RBI, NPCI among others||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine a petition filed by Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam accusing the Reserve Bank and the National Payments Corporation of India of ‘compromising’ the sensitive data of Indian users on United Payments Interface (UPI) platforms. A notice has been issued to the RBI and NPCI.
22 October 2020||Lucknow,||Man shot dead in front of police, officials in Ballia||A man was shot dead in the presence of police officers and administrative officials after a dispute broke out between two groups during a village meeting over the selection of a government ration shop in Ballia in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. The son of the deceased person alleged that the accused, identified as Dhirendra Pratap Singh, was linked to sitting BJP MLA Surendra Singh.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Move Bombay HC first, SC tells Arnab||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked ARG Outlier Media and journalist Arnab Goswami to have faith in the Bombay High Court rather than come straight to the top court with their plea against the Mumbai police investigation in the Television Rating Point (TRP) scam case, involving allegations of rigged viewership. “I think your client’s office is in Worli. It is not far from Flora Fountain and the Bombay High Court. Why don’t you go there under Article 226 [of the Constitution] or under Section 482 [of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the FIR]...” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud asked senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for ARG and Mr. Goswami. Justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee, on the Bench, also suggested that the parties do the same.
22 October 2020||Kochi,||Don’t arrest Sivasankar till Oct. 23, HC tells ED||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to arrest M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, till October 23 in a money laundering case registered in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The court passed the interim directive when a petition filed by the senior IAS officer seeking anticipatory bail in the case came up for hearing. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General in the Supreme Court S.V. Raju, who appeared for the ED, submitted that Mr. Sivasankar had not been implicated in the case till date. In fact, his apprehension of arrest by the ED was ill-founded. This was a serious case involving the smuggling of gold worth a huge amount and the involvement of influential people in the case could not be ruled out. P. Vijayabhanu, senior counsel for Mr. Sivasankar, submitted that the ED had sent him a notice directing to produce a passport- size photo and a copy of the Aadhaar card on October 14 in person or through an authorised person, which he did. The ED had later issued him another notice warning that non-appearance before it would be treated as non-cooperation with the investigation. The counsel alleged that the agency had unnecessarily been harassing the petitioner. The petitioner was willing to cooperate with the investigation though. He did not have any intention to flee from the clutches of law. The court directed the ED to file a detailed affidavit in response to the anticipatory bail petition and posted the case on October 23 for further hearing.
22 October 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||‘Fix GPS, speed governors to goods vehicles’||Owners of goods vehicles plying in Ariyalur district have been advised by the police to fix Global Positioning System devices and speed governors to keep track and to check over speeding of vehicles. A decision to this effect was taken at the road safety meeting convened here on Wednesday. Presided over by the Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur V.R. Srinivasan, the meeting was attended by senior police personnel, officials of Transport Department and Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, officials from cement factories and owners of heavy goods vehicles. A press release said stern action would be initiated against those heavy goods carriers which were found transporting freight without tarpaulin cover on top. Creation of new speed breakers at accident spots and fixing of reflective stickers in important junctions were among other decisions taken at the meeting.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4,410 more persons contract infection, 49 deaths recorded||Chennai accounted for 1,148 of the 4,410 fresh cases of COVID-19 recorded in the State on Thursday. Coimbatore had 395 cases, while Chengalpattu and Salem recorded 200-plus infections. With the new cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally rose to 6,74,802. Presently, 41,872 persons are under treatment in the State. With 49 more persons succumbing to the infection, the toll climbed to 10,472. As many as 5,055 persons, including 1,257 in Chennai, were discharged. A total of 6,22,458 persons have been discharged after treatment so far. Of the 49 fatalities (27 in government hospitals and 22 in private facilities), Chennai accounted for 18 deaths, while Tiruvallur saw five. This included three persons in their 30s. One of them, a 37-year-old woman from Tiruvallur, tested positive for COVID-19 on October 4 and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with difficulty in breathing on October 14. She died on the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 33-year-old man from Tiruppur, who had diabetes, died at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on October 14 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and septicemia. A 37-year-old woman, who had diabetes and hypothyroidism, died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital in Chennai due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, diabetic ketoacidosis and uncontrolled hyperglycaemia on October 14. Among the fresh cases, Salem reported 263, while Chengalpattu saw 255. While Tiruvallur reported 192 cases, Namakkal and Tiruppur recorded 148 and 146 cases respectively. Other districts with 100-plus cases were: Cuddalore (120), Erode (126), Kancheepuram (112) and Vellore (114). A total of 26 districts reported less than 100 new cases. As of date, Chennai has reported 1,86,667 cases, followed by Chengalpattu with 40,416 and Coimbatore with 38,712. The number of children aged below 12, who have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, crossed 25,000. Till date, 85,567 persons aged over 60 have tested positive for the infection. Another 90,752 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the State to 86,74,793.
22 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rajini pays property tax for his marriage hall||Actor Rajinikanth has paid the property tax of Rs. 6.50 lakh for his Raghavendra Mandapam located in Viswanathapuram Main Road, Kodambakkam, on Thursday. In a press release on Thursday, the Greater Chennai Corporation confirmed the payment of the property tax by the actor totalling Rs. 6,56,000 (which includes the late pay penalty). Writ petition The actor had filed a writ petition against the property tax notice issued by Chennai Corporation in the Madras High Court. The writ petition was dismissed on Wednesday based on a withdrawal petition filed by the actor's counsel. The Judge had told Mr. Rajinikanth's counsel (and other litigants repeatedly) not to waste judiciary’s time by filing cases immediately after sending representations to officials concerned. Accepts mistake   Over the last two days, Mr. Rajinikanth, one of the highly paid actors in the country, faced criticism on social media for going to the court for property tax relief of Rs. 6.5 lakh during the pandemic when millions of Indians have lost their jobs and their livelihoods. In response, Mr. Rajinikanth wrote on social media that he could have avoided the mistake of going to the court. “We should have appealed to the Corporation. We could have avoided this mistake,” he said with an hashtag stating ‘Lesson from experience’. Meanwhile, Congress Lok Sabha MP from Karur, S. Jothimani, on Thursday seemingly took a potshot at the actor after he was warned by High Court for wasting the court’s time. Ms. Jothimani invoked Mr. Rajinikanth’s now famous line ‘System seri illai’ (the system is not right) to make a point about how he went to court for tax relief and was warned by the court. “Crorepathis are being made to pay taxes for the properties they own. If they go to the courts against the tax, they are being warned. System is not right,” Ms. Jothimani posted, without directly mentioning Mr. Rajinikanth.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP’s anti-reservation mindset exposed: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday alleged that the affidavit of the Centre in the Supreme Court that it could not implement even 27% reservation for OBCs in the medical seats surrendered by the State government to the central pool had exposed its anti-reservation mindset. “Ever since the BJP came to power, there is a consistent attack on the reservation policy. It has already denied social justice to the SCs/STs and now the OBCs are sidelined in the administration,” he charged in a statement. Mr. Stalin said even though the Madras High Court had ordered implementation of 50% reservation, the Centre had filed an affidavit opposing even 27% reservation. He said though Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that he was a representative of the OBCs in the country, his government was undermining the 27% reservation for the OBCs in education and employment opportunities in the Central government as recommended by the Mandal Commission. Pat for T.M. Krishna Mr. Stalin congratulated singer and Magsaysay award winner T.M. Krishna on his Edict Project, setting to music the edicts of emperor Ashoka. “Let the efforts of the singer-activist aiming at safeguarding tolerance and brotherhood gain success,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the singer was close to late DMK leader M. Karunanidhi.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK leader Vetrivel dead||P. Vetrivel, treasurer of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and former legislator, died at a private hospital on Thursday due to septicemia. He was 60 and is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. According to a release of Sri Ramachandra Hospital where Vetrivel was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 since October 6, he was shifted to ICU on October 9 and was on ventilator. Shot into prominence After the 1996 local body elections in the State, Vetrivel shot into prominence as the floor leader of the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and leader of the opposition in the Chennai Corporation Council. When the TMC merged itself with the Congress in August 2002, Vetrivel, defected to the AIADMK on the ground that he was opposed to the merger. Till then, he was considered a confidant of G.K. Vasan, who became a secretary of the All India Congress Committee after the TMC(M)’s merger with the Congress. Vetrivel made his first attempt to enter the Assembly in 2001 when he contested as TMC (M)’s candidate in Purasawalkam and lost by around 3,800 votes. In 2011, he got elected to the House from R.K. Nagar. Four years later, he vacated his seat, paving the way for Jayalalithaa, who lost her posts of Chief Minister and Member of Legislative Assembly in the wake of conviction in a disproportionate assets case in September 2014. In 2016, he returned to the House from Perambur. When the AIADMK suffered a split a few months after the death of Jayalalithaa, he sided with the camp led by V.K. Sasikala, and later, her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran. Since then, he remained a trusted colleague of Mr. Dhinakaran. Disqualified In September 2017, Vetrivel and 17 other pro-Dhinakaran MLAs were disqualified for having “voluntarily given up” their membership of the AIADMK. On the eve of polling for the R.K. Nagar by election in December 2017 when Mr Dhinakaran emerged victorious, Vetrivel created a sensation, releasing a video showing the former Chief Minister at hospital. During the April-May 2019 by elections for 22 Assembly constituencies, he again contested from Perambur and lost badly, getting 6,281 votes. Mr. Dhinakaran, in his condolence message, described the former legislator as one who expressed his views forthrightly and said his party’s flag would fly at half mast for a week. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, in a tweet, condoled the former legislator's death.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From tech tools to holistic development, teacher training goes online||The last few months have brought about unprecedented changes in school education, and teachers too have had to adapt themselves to ensure that students have taken to a new system — one that has moved completely online. Several schools have had teacher training programmes through the year; these too have been taken online with a focus on holistic development. “We’ve had a lot of teachers sign up for a week-long certification course in online teaching as well as schools that have shown interest in signing up their teachers for the same. The focus is on lesson planning, classroom communication, student assessment and remediation in an online environment,” said Anjali Jain, founder and director, Centre for Teacher Accreditation (CENTA). At weekly free webinars that CENTA conducts for teachers, a range of topics are discussed. “There are several ICT tools that lend themselves well to online teaching and assessments which more teachers should be aware of. Managing a classroom of children virtually comes with its own challenges and we need user-friendly teaching aids that make our classes engaging,” said Indra Priyadarshini, who conducted a webinar on how to effectively use Google Forms and Padlet for student evaluation. LEAD School, an ED Tech company, launched a free teacher development programme and certification under its Teacher’s Academy last month. It focuses on not just teaching skills required for an online environment but also on the need to provide emotional and social support. CEO and co-founder Sumeet Mehta said the company focuses on building resources and community for teachers across India, and the programme is aimed at improving teaching abilities and learning outcomes. Several schools that engage experts during a regular academic year to address the teachers on areas like classroom communication have held these interactions online in the form of webinars. From June, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has been sending regular circulars to its affiliated schools asking teachers and principals to take up courses on the DIKSHA platform on a range of topics. “We have been encouraging our teachers to take up these courses available on the platform, and there are several options which include subject-wise courses as well as topics that focus on holistic development. The courses are extremely useful for the teachers,” said Ashok Shankar, general secretary, CBSE Schools Management Association. Teachers are also stressing the need to mandate training programmes, with a clear focus on mental health. “This is especially a must before schools reopen. Teachers should be equipped to speak to students and reassure them about the situation,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lottery agent nabbed in Chennai, one more on the run||A special team of police personnel on Thursday arrested an agent who sold lottery tickets illegally in north Chennai and recovered a huge cache of lottery slips from his hideout. He was operating from here for more than 10 years, the police said. Based on a tip-off received by Joint Commissioner of Police V. Balakrishnan, a special team of police personnel was constituted to nab the suspect. The only clue about the suspect was his acronym JVM. After working out several leads, the police identified that it was Selvamani, 54. The special team led by sub-inspector Vijay rounded up Selvamani in Kunnalamman Koil Street, Tondiarpet, and stumbled upon a huge quantity of lottery slips. Explaining the modus operandi , an investigation officer said Selvamani had been running a lottery agency under the name of JVM. The suspect procured lottery strips from other States through three persons — Senthil, Rakesh and Aparna. He sold the numbers, which were written on plain paper, to customers whom he knew since he had been in business for long. Money siphoned off After the prize money was announced by the respective lottery operators outside the State, he would distribute the money to the winner here. He settled the money in part payment or disbursed it after siphoning off a major portion. All the ill-gotten money was invested in immovable properties and jewellery. Selvamani has been booked under provisions of the Lotteries Regulation Act and the IPC and remanded in judicial custody. Sale of lottery tickets, including online ones, is banned in the State since 2003.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite relaxations, temples yet to garner revenue||Despite having reopened for devotees following lockdown relaxations, temples are yet to garner revenue from rents, archanai tickets and special pujas like abhishekam . Official sources in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that though temples were offering special entry tickets, there were hardly any takers for them, since the free queues themselves were not very long. “It takes just ten minutes for devotees to move from the entry to the exit in our temple. And though they may buy special tickets, they too have to stand at the same spot as those coming in through the free darshan queues,” said an official. A temple official at a relatively smaller temple in Chennai said that many were not even offering cash — thattu kaasu (literally cash on a plate) — to the priests. “Only regulars and those who know the priests and feel for them are giving them anything. Since we are not even accepting flowers from outside, devotees say they don’t feel fulfilled,” the official said. Even temple hundials have not been getting cash offerings. “We opened the hundials during the lockdown based on orders, but now, after reopening, we are yet to open them, since they are still not full. In most temples, the hundials are not in the marked route, which makes it difficult for devotees to make offerings,” said a temple staffer at a Saivite temple. The lucky ones However, some Perumal temples have been lucky, especially due to the auspicious Purattasi month, and they have made decent collections. “Since people have not been able to perform pujas , they have been depositing cash,” said a priest at a Perumal temple. Without funds, some temples that have deposits are operating with the interest amount they get, and some have just started getting a portion of their rents. Some are wondering how to pay salaries to the staff in the coming months. Priests and other staff hope the government will provide some kind of aid to the temples that are not receiving income.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Study advances use of indomethacin for treatment of mild cases||A small study from India, but buttressed with a prospective larger study, soon to be published has advanced the case for the use of indomethacin, a powerful anti-inflammatory drug, in low doses, for effective treatment of milder COVID-19 cases. The case was made in a letter published in International Journal of Medical Reviews and Case Reports (2020) by Ravichandran Rajan, of the Madras Institute of Nephrology; Srinivasan Subramanian of Voluntary Health Services Hospital; and Chritine Clark of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society, UK. Lead author and senior nephrologist Rajan Ravichandran says currently, paracetamol is widely used for symptomatic treatment in COVID-19, but with poor results. “In the paper, we describe our experience in using indomethacin, a low-priced drug, in a small number of patients with COVID-19, including those classified as ‘high-risk’. The results were very encouraging, and that became the basis for a project supported by IIT-Madras, studying the impact of indomethacin in a larger subset of patients, 100, in two hospitals.” A 2006 Pubmed article by Carla Amici and colleagues from the University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy, identified indomethacin as a potent inhibitor of coronavirus (SARS-CoV) replication and suggested that having both anti-inflammatory and antiviral activity, it could be beneficial in SARS therapy. Dr. Ravichandran adds that indomethacin is a powerful anti-inflammatory drug, one that gives relief even with low doses. The drug helps control the dry, persistent cough that is a common feature among COVID-19 patients. He says the drug has been used for over 35 years, and with much success. In addition to being an anti-inflammatory, it has anti-viral properties, he argues. “It has an effect on suppressing the cytokine release syndrome, and ameliorating the side effects thereof.” The paper describes 17 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 and were treated at home with two doses of indomethacin. All of them were given indomethacin 25mg twice daily. In 14 patients, fever, cough and musculoskeletal pain resolved after two doses. One patient required escalation of dose to 75mg and became asymptomatic after five days. Two patients developed low levels of oxygen saturation and were started on steroids. “Of the 15 patients who became asymptomatic, four were renal transplant recipients, one on maintenance dialysis, two were over 80 years of age, three had type 2 diabetes mellitus, and one was obese.” “Our approach is to start treatment with a low dose of indomethacin as early as possible in the course of the disease to reduce the severity of symptoms — fever, coughing and musculoskeletal pain. We believe this can reduce the need for hospitalisation and the risk of spreading the disease,” Dr. Ravichandran says. The preliminary results of the larger study, being conducted in Chennai and Nellore, are also showing positive responses from patients, he adds.  The case was made in a letter published in the International Journal of Medical Reviews and Case Reports (2020)
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SIMA conference to be held tomorrow||The South India MICE — Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibition — Association (SIMA) will organise a virtual conference on Saturday on the theme ‘Opportunities & Challenges Post Covid-19 in the Service Industry’. Eminent speakers, including Vikram Kapur, Secretary, Tourism and Culture; B. Venugopal, former MD of LIC; Madhu Mathen, executive director, Air India; Ajay Bakaya, MD, Sarovar Group of Hotels; and M. Damodaran, former Chairman, SEBI, will address the participants. Hoteliers and professionals from the travel, tourism, airline and hospitality space in the southern States have joined with travel agents, transport operators, event managers and formed the SIMA.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postal divisions awarded under various categories||Three postal divisions — Tambaram, Chennai City South and Vellore — bagged awards for best performance in revenue generation at a function organised by the Chennai City region (CCR), Department of Posts, in the city on Thursday. The recognition was part of the Regional Excellence Awards 2019-20 given to postal divisions, post offices and employees. A total of 65 awards were given under various categories. Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpet west and Puducherry south postal sub-divisions were chosen for best performance in savings bank and insurance services. Hans Raj Verma, Additional Chief Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, presented the awards in the presence of B. Selvakumar, Chief Postmaster General, Tamil Nadu Postal Circle, and Sumathi Ravichandran, Postmaster Ceneral, CCR.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volleyball player sells tripods for a living||The COVID-19 pandemic has taught life lessons to many as they put up a fight to convert challenges into opportunities. K. Kuhan, 24, a State-level volleyball player and aspiring police officer, sells tripods on the roadside to support his family and fund his higher education. As one drives along the New Avadi Road, it is easy to miss Mr. Kuhan, a bearded man selling tripods on the platform near the Regional Transport Office. Every morning he sets up shop at around 8.30 a.m. and stays put till 8.30 p.m. Initially, business was good as there was a demand for tripods due to online classes. He used to earn Rs. 500 a day. But now, the business has been on the wane as the equipment is easily available. “I did my under graduation in D.B. Jain College and have a few papers to clear as I had to work to support my family. I have played volleyball at the State level and have taken part in school nationals and youth nationals. I have also represented my college,” says Mr. Kuhan. His mother, Rekha Kumar, has been struggling to make ends meet after her husband’s death. “She works as a coffee maker in a company and she took care of our education. Now, my brother K. Jagan has finished his under graduation and wants to pursue higher education. Hence I decided to work...” he adds. While attending to business, he prepares for the police constable recruitment. “I have tried twice earlier, but was not successful. But I will keep trying. I desire to pursue a course in physical education alongside the preparation,” he explains.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM Modi expresses condolences to CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, expressing condolences over the death of his mother Thavasiammal. “Indian cultures across regions and languages place mothers even above Gods and mothers like Smt. Thavasiammal, who raise their children imparting values of compassion and commitment, epitomise this belief. Every moment of your life till now was blessed with her care and affection and words can’t describe the void caused in your life due to her demise,” Mr. Modi said.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘800 will not hurt Eelam Tamils’ sentiments’||After actor Vijay Sethupathi was subjected to strong criticism on social media for agreeing to star in a movie titled 800 , a biopic on Sri Lankan cricketer Mutthiah Muralitharan, the film’s producer, Dar Motion Pictures, said the film is “purely a sports biography”. The first look of the film was released a couple of days ago. In a statement, the production house said the film did not make any political statement favouring any community. “This film is intended to be an inspiration for the younger generation to achieve their dreams irrespective of the difficulties they come across in their journey. We, as the producers, assure that this film will not showcase any scenes that will belittle the struggles of Eelam Tamils in Sri Lanka or hurt their sentiments in any way,” the statement said. A platform for Tamils “On a positive note, the film will engage the Tamil film community in Sri Lanka, providing the artists and technicians a platform to showcase their talents on a global stage,” it said. Sympathisers of the ethnic Tamil struggle took to social media, tagging Mr. Sethupathi, urging him not to star as the cricketer “known to be a supporter of Mahinda Rajapaksa”, accused of presiding over a war in which thousands of Tamil civilians were killed.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six special trains for festival season||Southern Railway will operate six special trains within the State and to other parts of the country in view of the festival season to manage the heavy passenger rush. The superfast tri-weekly special train from Dr. MGR Chennai Central station to Madurai will be operated from October 19, with the train set to return from Madurai on October 20. A Shatabdi train between Chennai and Coimbatore will be operated for six days, except on Tuesday. The services will begin from Chennai on October 19. A bi-weekly Duronto special train will run from Dr. MGR Chennai Central station to Hazrat Nizamuddin, with the services starting from Chennai Central on October 19. To Howrah Another bi-weekly special train, from Santragachi to Dr. MGR Chennai Central station, will be run from October 16, with the return train to be operated from Chennai Central station on October 18. The Kanniyakumari-Howrah weekly special train, via Chennai Egmore railway station, will begin services from Kanniyakumari on November 28. A bi-weekly festival special train, between Thiruvananthapuram and Shalimar, too will be operated from October 22.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||764 g of gold seized||Gold worth Rs. 40 lakh was seized at the airport by Chennai Air Customs, and one passenger has been arrested in this regard. On Wednesday, Abdul Rahman Khan, who arrived from Dubai, was detained as officials suspected that he could be carrying gold. On questioning him, the officials learnt that he had stuffed gold paste in his rectum. Officials recovered 416 g of gold worth Rs. 21.8 lakh from him. In another case, a passenger in the immigration area was searched and four gold plates and two gold coins were found in his wallet. The airport entry pass that he possessed identified him as Avinash, 28, network engineer. He said the gold plates and coins were handed to him by Mohammed Ghouse, who was supposed to collect them near the parking area. Officials recovered 348 g of gold worth Rs. 18.21 lakh from Avinash.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Keeping BP in check will prevent COVID morbidity’||World Hypertension Day will be observed on Saturday. For the past five years, the theme has been ‘Know Your Numbers’. The theme has been retained as there is little awareness of and efforts to spread the message on the need for controlling blood pressure, say specialists. A study in China found that the death among those with hypertension and the SARS-CoV-2 infection during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was 19%, whereas it was 6% among those with diabetes, says A. Muruganathan, past president of the Hypertension Society of India and Governor of the Indian chapter of American College of Physicians. “At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic is raging across the country, the message is to control blood pressure,” he points out. “In India, the incidence, morbidity and mortality is three times higher than diabetes. But we don’t have enough hypertension specialists. Across the country, there are less than a dozen specialists.” A disease that is common but causes three times more mortality, is more intense, and has a high rate of morbidity and mortality remains neglected, he rues. “We must have a two-year course after MBBS so that they are certified as specialists,” he adds. “COVID-19 can also cause hypertension and there are a dozen reasons for this. If hypertension is under control, COVID will be a normal event. The key message is to control the co-morbid conditions,” he says.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Navarathri golus too go the virtual way||Getting dolled up in the best silk, decking up the house with beautiful bright deities seated aesthetically in various steps, drawing up complex kolams and rustling up a perfect sundal — this is a routine that many look forward to each year. As the pandemic has wreaked havoc and changed routines, g olus and vethalapaaku, like other things, will go online this time. Many residents of the city plan to meet through Zoom or WhatsApp video calls and show their golus to friends this time. Vibha Ram, a resident of RA Puram, says that from seven-step arrangement each year, she has planned to scale it down to three or five this year. “Since it is not safe to visit each other this time, my friends and I have been planning to have a Zoom conference on one of the days. There will be some children who sing, a keyboard and a dance performance too,” she says. Ramanarayanan of Giri Trading Agency says that while there are people coming over to buy dolls, many of them have resorted to purchasing them online. “At our home too, the celebrations for golu will be scaled down a bit; some important guests will be invited over a couple of a days in a staggered way so as to ensure there is no crowding. With others, we will celebrate through Zoom calls,” he adds.  Golu and dolls will be literally scaled down at Shalini Muthukumar’s residence in Mylapore. With miniature dolls and miniature steps, she will recreate and celebrate golu with a novelty. “I plan to have a small village set-up and found dolls too. Every day, we will have a guest through Zoom call,” she adds. West Mambalam resident and sari enthusiast Padmapriya Baskaran said her celebrations would be toned down this year. “I usually present one sari a day during the nine days to guests. But this year I can’t invite people over, so I might either send the thamboolam over through online aggregators or use the ‘motta maadi thaamboolam idea — in flats people have planned to invite flatmates to the terrace and give the thaamboolam to neighbours,” she said. The integral part of golu is the takeaways — sundal, vethalapaaku and return gifts. E-vethalapakku has emerged as an option with gift boxes that can be delivered to guests on pre-order. Quills and Spills, an online boutique, has been sending out curated gift boxes this Navarathri. Kavitha Govindarajan, its founder, says, “People can’t step out to different stores to buy return gifts. So we have 3-4 packages in different price ranges that people can opt for. From kumkum boxes to festive jewellery boxes to handmade masks, there are varied options that people can order through the Instagram page or website or WhatsApp,” she adds.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Online charges for movie tickets can’t be subjected to entertainment tax’||The online booking charge of Rs. 30, collected by theatres over and above the cost of each ticket, cannot be subjected to entertainment tax by the Commercial Taxes Department, under the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act of 1939, the Madras High Court (HC) ruled on Thursday. Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh held that online booking charges, collected by cinema halls, were for the additional service provided to customers, and they were not mandatory for gaining entry into theatres. Therefore, such a charge could not be subjected to entertainment tax, they said. Writ appeals The ruling was passed while allowing a batch of writ appeals preferred by PVR Limited, formerly known as SPI Cinemas Private Limited, of New Delhi. The Bench quashed the entertainment tax reassessment orders, with respect to the appellant, from the assessment years 2007-08 to 2014-15. The judges agreed with senior counsel R.V. Easwar, representing the appellants, that only payments required to be made mandatorily, as a condition for attending an entertainment event, could be subjected to entertainment tax, and not the additional payments collected for other services. The senior counsel said that the online booking charge of Rs. 30 per ticket was collected from customers for providing them the premium facility of booking tickets on their mobile phones and computers, without having to visit cinema halls and stand in queues to purchase tickets. ‘Colonial legislation’ Such a charge could not be subjected to entertainment tax, he argued, and the judges concurred with him. Though Mohammed Shafiq, Special Government Pleader (Taxes), contended that all payments connected to entertainment could be subjected to tax under the 1939 Act, the Bench did not agree with him. Authoring the verdict, Justice Kothari also pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act of 1939 was a colonial legislation, enacted at a time in history when nobody had even conceived the idea of Internet, a web portal or the concept of booking cinema tickets online or through apps.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijay Sethupathi will be known as betrayer, says PMK||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday said if actor Vijay Sethupathi announces that he will not act in Sri Lankan cricketer Muthiah Muralitharan’s biopic titled 800 , he will be part of Tamil Eelam history, or else he will be known as a betrayer. In a statement, he said even though explanations had been given that Mr. Sethupathi was acting in the film on Mr. Muralitharan’s sporting achievements, the suspicion was that it would depict the Rajapaksa brothers in a positive light. “I respect the creative freedom of Mr. Vijay Sethupathi. But that freedom should not be used to shame the motherland. I am not going to urge him to drop his plan of acting in the film,” Dr. Ramadoss said. Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman urged the actor to back out of the project, “respecting the sentiments of Tamils across the globe”. In a statement, he alleged Mr. Muralitharan had acted against the interests of ethnic Tamils in Sri Lanka and was a proxy to the country's ruling Rajapaksa family. Future prospects “Filming a biopic on Mr. Muralitharan would be against the spirit of struggle for freedom of Eelam. Acting in the film is not good for Mr. Sethupathi’s acting career and it would affect his future prospects,” Mr. Seeman said. Director Bharathiraja appealed to Mr. Sethupathi to opt out of starring in the film. In an open letter, the veteran director asked the actor if he wanted his face to be associated with someone who had been a ‘betrayer’ of the Tamil Eelam struggle.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity merit list on Oct. 29||The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University will publish its merit list on October 29. The last date for candidates to submit the application forms is October 26. The university started issuing application forms on September 26. Applicants must have passed Class 12 or its equivalent to be eligible for online admission. For details, call 04365-256430.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seminar on work safety organised||A seminar on safety at workplaces was organised by the Industrial Safety and Health Department in association with the Gumidipoondi Sipcot Industrial Manufacturers’ Association on Thursday. Titled ‘Working safely in factories’, the seminar was inaugurated by M.V. Karthikeyan, Joint Director, Industrial Safety and Health. Mr. Karthikeyan listed safety measures to be followed in steel bar manufacturing units. A booklet on guidelines of the Manufacturing Act 1948 was released. More than 120 senior production executives participated in the seminar.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temperature, oxygen checks must for staff at Secretariat||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday issued directions to all Secretaries of departments at the State Secretariat to purchase pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to check oxygen levels and temperature of employees on a daily basis. The direction was issued by Public Department Principal Secretary, P. Senthilkumar, after nearly 200 staffers have tested positive for COVID-19 in the recent days. The Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association had, in a letter to the CM on October 8, requested that only 50% staffing be done and those with various health conditions be exempted from reporting to work. The directions mandate Under Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries of departments to be in charge of procurement of pulse oximeters to check oxygen levels and thermal scanners to check and record temperature of employees when reporting to work on a daily basis. “Any official with symptoms like fever, cold, cough, or decreasing O2 saturation should be subjected to testing and further medical examination,” the directive said.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister hospitalised||Forest Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan was admitted to a private hospital in the city on Thursday. Hospital sources said he was admitted for a medical evaluation by a cardiologist.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pfizer settles dispute with workers’ union||The Industrial Tribunal, Tamil Nadu, has closed the dispute between pharma giant Pfizer Healthcare India Pvt. Ltd. and a section of its workers, after the parties reached a settlement agreement. The dispute relates to closure of the company’s plant at Irungattukottai and job loss of 270 workers. In early 2019, Pfizer decided to shut down two of its Indian manufacturing plants — Irungattukottai (Chennai) and Aurangabad (Maharashtra) — due to issues of viability. The manufacturing plants had come under Pfizer’s fold after it acquired Ospira, a provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies in 2015. The Podhu Thozhilalar Sangam had raised a dispute before the Deputy Commissioner of Labour, Sriperumbudur, with regard to cessation of employment of 270 workmen. Talks failed and the dispute was referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Tamil Nadu, according to court documents. After the submission of the report, both parties said they had entered into a settlement and the claims of the members of the petitioner union had been settled, the Industrial Tribunal said. As per the settlement reached on February 6, Pfizer paid members of the union about Rs. 4.67 crore. The Industrial Tribunal recorded the settlement and disposed of the case.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Integration of smart traffic cameras with Vahan in final stages||Automatic number plate detection cameras installed by the Coimbatore City Police in collaboration with people's initiative “Uyir” are ready for integration with the Central Government's vehicle registry, Vahan. Senior police officials and resource persons who are part of the initiative said a trial in integrating the feeds from the advanced cameras installed at 20 traffic signals was under way. A mega event will be held to launch the initiative, which will be first of its kind in Tamil Nadu, and among the very few across the country, said the officials. According to official sources, the cameras were installed at 20 junctions on Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, Mettupalayam Road, Sathyamangalam Road and Palakkad Road. Except Athupalam at the Palakkad-Pollachi Road junction, all the other locations covered by the initiative are on Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, Sathyamangalam Road and Mettupalayam Road. The advanced cameras installed in these junctions will detect offences such as jumping red signal, riding tripples on two-wheelers and riding two-wheelers without wearing helmet, said the police. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that the majority of the works to integrate the feeds from the cameras to Vahan were completed. K. Kathirmathiyon, member of district road safety committee, said that the initiative by Uyir and the city police would be a model project. "After integration with the national vehicle registry, offences involving vehicles from other States will also be shown in their vehicle records. The three offences will be recorded by the cameras at the 20 junctions even if the police are not present", he said. As of now, the cameras at the 20 signals are detecting around 30,000 violations per day in the three categories of offences.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Money lender ‘abducted’ for ransom||A 40-year-old man from Pollachi was reportedly abducted by four men demanding a ransom of Rs. 1 crore on Tuesday. K. Santhakumar, a resident of Kottur road at Pollachi, lodged a police complaint that he was abducted by a group of men on Tuesday noon. The police sources said that Santhakumar has been lending money to known persons. As per the complaint lodged by Santhakumar, he was waylaid by four men, who came in a car. The accused demanded Rs. 1 crore as ransom from Santhakumar which he refused to pay. The men assaulted Santhakumar and left him at Sendrampalayam near Kinathukidavu after which he lodged a complaint with the police Wednesday. The police on Thursday detained four men in connection with the incident. Further investigation is on into the incident.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Income Tax department employees stage demonstration||Employees and gazetted officers of the Income Tax (IT) department staged a protest here on Thursday as part of an All-India agitation against some of the recent announcements made by the Central government. According to a press release, the Joint Action Council, a joint body of the Income Tax Employees Federation and Income Tax Gazetted officers’ Association, is protesting against the “insensitive and lackadaisical attitude of the Central Board of Direct Taxes.” As announced by the Council, its members went on a hunger strike and staged demonstration on Thursday and quit from all WhatsApp groups of all officers and staff. They will not adhere to the deadlines set by the Board in handing charges and issue of statutory notices, will not participate in official meetings and will not submit statistical reports. New platform The Prime Minister announced a new platform for faceless assessment and faceless appeal schemes. Such changes were implemented without taking into confidence the 97 % workforce of GR A and B officers and staff members, the press release said.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Project to raise awareness of menstrual hygiene launched||Union Minister for Women and Child Development and Textiles Smriti Irani on Thursday launched “My Pad My Right”, a project aiming to empower two million women and create livelihood opportunities for thousands of them. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), the Nabfoundation and Coimbatore-based Jayaashree Industries have come together to spread awareness on menstrual hygiene across the country and generate employment for women. “Padman” Arunachalam Muruganantham, chief executive officer of Jayaashree Industries, said it was a pan-India initiative where centres would be established in every district in all States and Union Territories, and women would be trained to make low-cost sanitary napkins. “Jayaashree Industries has installed 5,000 machines across the country through different agencies and organisations and has trained women to make low-cost sanitary napkins. Under the NABARD project, another 1,500 machines will be installed. We want to do this in a year from now,” he said. Jayaashree Industries will install the machines and train the women, who can, in turn, train others. The pad-making units, like cottage industries, will provide livelihood opportunities to women. This will spread awareness and empower them. The project aims to train about 25,000 women initially, he said.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Remand prisoner’s death suspicious’||Suspecting something amiss in the death of a man from Dindigul in the Coimbatore Central Prison on Wednesday, his relatives submitted a petition against the prison authorities to the Coimbatore District Collector on Thursday. Family members of J. Sureshraja (32) from Gandhipuram in Dindigul district said in the petition that they suspected that the prison authorities had a hand in the remand prisoner’s death. The petition said he had served judicial remand in the prison for about 80 days from June, and signed at the Race Course police station for 15 days up to September 23 after getting bail in a criminal case. No contacts The kin alleged that they could not contact him after September 25 and they were informed by the prison officials on Wednesday that he was not well. The officials called them again to tell them that he was being taken to a hospital. The relatives also alleged that the jail authorities told them that Sureshraja had tried to end his life by hanging himself. Detailed probe The petitioners appealed to the Collector for a detailed investigation. When contacted, the police said Sureshraja had been arrested for stealing two two-wheelers after he was released on bail, and he was remanded again in judicial custody. They said the prison authorities found him hanging on the prison premises on Wednesday. Relatives of Sureshraja contended that they were not aware that he was arrested and remanded again. Counselling for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SIEMA seeks quality and energy efficiency standards for industrial pumps||The Central government should bring in energy efficiency standards and mandatory Bureau of Indian Standards (ISI) marking for industrial pumpsets, according to K.V. Karthik, the newly-elected president of the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association (SIEMA). Mr. Karthik told The Hindu that industrial pumpsets are manufactured or supplied in the country mainly by international players and they follow international norms. However, not all these pumps comply with the energy efficiency standards in India. These pumps, used largely in power and water utility segments, should also be covered under the Indian quality and energy efficiency standards. Further, the solar powered water pumping programme of the Central government has not taken off as expected. The government should modify some of the policy guidelines for the programme to succeed and the Association has given its suggestions, he said. “Manufacturers in Coimbatore should find an entry into the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy programmes,” he said. The Association will work for this in the coming months. Another focus area for SIEMA will be increasing the share of Coimbatore pumpset manufacturers in the Indian market. Currently, the manufacturers enjoy 55 % share, supplying mainly agriculture and domestic pumps. The market offers potential for the manufacturers here to expand their presence. Regain lost business V. Krishnakumar, the out-going president of the Association, said the pumpset industry was able to regain its lost business and survive with the resources available during the last few months. SIEMA represented to the government the difficulties faced by the industry and was instrumental in bringing pumpsets under the category of essential agricultural implement.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Anna University faculty members stage protest||Faculty and administrative staff on the Anna University regional campus, Coimbatore, staged a protest on Wednesday demanding that the University withdraw an order concerning their leave. The protesters, who squatted on the campus’ main hall by observing physical distancing norms, said that the University should withdraw the letter that deprived them of earned leave, medical leave and special casual leave. They said that the order left them with only casual leave and restricted holiday. This order was the latest to hit the campus employees, whom, the Anna University had termed unabsorbed. It had been treating them unabsorbed since the then Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore, merged with the Anna University in Chennai in 2011-12. Post the merger, the State government had issued an order to absorb all the campus employees as regular employees of the University. Notwithstanding the order, the University formed a committee saying that there were irregularities in the appointment of people to the Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore. The committee recommended absorption of only 15 of the 80-odd employees, leaving the rest in lurch. The rest of the employees, whom the University had categorised as unabsorbed had been suffering for long, the sources explained. Campus Dean K. Ravichandran said he would forward their demand to the Registrar, the sources said.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Siruthuli plants saplings||Members of environmental NGO Siruthuli on Thursday planted 74 saplings on its premises to create an urban forest as a tribute to playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam who passed away recently. Named SPB Vanam , the number of saplings planted marked the age of the renowned singer. A Champaka tree sapling was planted to mark his astrological star Ayiliam , following which the rest of the saplings were those from which musical instruments are made and those which are the sthala vrikshams (sacred trees) of the Hindu deities that Balasubrahmanyam recorded songs in praise of during his career, a release said. S.P. Charan and S.P. Sailaja, son and sister of Balasubrahmanyam respectively, launched the event virtually. Composer A.R. Rahman and singer Srinivas paid tributes through video messages. As the event also marked the 89th birth anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, Managing Trustee of Siruthuli Vanitha Mohan spoke about the journey of the NGO with Kalam and the unique nature of the SPB Vanam project during the event, according to the release.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco officials asked to comply with TNERC guidelines while erecting transformers||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has asked its officials here to comply with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission guidelines while erecting transformers near large buildings. The instructions were given recently following complaints that the rules were not complied with at many locations in Coimbatore district. “While the existing transformers cannot be shifted, efforts will be taken to ensure that the new ones are erected according to the norms,” said a senior official of Tangedco here. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said that according to the TNERC distribution code, if a premises had a total floor area of 900 sq.mt and above or the total demand of all LT services in the building exceeds 150 KW, it should have a distribution transformer within the premises. The developer should have given space open to sky for the same and guidelines have been issued on the area to be earmarked. The planning authorities issue the building plan approval only if the area was earmarked. However, there were violations and the space required was not provided in several buildings. This led to violation of safety norms too. The public, neighbours, and residents of the building were at risk. Tangedco should not erect transformers outside the building in such cases. “No one is competent to relax the line clearance and space required for the transformer. This irregularity can be noticed by anyone walking on the road. In most cases, the horizontal clearance is not available. And yet, the power connections were provided,” he said. Mr. Kathirmathiyon appealed to Tangedco to ensure that such irregularities were not repeated and safety measures were taken for existing connections. If the violations continued, the consumer organisation would look at preferring complaints pointing out individual cases, he said.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Ilangyar Katchi to contest all seats||Members of the Tamil Nadu Ilangyar Katchi, a political party formed by the youth who participated in the 2017 pro-jallikattu protests, said on Thursday that the party would field candidates in all 234 constituencies for the upcoming Assembly elections. State Deputy Secretary of the party R.T. Horson Prabu addressed media persons regarding the announcement in Coimbatore on Thursday. He told The Hindu that the party has the second highest number of members from Coimbatore after Chennai. “We are yet to finalise our candidates for eight constituencies in Coimbatore district,” he said, noting that the party has identified candidates for the Coimbatore North and Thondamuthur Assembly constituencies. Mr. Prabu, an advocate practising at the Combined Court Complex in Coimbatore, recalled that he participated in the pro-jallikattu protest held at VOC Park Grounds in January 2017. A group of youth from Chennai, who participated in the protest, formed Tamil Nadu Ilangyar Katchi on January 27, 2017 a few days after the protests ended, he said. “Since our inception, we have participated in all the elections held in the State,” he said, noting their participation in the 2017 R.K. Nagar by-election, 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the elections for the rural local bodies.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 2.7 crore tax evasion detected||Officials of Central GST Commissionerate, Coimbatore, have detected evasion of nearly Rs. 2.7 core tax by two units that make kraft paper. According to a press release, based on intelligence, the officials conducted a search on the premises of a kraft paper making unit at Ayyampalayam in Pollachi and found that the unit, a partnership firm, was making and clearing kraft paper even after its registration was cancelled on April 30. It was found that another unit, a private limited company, was operated on the same premises and the documents recovered revealed that it received the entire goods from the unit for which registration was cancelled. The second unit dispatched the kraft paper to various buyers by splitting the sales value to avoid E-way bill declaration. The second unit had also not filed the statutory returns. The tax evaded by the manufacturing unit was Rs. 1.7 crore and that by the second unit was Rs. 1 crore. Both the units were managed by a single person and had a single accountant. The Managing Partner of the manufacturing unit and the Managing Director of the second unit was the same person. He had admitted to tax evasion.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mails Day celebrated||The Department of Posts celebrated ‘Mails Day’ on Thursday as part of the National Postal Week programmes from October 9 to 15, where different days were dedicated to different postal services of India Post, a release said.   Ranjana Singhal, an entrepreneur, has been elected as president of TiE for 2020-22. The other office-bearers are social entrepreneur Arunachalam Muruganantham (vice-president), Somasundara Arumugam (second vice-president), S. Shanmugam(secretary) and Devika Ramesh (treasurer), according to a release.
22 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited under housing scheme||Housing Scheme for Fisherfolks under the Central Government’s Blue Revolution Scheme, have been notified here. According to an administration release, the scheme with the equal participation of the States and the Centre envisions housing facilities for fisherfolk aligned with the guidelines of the Indira Awas Yojana, the Central government’s housing scheme. To qualify for the scheme, the fisherfolk shall be a member of women’s self group for fisherwomen, shall have not less than 300 sq.ft of land with proper ownership titles with patta and sitta, the applicant shall not have benefited from any other scheme through any other NGO or organisation for housing, Preference will be given to those with disabilities, destitute women, widows. Under the scheme, 30% of the beneficiaries will belong to Adidravidar community. The applicant shall attach a copy of a resolution passed in their respective SHG, endorsing their application. Similarly, the applicants shall also attach a certificate from the Village Administrative Officer vouching for the applicant not benefiting from similar scheme earlier. The applicant shall also belong to BPL category and a certificate of the same from the Block Development Officer shall be attached alongside the application. Those seeking to benefit from the scheme are urged to apply to the Assistant Director, Fisheries at the department office located on Ramasamy Gounder Street, Ottapatty. Further details may also be ascertained over phone on 04342-232311.
22 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Kavindapadi jaggery to sweeten Palani panchamirtham||After six years, the Dhandayuthapani Swamy Devasthanam in Palani on Thursday started purchasing jaggery from the Kavindapadi Regulated Market in Erode to sweeten the famous panchamirtham offered at the temple. At a function held on the market premises, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan inaugurated the sale to the temple in the presence of Erode Collector C. Kathiravan, temple officials and farmers. Mr. Karuppannan said the Devasthanam had procured jaggery from the regulated market for 25 years, but had stopped it for the last six years. The farmers in Kavindapadi wanted the Devasthanam to resume the procurement of the jaggery from the regulated market. The issue was taken up with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. After discussions, he directed the officials concerned to procure jaggery from the market, Mr. Karuppannan said. On Thursday, the temple purchased 42.80 tonnes of jaggery at Rs. 2,490 for a 60 kg bag.
22 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest demanding resignation of Surappa||The DMK cadres led by Krishnagiri MLA T. Senguttuvan staged a protest demonstration here near Anna statue demanding the resignation of Anna University Vice-Chancellor on Thursday. The demonstration was part of the protests by the DMK over the Vice-Chancellor writing directly to the Centre seeking Institute of Eminence Status for the university. Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa triggered a row by writing to the Centre seeking Institute of Eminence status for the university, a move that is feared to bring the university under the Centre and thereby, affect the reservation policy of the State in the engineering colleges. The AIADMK government had sought a written explanation from the Vice-Chancellor. On the other hand, the DMK launched an attack on the Vice-Chancellor demanding his resignation. Earlier, DMK led protests outside Anna University. As an extension of the protest, DMK cadres here led by the party’s district secretary Mr. Senguttuvan raised slogans against the V-C and demanded that the university be protected from a takeover by the Centre.
22 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Job portal launched||Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy held a consultative meeting with employer associations on the reception for the Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal in the district. The State government had launched thewww.tnprivatejobs. tn.gov.inin the district. The portal envisions liaising between job seekers and prospective private sector employers with the intent of securing jobs for the youth, according to an administration release. The heads of Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association, Hosur Industries Association, Krishnagiri District Small and Tiny Industries Association and KISMIA participated in the meeting. The Collector urged employers to register in the job portal enabling employment opportunities for the job seekers. Further, colleges were also asked to appoint their placement officers to supervise enrolment of students in the final year of college to register.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special trains to be operated||Southern Railway will run the following reserved special trains to clear extra rush during the ensuing festival season: Train No. 06019 / 06020 Dr. MGR Chennai Central – Madurai – Dr. MGR Chennai Central AC Superfast Tri-Weekly: Train No. 06019 will leave Dr. MGR Chennai Central at 10.30 p.m.. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and reach Madurai at 7.20 a.m. the next day. The first service from Chennai Central will be on October 19. In the return direction, Train No. 06020 will leave Madurai at 10.45 p.m on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays and reach Chennai Central at 7.50 a.m. the next day. The first service from Madurai will be on October 20. The composition of the trains will be: One first class AC coach, Two 2-Tier AC coaches, Four 3-Tier AC coaches, 8 sleeper class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train No. 02666 / 02665 Kanniyakumari – Howrah- Kanniyakumari Weekly Special via Chennai Egmore: Train No. 02666 will leave Kanniyakumari at 8 a.m. on Saturdays and reach Howrah at 3.10 a.m. on Mondays. The first service from Kanniyakumari will be on October 24, and the last service on November 28. Train No.02665 will leave Howrah at 4.10 p.m. on Mondays and reach Kanniyakumari at 10.50 a.m. on Wednesdays. The first service from Howrah will be on October 26,. and the last service on November 30. Train No.06063/06064 Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil – Chennai Egmore Super Fast: Train No.06063 Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil Super Fast festival Special will leave Chennai Egmore at 6.55 p.m. to reach Nagercoil at 7.30 a.m. the next day. The trains would run on October 23, 24, 29 and November 12 and 13. Train No.06064 will leave Nagercoil at 4.15 p.m. and reach Chennai Egmore at 5 a.m. the next day. This service would run on October 26, 27, and November 1, 15 and 16.
22 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Doctor’ held following High Court order||After the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the police to secure a medical practitioner in possession of bogus certificate, the State on Thursday informed the court that he was secured by Chennai police. Justice S. Vaidyanathan was informed that Chennai police had secured K. Jayapandi of Aravakurichi in Karur district. The court observed that if such persons in possession of bogus certificates were allowed to practise medicine, it was dangerous to society. The petitioner, Jayapandi who claimed that he had completed MBBS had approached the court seeking a direction to the State to permit him to continue his medical practice. His clinic was sealed on the grounds that he was not a medical graduate. Counter affidavit Earlier, in a counter affidavit, the Registrar of Tamil Nadu Medical Council informed the court that the Provisional Medical Registration Certificate possessed by the petitioner was not issued by the Council, which was mandatory. His educational qualification was also verified with Annamalai University, Chidambaram, where the petitioner claimed that he had completed the medical course. The court was informed that the police had registered a complaint against the petitioner in Chennai.
22 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC takes serious view of DPC mismanagement||Taking a serious view of mismanagement of direct purchase centres (DPCs), the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday put forth a series of queries to the State in order to safeguard the interests of farmers. The court directed the government to file its response on October 16. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that because of abundant rain, the agriculture yield was good and farmers were bringing more paddy to the DPCs. However, the officials were making them wait for days together. The poor farmers had no place to keep the paddy and since it was rainy season, there was a possibility of the grains getting damaged. It was also alleged that the officials were procuring from private traders instead of the farmers, the judges said. Further, the court observed that bribe was being demanded from the farmers for purchase of the paddy and officials were rejecting the paddy on the grounds that the moisture content was more and non-availability of sufficient number of gunny bags at the DPCs. In order to ascertain the situation, the court asked the State to give the number of procurement centres in Tamil Nadu, and tell whether the paddy procured was stored in temporary centres before being moved to godowns and warehouses. The judges further asked why the government had not put up temporary sheds to keep the paddy, whether it was true that sufficient number of gunny bags were not available and whether bribe was being demanded. The court also asked whether paddy was procured from private traders, how many bags were damaged and what measures were taken to procure paddy effectively and swiftly. The court suo motu impleaded the CMD of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and Secretary of Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department in the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam who alleged irregularities at the DPCs.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Regulated coconut markets come to farmers’ rescue||In the past two months, around 1.50 lakh coconuts have been sold for around Rs. 19.13 lakh through indirect auctioning held at two regulated markets in the district - Melur and Vadipatti - functioning under Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Department. A good number of farmers are selling their coconuts at the regulated markets as they are able to earn handsome profits. Madurai Market Committee secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani says auction at Vadipatti market is conducted every Wednesday since August 17, and at Melur on every Thursday since October 10. A total of 67 farmers have sold their coconuts at the two markets and 103 traders have taken part in the auction process. “It was a long-time demand of farmers to conduct auctioning for coconuts at regulated markets. We have started WhatsApp groups and asked farmers and traders to participate in the auction. Since the auction has removed the role of middlemen who used to buy the coconuts at a cheap rate from the farmers and sell them with a huge margin in the market, the farmers earn good profits through auction,” she said. Coconut plantations have been raised on around 10,000 hectares in Madurai district, mostly in Vadipatti, Sholavandan and Kottampatti. Every day, around 20 trucks of coconuts are sent from Sholavandan to Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and other States. S. Manimaran of Vadipatti Integrated Farming System Farmers Producer Company says coconut farmers earn a tidy sum - better the quality of the nuts, more the price. Usually farmers are required to give away 150 coconuts with every 1,000 coconuts a trader buys. “But the regulated markets have put an end to this practice, and the farmers are happy as they earn more now,” he says. Must be segregated Ms. Jeyarani says farmers are asked to segregate the coconuts based on quality and bring them separately to the market. “This ensures that even decent quality coconuts fetch reasonable prices, which is a big advantage to the farmers,” says M. Rajendran, president of Vadipatti Coconut Farmers’ Association. The highest bid for a coconut through the auctioning has been Rs. 18. S. Durai, a farmer from Kachirayanpatti in Melur block, says an added advantage is that farmers are paid for their produce by the traders immediately after the auction. In some cases, the traders do online fund transfer to the farmer’s account or issue a cheque, says Ms. Jeyarani. Mr. Rajendran says while there is an increase in the number of farmers selling their produce at the regulated markets, more farmers must participate in the auctioning process. T. Perumal, national secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, says prices of coconuts will stabilise in the open market if the auctioning is done every day. Ms.Jeyarani says they will gradually increase the number of days of auction after having consultantations with farmers and traders.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver kidnapped in mistaken identity||In a suspected case of mistaken identity, an autorickshaw driver, T. Ramu, 26, of Peraiyur was kidnapped and assaulted by an unidentified gang under T. Kallupatti police station limits on Tuesday. Police said an unidentified person engaged his autorickshaw at T. Kallupatti auto stand to go to Villur around noon on Tuesday. When the auto approached Kolliveeranpatti, he asked to stop the vehicle near a car. Four persons, who got out of the car, abused and assaulted him and forcibly took him with his eyes blindfolded. However, when they questioned him as to why he had married one Selvarani, Ramu had told them that he was unaware of what they are asking him. The gang realised that they had kidnapped the wrong person and let him off. The victim has been admitted to a private hospital. The T. Kallupatti police are on the lookout for the accused.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fiat to traders on fertilizer||Agriculture department officials have warned traders not to sell fertilizers at a price higher than the price fixed by the government. A press release said there was adequate stock of fertilizers at private outlets and primary agricultural cooperative societies. A total of 2,944 tonnes of urea, 980 tonnes of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), 1,990 tonnes of potash and 5,448 of complex fertilizers were available. The fertilizers have to be sold to farmers only after registering with Point of Sale devices. The prices of fertilizers have to be displayed at every store, the release added.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Admissions start for DDE courses||Admission of students for this academic year has started at Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), with the approval of UGC- Distance Education Board. Admissions will be held for 25 courses. Credit system has been introduced instead of marks to evaluate the students. The subjects and syllabus will be on par with regular courses. Seminar classes will be conducted during weekends through online platforms during the COVID-19 pandemic. Admissions are underway at MKU, DDE, Palkalai Nagar campus, MKU evening colleges at Alagar Koil Road, Theni, Dindigul, Periyakulam and Palani; MKU constituent colleges at Tirumangalam, Vedasandur, Sathur and Aruppukottai. Interested students are asked to apply on or before October 31. For further details, contact 63797 82339, 94420 26474 ormkuddeodl@gmail.com
22 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Mexican convict appeals against life sentence||Mexican national Martin Manrique Mansoor, who was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his ex-girlfriend and compatriot Cecile Denise Acosta by the Mahila Court here in September, has preferred an appeal against the order before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. In his appeal, Mansoor complained that there was no fair investigation in the case. Hearing his appeal on Thursday, a Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli ordered notice to the State. It was said that the couple had quarrelled over the custody of their five-year-old daughter that led to the woman’s murder in 2012. At that time, Mansoor was pursuing research in Mathematics at Kalasalingam University in Virudhunagar district and Acosta was learning Mohiniyattom at Kerala Kalamandalam Deemed University for Art and Culture, Thrissur. He stuffed the partially burnt body in a travel bag and dumped it near Austinpatti. A special team was formed to solve the case.
22 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Awareness sessions being conducted for sago units to prevent adulteration||As sago units in the region have resumed operation, officials from food safety department are maintaining vigil and conducting inspections at units to prevent adulteration. K.C. Arun, Designated Officer, Food Safety, said that awareness sessions are being conducted for sago manufacturers to prevent adulteration and vigil is being maintained. Dr. Arun said, “as this is harvest season of tapioca, a majority of sago units have started manufacturing their products at the units here. An awareness session was recently conducted in the presence of Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani with sagoserve manufacturers and necessary advice was given. Besides, awareness sessions are being conducted for manufacturers who couldn’t make it to the meeting to prevent adulteration.” According to officials, there are about 100 sago units in the district. However, not all units have started production at the moment. Dr. Arun said that manufacturers have been advised to prevent any kind of adulteration. He added that corn flour and certain whiteners are generally used adulterants in sago. “We had earlier collected 250 samples from units here and the results are awaited,” he said.
22 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||3 more held in sexual assault case||The Rasipuram All Women Police Station has arrested three more persons in connection with the sexual assault on two minor siblings. The arrested are Periyasami (57) and two minors aged 17 and 16. Till date, the police have arrested 10 persons in the case.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Medical OBC quota not possible this year: Centre||The National Medical Commission and the Centre informed the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday that it is not possible to extend reservation benefits to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical and dental seats contributed towards the All India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run colleges in Tamil Nadu this year. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, advocate Gaurav Sharma, for the National Medical Commission (NMC), said students had filled their application forms for NEET in January-February itself. “They had also filled the category under which they were applying. The NEET results would also show this category... The OBC reservation was not open then in January-February,” Mr. Sharma submitted. Mr. Sharma said the reservation roster had already been fixed by the Directorate General of Health Services. The NEET results will be out on October 16, and counselling will be held within a week. “Implementing this OBC quota for this year (in Tamil Nadu) is not possible,” Mr. Sharma submitted. Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh agreed with this. They were responding to queries from the court as to whether it was possible to implement the OBC reservation this academic year in the State.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Varsity launches book on global commons||Pondicherry University, in collaboration with the Université Sorbonne Paris Nord, France, has come out with a book on Global Commons, natural resource domains that are not subject to any national jurisdiction and are accessible to all. Gurmeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Pondicherry University released the book, “Global Commons: Issues, Concerns and Strategies” edited jointly by Mohanan Pillai, Dean, School of Law, Pondicherry University and Geetha Ganapathy Dore of the University of Paris North. According to a press note, the book, a product of the collaboration between Pondicherry University and the French University, presents a comprehensive international perspective on the global commons-natural resource domains. This includes the oceans, atmosphere and outer space, and specific locations such as Antarctica. Due to their critical importance in maintaining human lives and livelihoods and their vulnerability to depletion, the joint preservation of the global commons is of great relevance to all human communities. Leading world powers, such as France, are increasingly adopting environmental policies as key to their functioning as democracies. After the Paris Climate Conference, there has been a spurt in cooperation between major nations, such as France and India, in the fight against climate change. New world order The book, which provides exhaustive coverage of all the significant facets of preservation of global commons, is indispensable to all stakeholders in a new, just and sustainable world order, said Prof. Gurmeet Singh. The authors have brought together both empirical insight as well as analytical perspective and have sought to bring clarity to the dilemma caused by the need to follow norms that are common and fair, he added. The work is a valuable addition to literature surrounding geopolitics, said M.D. Nalapat, editorial director of theSunday Guardian. T. Jayaraman, Senior Fellow, Climate Change, M. S. Swaminathan Foundation; Rajen Harshe, former Vice-Chancellor of Allahabad University; Shakti Sinha, former Director, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, New Delhi, spoke. The book launch was organised by the School of Law, Pondicherry University, in association with the University of Sorbonne Paris North and the Sage Publishing Company.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy holds review meeting with officials||After presenting a full budget towards the end of July, the government has utilised around 35% of the total budgeted amount. “I have held a review of all departments to ascertain their performance. Of the total budgeted amount, the departments have so far utilised 35% of the funds allocated,” Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy told The Hindu after the review meeting held at the Chief Secretariat. The government had directed the departments to utilise the allocated funds to the maximum in the coming months, he added. Stand-off with L-G Amid a stand-off with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on presentation of the budget, the Chief Minister presented a Rs. 9,000-crore budget for the current financial year on July 20. According to a senior official, who attended the meeting, the Chief Minister had issued a direction to the department heads to speed up all infrastructure-related works and concentrate on implementing welfare schemes announced in the budget. Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao, Minister for Revenue M.O.H. F. Shahjahan, Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan and Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar attended the meeting.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records lowest positivity rate||Puducherry recorded its lowest infection rate of under 6% in several months, with 245 new COVID-19 cases being detected from 4,649 tests on Thursday. The Union Territory registered two deaths on Thursday. A 68-year-old woman in Puducherry and a 60-year-old man in Karaikal were the casualties. The cumulative death count in Puducherry is 472 followed by Karaikal (52), Yanam (42) and Mahe (four). The test positivity rate was 5.26%, case fatality rate 1.75% and the recovery rate 84.24%. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the Union Home Secretary had, in a virtual review meeting convened by the Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare Ministries, appreciated the efforts of the Health Department in reducing mortality and augmenting testing. ICMR epidemiology expert Prabhdeep Kaur had shared her views on the encouraging progress on the COVID-19 management front, Ms. Bedi said. Dr. Kaur had stressed onthe importance of detecting cases in indoor settings early to prevent outbreaks through sustained testing of staff in bars, malls and markets. It was imperative to test all contacts of any government or private sector employee who tests positive and to check with patients about other cases at their respective workplaces. The Lt. Governor cautioned that the real test was yet to come with the commencement of the festive season. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the tally in Puducherry stood at 32,486 after the transfer of four patients to Tamil Nadu’s tally. The capital accounted for 174 new cases on Thursday, Karaikal 39, Yanam five and Mahe 27. Among the 213 patients discharged after recovery, 178 were in Puducherry, 16 in Karaikal, seven in Yanam and 12 in Mahe. The toll stands at 570 with 4,551 active cases, including 2,899 patients under home quarantine and 27,365 patients recovered. The Health Department has to date carried out 2,50,582 tests of which 2,14,793 returned negative results. 120 cases in Cuddalore As many as 120 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. The district’s tally has touched 22,163 and the toll is 258. The Health Department said there were 906 active cases while 130 persons recovered. Villupuram district reported 65 fresh cases, taking its total to 12,859. Kallakurichi district reported 40 cases, taking the tally to 9,829.
22 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two country made bombs seized||The bomb detection and disposal squad team seized two country made bombs and detained three persons at Valantharavai near here on Thursday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that it was intended to settle scores between two gangs, which were indulging in illegal acts such as selling ganja and other narcotics. A senior officer, who was camping at Valantharavai, said that two gangs belonging to Bas alias Baskaran and Dharma alias Dharmaraj were operating in the locality for many years. Frequently, they indulged in clashes, which sometimes, had snowballed into violence and ended in murders or attempted murders. In May 2018, two men (Boominathan and Vijay) associated with Bas alias Baskaran gang were murdered by their rivals. In a bid to retaliate, two accomplices of Dharmaraj’s gang were murdered by hurling country bombs on 16, October 2018. After witnessing four grave crimes within the Kenikarai police station, the police deployed additional forces and pickets in Valantharavai. Under such circumstances, when the first anniversary was observed by the rivals last year, the police teams seized a country made bomb and weapons from a dilapidated building in the locality. In a similar fashion, the police control room received a call informing it that there were country made bombs in a private farm. Immediately, a team led by DSP Velladurai and others rushed to the spot and seized two country made bombs from a farm belonging to one Suresh (33). Along with him, the police arrested Dharmar (35) and Boominathan (42) for interrogation. Based on their confession, the police said that they had seized the bombs at the right time as the gangs had planned an attack in a day or two. In view of the death anniversary, additional pickets were deployed at Valantharavai, the officer said. A senior officer said that they had tightened the ganja sale by intensifying vigil across the district. All check posts were under surveillance, which had forced the gangs to relocate to other districts. Praying for a CB-CID probe, Boominathan filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court Bench at Madurai on September 28, he added.
22 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Abdul Kalam||Recalling the yeomen services rendered to the nation, people from various walks of life showered encomiums on former President of India APJ Abdul Kalam on the occasion of his 89th birth anniversary here on Thursday. Collector K Veera Raghava Rao joined the prayers, organised by the family of Mr. Kalam, at the memorial at Peikarumbu, which was thrown open to only select people since March 18 as it was closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The family members led by Mr Kalam’s elder brother’s son Jainuladeen, daughter Nazeema Maraikayar, grandsons Sheik Dawood and Sheik Saleem and representatives from the Jamaat in the district offered special prayers. Sweets were distributed to guests and saplings were planted around the memorial. Leaders from the BJP, AIADMK, DMK and Congress recalled their association with him and the services rendered by Kalam. Ponraj, who was then secretary to the President, also paid tributes at the memorial. On behalf of the APJ Abdul Kalam Foundation, many events were conducted and students participated in them. The Dalai Lama addressed the foundation members on the theme ‘Planet Earth - working together for a peaceful world’ and recollected how Dr Kalam had been an inspiration to the youth not only in India but across the globe. The powerful oratory, hard work and simple living practised by the late President were recalled by speakers. The webinar enlightened on the significance of peace and spirituality in order to foster unity. The webcasts were available in 14 different languages including Russian, Korean, Japanese, German, Portugese and French, among others, Mr. Sheik Saleem said. The members of Nehru Yuva Kendra from Madurai had undertaken a cycle rally creating awareness among the people of the need to acquire knowledge, which was close to Dr Kalam. They reached the memorial marking the anniversary and distributed pamphlets about Dr Kalam en route. Many educational institutions across southern districts conducted many events, garlanded the portrait of Dr Kalam and distributed prizes to winners of competitions.
22 October 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Number plate recognition cameras installed at Five Road Junction||Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras that help police to track traffic violations were installed at Five Road Junction here. Currently, traffic policemen physically monitor vehicles and intercept violators and register cases for not wearing helmets, stopline violations, overspeeding, triple-riding and other violations. Under the system, cameras with high-grade technology that read the number plates of vehicles even during night hours were installed at Five Road Junction. The feed from the cameras will be received at the city police control room and a challan with the vehicle registration number, the date and time of the violation and a picture of the vehicle violating rules, will be sent home. The cameras detect the two-wheeler riders without helmets, those who speak over the phone while driving and other violations. The cameras will also help to monitor vehicle movement and also track the movement of criminals and nab them. Sources in the department said that the system helps in identifying regular offenders and issuing warnings. Besides monitoring, the system helps in crime detection also, officials said. Cameras were installed at the junction and on the flyover and the system is expected to be commissioned soon.
22 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary worker attacked for not clearing waste||A Corporation sanitary worker was allegedly attacked on Thursday after she refused to clear waste dumped on roadsides. According to the police, Valli, a sanitary worker during duty in Ammapet was asked to clear some waste dumped in an unhealthy manner on the roadsides. However, she reportedly refused to clear them and advised the residents to dump the waste in common bins placed in the area, police said. This led to a quarrel and members of a family allegedly attacked Ms. Valli. She was admitted at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Based on her complaint, Ammapet police registered a case against Karthik Babu and two others.
22 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inflow at Mettur dam dips||The inflow of water to Mettur dam decreased on Thursday. PWD officials said the water level in the dam stood at 100ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 64,840 mcft.
22 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘State support will be sought for protection of monuments’||The Archaeological Survey of India will take steps to ensure proper protection of historic monuments with the support of district administrations and superintendents of police. Disclosing this to reporters here on Wednesday, T.Arun Raj, Superintendent Archaeologist, ASI, Tiruchi Circle, said that ASI received complaints that certain monuments were subjected to vandalism and hence ASI will seek the intervention of the district administrations and the police to protect the monuments by forming special teams. He had also said that with the creation of a new circle with Tiruchi as its headquarters, more attention could be given to 162 monuments that exist in 21 districts in Central and South Tamil Nadu. When asked whether adding more lighting equipment in the Big Temple complex would affect the stability of the structure, the Superintending Archaeologist replied in the negative. Special attention would be provided for the upkeep of monuments such as Darasuram and Gangaikonda Cholapuram temples, he added.
22 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Expedite digitisation of Sanskrit manuscripts – Collector||Collector M.Govinda Rao has urged the Saraswathi Mahal Library authorities to expedite the process of digitisation of Sanskrit manuscripts. Chairing a review meeting at the Saraswathi Mahal Library recently, the Collector lauded the library authorities for digitising 65% of the Sanskrit manuscripts available with it and directed them to complete the process as early as possible. He had also lauded the commitment showed by the staff in digitising all the Tamil, Telugu and Marathi language palm leave scripts.
22 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||102 stolen mobile phones recovered||The owners of 102 mobile phones got back their stolen phones on Thursday. Two special teams, formed to crack 102 complaints of theft since 2019, recovered all mobile phones, worth about Rs. 10 lakh, with the help of International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI). Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who handed over the recovered mobile phones to the owners at the District Police Office, said banking details, photos, scanned copies of important documents including Aadhaar card should not be stored as those who stole the phones might misuse this information. Apart from monetary loss, such attempts by anti-social elements who had stolen the phones, would attract unnecessary legal issues. Urging the public to wear helmets while riding two-wheelers and fasten seatbelts while travelling in cars, he said such practices would avoid loss of life even in the event of road accidents. The SP urged the public to wear masks as they come out of their houses as COVID-19 was still a serious threat to everyone even though the positivity rate had come down.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It’s time to free Main Guard Gate from encroachers||With the Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) new circle office being opened in the city recently, conservationists and heritage enthusiasts are pushing for the removal of encroachments and putting an end to commercial activity in the immediate vicinity of the famous Main Guard Gate, a protected monument, in the city. The Main Guard Gate, the gateway to the Rockfort, is believed to be the only remaining part of the fortifications, around the Rock Fort, established in the Nayak period and developed by subsequent rulers, including the British. In 2005, the ASI had renovated the structure and also established an Interpretation Centre, highlighting the ancient history of Tiruchi, on the rear side of the structure. However, down the years, the historic structure has become a part of the busy commercial hub on the NSB Road in the city. Several platform vendors operate right beneath the structure and while several shops, part of the Burma Bazaar, are situated all around the structure. According to sources under Rule 32 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1959, no construction could be taken up within a 100-metre radius of a protected monument. Yet several semi-permanent structures have come up around the monument over the years. Sporadic attempts to evict the encroachers have not been successful. Some years ago, the ASI authorities had written to the district authorities seeking the removal of the encroachments. Subsequently, notices were issued to some of the traders, who then took the issue to the courts, recalled a former officer of the ASI. “It is a historic place and of tourist importance; but it looks like a typical commercial area. If only it was made more visible, the small museum (Interpretation Centre) will attract visitors and can be developed further with audio/visual aids for the benefit of tourists,” he observed. Now with a new administrative circle of the ASI being created in Tiruchi, the erstwhile office of the Tiruchi Sub-Circle, situated right in Main Guard Gate complex, functions as the circle office temporarily. The creation of the circle has also triggered expectations among conservationists of better upkeep of monuments. They also hope that the civic authorities and the ASI would take steps to rid the historic Main Guard Gate from the clutches of encroachers. “The structure is a vital remnant of the Nayak period fort and one of the most important monuments in Tiruchi district. Hence it is vital to preserve and protect it. Now that the ASI circle office has been set up here, we hope the historic structure will be preserved well with the removal of encroachments,” observed R.Kalaikkovan, Director, Dr. M. Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research. Dr.Kalaikkovan pointed out that owning to the hectic commercial activity, even the presence of Interpretation Centre goes unnoticed and have not got the visibility it deserves. Some civic activists have been pressing for the removal of encroachments around Rockfort. “No vendors or platform shops should be allowed around Main Guard Gate and the Teppakulam. Vendors should be given alternative places to operate from,” said N. Ramakrishnan,a civic activist. He suggested that the vendors and traders could be moved to public spaces available along the East Boulevard Road. According to available indications, the ASI authorities are likely to take up the matter with the civic authorities and also sensitise the vendors and traders to the importance of the historic structure.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||LED lamps light up Tiruchi||The work to illuminate the city streets with power-conserving LED lights taken up by the Tiruchi Corporation is nearing completion. Undertaken under the Smart Cities Mission and done in two phases, the project costs Rs. 23.4 crore. It will also help in saving 60% of the electricity which was earlier utilised by the civic body for lighting the street lamps, senior officials said. The work, which began in 2019, was divided into phases. In the first phase, 19 wards in the four zones - K. Abhishekapuram, Ariyamangalam, Golden Rock and Srirangam were covered at a cost of Rs. 8.7 crore, while in the second, and final phase, the remaining 46 wards were covered at a cost of Rs. 14.7 crore. Earlier, in 2015, the civic body had replaced 26,391 fluorescent bulbs in street lights with LED at a cost of Rs. 30 crore. According to plan, a total of 8,264 existing street lamps which were either fluorescent lights or sodium vapour were converted to SMART LED lights, while 800 new poles were erected in areas such as Thillai Nagar and Khajamalai, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, told The Hindu . While the sodium vapour bulbs and fluorescent lamps consumed around 400 watts of power, the new bulbs consumed half that amount. Prior to the shift, the civic body had seen a consumption of 86.38 lakh units of electricity each year on street lighting alone. After converting to LED lights, the power consumption will come down to 34.70 lakh units, thereby saving nearly 60%, that is 51.6 lakh units. “This means that we will be saving money and also energy,” the Corporation Commissioner said. At least Rs. 3.3 crore would be saved, which can be invested in developing infrastructure in the city, he said.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Centre consistently lying on farm laws, says CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader R. Mutharasan on Thursday alleged that the Prime Minister and the Central government were consistently lying about the newly enacted farm laws by repeatedly claiming that they would usher in a change in the lives of the farming community. Addressing journalists in Tiruchi, he said while protests against the farm laws were going on across the country, the Centre was trying to justify the laws by claiming that it would be beneficial to the farmers. The repeated assertions of the Centre to justify the farms laws were condemnable, he said. The CPI will conduct special awareness conferences on the Centre’s new farm and labour laws at the zonal level in Thanjavur, Madurai, Salem, Villupuram and Chennai from October 28 to November 4 for the benefit of farmers and labourers. Farmers and labourers would be invited for the special conferences and explained about the problems they would face from the new laws, he said. The CPI would extend its support to the nationwide strike called by the central trade unions on November 26 against the farm and labour laws and in support of other demands. He also alleged that the Centre was recruiting more candidates from North India in the Railways and other central government departments and ignoring candidates from Tamil Nadu.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Electrification almost complete on Nagapattinam -Velankanni stretch||Overhead electrification project taken up on the Nagapattinam - Velankanni broad gauge line is almost over. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) which was entrusted with the task of electrifying the 10-kilometre small stretch took up the works during the lockdown period a couple of months ago. The Nagapattinam - Velankanni overhead electrification work is part of the Tiruchi -Karaikal electrification project executed by the CORE. The entire stretch from Tiruchi to Karaikal via Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagore and Nagapattinam has already been energised. A senior railway official said electrification works on the Nagapattinam -Velankanni broad gauge stretch has almost been completed. The works had been completed within a span of three months during the lockdown period. Labourers from North Indian States were engaged during the lockdown period for installation of overhead electrical equipment along the small stretch, the official further said. This stretch would soon become another section in the vast limits of Tiruchi Railway Division to get electrified. Approval would have to be obtained from the Electrical Inspector of the Government of India for charging the Nagapattinam -Velankanni broad gauge line, the official further said. The CORE, he said, had also simultaneously taken up overhead electrification works on the Nidamangalan -Mannargudi (10 km) section which also falls under the jurisdiction of Tiruchi Division. Foundation works have been completed with installation of electric masts currently under way between Nidamangalam and Mannargudi. The official said the plan was to complete this portion in a couple of months adding that the foundation works for electrifying the Tiruchi -Pudukottai broad gauge section was under way.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts see further drop in COVID-19 cases||The central districts recorded a further dip in COVID-19 cases with 407 patients testing positive for the viral infection on Thursday. The region recorded six deaths -- two each in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur and one each in Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. In Nagapattinam, two men aged 58 and 68, both suffering from coronary artery disease died of the viral infection while in Thanjavur, a 62-year-old man who also suffered from coronary artery disease and a 50-year-old man with no pre-existing health condition died of COVID-19. A 60-year-old woman with no comorbidities from Tiruvarur and a 67-year-old man with a history of diabetes and hypertension from Tiruchi also succumbed to the disease, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Keeping with the trend in recent days, Thanjavur district continued to record the highest number of COVID cases among the central districts. Ninety-six patients tested positive in the district among whom were primary contacts, patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses or Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and frontline workers. Containment zones Meanwhile, Tiruchi recorded a slight increase in cases with 79 patients testing positive for the viral infection. However, they were all isolated residents as no new containment zones were created, officials said. “There are 12 containment zones within the city. No new ones have been added in the last week,” an official from the City Corporation said. Meanwhile, 24 patients, including 16 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and eight from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the infection. Nagapattinam recorded 62 new COVID-19 cases, among which were patients who were primary contacts, and those with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, in Tiruvarur, 60 fresh COVID cases were reported while in Pudukottai, 50 patients tested positive. A number of patients in both districts were local index cases with no travel or contact history, said sources. Karur recorded 36 new COVID-19 cases, a drop in the recent days. Among them were residents of Pasupathipalayam, Vengamedu and Kulithalai. A few travellers from Tiruchi also tested positive in Karur. In Ariyalur, 18 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Including these patients, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is 1,345. As on Thursday, 4,209 patients had tested positive. In Perambalur, six patients reported positive for the viral infection. Of the seven, two hailed from the Perambalur block, one from Veppanthattai, two from Veppur and one from Alathur blocks.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Drive to plant one lakh palm seeds||Civil society organisations in Tiruchi joined hands to launch a drive to plant one lakh palm seeds to commemorate the 89th birth anniversary of former President APJ Abdul Kalam. Volunteers of the organisations on Thursday planted the seeds along the Olaiyur lake bund in the city. “Not-for-profit organisations across Tamil Nadu had vowed to plant 1 crore seeds on Abdul Kalam's 88nd birth anniversary, last year,” said K. Neelamegam, Secretary, Thaneer, which organised the event along with Moral Resource & Research Foundation, and students of city schools and colleges. “In 2019, over 60 lakh such seeds were planted across all districts in Tamil Nadu. Of the remaining 40 lakhs, one lakh seeds will be planted in Tiruchi district over the next few weeks,” he said. Beneficiaries of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in Olaiyur, volunteers from schools and colleges in the city and office bearers of the Olaiyur panchayat took part in the plantation drive which was inaugurated by R. Vedarathinam, Deputy Commissioner of Police, (Crime and Traffic). Mr. Neelamegam said that a similar plantation drive has been organised in Lalgudi and Gundur. “In Lalgudi at least 50,000 seeds will be planted. With this and along with the event in Gundur, our goal of planting one lakh seeds will be completed,” he added.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply today||The corporation has announced that there will be no drinking water supply on Friday in the following areas owing to maintenance works to be taken up at Srirangam sub-station: Devadhanam, Viragupettai, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam, Ukkadai, Jaganathapuram, Malaiyappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Senthaneerpuram, Sangiliandapuram, Ex-servicemen Colony, Vivekananda Nagar, J.K.Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Ponneripuram, Kallukuzhi, Ponmalaipatti, Central Prison, Subramaniapuram, Airport, Kamaraj Nagar, Sembattu, Khaja Nagar, Khajamalai, K.K.Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Anand Nagar, Sathyavani Muthu Nagar, Ayyappa Nagar, Woraiyur, Mangala Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Siva Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Selva Nagar, Anandam Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Puthur, Edamalaipattipudur, K.Sathanur, Anbu Nagar, Krishnamurthy Nagar, Thondaiman Nagar and Crawford. Water supply will resume on October 17, S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said in a release.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BHEL, Tiruchi, wins award||The Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Tiruchi, has secured the first position among the major units of ‘C’ region under BHEL inter-unit Rajbhasha Shield Scheme for implementation of official language during the year 2018-19. The unit had bagged the award during 2017-18 too, said R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL, Tiruchi complex, while speaking at the valedictory function of Rajbhasha Day celebrations at BHEL on Thursday. Highlighting various initiatives including spoken Hindi and Tamil classes for employees as well as their family members carried out at BHEL,Tiruchi, Mr. Padmanabhan said that learning additional languages would be of great use while travelling to different parts of India. Mr. Padmanabhan also gave away prizes to the winners of various competitions held as part of Rajbhasha Day in the presence of N. C. Poly, Additional General Manager, Human Resources and Medical, BHEL. Sudhir Kumar Mishra, Senior Rajbhasha Officer, BHEL, spoke.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vasan slams opposition to farm laws||Tamil Maanila Congress leader G.K. Vasan on Thursday said the new farm laws, aimed at increasing the income of farmers in a phased manner, provided hope for their overall security, development and welfare. The people and political parties should stand united on this issue, Mr. Vasan told reporters in Tiruchi. Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu should not “blindly” and for “political reasons” resort to spreading panic among the farming community without conveying the favourable aspects of the laws, he said. This kind of approach of the Opposition parties was unacceptable. On the issue of NEET and the claims made by the DMK that they would do away with it if elected to power, Mr. Vasan said people were no longer ready to be fooled by such promises. The decision by the AIADMK to announce Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the CM candidate of the AIADMK for the 2021 Assembly elections was taken keeping in mind the welfare of the State, people and the allies, he said.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration||Members of the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath staged a demonstration here on Thursday condemning the demolition of the front portion of a mosque at Tiruvanaikoil recently for laying a service road. The demonstration lasted an hour and was led by the outfit's district president Ghulam Dhastagir, said police sources.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demo held||Members of the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath staged a demonstration near the Collectorate here on Thursday condemning the demolition of the front portion of a mosque at Tiruvanaikoil recently for laying a service road. The demonstration in which a large number of Muslims took part lasted an hour and was led by the outfit's district president Ghulam Dhastagir, said police sources.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi/Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages demo||Members of the Youth Wing of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam staged demonstrations in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts on Thursday condemning M. K.Surappa, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University, for directly approaching the Union Government seeking Institute of Eminence (IoE) status to the University and the bifurcation of the university. A group of the Youth Wing members staged a demonstration in front of the Government Engineering College at Sethurapatti in Tiruchi. Demonstrations were staged at two places in Thanjavur district. The demonstrators, led by MLAs Kovi.Chezihan and Durai Chandrasekaran at Sengipatti and by youth wing office bearers at Rajamadam, raised slogans condemning Professor Surappa.
22 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre demand removal of V-C||The DMK youth and the students’ wing organised demonstration here on Thursday condemning the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University Surappa for having “unilaterally” written a letter to the Union Government on mobilising on its own the funds required for attaining ‘Institute of Eminence’ status and demanding his removal from the post. Led by Durai, deputy organiser of youth wing, they staged a demonstration in front of Anna University’s Regional Office here on the Government College of Engineering premises on Tirunelveli – Nagercoil Highway and raised slogans demanding the immediate ouster of Prof. Surappa. They said the VC had been functioning in “autocratic manner” ever since he assumed office as he was enjoying the blessings of the ‘saffron party’. When the Union Government decided to bring the Anna University under its control with the motive of denying reservations to the students of Backward Classes, a proposal to offer ‘Institute of Eminence’ status to the university was made for which the State Government had to ensure the allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore over a period of five years as its share. However, without consulting the Tamil Nadu government, Prof. Surappa had written a letter to the Union Government saying that the Anna University itself had the ability to mobilize this fund to get the ‘Institute of Eminence’ status. Instead of seeking permission from the Tamil Nadu government, which founded the Anna University, for allocation of funds for development of the institution, he was functioning in “unilateral manner” for facilitating the Centre’s “ulterior motive” of bringing Anna University under its control in every aspect. They alleged that the proposed division of Anna University would seriously affect its standards. In the agitation organised in front of Anna University Constituent Engineering College, members of the DMK’s students and the youth wing participated.
22 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Collector goes online to redress farmers’ grievances||After over seven months, the grievance redress meeting for farmers resumed in Tiruppur district on Thursday. As many as 124 farmers took part in a virtual meeting with the officials. The meeting, which remained suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was held through Zoom video-conferencing platform, a release said. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, Joint Director of Agriculture Department S. Manoharan and other officials participated in the meeting from the Collectorate, where they interacted with farmers from all 13 blocks in the district. Mr. Manoharan told The Hindu that 124 farmers participated in the meeting. Around 10 farmers per block gathered at the respective Block Agricultural Extension Centres, where arrangements were made for the meeting. “Even though the grievance meeting [for farmers] was last held in February, the farmers were coming to the Collectorate regularly in these seven months to convey their grievances,” he said. Some of the issues discussed during the meeting were regarding Parambikulam-Aliyar Project and milk procurement by Aavin in the district, according to Mr. Manoharan. District Secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R. Kumar, who participated in the meeting at Uthukuli block, welcomed the resumption of the grievance meetings. However, he said that there were no immediate replies from the officials for the queries placed by farmers.
22 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man writes Thirukkural couplets on 1,330 postcards||To mark the 89th birth anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on Thursday, a 32-year-old man in Tiruppur wrote the couplets of the Thirukkural on 1,330 postcards. S. Vijayakumar, a resident of Nallur, said on Wednesday that he finished writing the couplets with their explanations on 1,330 postcards in just over 22 hours from Sunday afternoon to Monday evening. A private company recognised this record attempt and felicitated him on Monday. “Whatever kurals and their explanations I could remember, I wrote them from memory. For the rest, I used a book,” he said. An admirer of Thiruvalluvar and Kalam, Mr. Vijayakumar said he wanted to pay tribute for the birth anniversary in a unique manner this year. “Through Kalam ayya , my interest in Thirukkural increased further,” he said, referring to Kalam quoting the couplets often in his speeches and writings. To mark Kalam’s birth anniversary on Thursday, a portion of these 1,330 postcards will be sent to authorities including President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, he said. The remaining postcards with the kurals will be distributed among school students to create awareness on the importance of Thirukkural among them, according to Mr. Vijayakumar.
22 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Online scammers impersonate one more Nilgiris official||Online scammers have once again tried to defraud the public by impersonating yet another government official from the Nilgiris district. A fake email address, created to impersonate M. Balaji, the Executive Director of Tea Board India, Coonoor, was discovered recently. A similar attempt was made a few days ago by creating a fake email id of the Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya, and mails were sent to district administration officials to purchase gift cards from online retailers. In a press release, the Tea Board said that a fake email address –chiefexecutive191 @gmail. comhad been created in the name of Mr. Balaji, an IAS officer. By impersonating him, the scammers had tried to get money from the members of the tea industry and the public. Based on a complaint, the Nilgiris district police registered a case and were investigating. “It is appealed to the public and all stakeholders of the tea industry to not act upon any such fake email IDs in the future,” the release said, adding that anyone who received such emails could bring it to the knowledge of the Board.
22 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||114 new cases in Vellore district||The COVID-19 tally in Vellore district reached 16,731 with 114 new cases reported on October 15. While 15,707 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 744. The district’s toll stands at 280. In Ranipet district, 55 cases were reported taking the total to 14,191. In Tirupathur, the number of positive cases stood at 5,963 with 58 new cases. In Tiruvannamalai district, 76 new cases were reported, taking the total to 16,864. Of these, 15,987 patients have been discharged and there are 627 active cases.
22 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||RPF arrests travel agent||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) raided a travel firm in Vellore for reportedly using a software to pre-fill passenger information, bypassing captcha and booking tickets quickly even as regular passengers struggled with the task. According to RPF sources, following information about such illegal ticket booking happening in Vellore, Birendra Kumar, IG, RPF, Southern Railway, and Senthil Kumaresan, Senior Divisional Commissioner, RPF, Chennai, formed a special team under Prith Krishnan, Assistant Commissioner, RPF. Information about the business activities of travel agents were collected and suspicion arose on Harisankar from West Bengal, who runs Ramakrishna Tours and Travels, in Vellore. A search was conducted by Muthupandi, Inspector of Avadi, and Nagaraj, sub-inspector, Katpadi. They seized e-tickets estimated to be at Rs. 1.75 lakh, a computer and other related accessories. It was found that illegal software called ANMS and Real Mango were used for booking more tickets violating the IRCTC rules and regulation. Harisankar installed apps of Tatkal on his mobile and used to book e-tickets. Harishankar was arrested and police are searching for another suspect Tapas Kumar Dhattu. A case has been booked against them. “We are searching for the owner of the software. We will be continuing the raids during the festival season,” said an officer.
22 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Staff honour owner of oldest post box in Vellore||On the last day of World Postal Week celebrations, the Department of Posts in Vellore honoured 78-year-old N. Senthamizh Kko, who has been maintaining an individual post box for the longest time. The World Postal Week is celebrated from October 9 to 15. As part of the celebrations the postal staff from Vellore honoured the oldest savings account holder, distributed chocolates to customers, distributed postal key chains to the public and other activities were organised throughout the week. An individual or company can maintain an individual post box in the post office. “One set of keys will be with the customer and another with us. The letters for he/she will be kept in the post box and the customers can collect it whenever they want. There are 12 such individual post boxes in Vellore,” said Komal Kumar, Superintendent of Post Offices, Vellore region. Mr. Senthamizh Kko has been maintaining the post box for 40 years. “He started it in the Vellore Head Post office when he started to work as a clerk in Government School, Cholavaram, Vellore. This is because he has subscribed to many magazines and newspapers. He collects it once in a week,” said S. Shantakumari, wife of Mr. Sentamizh. Mr. Sentamizh has been running a small newspaper reading centre called Periyar Library in Tirupur Kumaran Street in Kosapet for the past two decades. “He wants everyone to read,” said Ms. Shantakumari.
22 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||V-C’s act is breach of discipline: Minister||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Thursday questioned the propriety of Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa in dashing off a letter directly to the Centre explaining the capacity of the institution to raise funds on its own. Mr. Shanmugam told reporters here that the act of the Vice-Chancellor lacked discipline and he could not override the other authorities, especially the Pro-Chancellor, the Chancellor and the State government. “Mr. Surappa cannot contact the Centre bypassing the State authorities and we have sought an explanation from him for writing a letter,” the Minister said. Panel report awaited Mr. Shanmugam said that the government had made it clear in the Assembly that a committee comprising Ministers had been constituted to study the bifurcation of Anna University into Institute of Eminence (IoE). The committee was yet to submit its report. The Minister said the government would never accept any step that would disrupt the 69% reservation introduced by the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. He said that certain provisions in the letter of the Union Education Ministry related to the award of IOE status were not acceptable and hit at the 69% reservation policy followed in the State. Although the government sought an explanation from them, they had refused, he added.
22 October 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Case tally crosses 15,000-mark in Virudhunagar district||Madurai recorded 83 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, which took the district’s total number of cases to 17,790. There were 90 discharges, which left 793 active cases in the district. No death was recorded. Kanniyakumari district, which has so far lost 237 patients to the viral infection, continues to add high number of cases, as it recorded 80 new cases on Thursday, which took the tally up to 14,086. The district, which marked the discharge of 111 people, has 710 active cases. Virudhunagar’s case tally went past 15,000-mark to reach 15,028 with 51 people testing positive. After 33 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 282 active cases. The death toll in the district remains at 215. Tirunelveli also reported 51 new cases. Consequently, the district’s tally went up to 13,733, with 614 active cases. Eighty-three people were discharged from hospitals. Forty-seven people tested positive in Theni, taking the district’s tally up to 15,846. There were 57 discharges in the district, which now has 419 active cases. A total of 187 people have died of the viral infection in the district. Thoothukudi, with 43 fresh cases, has registered a total case count of 14,325. The district, which witnessed the discharge of 42 people, has 535 active cases. Dindigul reported 33 new cases, with which the district’s tally rose to 9,479. There were 27 discharges. The district, which has registered 178 deaths so far, has 367 active cases. Sivaganga registered 26 new cases to mark a tally of 5,583. The district, which reported 20 discharges, has 170 active cases. So far, 123 lives have been lost to COVID-19-related complications in the district. Tenkasi’s case count reached 7,690, with 184 active cases, with the addition of 23 fresh cases. Fourteen patients were discharged from hospitals. With one fresh fatality, the district’s death toll rose to 149. Twenty fresh cases pushed up the tally of Ramanathapuram to 5,817. Hospitals discharged 15 people. There are 189 active cases. The district’s death toll remains at 124.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special train service marks 112th Nilgiri Mountain Railway Day||A special train attached to a heritage steam engine ran between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam on Thursday as a special arrangement to commemorate the 112th Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) Day. The event marked the anniversary of the train service running between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam. Founder of the Heritage Steam Chariot Trust, K. Natrajan, who organised the event along with the Salem division of the Southern Railway, said that the service was initially started between Mettupalayam and Coonoor and was later extended till Udhagamandalam. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we could not have a very big event to mark the occasion, so the railways agreed to run an empty train hauled by a steam engine to Udhagamandalam from Coonoor,” said Mr. Natrajan. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya, who attended the event, said that the Nilgiri Mountain Railway was a source of great pride for the district. “The NMR, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is a source of great pride for the Nilgiris, and to commemorate the 112th NMR day, a special train was arranged to ply between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam,” said the Collector. Ms. Divya added that the district administration had given its consent for partial resumption of services along the NMR. However, the decision to restart services was pending with the Railways, she said. “The sight of the steam engine plying again along the NMR line since services were suspended in March of this year will surely bring delight to local residents and remind everyone of the train service’s importance to the culture and history of the Nilgiris,” said Mr. Natrajan.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||263 new cases in Salem||Coimbatore district on Thursday saw 395 new COVID-19 positive cases that took the overall tally so far to 38,712. The Health Department said three persons died of the disease, and the toll so far in the district was 511. It also said that so far, 670 persons have returned home upon recovery from the infection and 4,426 persons were undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Salem continued to keep its second position in the western region with 263 fresh cases and two deaths. Officials said a 71-year-old man from Kalakuruchi died at a private hospital and a 58-year-old man died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. According to health officials, 257 of the new cases were indigenous, including 123 cases in Salem Corporation limits. Six patients had returned from Kalakuruchi, Namakkal and Dharmapuri. Namakkal district reported 148 cases. Health officials said that of these, 28 patients had returned from other districts and one patient had returned from Uttar Pradesh. Tiruppur district reported one death and 146 cases, taking the district’s overall tally of positive cases to 10,690. The death was that of a 33-year-old man from the district. He died at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Wednesday, the media bulletin said. The district reported less than 150 cases after 10 days on Thursday, after 132 COVID-19 cases were reported on October 5. Out of the 10,690 cases, 9,242 have recovered and 1,286 were active cases. Tiruppur district has reported 162 deaths so far. On Thursday, 260 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Erode reported 126 new cases that raised the district’s tally to 8,772. While 122 persons were discharged on Thursday, 1,022 are under treatment. Two persons died of the disease, raising the toll in the district to 106. While Krishnagiri district reported 73 cases,Dharmapuri reported 84. In the Nilgiris, 94 persons tested positive for COVID-19.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||PWD to hold policy meeting on M-sand in November||PWD officials said the meeting would discuss various aspects of M-sand production, transport and sales and incorporate more guidelines into the policy under consideration. The decision follows a representation from the Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Federation on Wednesday for measures against unauthorised manufacturing units, sale of poor quality M-sand and seizure of vehicles for overloading. On an average, 33,000 loads of M-sand is being transported daily. Federation president Sella. Rajamani said 200-300 units were functioning in the State without government approval. There was no check on indiscriminate quarrying and transport of M-sand to other States, and this would lead to the disappearance of hillocks, he said. “Vehicles are overloaded with M-sand and additional units of sand are not billed. But vehicles are seized and fined instead of manufacturing units or clients,” he said. The Federation has also sought regulation of the M-sand cost and a separate enforcement wing to curb over-exploitation of mineral resources. At present, 270 M-sand manufacturing units have sought the PWD’s quality approval, and 40 applications are being processed. Nearly 1,070 units have sought consent from the TNPCB to operate across the State. A PWD official said: “We will also discuss incorporating a provision for periodical inspection of quarries in the M-sand policy to prevent over-exploitation of resources. Measures against overloading of vehicles and offenders will also be discussed, as requested by lorry owners. We have also received complaints of transport of M-sand immediately after wet processing.” The policy would empower the PWD to take legal action against unauthorised manufacturing units. Sales of poor quality sand or manufacturing M-sand without licence may attract a fine of up to Rs. 5 lakh and imprisonment of up to two years. “We can only emphasise quality approval now. Once the policy is in place, the PWD would have powers, along with other Departments, to monitor and control units that function without approval,” said an official. On the demand for direct sales of M-sand by the government, sources said it would be a complicated legal process as nearly 70% of the crushed stone quarries were of private ownership and the rest were leased out by the government.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remembering Kalam||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traditional messenger||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bumper harvest||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Skill training||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth found murdered||M. Madankumar, 23, was murdered and his body was found wrapped in a plastic sheet in an irrigation channel near Melur on Wednesday night. Police said the deceased, an engineering graduate from Attukulam, was involved in construction work. On Wednesday afternoon, he received a call from his friend Vinod Kumar who asked him to come to a farm. After informing his father, the youth went around 3 p.m. and never returned. When his father called him, his mobile phone remained switched off. Around 8 p.m., people found a parcel floating on the Periyar irrigation channel near Therkkupatti. When they opened it, they found the body of Madankumar with cut injuries. Melur police have registered a case of murder
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It’s festival time||
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Four farm workers rescued in Vijayapura||Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued four farm workers and their cattle from an overflowing stream in Boodihal village in Vijayapura district on Thursday. Shivappa Mural and his wife and children had gone to work in a farmer’s field on Wednesday night. They waited in the farm during heavy rain on Wednesday, but tried to get back to their home on Thursday. They were, however, caught in the stream that began overflowing suddenly. They shouted for help and local farmers called the police. The police and personnel from Fire and Emergency Services used long ropes to pull the family to safety, Tahsildar Sanjiv Dasar said.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman files complaint against inspector||A woman from Belagavi has said that a police inspector had threatened to rape her and kill her and her family members over a minor road accident here on Tuesday. Priyanka Sunil Kurankar, 34-year-old home-maker from Shahapur in Belagavi, has said that G.I. Kalyanshetty, Circle Inspector of Police from Hukkeri, threatened “to rape her and other female relatives and throw them all in a roadside ditch”. The complaint also says that the accused police officer brandished his service revolver to threaten that he would kill all her family members. Pothole All this was because the woman’s car had accidentally hit another car in which the police officer’s mother and other relatives were travelling. “My car hit the other one slightly due to a pot-hole on the road, but did not cause any major damage to it. However, the officer’s relatives picked up a quarrel with us and called the officer, who was in yet another car, to the spot. He did not accept our apologies, and instead, threatened to kill us,” the woman said. On the other hand, Mr. Kalyanshetty has filed a complaint against the woman and her family members for picking up a fight, assault and verbal abuse. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi said that both the complaints would be investigated in an impartial manner.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Effective use of law a deterrent to corruption’||A three-day workshop on Prevention of Corruption Act, organised by the Anti Corruption Bureau for police officers from across the State, ended in the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi on Wednesday. Officers, legal experts and tax practitioners addressed sessions on the three days. G. Narendar, judge of the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, spoke in detail about corruption in society and how it can be prevented using the provisions of the Act. He asked officers to ensure that there were no mistakes or errors in documents they prepare while fighting cases, so that the Act is implemented effectively. The Act, when used effectively, will become a deterrent in society and create fear in the hearts of the corrupt, he said. Additional Director-General of Police, Anti Corruption Bureau, T. Sunil Kumar said that the department would implement the Act very strictly and in the right spirit.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLES Diabetes Care Centre wins award||The Diabetes Care Centre at the KLES Prabhakar Kore Hospital has won the “Best Improvement Prize Award’’ for Type-1 diabetes children care at the recently held virtual conference of SWEET Paediatric Diabetes. SWEET is a Germany-based international network of paediatric diabetes centres to reduce inequalities in access to and quality of paediatric diabetes care. SWEET has 152 centres in 59 countries of all continents. Sujata Jali, child diabetes specialist of KLE Hospital, participated in the event. The award was given for achievement in significant quality improvements and progress in the delivery of diabetes care to children with Type-1 diabetes, she said. SWEET peer reviewer N. Bratina said it was an impressive performance during the pandemic, according to Dr. Jali. The centre won the citation of “Centre of Reference” at Wiesbaden in Germany. Society chairman Prabhakar Kore, Vice-Chancellor Vivek Saoji, Registrar V.A. Kothiwale and Principal N.M. Mahantshetty have congratulated the centre’s staff.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: Parties brace themselves for low voter turnout amid pandemic||As electioneering gets under way for the bypolls in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies, political parties are keeping their fingers crossed over the voter turnout despite their efforts during the next fortnight. For, the parties are struggling to reach out to the voter in times of COVID-19. Women, who are considered to be committed voters by the parties and hold key to victory, along with those aged above 60, are expected to turn up in lesser numbers fearing contracting coronavirus. Even the campaigns are expected to be limited. Though parties have tapped social media, especially WhatsApp, sources across parties said they are bracing for a lower turnout, and believe that a clear picture could emerge a few days before the polling day. In 2018 polls In the 2018 Assembly polls, Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar had reported a voter turnout of 84% and 54%, respectively. The Election Commission is also looking at the political parties to mobilise voters for the election. “We really have to struggle to motivate voters to come and vote on the polling day. As of now, we have seen very little enthusiasm from women workers on ground in Sira. Things are picking up in R.R. Nagar as the Mahila Morcha is involved in campaigning. The voter turnout is definitely expected to come down,” Congress spokesperson Muralidhar Halappa said. He said that most of the women workers, who normally come out for campaigning, have stayed away so far. In R.R. Nagar, an urban pocket, the turnout has been traditionally low and it could go down further this time, he added. Candidate with COVID-19 The Janata Dal (Secular), which is looking at retaining the Sira seat after its legislator B. Satyanarayana passed away, has had an early start in campaigning. However, the camp has its own problem. The party’s candidate, Ammajamma, the wife of the deceased legislator, is in hospital owing to COVID 19 and the former Minister H.D. Revanna filed the nomination paper on her behalf. Party sources said that despite having a good presence in the constituency, they were also witnessing a muted participation of workers. “Many may stay away from polling since they have to wait at the polling stations, and they fear they could contract the virus,” sources said. However, though BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik acknowledged that political parties are finding it difficult to reach out to people, they have resorted to reaching the doorstep of the voters in Sira and R.R. Nagar. “There is a limitation on public gathering, which has restricted the parties’ reach. As a cadre-based party, we have started going on house-to-house campaign,” he said, adding that the BJP expects a good turnout despite the pandemic.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor’s house searched for his brother-in-law||Central Crime Branch (CCB) police teams on Thursday raided Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi’s residence in Mumbai after receiving a tip-off that Aditya Alva, one of the prime accused in the drug case they were probing, was hiding there. Aditya, who is the son of the late Minister Jeevaraj Alva and is Oberoi’s brother-in-law, has been absconding ever since he was accused of being part of the alleged drug racket involving Kannada film stars, dealers, and party organisers. “Acting on information that he was hiding in his brother-in-law’s house in Mumbai, the CCB obtained a search warrant from the court. The search is still on,” said Joint Commissioner (Crime) Sandeep Patil. After over five hours of search, the operation was called off. CCBofficials questioned Aditya’s sister, Priyanka Alva, who is married to Oberoi. A notice has been issued to her to appear before them for questioning. Officials did not divulge information on whether the Bollywood actor was at home during the search. “So far, we have questionedAditya’s sister,” said a senior officer. The search came days after the police questioned Ricky Rai, the son of former underworld don-turned-social activist Muthappa Rai. At the time, they had searched his apartment in Sadashivanagar and the family house in Bidadi as they believed that Alva was hiding there.Ricky’s mobile phone was seized and he was detained for questioning. Many of the accused arrested in connection with the drug case allegedly partied on weekends at Aditya’s farmhouse near Hebbal, where drugs were allegedly sold and used.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most COVID-19 hospitals practising ‘rooming-in’ newborns with mothers||Following emerging evidence that transmission of COVID-19 from mother to baby is very rare, most COVID-19 hospitals that were initially separating newborns from the infected mothers are now practising “rooming-in”. Paediatricians, who assert that benefits of breastfeeding substantially outweigh the potential risks of transmission, are of the view that COVID-19 antibodies in breast milk protect the babies. Hence, infected mothers are being advised to continue breastfeeding with adequate precautions. WHO recommendation While the World Health Organisation (WHO) also recommends that mothers with suspected or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 should be encouraged to initiate or continue breastfeeding, a recent research published in JAMA Paediatrics has found that mothers with COVID-19, who take basic precautions, rarely pass on the virus to their newborns. The study examined outcomes in the first 101 newborns born to infected mothers at the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital in the U.S. from March 13 to April 24, 2020. Of these, only two newborns tested positive, the study said. Doctors in COVID-19 hospitals said very few babies have been infected although they have started following “rooming-in” (keeping the baby at a distance of six feet from the mother) concept. Venkat Reddy, nodal officer of COVID-19 ward at the State-run Hajee Sir Ismail Sait Gosha Hospital, that is now a dedicated COVID-19 maternity facility, said of the 182 babies born there, 10 have been infected so far. Similarly, not more than four babies that were born to infected mothers in Trauma and Emergency Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus have been infected. A team of doctors from the adjacent Vani Vilas Maternity Hospital conducted over 230 deliveries there till Gosha Hospital was identified as a dedicated COVID-19 maternity facility. “Although earlier, the babies were separated from the mothers and kept under isolation at Vani Vilas, breastfeeding was being allowed with adequate precautions. Hardly 3 to 4 babies got the infection,” said Geeta Shivamurthy, Vani Vilas Medical Superintendent. Asha Benekappa, former director of Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said breastfed infants have an advantage of receiving additional protection against SARS-CoV-2. Antibodies against virus “An infected mother produces antibodies against the virus, which is transmitted to the baby through breastfeeding. The immature immune system of the baby is protected by colostrum (the first milk), an immunological elixir, which the baby gets, if fed immediately after birth. Hence, breastfeeding should be encouraged, mothers and their babies should be cared for together, and skin-to-skin contact ensured,” she said. “If mothers are too ill to breastfeed, they should still be supported to express their milk, and the infant should be fed by a healthy individual. ,” said Dr. Benkappa, who is now heads the Department of Paediatrics at Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research. N. Karthik Nagesh, chairman and HOD of Neonatology and NICUs at Manipal Hospitals Group, said it is important that the mother wears a mask, washes her hands, wipes the chest and the surface baby is going to come in contact with sanitiser or soap and water. “We recommend zero separation in case if both mother and baby are healthy, partial separation in case mother is sick or if other relatives are available to look after the baby, and complete separation only if mother is very sick and requires ICU care or if the baby is sick and needs to be in the newborn ICU,” said Dr. Nagesh.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite recent surge in cases, positivity rate drops in Bengaluru||Most of the city’s eight zones have reported a drop in both positivity rate and fatality rate of COVID-19 cases over the last four weeks, reveals data that Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) presented to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. This trend was observed despite a spike in cases since the start of October. Bommanahalli, Mahadevapura, Dasarahalli and Yelahanka have recorded a very sharp drop in positivity rates, some nearly dropping by half in a span of four weeks. Slight increase Only the East zone recorded a slight increase in positivity rate from 11.78% to 12.4% during the same period. However, the East Zone saw its fatality rate fall by more than half, dropping from a high of 1.9% to 0.84%. While most zones had recorded fatality rates above 1% four weeks ago, all eight have fatality rates below 1% as on October 12. Dasarahalli Zone registered a marginal increase of fatality rate from 0.8% to 0.87%. The drop would have been much sharper, if not for the rise in the number of cases over the last two weeks, sources say. Civic officials attributed the recent spike to an increase in testing, which has almost doubled in four weeks. “The drop observed in both positivity and fatality rates even as we have ramped up testing shows that the city is slowly turning the tide,” said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. He attributed the recent spike and Bengaluru reporting over 5,000 daily cases more than once to better monitoring. “We have ramped up testing, and it is good that we are catching more cases,” he said. Four weeks ago, the city was testing 22,900 people on an average per day. The number has now almost doubled and stands at around 45,600. Yet to reach target However, BBMP data shows that no zone achieved the target for the number of more reliable but tedious RT-PCR tests, but every zone has overshot its target for the less reliable but instant RAT tests. “We have now decided to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests further and rely less on RAT tests,” Mr. Prasad said. Civic officials also attribute the drop in positivity and fatality rates to contact tracing, which had taken a back seat in the city for a while. “Earlier, primary contacts of positive patients would be reluctant to be tested, unless they had symptoms. But now, as patients can stay under home isolation, they are willing to get tested earlier. This is partly responsible for the high positivity rate,” C. Nagaraj, Director of Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases and a member of the State Task Force, told The Hindu a few days ago.    Four weeks ago, the city was testing 22,900 people on an average per day. The number has now almost doubled and stands at around 45,600.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP using police to intimidate party candidate: Shivakumar||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Thursday accused the BJP and the State government of using the police to intimidate the Congress candidate and party cadre in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency. This follows a case being registered against Kusuma H., Congress candidate in the segment in Bengaluru. The party would submit a complaint against the BJP to the Election Commission on the alleged misuse of the State machinery by the government, he said. Charge The police on Wednesday registered the case against Ms. Kusuma for allegedly causing disturbance to the police personnel on duty while filing nomination papers at the BBMP office. The FIR was registered against the candidate at the Kengeri police station for “deterring a public servant from performing duty”. Addressing mediapersons at his residence on Thursday, Mr. Shivakumar said, “We have drone footage of what happened while filing nominations. Within 100 metres of the barricade, there were two BJP Ministers and five MLAs and there were leaders from all political parties. Why could the police not register cases against them?” The KPCC chief alleged that the State government was hand in glove with the police and it was trying to intimidate Ms. Kusuma as she was new to politics. He demanded transfer of a circle inspector who registered a “false case” against the Congress candidate. Mr. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah accompanied Ms. Kusuma during the filing of nomination papers on Wednesday. BJP workers were “dancing around” the BBMP office during filing of nominations, Mr. Shivakumar said. “Did they not violate the model code of conduct? We will go to the Election Commission and expose the dirty politics of the BJP to the voters,” he added. The polling will be held on November 3. The BJP has fielded Munirathna, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP last year, in the constituency.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Smart City work not so ‘smart’, say frustrated citizens||It’s not just motorists who are being inconvenienced by the road work taken up by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. in the Central Business District (CBD), which is moving at a snail’s pace. Residents and businesses too are facing the brunt as the constant digging has affected power and telephone lines. A motorist, who commutes from Nagarbhavi to Infantry Road every day, said, “There seems to be no planning. Utilities, such as telephone lines and power lines, often get affected. The projects are ‘smart’ only in name.” Motorists and cyclists allege that the dug-up roads are a safety hazard. “On many stretches, roads have been dug up on both sides. The barricades are not sturdy. If we lose control of the vehicle, we will fall straight into a ditch,” said a motorist. Former mayor M. Goutham Kumar, who received complaints from frustrated citizens, said he had issued several directions during his tenure with regard to safety measures to be taken at the work site. “So far, none of the directions seem to have been implemented,” he said, adding that none of the projects taken up were progressing as per deadlines. M. Shivaraju, former councillor, said the lack of information in the public domain about the projects and their status is another source of frustration. “How much money has been sanctioned, what has been spent, when are the works likely to be completed… all these details should be made available to the general public,” he said. Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. Managing Director Hephsiba Rani Korlapati vehemently refuted claims of lack of safety measures. Projects estimated at Rs. 1,000 crore have been envisaged under Smart City. Of this, the Centre will sanction Rs. 500 crore over five years, and the rest will come from the State government. “So far, the Centre has sanctioned Rs. 155 crore and the State government has released Rs. 55 crore. Of this, we have already spent around Rs. 75 crore. Around Rs. 65 crore has been spent since February this year,” she pointed out. Admitting that work progress had been affected following the lockdown and exodus of migrant workers, she said that the pace of work has picked up since August. “Till January this year, many of the projects had not been taken up on the ground. However, we are now on fast-track mode and we are sure to complete the projects within the deadlines,” she said.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC gives temporary relief to KSOU Registrar||The High Court of Karnataka has stayed an order passed by a single-judge Bench on an enquiry against Lingaraja Gandhi, Registrar of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), for making “false and misleading” remarks about a professor while forwarding the latter’s application for Vice-Chancellor posts at two universities. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda passed the interim order on an appeal filed by Mr. Gandhi challenging the September 7, 2020 judgment of the single-judge Bench. The appellant Registrar has contended in the appeal that the judge, while recording adverse findings against him, had not appreciated that every communication signed by the Registrar was only communicating the decision of the Vice-Chancellor strictly in accordance with the KSOU Act and no allegation of either mala fides or any wrongdoing could have been attributed to the appellant. As Registrar, the appellant was required to communicate the decisions of the University and the Vice-Chancellor, and the single-judge Bench had failed to notice that “except communicating faithfully the orders passed by the university, the appellant had not done anything beyond”. The single judge had made adverse remarks while allowing a petition filed A. Rangaswamy, chairman and professor, Department of Studies and Research in Kannada, KSOU, whose application to the posts of V-Cs at two universitieswere forwarded to the search committees by the Registrar of KSOU.
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rail ticket reservation counters will open today||Indian Railways will open the computerised Passenger Reservation Centres (PRCs) to the public on October 16. The counters will be opened in view of an anticipated surge in demand for reserved tickets for festival special trains being operated from October 20 to November 30. According to a release by South Western Railway, Bangalore division, the PRCs at Malleswaram, Chikkabanavara, Banaswadi, Bengaluru East, Carmelaram, Whitefield, Kuppam, Penukonda, Chikkaballapura, Doddaballapura, Gauribidanaur and Maddur will be opened on October 16. Their working hours will be as they were during the pre-lockdown period, the release stated. The above PRCs are in addition to 15 reservations centres which are already functioning in Bengaluru division of SWR.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Borrow from banks to pay compensation’||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday said that the State government and the Mangalore City Corporation (MCC) must make arrangements even by borrowing money from banks by mortgaging properties of the MCC to pay adequate compensation to the persons who lost their houses, land and crops due to slippage of garbage dumped at Pachhanadi landfill during rains last year. The Court issued the direction after the MCC said that it has paid compensation partly as the government has released only Rs. 8 crore as against Rs. 22 crore sought for paying compensation and to remove the legacy waste from the landfill. The government, on the other hand, said that it cannot pay more to the MCC, which has to make arrangements from its own resources by utilising part of money from Rs. 8 crore even to pay compensation. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition, filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, which had pointed out the plight of the victims of Pachhanadi incident and non-implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, by the MCC. The Bench also told the government that it cannot be a silent spectator when failure of a local authority to implement rules results in violation of fundamental rights of the citizen, while hoping that the government would change its stand and release necessary funds to the MCC. The Bench said that it is crystal clear from the records that the Pachhanadi incident, which had resulted in loss of properties and livelihood of several families in violation of their fundamental right, occurred due to complete failure to abide by the SMW Rules and gross negligence by the MCC. Explanation sought Noticing that the MCC has unilaterally paid compensation only for loss of crops and trees without inviting any claims from the affected persons and without giving them an opportunity of hearing, the Bench directed the MCC Commissioner to personally explain through videoconference during next date of hearing how the MCC will raise money to pay adequate compensation and implement the rules. The MCC has also been directed to give a public notice inviting the affected persons to submit claims by submitting documents and to give them proper hearing before determining adequate compensation, which cannot be less than what has been paid already, taking into account loss of houses, lands, crops, other assets and livelihood.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane growers demand Rs. 3,300 a tonne||The State government’s talks with sugarcane growers on fixing the State advisory price (SAP) for sugarcane for 2020–21 remained inconclusive as the growers demanded SAP of Rs. 3,300 for a tonne. Sugar and Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar chaired a meeting with growers and officials on Thursday to discuss the SAP for the October–September 2020–21 crushing season. Following a demand for higher SAP, Mr. Hebbar promised to fix the price in a week after talks with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The Centre has fixed the fair and remunerative price at Rs. 2,850 a tonne for a recovery rate of 10% and additional Rs. 285 a tonne if the recovery rate is one percentage point higher, at 11%, for 2020–21. In a memorandum to Mr. Hebbar, Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said that growers incur expenditure of Rs. 3,050 for producing a tonne of cane owing to increased labour and input costs. Moreover, factories show less recovery rate and cheat growers, he said. Factories in Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Bagalkot have not paid the SAP rates for growers, he alleged, and demanded payment of pending dues with 15% interest. He also urged the government to register criminal cases against factories for providing wrong information on payments made to growers. Some factories deduct Rs. 5,000 for every payment of Rs. 1 lakh to growers citing harvest cost incurred by them, he said. Further, farmers have been denied the share in profits earned by factories from byproducts such as molasses and ethanol, Mr. Shanthakumar said.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘It’s time for govt. to conduct drive to ensure people wear masks: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday said the time had come for the State government and local authorities like the BBMP to conduct very comprehensive drives to enforce norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distance as the number of positive cases were on the rise. The only finding that we can record today is that these norms are not implemented in their letter and spirit and no serious effort is being made to enforce these norms, observed a Division Bench. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, a city-based social organisation. As it was alleged by a counsel for the petitioner that the norms were violated during a recent rally, in which MP Tejaswi Surya, who is also an advocate, participated, the Bench directed the government to submit action-taken report on violations. Referring to enforcing the norms in Bengaluru, which is leading in the country with the highest number of cases, the Bench wondered how a mere 198 marshals could enforce norm by imposing fine in a city with a population of 1.3 crore. The Bench termed as “false” the government‘s claim of the norm of mask wearing was followed during the foundation laying ceremony for Kempegowda statue on Bengaluru airport premises on June 27 as the photos, produced by the government showed at least five people either not wearing masks or wearing them inappropriately. However, the government counsel told the court that fine was collected from some of the invitees as the event was open only for invited guests and not the public. The Bench, in another petition, directed the government to inform the action taken taken against those persons who had violated norms during the protests and dharnas held as part of bandh call given by various organisations on September 28.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 8,477 new cases, 85 deaths||The State on Thursday reported 8,477 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 7,43,848. With 85 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,283. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 8,841 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,20,008. Of the remaining 1,13,538 active cases, 939 patients are being monitored in the Intensive Care Units. While positivity rate for the day stood at 8.09%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1%. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,788 cases taking the tally to 2,97,193. With 45 of the 85 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,462. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 65,268. As many as 1,04,811 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 30,977 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 63,55,803.  As many as 8,841 persons were discharged on Thursday. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,788 new cases taking the tally to 2,97,193
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC dislodges petitioner in ‘Cauvery Calling’ plea||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday dislodged a petitioner, who had filed a PIL petition questioning the ‘Cauvery Calling’ project, for sending an email to a private television channel virtually threatening contempt of court action if it aired a documentary on the project. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing the petition filed by A.V. Amaranathan, a city-based advocate. The Bench has decided to treat the petition as initiated suo motu by the court by knocking off the petitioner’s name as it has to go into the issues raised in the petition. ISHA Outreach, which manages the ‘Cauvery Calling’ project spearheaded by ISHA Foundation, had complained to the court that the petitioner, on August 21, sent an email to Discovery Channel warning that telecasting the documentary, scheduled to be aired on August 22 at 6.30 p.m., would amount to contempt of court as the legality of the project was sub judice. Following the petitioner’s email, the channel indefinitely postponed airing the documentary. The Bench said that the petitioner could not have decided whether the telecast of documentary, titled ‘Cauvery Calling — a race to save a river’, would amount to contempt of court. The petitioner, if he wanted to object to the telecast, should have adopted “an appropriate remedy instead of virtually threatening the channel”, it observed. The Bench also noted that though it gave an opportunity to the petitioner to explain his conduct, he had virtually justified his action and not shown any remorse over his conduct. Stating that the court cannot allow such conduct by a person who files a petition in public interest, the Bench said it cannot allow the petitioner to continue to be associated with the litigation.  Unremorseful The Bench noted that though it gave an opportunity to the petitioner to explain his conduct, he had virtually justified his action and not shown any remorse
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||DPR for cocoon market||Deputy Chief Minister and Ramanagaram district in-charge Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Thursday held talks with Sericulture and Horticulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda on the establishment of a world-class high-tech silk cocoon market and mango processing plants in Ramanagaram district. Tenders have been called for the preparation of a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the silk cacoon market. The proposed market will be developed on an 11-acre plot between Ramanagaram and Channapatna earmarked for the purpose. For this project, NABARD will provide a loan of Rs. 50 crore. The purchasing centres for silk cross-breed and superior bivoltine cocoons would be set up separately in this marketplace. Meanwhile, the Sericulture Department has agreed to hand over 25 acres under its control to the Horticulture Department for a mango processing plant to be built using the latest technology near Kailancha village in Ramanagaram taluk, Mr. Narayan said.
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sira: BJP candidate has annual income of Rs. 2.57 cr.||Bharatiya Janata Party candidate for Sira Asembly constituency, C.M. Rajesh Gowda, who is a doctor, has an annual income of Rs. 2,57,79, 416 while his wife, also a doctor, earns Rs. 49,68,200. According to the disclosure made in the statement of assets and liabilities before the Election Commission of India, the total value of assets of Dr. Gowda is Rs. 15,25,61,370. This includes movable assets of Rs. 9,92,61,370. He has given loans to his father, mother, wife, and sister. While Rs. 1.44 crore has been given to his father, Rs. 1.43 crore has been given to his wife. Similarly, his mother and sister have received loans of Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 60 lakh, respectively. His wife has gold and silver jewellery worth around Rs. 1.23 crore while his own gold and silver collection totals up to Rs. 34 lakh. He has a fleet of four cars of which two are luxury cars worth Rs. 1.27 crore and Rs. 52 lakh.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KAT member passes away||Zafrull Khan, Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 55 and succumbed to COVID-19. He was a member of the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal (KAT).
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut tomorrow||There will be no power supply on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in the areas coming under Jayadeva, Khodays and RBI sub-stations. This is on account of conversion works. According to a release from Bangalore Electricity Supply Company, the areas that will be affected are Khodays, F-14 feeder, RBI-F1 feeder; and Jayadeva, F-3 and F-10 feeders.
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Admissions to PhD programmes||Admissions to PhD programmes in the postgraduate departments of Bangalore University will commence from October 22 from 10 a.m. onwards. According to a Bangalore University release, the first round of counselling will be held at the respective PG departments on Jnana Bharathi campus. For PhD programmes in engineering courses, counselling will be held on the UVCE premises, K.R. Circle. The release stated that candidates have to report at the respective postgraduate departments, Jnana Bharathi/UVCE, K.R. Circle, from at 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. on October 22. For details, visitphd.bangaloreuniversity. ac.inorbuphd.inhawk. com.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Holiday on polling day||The State government has announced a holiday on November 3 under the Negotiable Instruments Act in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies where byelections are scheduled. An order said that all government offices, educational institutions, trade, and businesses would be closed to allow people to cast their vote. Similarly, arrangements have to be made for those who are registered voters in these constituencies but work outside, to participate in the election process.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stir continues||Candidates who were recruited as pre-university college lecturers but have yet to receive appointment orders continued their protest on Thursday. They have not called off their stir despite assurances from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. On Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher EducationMinister C.N. Ashwath Narayan met protesters and requested them to call off the strike. However, the candidates said they would only call it off after they got their appointment orders. It has been a long wait for the candidates, who had applied in 2015 when a notification for recruitment to PU colleges was issued. Counselling for 1,203 candidates has been completed, but appointment orders have not been issued.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cinemas in North Karnataka to remain shut||Although the State government permitted reopening of single screen cinemas and multiplexes on Thursday in accordance with the Unlock 5.0 guidelines, cinemas across North Karnataka remained shut following a decision by film exhibitors against reopening them. This is in accordance with the decision taken by the Karnataka Film Exhibitors Federation (KFEF) on not screening films till the government fulfilled its demands, including changes in the renewal fee and others. KFEF has around 500 members spread across North Karnataka. KFEF president Rangangouda R. Odugouda has said that KFEF was forced to take the decision as the government had hiked renewal fee by manifolds. The renewal fee, which used to be Rs. 5,000 annually, had now been hiked to Rs. 1.25 lakh per year. In the present system, cinema owners have to pay in advance and non-refundable amount to film producers to which KFEF has taken exception. Mr. Odugoudar told The Hindu that they would want a system wherein exhibitors and film producers have a “win-win” situation by running shows on percentage basis. Meanwhile, COVID-19 safety protocols are also likely to increase the maintenance cost of the cinemas. As per the advisory, cinemas have to be sanitised after every show, social distancing has to be maintained, and occupancy should be only 50 % of the total seats. He said that so far there had been no communication either from the government or from the producers association on their demands. He made it clear that unless their demands were met, they would not screen films.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Provide relief to farmers’||Farmers, led by office-bearers of the JD(S), staged a demonstration in Hubballi on Wednesday seeking early relief for crop loss and for the rain damage caused to private properties. Led by former MLA of Navalgund N.H. Konaraddi and other JD(S) office-bearers, the farmers and party workers staged a demonstration in front of the Mini- Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi. They said that because of the downpour this week, standing crops such as green gram, cotton, jowar, onion, groundnut, and chilli at villages in Hubballi, Annigeri, and Navalgund talukswere severely damaged. This apart, the downpour resulted in the breaching of several waterbodies in these taluks, resulting in erosion of fertile soil and damage to over 300 houses. What is worse is that the government has not yet paid compensation for the houses damaged last year, the protesters claimed. Mr. Konaraddi also said that compensation due under the crop insurance scheme for 2019-20 had not been paid yet.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Despite a lull in rain, floods keeping people on tenterhooks||Though heavy rain that lashed Kalaburagi and surrounding areas for the last two days receded on Thursday, floods continued to wreak havoc along the course of major rivers, especially the Bhima, in the district due to heavy rain in their catchment areas in neighbouring Maharashtra. A heavy discharge of water from the Ujjani and the Veer reservoirs in Maharashtra caused floods along the Bhima river course in the district on Thursday. As per information provided by the district administration, the inflow in the Sonna Barrage built across the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk increased from 1,98,000 cusecs in the morning to 5,11,000 cusecs in the evening on Thursday. The authorities increased the discharge of water from the barrage from 2.23 lakh cusecs in the morning to 5,11,000 cusecs in the evening. The heavy discharge from the barrage has flooded thousands of acres of land with standing crops along the Bhima river course in Afzalpur, Jewargi, Chittapur and Sedam taluks. Since the discharge from Maharashtra reservoirs is expected to increase to 7.5 lakh cusecs late on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi Vijaya Jyothsna has directed the officials to shift 148 villages situated mainly along the banks of the Bhima. Since the Bhima was dangerously overflowing, the Katti Sangavi bridge near Jewargi was closed for traffic as a precautionary measure. The bridge near Saradagi was also submerged cutting off connectivity between Vijayapura and Kalaburagi. The submergence of the Boratagi bridge in Maharashtra has cut off connectivity between Afzalpur and Solapur. The Kagina continued to be in spate on Thursday as well flooding large tracts of land along its banks. The Uttaradi Math in Malkhed remained flooded for the third day in a row. The submergence of Malkhed bridge on the Kagina continued to keep connectivity between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad severed for the third day. The submergence of the Dandoti bridge has cut off connectivity between Chittapur and Kalaburagi. The Archaeological Survey of India site on the banks of the Bhima at Sannati in Chittapur taluk where ancient Buddhist and Asokan edicts exist was also partially flooded. There were reports that people in over 40 villages were stranded on the roofs of their houses surrounded by floodwaters and crying for help. Initiating action, Ms. Vijaya Jyothsna has directed key officials to stay at the district administrative complex in Kalaburagi on Thursday night to monitor the flood situation and take necessary action. She has asked the officials to have proper coordination with local level functionaries such as village accountants and panchayat development officers and arrange for boats, ambulances and rescue vehicles. In a video message, Ms. Jyothsna appealed to the people not to panic. “The continued rainfall coupled with heavy discharges from Maharashtra reservoirs has caused floods in Kalaburagi. We have already declared a red alert in the district. We have engaged two NDRF teams for rescuing people stranded in different places. Over 150 people have been rescued in the last two days. We have already set up 50 care centres and are providing food to over 800 people. People need not panic as the district administration is with them,” she said.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||1,053 houses damaged, 518 livestock dead in rain-related incidents||As many as 7,603 people from across Kalaburagi district have been shifted to flood relief centres, after water entered villages causing a flood-like situation following heavy rainfall and discharge of huge volume of water from major reservoirs, Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Govind Karjol has said. Mr. Karjol in a release here on Thursday stated that over 1,053 houses were damaged in flood-related incidents and 7,603 people from low-lying areas affected due to floods have been evacuated and shifted to relief centres set up at 48 places across the district. As many as 518 livestock died in the floods, he added. He also directed the district authorities to conduct a survey to assess the damage caused to houses, crops, roads and other infrastructure due to heavy rain and floods. Officials have been directed to act immediately and take up relief measures on a war-footing in the flood-affected areas. 31 villages affected In Bagalkot district, 270 families in 31 villages located on the banks of the Krishna, the Malaprabha and the Ghataprabha were affected following an increase in water inflow due to heavy rainfall. Mr. Karjol said that 210 flood victims have been shifted to the four relief centres set up by the district authorities and provided with shelter, food and other basic facilities. A sum of Rs. 10,000 each was given to the 270 families affected by the devastating floods in the district and Rs. 30,000 relief was given for each head of cattle lost, Mr. Karjol added. As per the information provided by the district authorities, standing crops on 34,869 hectares of land suffered damage in the district. As many as 105 houses have been severely damaged and 28 partially destructed, while 338 houses have suffered minor damage. Of these, 347 houses were included in the list to take up repair works by Rajiv Gandhi Rural Housing Corporation Ltd.(RGRHCL), Mr. Karjol said. Rain also damaged 23 handloom units in the district leaving workers jobless. A 999 km stretch of road constructed by the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, 94 km stretch of State Highway, 308 km arterial roads were also damaged in rain. As many as 32 bridges, 43 canals, 54 sub-canals, 28 tanks, 15 lift irrigation projects, 1,851 electricity poles, 471 transformers, 69-km-long electricity transmission line have also been damaged. The estimated damage was pegged at around Rs. 857 crore, Mr. Karjol added.  In Bagalkot district, 270 families in 31 villages located on the banks of the Krishna, the Malaprabha and the Ghataprabha have been affected
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Karjol accused of being insensitive to flood-hit people in Kalaburagi||Criticising Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Govind M. Karjol over handling the flood situation in the district, Congress leaders Sharan Prakash Patil, B.R. Patil, Allam Prabhu, and Jagadev Guttedar said that the in-charge Minister was insensitive to people’s sorrows and sufferings. “Kalaburagi district is witnessing the worst rainy season and floods in the last 50 years. Large tracts of land with standing crops are submerged and thousands of houses have collapsed. With the submergence of several bridges, connectivity between villages and towns has remained cut off for days. Several tanks have breached flooding downstream fields and villages. With the loss of crops, farmers are staring at a difficult future. Rivers and streams are overflowing posing threats to villages along their courses. No officer is reachable and no Minister is approachable. The Deputy Chief Minister [Mr. Govind Karjol], who is the in-charge of Kalaburagi and who is supposed to stand by people when they are in distress, is nowhere to be seen in the district. We have to lodge a missing complaint. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa should take note of Mr. Karjol’s failure in addressing flood-related issues and replace him as Kalaburagi district in-charge,” Mr. B.R. Patil said. The Congress leaders were addressing a media conference here on Thursday. Criticising the State government for its handling natural calamities, Mr. Sharan Prakash Patil said that he had no hopes that the BJP government in the State would help the flood-hit people in the district. “The BJP has always been very insensitive to people’s problems. It never comes forward to help people when they are in trouble. It is very much evident in the way the BJP government has handled the flood situation in Belagavi and other parts in the Mumbai Karnataka region. It is again showing the same disinterest and insensitivity in the case of floods in Kalaburagi. As much as 75 % of crops were destroyed in the rain that lashed the district a few days ago. Now, the remaining 25 % of the crops are destroyed in the rain that is lashing the district now. Yet, neither Mr. Karjol visited the district nor any BJP MLA did anything to help the people in trouble,” Mr. Sharan Prakash Patil said. The Congress leaders also appealed to Mr. Yediyurappa to conduct an aerial survey in the flood-hit regions along with the Union government’s team and take steps to pay compensation to the victims. “Kalaburagi district has only one NDRF team and it is not able to handle the flood situation on its own. We, the Congress, are ready to assist and help the government in handling the flood situation. But, the government need to take the initiative,” they said.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘I’m in quarantine but have told officers how to handle it’||In an apparent response to Kalaburagi Congress leaders Sharan Prakash Patil, B.R. Patil and others who in a press conference said that district in-charge Minister Govind M. Karol was insensitive to flood-hit people by not paying a visit to flood-hit areas, Mr. Karjol said that he was in home quarantine after being infected with COVID-19. In a press note released soon after the press conference of the Congress leaders, Mr. Karjol said: “I am presently in home quarantine and, hence, I am not able to visit flood-hit areas in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts. I am, however, in constant touch with Deputy Commissioners of Kalaburagi and Vijayapura and other officers. I am constantly getting reports on the flood situation in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts and giving directions on what should be done for handling it. I have directed the officers concerned to take necessary steps to establish relief centres to ensure that flood-hit people get all basic needs such as food, water and shelter. I have also directed the officers to immediately undertake a survey to assess the loss of crops and property caused by floods and pay compensation. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also conducted a video conference with the Deputy Commissioners of the flood-hit districts and directed them to take precautionary measures and pay compensation to the flood victim,”
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Floods destroy Mattu Gulla in Udupi||Floods that hit Udupi district last month have destroyed the planting of Mattu Gulla, a variety of brinjal that has Geographical Indication (GI) tag, on 6.68 hectares, according to the Department of Horticulture, Udupi. Deputy Director of the department Bhuvaneshwari said that over 50 farmers have reported the loss in Mattu, Kaipunjal and Uliyargoli villages and have submitted their documents. The loss is estimated at Rs. 3.34 lakh. Normally the planting is done in October and November. But the plantings of some farmers who did it in advance expecting good price for the early produce when there will be no glut in the market have been destroyed, she said. The Deputy Commissioner who visited the fields has said that it will be considered as a special case for recommending compensation to the farmers, she said. Known for its unique taste, about 210 farmers in the three villages cultivate this rare variety of brinjal on about 110 acres of land from October to June. Mattu Gulla has less seed and more pulp. This vegetable has a special relationship with the biennial Paryaya festival held in Udupi as the farmers offer the crop to the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple for the festival. A dish is prepared using it and served to devotees. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) sanctioned the Mattu Gulla Farmer-Producers Organisation (FPO) in 2015. Lakshman Mattu, the chief executive officer of the FPO who is also a mattu gulla grower, said that the planting of 56 farmers on about 20 acres (eight hectares) have been completely lost in the recent floods. They had planted the saplings in the third week of August and in the first week of September. “The yielding should have started from post half of this month (October). But farmers have lost all the plantings. Nothing can be retained,” he said. Mr. Mattu said that the standing crop on about 20 acres had been lost in the three villages in post October, 2019 due to heavy rain (cyclone effect). “If it is plantings (lost) this time we lost standing crop last year,” he said. The staggered planting of Mattu Gulla helped for the continued supply of fresh vegetable to the market and to avoid drop in prices due to glutting and lack of demand. The farmers have been practicing staggered planting since a decade, he said.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University plans to set up office of research integrity soon||Mangalore University will soon set up an office of research integrity as mandated by the University Grants Commission (UGC), its Vice-Chancellor P. S. Yadapadithaya said on Thursday. It is to ensure ethical and original research, he said. He was speaking at the Innovation Day organised by the research consultancy promotion cell at the university to mark the birth anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. The UGC in its guidance document titled ‘good academic research practices’ released in September, 2020 said that the office of research integrity (ORI) must be an integral and permanent unit within the research infrastructure of an institution, where it plays a dual role of coach and enforcer. As a coach, the ORI encourages and enables a culture of research integrity and provides training. As enforcer, it monitors research activity for potential malfeasance and acts swiftly, with fairness and tact, when it notices or has instances of research misconduct brought to its attention. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university will strengthen its research consultancy promotion cell by incorporating patents as an integral part of research undertaken. It will be renamed as the Research Development Consultancy and Patent Cell. The cell will promote research activities, publication, filing for patents and intellectual property rights, and will try to get external funding for research. The cell will encourage teachers to take up consultancy work for industries with 50:50 revenue sharing model with the university. He said that the norms that university uses for conferring its best teacher award on its foundation day too will be revised. This will result in teachers with path breaking academic accomplishments getting selected for it. The best researcher and best employee from among non-teaching staff too will be recognised as part of this concerted effort to spur research. Delivering the key-note address, Karunakar A Kotegar, Syndicate member of the university said that the university has a role to foster innovations by common persons outside its campus, he said, urging the university to link their innovations to potential investors. The New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and setting up of National Research Foundation under it, is in sync with the Union government’s thrust to become Atma Nirbhar Bharat, he said. Mohammad Nazeer, Managing Director, Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL), who released the university’s training manual said the MSCL will complete around 90% of smart city projects by 2022.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Admn. seeks feedback on cycling needs from residents||With a view to promote cycling as a preferred mode of city commute, the Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., and Mangaluru City Corporation have launched an online survey seeking feedback from students, parents, cyclists and general public so as to improve infrastructure and facilities required for safe cycling. One can participate in the online survey throughhttps://forms.gle/nxaUxq- FAGi1uDWui9to give one's feedback on a wide variety of questions regarding cycling in Mangaluru. Urging people to participate in this survey in large numbers, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath said the outcome would help the administration to know the priorities and issues faced by the general public while cycling. MSCL Managing Director Mohammed Nazeer told The Hindu the City administration was planning a pilot of 12 km bicycle track covering main roads, lanes and by-lanes as a part of Central Government's "India Cycles 4 Change Challenge." Various cycling clubs of the city have joined hands with the administration, he said. Post COVID-19 lockdown, the centre intends to promote cycling a preferred mode of commute on a large scale not only for school children, but also for office-goers with the twin objective of improving physical fitness and reducing the carbon emission, he said. MSCL intends to open at least about 3 km of the pilot route by December and hence it was necessary for general public to give their feedback at the earliest, Mr. Nazeer said. The survey seeks participants' opinion on challenges for cycling, constraints of available infrastructure, what kinds of roads they prefer to ride, areas of improvement and many more.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||5-km running, walking mandatory for reserve police this month||Talking forward the Fit India initiative and bringing in fitness regime among reserve police personnel, Additional Director- General of Police (Karnataka State Reserve Police) Alok Kumar has made it mandatory for the personnel to run/walk for 5 km every day during October. “Physical fitness alone can improve our immunity and help us fight COVID-19 infection. We are trying to inculcate culture of fitness among the personnel,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu after taking part in the ‘Fit Mangaluru’ run organised jointly by the KSRP and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. here on Thursday. Cyclothon A circular has been issued to commandants of all KSRP battalions to ensure that the reserve police personnel aged below 40 run for 5 km every day. Those aged between 40 and 50 should run and walk the same distance. The personnel aged above 50 have to walk 5 km every day. This one-month-long activity will culminate on the National Unity Day on October 31 when KSRP personnel from across the State will take part in a cyclothon in Bengaluru, which will be flagged off by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he said. The culture of physical fitness is being re-emphasised following deaths of some of the reserve police personnel, some of whom were aged below 30, owing to co-morbidities. As part of the fitness regime, personnel are also asked to do breathing exercises regularly. “Rather than just saying it, officers, including myself, take the lead in following this regime by complying with use of face mask, social distance, and other safety protocols,” he said. Categories Every battalion, he said, had categorised personnel into A (without ailment), B (off and on ailment), and C (with perennial health issues). “We are motivating personnel to follow treatment protocol and move up from C to B and B to A. We do not want those in A to move down,” he said. Weight of the personnel is being monitored regularly at the battalion and those indulging in chronic smoking and alcohol consumption are undergoing de-addiction sessions, he added.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Come on Kudla Ride With Us’ in city on November 1||Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., and Mangaluru City Corporation have organised a bicycle rally -- Come on Kudla Ride With Us -- to support "India Cycles 4 Change Challenge" on November 1. Being organised on the occasion of Rajyotsava, the rally would start from Mangala Stadium at 6.30 a.m. and end at the same venue after covering about 10 km distance. The rally is open to all, MSCL said and urged people to register onhttps://forms.gle/xQRw4K- hPh9vSya429.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Healthy Mangaluru Run||Students, senior citizens and personnel from Karnataka State Reserve Police 7th Battalion, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited and Department of Youth Services and Sports took part in the “Healthy Mangaluru” run organised jointly by the KSRP and MRPL here on Thursday. The run started at 7.15 a.m. from the Mangala Stadium just as rain stopped for a brief while in the morning. Additional Director General of Police (KSRP) Alok Kumar flagged off the run and joined the fellow long distance runners. The run was for 5 km and it covered Kudroli, New Chitra Theatre, Dongarkeri, Navbharath Circle, PVS Circle, Ballalbagh, Lalbagh and Lady Hill Circle. KSRP personnel were posted at several points on the route to guide the runners and provide them glucose and water. Services of an ambulance and few police vehicles were also requisitioned. Mr. Kumar was among the runners who completed the run early. He reached the stadium by 7.45 a.m. Others, including KSRP 7th battalion Commandant B.S. Prasad and 76-year-old long distance runner Micheal D’Souza, followed. Appreciating the sports culture in the city, Mr. Kumar asked people, more so the police, to follow regular fitness regime and involve in sports activities. “If you (police) are fit, it keeps you in a better shape to discharge your official and personal duties,” he said. Changes are being brought in the work ethics of KSRP personnel to develop healthier battalions, he said. Mr. Kumar felicitated Mr. D’Souza and others who took part in the run. MRPL Chief Manager (HR) Krishna Hegde and Deputy General Manager I.V. Muralidharan participated in event.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Religious leaders entering politics should keep aside saffron robes and caste’||Coming in defence of district youth Congress president Mithun Rai’s statement to smear paint on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, district Congress president K. Harish Kumar on Thursday said religious leaders who cannot bear criticism should not be in the political field. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said religious leaders, after entering politics, should not make use of their saffron robes or their caste. The BJP was unnecessarily bringing up caste and spreading hatred by highlighting the statement of Mr. Rai, he said. The remark During the recent protest against the rape and murder of the girl in Hathras, Mr. Rai had said that he would smear paint on Mr. Adityanath if he lands in Dakshina Kannada. This was criticised stating that Mr. Rai had insulted the Jogi community as Mr. Adityanath is among the seers of the community who is highly revered. “We hold all religious leaders in high esteem,” Mr .Kumar said, and added that Mr. Rai’s statement was an expression of anguish over the way Uttar Pradesh government burnt the body of the rape victim by keeping aside her family members.  The BJP was unnecessarily bringing up caste and spreading hatred by highlighting the statement of Mithun Rai, district Congress president K. Harish Kumar said.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Marathon to support special school||Mangalore Round Table and Mangalore Ladies Circle have organised a virtual charity marathon -- Big Balipu -- on October 17 and 18 to support the activities of Karunya Special School, Malpe, Udupi. A release here said the virtual marathon was being organised in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Anybody may register for the marathon on www.bigbalipu.com to run or walk distances of 2 km, 5 km, 10 km or 21 km, between 5 a.m. on October 17 and 11 a.m. on October 18.
22 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Student projects win award||Two projects of students of St. Joseph Engineering College here have won ‘Best Project of the Year Award’ in the 43rd series of Student Projects Programme organised by Karnataka State Council of Science and Technology recently. A total of 13 students project proposals from the college had been approved for the KSCST sponsorship for the academic year 2019-2020. Of them, two projects got the award. A project is “Design and Fabrication of Combined Wheelchair and Bed” by Preetham A. Almeida, Naveen G Chalwadi, Paramvir Singh Chambyal and Rion Francis Pinto, under the guidance of Yathish Kumar K and Binu K. G. from the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Another project is “Eye in the Sky” by Sushan Sapaliga, Princy Paul D’Silva, Rachel Pinto and S.B. Shubra under the guidance of Vijetha U. from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering.
22 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA to push for vertical growth to overcome land scarcity||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will ditch plans for bulk allotment of individual sites in new layouts in future and focus on vertical growth of the city. The vertical growth areas will be designated beyond the existing heritage zones and tourist centres. More over, it will also entail increasing the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) – the ratio of the building’s floor area to that of the land on which it is constructed - to enable construction of multi-storeyed structures going beyond 10 or 12 floors. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev told The Hindu that the horizontal sprawl of the city can no longer be sustained and people were reluctant to settle beyond a few km outside the city limits while Mysuru has already spread beyond 10 to 12 km radius. ‘’Long-time residents of the city seeking to construct a new house no longer see any merit in going beyond 10 km and are exploring apartments within the city limits’’, said Mr. Rajeev. In the meantime, the group housing plan proposed by MUDA a few years ago will be the first exercise in continuation of this vision of vertical growth and the plans will be submitted to the State government for approval in due course. The MUDA has swathes of land at 33 different locations within and close to the city limits and another 15 will be added to take up high-rise apartments under group housing scheme. “’In the first phase around 5,000 housing units will be built each costing not more than Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh to make it truly affordable’’, said Mr. Rajeev. The growing realisation of the unsustainability of horizontal sprawl which was eating into agricultural tracts around Mysuru, was also a factor that triggered MUDA’s plans to opt for vertical growth. There has been bulk conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes in Mysuru taluk and the recent amendment to the Land Reforms (Amendment) Act 2020 easing the purchase of agricultural lands, will only accelerate the conversion process. The way forward “On a swathe of converted land where 2,000 sites can be created the MUDA can construct apartment blocks to accommodate manifold that number and hence this was the only way forward to cater to site aspirants’’, said the MUDA Chairman. Mr. Rajeev said he will convene a meeting in the month of November with officials and all stakeholders to discuss the future plans and chalk out a vision for both MUDA and Mysuru. For people who prefer row housing despite the distance factor, there will be options but the focus will be on vertical growth in future.  The last bulk allotment of individual sites by MUDA was at R.T.Nagar where nearly 1,680 sites were distributed to applcants. But the entire process – from land acquisition to development and allotment – which began in 1997 was completed only in 2017 by when the number of site aspirants had grown manifold. Vertical growth is expected to reduce this pendency and cater to more people.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three African cheetahs now on display||The century-old Mysuru zoo has become the second Indian zoo to house the famed African cheetahs as the fastest land animals were released for public display on Thursday. A male and two female cheetahs that were received from a Cheetah conservation centre in South Africa under an animal exchange programme have been displayed in a specially-built enclosure. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar inaugurated the public display of the cheetahs. Zoo Authority of Karnataka Member Secretary B.P. Ravi, Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni and others were present. The three cheetahs, aged between 12 and 16 months, belonged to different parentages. The newly-constructed expansive enclosure for the cheetahs consists of a running track in tune with their habitat. The zoo visitors, however, have to wait till November 1 to watch the cheetahs as Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has ordered the closure of major tourist sites, including the Mysuru zoo, during the Dasara festive season over COVID-19 scare. The cheetahs had arrived on August 17 and were in quarantine under close observation. The zoo had claimed that it was the country’s first international animal exchange post-COVID-19. The Ann Van Dyk Cheetah Centre, South Africa, agreed to give the cheetahs under the exchange considering the Mysuru zoo’s standing. Though the zoo had got all approvals in December-January, the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the cheetahs’ arrival. The Mysuru zoo had earlier housed four African cheetahs which had been procured from Germany. However, they did not survive long. Many clearances Mysuru zoo is the second zoo after Hyderabad zoo to display cheetahs. The zoo had to pursue the proposals with various agencies in India and South Africa for getting clearances for the international exchange. A lot of paperwork was involved to realise the exchange and the Mysuru zoo’s reputation internationally helped in clinching the deal, according to the zoo authorities. The quarantine enclosure was equipped with CCTVs whose visuals were closely monitored by a team of zoo vets. Only select keepers were allowed to feed the animals and no others were permitted to access the cheetahs’ room.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Plans on to revive Kollegal silk||Kollegal in Chamarajanagar district, renowned for silk weaving, may soon see a revival of its looms and a surge in demand for the silk saris as the district administration has chalked out major plans for revitalising the sector. Apart from a Rs. 20-lakh budget for creating new infrastructure, the district administration will also take up cluster development to encourage silk looms and create a smart handloom outlet for the benefit of weavers in Kollegal. A stakeholders’ meeting was convened recently by Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi, who initiated the concept, and nine weaving cooperative societies agreed to come together to take the initiative forward. Mr. Ravi said the smart handloom outlet would be established at the old CMC office of the town and a detailed project report would be submitted to the lead bank for securing loans and financial assistance to implement the project. He said it was estimated to cost around Rs. 20 lakh to put the infrastructure in place and that the potential for job creation and income generation was immense. The need of the hour was to create new design patterns to cater to the taste of the modern-day consumers, and in-house designers would be co-opted by cooperative societies to spin attractive saris, said Mr. Ravi. Centralised outlet A centralised outlet for sale of saris is at the core of creating a demand for the Kollegal silk, which used to occupy a pride of place among consumers of the region. Besides, Kollegal silk was popular in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu till recently and efforts would be made to trigger and rekindle its appeal. The product would also be promoted extensively among consumers in Karnataka. “We intend to create a brand for Kollegal silk on the lines of Mysore Silk,” said Mr. Ravi. The revival initiative is part of a drive to promote sectors that traditionally had a strong base in Chamarajanagar and textile is one of them. This is expected to give a fillip to local industries besides empowering the community. Efforts would be made for online promotion and marketing of the products and e-catalogue of designs would also be prepared. As part of its long-term strategy for extensive marketing, retail outlets dealing with Kollegal silk products would be established across all districts of the State on the lines of khadi. Such stalls would also be established in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, as per the master plan for Kollegal silk revival. Artisans will be exposed to latest designs and encouraged to attend workshops so as to get a feel of the customers’ tastes and preferences. Mr. Ravi said the government envisaged large-scale job creation. To start with, at least 400 people would benefit from the project and the turnover — on an initial spinning of around 3,000 saris — was expected to be around Rs. 1.58 crore, which can multiple manifold once an extensive marketing network was established to fuel demand, the Deputy Commissioner added.
22 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Contribution of Suttur Mutt to educational field lauded||The contribution of Suttur Mutt to the field of education was lauded by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan at a digital event held on Thursday. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said the educational institutions run by the Suttur Mutt are a role model for others to emulate and had left a lasting impact on society. The digital event was held to mark the award distribution of QS I-Gauge Indian College and University Ratings to JSS Institutions. QS I-GAUGE is a rating system for Indian universities and colleges and is based on the globally recognised QS Stars university ratings. Both QS Stars and QS I-GAUGE complement the QS World University Rankings, QS BRICS University Rankings, and other QS activities. The Deputy Chief Minister said all educational institutions should keep pace with the changing world and adapt to modern technologies and be student-centric in their approach to impart education. JSS educational institutions were way ahead of others in this regard, he added. Mr. Narayan said the role and contribution of the JSS Institutions to bring about improvements in the educational sphere was noteworthy and its emphasis on quality education was important to empower people and ensure social equity and social justice. QS I-GAUGE provides Indian institutions an opportunity to effectively benchmark their performance and develop strategies for upgrading their educational services as well as the institutional performance. The parameters considered for QS I-GAUGE Rating are Teaching & Learning, Faculty Quality, Employability, Students Diversity, Facilities, Social Responsibilities, Faculty Diversity, Entrepreneurship, Research and Arts & Culture JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research, JSS Academy of Technical Education, Bengaluru, JSS College of Arts, Commerce and Science, JSS Institute of Speech and Hearing, JSS College for Women, JSS Ayurvedic Medical College, JSS College of Nursing, JSS College of Physiotherapy, participated in the QS I-Gauge audit from October 2019. While the JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research received the highest “Diamond“ Rating, other institutions received gold rating, the authorities said. Shivaratri Deshikendra Swamijij of Suttur Mutt, C.G.Betsurmath, Executive Secretary, JSS Mahavidyapeetha, B. Suresh, Pro-Chancellor, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, and Ashwin Fernandes, CEO, QS-ERA India Pvt Ltd, were among those present.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Resentment over restrictions by DC||Stakeholders in the tourism sector are up in arms against the decision of Rohini Sindhoori, Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, to close places of tourist interest during Dasara. The Deputy Commissioner announced the decision on Wednesday as a measure to stem the surge in COVID-19 cases in the district. She said Mysuru has over 6,800 active cases and congregation would result in a major surge and affect the community at large, and hence the fresh restrictions on tourism. But Mysuru Travels Association (MTA), a body of stakeholders in the tourism sector, has taken strong exception and said that the industry – which was the worst affected by the lockdown – had begun to revive but this decision would ruin the sector beyond recovery. MTA president Prashanth said they will appeal to the DC to lift the ban and also take up the matter with elected representatives of the district. The graded unlocking has led to a gradual increase in tourist footfall in the district. Some of the places of tourist interest in and around Mysuru were receiving 30% of the normal footfall, according to the MTA. “Many hotels and travel agencies have begun hiring. The sector was hoping for a gradual turnaround in the weeks ahead,” said Narayan Gowda, president, Hotel Owners Association.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP will win bypolls in State: Kateel||The BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi and State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the Congress will pay the price and suffer electoral defeat in the byelections in the State “for its role” in the Bengaluru violence. He was in Mysuru to attend the party officer-bearers meeting on Thursday. Mr. Ravi, who spoke to the media, said that the role and involvement the Congress and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leaders in the violence has emerged and it was now clear who were behind the riots. “The Congress has dug its own grave. Its role in the violence will prove to be electorally disastrous for the party,” he said. He asserted that the BJP would win the R.R. Nagar and Sira Assembly bypolls. On the ban on SDPI, Mr. Ravi said it was a legal process and the Home Department was at it.
22 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Flood situation continues to pose threat in Yadgir, Raichur||Although there was some respite from rain on Thursday, the flood situation in the villages on the banks of the Bhima and the Krishna in Yadgir and Raichur districts continued to pose a threat. Standing crops such as paddy, cotton and red gram on several thousands of acres of land were inundated in floodwaters. The backwaters of the Bhima entered paddy fields in Yadgir and Wadagera taluks in Yadgir districts and Ganjall and Korthakunda villages in Raichur district. Several hundreds of electricity pumpsets were washed away in fast flowing river waters. Road connectivity between Kalaburagi and Yadgir via Wadi, Nalwar was cut off after a bridge near Malagatti was submerged in the Kagina river. As many as 74 houses have partially collapsed and 1,300 hectares of agriculture land with standing crops are under rainwater in Yadgir district. Thousands of electricity poles are surrounded by river waters. However, there is no report on the death of animals and sheep and damage to electricity cables and transformers. Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya visited the Gursunagi bridge-cum-barrage across the Bhima river near Yadgir and inspected the situation as the river has been flowing with high quantum of water since yesterday after officials discharged more than a lakh cusecs of water from the Sannati Bridge-cum- Barrage. According to information, 1.40 lakh cusecs of water was discharged from the Basavasagar reservoir at 3 p.m. into the Krishna river course on Thursday when 1.40 lakh cusecs of water was the inflow. The water level stands at 491.52 m against the full reservoir level of 492.25 m. And, 3.20 lakh cusecs of water was discharged from the Sannati bridge into the Bhima river course when 3.20 lakh cusecs was the inflow. Ms Ragapriya has appealed to the general public not to venture into the rivers for any reason.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tourism sector pins hopes on Dasara holidays||The Gandhi Jayanti weekend was an optimism booster for the tourism industry, sections of which saw positive sentiment among travellers rising. And now, they are pinning their hopes on the upcoming big festive days during Dasara and Deepavali for further relief to a sector that has been battered by the pandemic. The sector has already been seeing signs of revival. “Weekend travelling as well as occupancy level in KSTDC have improved since September 15 across the State, but most prominently for Madikeri, Nandi Hills, Jog falls, Srirangapatna, Almatti and Badami,” said Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) Managing Director Kumar Pushkar. “With regard to Dasara, we do not anticipate any surge, as the authorities have decided to keep celebrations low-key to ensure that the festival does not become the reason for spread of the pandemic. Yet, during Dasara holidays, local people will definitely travel, leading to some impetus to the tourism sector,” he said. Not many enquiries Sandeep Keshav Thamankar, proprietor of a tour company, said homestays in Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Sakleshpur were fully booked during October 1 to 4. “Travellers don't want to take cabs. They are contacting homestays directly. Hotels are not doing as well. In fact, there are no enquiries for north India due to the fear factor. Nobody is going through tour operators, unless they need a vehicle and accommodation,” he said. He added that Dasara may not attract too many tourists this time, as there have been few enquiries due to the low-key celebrations. Arun Ramachandran, owner of a homestay in Chikkamagaluru, said business has been picking up “very well” since a month or so. “People are not taking cabs. Many are indulging in budget travel due to pay cuts,” he said. Among the changes initiated to accommodate the higher number of tourists amidst the pandemic, many homestay owners like Ramachandran are doing away with common campfires, instead making it a first-come-first-served basis.  Weekend travelling as well as occupancy level in KSTDC have improved since September 15 across the State, but most prominently in Madikeri, Nandi Hills, Jog falls, Srirangapatna, Almatti and Badami Kumar Pushkar, Managing Director, KSTDC
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Daily Namma Metro ridership crosses 56,000||Since the resumption of Namma Metro services a little over a month ago, ridership has gradually increased reaching 56,000 on October 12, but is yet to reach the pre-COVID-19 level when around four lakh commuters were using the mass transit system every day. When services resumed on September 7 on the Purple Line, ridership was only around 3,700. Now, the number of people using Namma Metro has crossed 56,000. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO of BMRCL, said they are operating 271 round trips on both lines every day. On the Purple Line (Mysuru Road to Baiyappanahalli), 135 trips are being operated using 21 trains. On the Green Line (Yelachenahalli to Nagasandra), BMRCL is operating 136 trips using 25 trains. “To contain the spread of COVID-19, we are operating trains as per the SoP issued by the government. Ridership remains low compared to pre-lockdown days as companies have asked employees to work from home and educational institutions are closed,” he said. BMRCL has released a video on social media to create awareness and educate commuters on the safety precautions in place. Raghava S., a regular commuter, said, “In the early days, the coaches were practically empty. Gradually, the number of passengers began increasing. BMRCL should make sure that SoPs are strictly followed by deploying more security staff on platforms.” A.S. Shankar, executive director (operations) of BMRCL, said that staff have been instructed to identify and warn passengers who fail to wear masks properly or follow social distancing rules. “Passengers have to sanitise their hands before entering stations. They are screened at the entrance, and those who have fever are not allowed to enter,” he said. Card validity BMRCL, in a press release issued on Thursday, stated that passengers who recharge their smart cards online and fail to produce them at automatic ticket gates within seven days, can now approach the ‘Customer Care’ at stations for validation of the card (credit of the top-up amount). Passengers have to bring their smart cards to the customer care counter along with proof of online top-up. However, passengers should use the card at least once within 60 days (from the date of recharge) after the top-up amount has been credited. If they fail to do so, the transaction will lapse.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB searches Vivek Oberoi’s house||Aditya, who is the son of the late Minister Jeevaraj Alva and is Oberoi’s brother-in-law, has been absconding ever since he was accused of being part of the alleged drug racket involving Kannada film stars, dealers, and party organisers. “Acting on information that he was hiding in his brother-in-law’s house in Mumbai, the CCB obtained a search warrant from the court. The search is still on,” said Joint Commissioner (Crime) Sandeep Patil. After over five hours of search, the operation was called off. CCB officials questioned Aditya’s sister, Priyanka Alva, who is married to Oberoi. A notice has been issued to her to appear before them for questioning. Officials did not divulge information on whether the Bollywood actor was at home during the search. “So far, we have questioned Aditya’s sister,” said a senior officer. The search came days after the police questioned Ricky Rai, the son of former underworld don-turned-social activist Muthappa Rai. At the time, they had searched his apartment in Sadashivanagar and the family house in Bidadi as they believed that Alva was hiding there. Ricky’s mobile phone was seized and he was detained for questioning. Many of the accused arrested in connection with the drug case allegedly partied on weekends at Aditya’s farmhouse near Hebbal, where drugs were allegedly sold and used.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders oppose closure of tourist places in Mysuru district||But Mysuru Travels’ Association, a body of local stakeholders in tourism, has taken exception and said that the tourism industry – which was the worst affected in the lockdown – had begun to revive and the DC’s decision would ruin it beyond recovery. MTA president Prashanth said they will appeal to the DC to lift the ban and also take up the matter with elected representatives of the district. “The sector generates around 1,00,000 to 1,50,000 direct and indirect jobs in Mysuru alone and they will be affected,” said Mr. Prashanth. The relaxation of norms has led to a gradual increase in tourist footfall in the district and some places in and around Mysuru were receiving 30% of normal footfall, according to the MTA. “Many hotels and travel agencies have begun hiring and the sector was hoping for a gradual turnaround in the weeks ahead,” said Narayan Gowda, president, Hotel Owners’ Association. Chain reaction What has peeved the stakeholders is that neighbouring districts, like Kodagu, have followed suit and this is bound to reduce the footfall during the holiday season. The peak tourism season in Mysuru commences with Dasara which has been reduced in scope this year in view of the pandemic and all major cultural events have been cancelled. The Dasara inauguration atop Chamundi Hill on Saturday will be limited to around 200 people, and even the Jumboo Savari has been restricted within the palace premises and only 200 people will be allowed to witness it. Even the local authorities have urged the public not to visit Mysuru during and immediately after Dasara to ensure that there was no large gathering to curb cases. Safety measures But the stakeholders claimed they were following all safety and precautionary measures and hence tourists should be allowed to visit Mysuru during the holiday season. “We are talking to all the elected representatives and will also speak to the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary to get the decision rescinded,” said Mr. Prashanth.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Moderate to heavy rain in Shivamogga district||Many parts of Shivamogga district received moderate to heavy rains on Wednesday. Among the taluks Hosanagar received the highest rainfall of 208.80 mm. Many localities were inundated and agriculture fields were flooded. Several villages of Sagar, Sorab, Thirthahalli, Shivamogga and Bhadravathi taluks received moderate rainfall. In the 24 hours before 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, the district recorded an average rainfall of 65.67 mm. Following is the rainfall recorded in taluks: Shivamogga - 40.6 mm. Bhadravati – 18.40 mm. Thirthahalli – 55.4 mm. Sagar – 64 mm. Shikaripur – 24.8 mm. Sorab – 47 mm. Hosanagar – 208.8 mm.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Screen test||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All fire and smoke||cannon
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cinemas ready to lure back audience||
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||State’s first water taxi launched||Traffic congestion and pollution will encourage more people to use water transport, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually launching the State’s first water taxi and a catamaran boat service of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) here on Thursday. Mr. Vijayan said that both could be used by the public and tourists alike. Speaking on the importance of waterways in the development of the State, the Chief Minister said that the government was committed to completing the Kovalam-Kasaragod waterway. The water taxi, a catamaran diesel-powered craft, with a seating capacity for 10 passengers, will pick passengers and drop them at their destination. It has enhanced safety and can cruise at a maximum speed of 19 knots (35 km/hour). The vessel has been constructed by Kochi-based Navgathi Marine Design and Constructions Private Ltd., which built the country’s first solar ferry, Aditya. Imported engine The boat comes with a 250-horse power outboard diesel engine imported from Sweden. Besides, it has an electric power steering and solar panel atop to provide enough electric energy to fulfil all the power requirements, including lights, fan, and control system. Owing to its smaller size, the craft can reach anywhere. The water taxi service would begin on a commercial basis from October 26. The SWTD plans to launch a total of four water taxis at a cost of Rs. 3.14 crore. Location and launch of the rest of the three boats will be decided later. Tariff Officials said that the tariff fixed had been Rs. 750 for 30 minutes and Rs. 1,500 per hour. The second catamaran boat launched has the capacity to carry 100 passengers. The boat has enhanced safety measures and modern facilities. It has a length of 20.5 m and a width of seven m. The vessel can achieve a maximum speed of seven nautical miles. The SWTD plans to introduce six more such boats. Water Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran presided over the function. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, A.M. Ariff, MP, and others attended the function held near Alappuzha boat jetty. How to hire For hiring a water taxi, people may call: 94000 50325/94000 50346.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two arrested for abusing minor girl||The Alappuzha South police have arrested a 49-year-old man for sexually abusing his five-year-old daughter. The police have also arrested a friend of the father. According to the police, they were arrested last week and booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On mother’s complaint The police said that a case was registered based on a complaint filed by the mother of the child. The duo repeatedly abused the victim, the police said.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pregnant woman killed in accident||A 33-year-old pregnant woman, working as a nurse in a private hospital in Ernakulam, was killed after coming under the wheels of a private bus on National Highway 66 at Chandiroor here on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Shelmi Paulouse, of Thamarassery in Kozhikode. According to the police, the accident occurred around 7.45 a.m. when the deceased was on her way to work. Truck rams bus “She was trying to board the bus when a truck rammed it from behind. The woman fell onto the road and came under the rear wheels of the bus as it moved forward in the impact,” said an official. She was five-months pregnant. The incident happened in front of her husband, Sinoj, who had dropped her at the bus stop. The couple along with their two children were living in a rented house at Chandiroor. The Aroor police have registered a case.
22 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Power supply to Edamalakkudy restored||After 70 days without power, electricity was restored to Edaliparakkudy, the first settlement in Edamalakkudy, the tribal grama panchayat inside the Munnar forest division, on Thursday. The road was also repaired up to Edaliparakkudy, according to officials. Underground cables through the road were largely destroyed when the road was washed away in the floods and landslips over two months ago. With the forest areas out of mobile phone coverage, the village was almost cut off from the rest of the world. Sources said supply of essential items to the village was also affected as the only road was washed away. Manoj D., deputy chief engineer, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), said the power supply was restored after days of hard work by the KSEB staff. Though the power supply was restored two days ago, it was disrupted again, he said, adding that a cable fault locator was brought from Kochi to restore the supply. Supply was restored to nearly half of the settlements and the entire work will be completed in two days. According to a Forest Department official, the road from Edaliparakkudy to Sociteykudy needs more days to complete the work. Online classes for students in Edamalakkudy were in limbo after the power connection got snapped.
22 October 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Idukki water nearing orange alert level||Despite the increased power generation at the Moolamattom powerhouse, the water level in the Idukki reservoir was nearing the orange alert level on Thursday. The water level at 4 p.m. was 2,392.82 ft. New rule As per the new rule curve fixed by the Central Water Commission, the orange alert level is 2,396.85 ft and the red alert level 2,397.85 ft. The dam has to be opened once the water level reaches 2,398.85 ft. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station at Vazhathoppe said the water level was high now compared to the level during the same period in the past two years. In 2018, when the dam was opened in the August floods, the water level on October 15 was 2,387 ft and last year it was 2,376.3 ft. The official said the water level was higher last year compared to the previous year because the dam was not opened. However, it was rare that water level increased to this level by the middle of October, as per the data available with the Kerala State Electricity Board. The catchment area recorded a rainfall of 29 mm on Thursday. Though there was a lull in rainfall on Thursday, there was heavy inflow through the Periyar and other tributaries resulting in nearly one ft rise in the water level in the past 24 hours. Since power generation had been increased, the water level was being monitored every three hours and changes were made to generation levels. A senior official at the dam safety wing said an unpredictable weather condition was prevailing now. Though the rainfall was much lower on Thursday, there was prediction of a depression over the Bay of Bengal.He said the water level continued to increase as a result of the heavy rainfall in the past two days. The inflow was three times higher than the powerhouse discharge. Factors for opening The opening of the dam shutters depended on rainfall, inflow and the situation downstream. If the rain gained momentum and inflow became heavy in the coming days, the shutters could be opened prior to the level for water release fixed as per the new rule curve level, the official added.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Catamaran ferries to be rolled out in Nov.||The State Water Transport Department’s (SWTD) fleet of single hull, slow-moving steel vessels that operate from the city to West Kochi and Vypeen will shortly be replaced with modern catamarans that are safer, faster and much more comfortable. The new vessels will have fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) hull, which is popular worldwide. The catamaran (twin hull design) will provide them the much-needed stability. This will prevent frequent visits to the workshop to overcome corrosion that is a bane for steel vessels. They will also cause much less noise pollution and vibration, as compared to the vessels that operate now, said Shaji V. Nair, Director of the department. A pair of 100-seater catamaran ferries that were built as per Indian Register of Shipping (IRS) norms will be commissioned in Kochi in November. They will have two engines, to ensure their safety even if an engine develops snag. The vessels will also operate at upto 8 knots (around 15 km/hr) speed (as compared to existing vessels that operate at less than 10 km/hr speed), he added. The sole IRS-class vessel which was in operation in Kochi till the pandemic was Vega-120, SWTD’s fast ferry that operated in the Vaikom-Ernakulam-Fort Kochi route. It operated at more than double the speed of existing steel ferries. Another four catamaran FRP ferries with more of less similar specifications are being built at another yard in the suburbs of Kochi. One of them will be commissioned in December and a second in January 2021. The other two will follow suit.  Solar tourist boat The department would also roll out its first solar-powered tourist boat in Kochi, by December end. “The catamaran vessel will be air-conditioned and have an upper deck for guests to have a sound view of the backwaters. We plan to launch it in December end,” Mr. Nair said. It operates two non-AC tourist services in the Alappuzha-Kollam route and in Kuttanad. Close on the heels of launching a water taxi service in Alappuzha on October 15, the department is readying to launch one such vessel in Kochi in November. It too will have solar panels on the roof, to provide energy for the electrical components. Guests will be able to rent out the 10-seater vessel.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Students’ Biennale to be held online||In what signals the likely postponement of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale, due to open in December this year, the Kochi Biennale Foundation has informed that the Students’ Biennale, an educational initiative of KMB, will be held online from February 21 next year. The Students’ Biennale, a major segment of KMB which buttresses fine arts education by curating and featuring works by students from across the country, will be held online this time around, thanks to COVID-19. Over 1,000 students have participated in Students’ Biennale exhibition and programmes since its inception in 2014. Curatorial team All components of the Students’ Biennale, including workshops and exhibition forums, will be online. A curatorial team of five, Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K. Nair and Vasudha Thozhur, will select the works to be featured in the Students’ Biennale. Production grant Selected projects will receive production grants and be exhibited in an online exhibition which will not be limited to art works but is open to practices as well. Students of BFA/MFA or equivalent courses in India who are desirous of presenting their works may send applications before November 15. More details can be had on the Students’ Biennale website. Queries may be addressed to studentsbiennale@kochimuzirisbiennale.org. A communication in this regard said that everything, from the communication between curators and students and the work towards the display process, will be online. “The curatorial team will do their best to engage with students across the digital divide working with accessible interfaces. Students will also receive technical and documentation inputs to work with the digital medium,” the note said. Besides the exhibition, a parallel programme of workshops will be held for participants as well as other students.  Students of BFA/MFA or equivalent courses in India may send applications before November 15
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Walkway along Periyar mooted||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management constituted by the National Green Tribunal has recommended the construction of an inspection bridge similar to a walkway along the banks of the Periyar for effective surveillance against industrial pollution. The proposal has been placed before the tribunal among other recommendations to save the river from indiscriminate human and industrial pollution. “Construction of such a bridge cannot be dispensed with for the reason that it is expensive. One should be reminded of the following words of Guy McPherson, an American environmentalist — If you think the economy is more important than the environment, try holding your breath while counting your money. Unless, the rivers in the State are rejuvenated, posterity will give a judgement against the present generation,” said A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, chairman of SLMC, in his report filed before the Southern Bench of the tribunal. Saving time The proposal is to have the bridge close to the industrial units situated along the river. “This could be useful for inspection without losing much time when a suspected case of industrial pollution is reported in the river. The collection of samples is usually done by State Pollution Control Board officials by using a boat to reach the spot, where the pollution has occurred. Effluents would be often washed away by the time enforcement officials reach the spot because of the water flow in the river,” said Mr. Pillai. The SLMC chairman said that the proposed walkway has to be set up close to the compound wall of industrial units. “It will save considerable time in identifying those responsible for the pollution of the river as officials could reach the site immediately,” he said. The committee had found that thick bushes on the banks of the river and outside the compound wall of industrial units at Edayar were hampering the surveillance process carried out by the board. This has to be carried out with the assistance of the Irrigation Department, it said. The committee has recommended that the local bodies along the banks of the Periyar river should close down any industry or establishment found violating the provisions and dumping effluents into the river. The civic bodies have to step up surveillance by installing CCTV facility, it said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Concern over protocol violations in tourism sector||Even as tourism locales began reopening in a phased manner from Monday, stakeholders have expressed concern at a section of tourism entrepreneurs being slack in adhering to the special operation procedures (SOPs) announced by the government to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The concern is valid, especially since a sizeable share of tourism players have not registered their ventures, thus escaping the ambit of routine inspections by tourism and other agencies, said George Scaria, president, Tourism Professionals Club, a body that has been furthering the cause of accountability in the sector. “This was especially true of many hotels and other properties, who, in their eagerness to earn revenue, overlooked violation of safety norms, ever since they reopened in June following lockdown relaxations. There were also reports of many domestic tourists, mostly from other States, flouting the COVID-19 protocol and not reporting if they tested positive after staying in hotels,” he added. Under this circumstance, a group of tourism enthusiasts recently demanded that the Kerala Tourism constitute a monitoring committee to oversee the functioning of tourism enterprises. District Tourism Promotion Councils (DTPCs) and tourism officials who were entrusted with ensuring adherence to the protocol must begin screening tourism ventures and guests who arrive, so that the renewed tourism activities do not in any way contribute to rise in COVID-19 cases. All this is a must to usher in confidence among well-meaning guests, Mr. Scaria observed. He further demanded that the government roll out a long-term plan to retain the interest of foreign tourists in Kerala. The Responsible Tourism Mission has, in the meantime, issued directions to rural tourism stakeholders to adhere to the physical distancing protocol, mandatory wearing of face masks, transparent face shields, and frequent sanitising, to ensure responsible travel during the pandemic. “For instance, we have told organisers of experiential tourism packages to dissuade tourists from partaking in manufacture of pottery and coir. But they can witness from close quarters artists and workers engaged in such activities. Online meetings were held with operators of homestays and other enterprises to apprise them of the need to ensure hygiene and sanitised environs,” said K. Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the mission. Hospitality and other tourism ventures in locales like Kumarakom have begun getting enquiries, especially from tourists from north India who want to visit Kerala for a week and leave, to avoid quarantine, he added. The Kerala Tourism has issued sector-specific norms, said sources in the Ernakulam DTPC. In this, officials ought to be deployed at entry points of tourism locales, equipped with thermal scanners and sanitisers. Details of visitors must be entered in a register. In addition, the do’s and dont’s of the COVID-19 protocol must be prominently displayed, while physical distancing must be ensured. Toilets and rest rooms ought to be fumigated and cleaned frequently, they said. DTPC-managed destinations are reopening in a phased manner. A senior Kerala Tourism official said it would be tough to keep tabs on all private ventures with the existing manpower. “At best, we can report violations to the District Collector,” he added.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi aiming for seamless inter-modal connectivity: CM||With different commuting modes operating side by side, Kochi is set to emerge as the first Indian city having seamless inter-modal connectivity, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating online the pair of two-lane bridges at Champakkara on the Vyttila-Pettah route, on Thursday. “Kochi metro, which is a lifeline and a modern commuting mode, plays a major role in this. It ushered in fast, clean, comfortable and reliable commuting in the city. Its impending extension to Kakkanad will change the face of the port city. KMRL’s second initiative, the Water Metro, is set to begin operating in January. It will tremendously benefit islanders and others living on the banks of Vembanad backwaters,” he said. The 245-m-long Champakkara bridges were built for Rs. 50 crore. Care has been taken to ensure navigation beneath the bridge, even during high tide.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Where old kerosene lamps work like a charm||Lighting technology has evolved rapidly over the years. Who remembers bee wax, and fish and vegetable oil lamps? The technology to light up our lives has evolved through gas lamps, incandescent bulbs and compact fluorescent lamps. And LED lighting systems hold the sway now. But there are still fans of the old kerosene lamps around us, who deploy them for a rich shrimp harvest in the pokkali paddies of coastal Kerala mostly between the months of October and May in the one paddy-one-fish cycle. Bright light attracts shrimp into the paddies from the wild when the sluice gates are opened. These lights are also used to draw shrimps into the net at the harvest time, says M.K. Radhakrishnan, 56, from Edavanakkad, who has been making these lamps for as long as he can remember. He says that the season has just begun and there is some demand even now despite a lot of different types of lighting systems being available in the market. The pokkali shrimp season is just opening up with farmers having carried out the pond preparations in most of the places in the coastal areas like Chellanam, Edavanakkad, Varappuzha, Paravoor, Ezhikkara, Poothotta and Kodungalloor. K.C. Joseph, 67, works out of his shop at Njarakkal where he began to make kerosene lamps in the early 1970s. There is still a belief that shrimps only come drawn by these kerosene lamps, he says with a tinge of laughter in his lips. There are all sorts of lamps around now, especially solar lamps, he says. But the old charm persists though Mr. Joseph makes them only in his spare time as the lamps take a lot of time for fabrication, which is all done by hand. No machine work, he emphasises. The lamps used by shrimp farmers and the ones being fabricated by craftsmen like him and Mr. Radhakrishnan is a traditional variation of the old hurricane lamp. In Malayalam, it is descriptively called ‘Koodu vilakku’ or a lamp in a nest. The base of the standard, 18-inch version is glass; so are the lamp protected on all its vertical sides by clear glass, which helps radiate the kerosene lamp light, says Mr. Radhakrishnan. There is a burner, which holds the wick, a knob to adjust the length of wick as well as a fuel chamber and opening on top which acts as the exhaust. Being of a traditional nature in design and fuel, the lamps, which are now being fabricated in various sizes, have drawn the attention of interior decorators. Mr. Radhakrishnan says that some of the lamps have been ordered for those who decorate stages and podiums for various social functions like marriage.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to replace team probing Palathayi child abuse case||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State government to respond to a plea submitted by the mother of the survivor in the Palathayi child abuse case seeking to reconstitute the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case. The mother of the survivor said that she suspected that there had been high-handed political interference in the investigation process. The petitioner as well as her minor daughter would not get justice if the investigation was conducted by the present team under the leadership of Inspector General of Police S. Sreejith, she said. The case related to the abuse of the child by her former school teacher, who is a local BJP leader, in Palathayi in Kannur district. Delay in probe The petitioner said the investigation team was not able to complete the probe despite the lapse of about six months. The delay in completing the investigation was deliberate and aimed at providing undue advantage to the accused and was against the scheme of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act which provides for expeditious investigation and trial. The investigation team did not take any efforts so far to rectify the anomalies and lapses pointed out by the public prosecutor. The petitioner alleged that the victim had been subjected to mental torture and harassment many times by the counsellors as well as the police. The investigation team did not record the statement of the child by audio-video electronic means as specified under Section 26(4) of the POCSO Act. The petitioner sought to restrain the SIT from from submitting the final report before the POCSO court in Kasaragod.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||His ideology was humanism||The debate whether Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri was a bundle of contradictions will go on. In his exuberant youth, he flicked away the poonool (the thread worn by Brahmins), feasted on fish, and took to Communist ideology against the orthodox practices of his community. Years later, he reached for the old poonool, returned to vegetarianism and though he had parted ways with Communism soon after the ‘Calcutta thesis’, in his twilight years, he was seen endorsing the Hindu right-wing culturally. But his poetry, from beginning till end, was imbued with a rare humanism and what poet K.G. Sankara Pillai would call a “sense of ecological justice”. He never surrendered humanism and it remained as an enduring ideology. This was evident even when he construed a modern city as a temple, a feudal image that went against the very grain of the modernism that had characterised his ‘epic’ poem. No other poet in Malayalam, says Pillai, was able to give brilliantly abstract poetic expression to the deep, subtle state of being one with nature. He cites Ninne Konnavar Konnu Poove/ Thannude Thanne Mokshathe (Those who killed you, flower/ Killed their own salvation) as a shining example. Back in 2012, at the screening of a biopic on the poet, artist M.V. Devan, who had done illustrations for Akkitham’s Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam (The Epic of the 20th Century), which was published in Mathrubhumi Weekly on August 31, 1952, recalled how Akkitham’s poetry outlined the contours of his own spiritual journey and therefore touched his readers’ soul. G. Prabha, academic who canned the biopic, says there was no duality in the poet’s standpoints, as he was forever a worshipper of nature. “This was different from the caste-driven ethos spoken of as Indian these days. It was almost animist and he felt for everything in nature.” Critic M. Thomas Mathew is categorical when he says there was no dichotomy in Akkitham’s stances. “His spiritual quest was unwavering and genuine. He was never communal. Our renaissance leaders are also those touted by revivalists as their icons. That’s the dichotomy of Indian society. He ploughed a lone furrow,” says Mr. Mathew.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Explore potential of Ayurveda: Governor||COVID-19 has offered an opportunity to explore more deeply the potential of Ayurveda and adopt an integrative approach for innovative solutions to the pandemic, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said on Thursday. He was addressing the valedictory session of the Global Ayurved Summit organised under the aegis of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), said a press release here. Mr. Khan said the pandemic had turned the world’s attention to the immune system. In the present scenario, the role of Ayurveda is of paramount importance. Thomas John Muthoot,  chairman, CII Kerala State council, addressing the session, emphasised that the global Ayurveda market was expected to reach USD9.79 billion by 2022, growing at a compound annual rate of 16.2% from 2015 to 2022. Rajesh Kotecha , Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, highlighted the initiatives taken by the AYUSH Department. COVID-19 has enhanced the scope of work for the department, he said. K. Ellangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries, Kerala, said health-care as a service was now contributing significantly to economic growth, and that the government was developing the Ayurveda investment framework to attract more investors to the State.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive to MGU on LLB exams||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Controller of Examinations, Mahatma Gandhi University, to inform the court about the schedule of valuation and publication of results of the first-semester examinations of the LLB five-year integrated course as well as the conduct of the second, third, and fourth semester examinations. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive on a petition moved by students of the Bharat Mata School of Legal Studies at Aluva. They claimed that except the first semester, examinations for the other semesters had not been conducted by the university till now. The results of the first-semester examinations had not been published even 15 months after the examinations. No justification The court observed that if the allegations of the students were true, the situation in the university was extremely deleterious. The court said there was little justification for not publishing the results of the first-semester examinations even after one year and four months. Counsel for the university submitted that the results of the first semester could not be published due to certain complaints about the question papers, which had now been addressed. In a month The valuation would be completed within one month. The examinations for the second, third, and fourth semesters could not be held solely on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The universities in the country were now conducting examinations that got delayed and it did not see any reason why the university should not do so, the court said
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||U.S. envoy launches disaster preparedness handbook||The U.S. Consulate General, Chennai, in association with the city-based Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), released Community Resilience Handbook for Disaster Preparedness and Management in English and Malayalam at a virtual event here on Thursday. Anne Lee Seshadri, Public Affairs Officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai, released the handbook, which is the key outcome of the America with Kerala: Uniting for a Disaster Resilient Kerala project organised in association with CPPR and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). “I hope that the outcome of the America with Kerala project will contribute to advancing US-India ties and collaborations in the area of disaster management,” she said. Following the launch, CPPR chairman D. Dhanuraj moderated a panel discussion on ‘All-Hazards Approach to Community-Based Disaster Risk Mitigation’. Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), said, “If the disaster management curriculum that is being worked on as part of the America with Kerala project is introduced in our universities, it will have a long-lasting impact on our communities. Empowering the community with knowledge and resources is the global best practice in disaster mitigation,” he observed. Nivedita P. Haran, Honorary Chairperson, Board of Directors, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, Kerala, said, “Wherever women have come forward to become a part of the risk reduction process, the results have been extremely effective.” The handbook is available in English and Malayalam on the CPPR website: https://www.cppr.in/
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||1,209 fresh cases reported in Ernakulam||On Thursday, Ernakulam recorded 1,209 fresh COVID-19 cases and 719 recoveries. Only 22 of the newly-infected came from other States or overseas. The source of infection in 55 patients could not be traced. Two health workers were among the new patients. The district has a total of 29,573 people under observation for the disease as on Thursday, of whom 27,943 are at home. New admissions to hospitals and first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) stood at 243. The total patient count in the district was 12,718. Some 6,020 samples were sent for testing on Thursday.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over 1,000 Chinese nets to be dismantled||Over a thousand unlicensed Chinese nets (commonly called dip nets) in the picturesque Kumbalanghi backwaters are slated to be dismantled by the Fisheries Department early November following a Kerala High Court directive. Traditional fishers across the political spectrum have welcomed the decision and called it ‘long overdue’ and in the best interest of artisanal fishers, who depend on the backwaters for a living. In solidarity “Dip nets in the Kumbalanghi backwaters have broken all the regulations governing inland fisheries. The have disrupted normal activities of traditional fishers, and small boat owners will be mobilised to display solidarity with the departmental action,” said State convener of Fisheries Coordination Committee Charles George in support of the decision to dismantle the nets. “It has become an industry disrupting movement of boats and traditional fishing activities by those who live close to the backwaters,” said P.K. Shivadattan, social activist and former president of the Kumbalanghi grama panchayat. But dip net owner Paul Kannamchery differs. “It is a livelihood means. If they are being dismantled, the government must direct us to some other means of daily sustenance,” he said. Panchayat president Martin Anthony welcomed the High Court order and said the dip nets should be taken away. However, some consideration should be given to small fishers, who live off the backwaters using these nets, he added. Rampant violations Mr. George said that dip nets in the Kumbalanghi backwaters rampantly violated rules regarding the distance from the shore at which they can be erected; that a person should not own more than one net; that they should be erected at specified distance from each other, and that they should not use lights of more than 100-W capacity. “However, people from different walks of life have turned dip nets into an investment, some of them reportedly owning more than a dozen of them. They deploy workers from other States on a purely commercial basis,” he said. “There were just 74 dip nets in the Kumbalanghi backwaters in 2010. The number has now gone up to more than a thousand,” he added. Most of the nets are located on the eastern side of the Kumbalanghi-Perumpadappu bridge running in northerly and southerly directions. In some of the areas, like the junction where the Aroor backwaters meets the Kumbalanghi backwaters, some nets have been erected across the backwaters totally blocking traffic and other fishing activities, alleged Mr. Shivadattan. Fisheries Department sources said that the owners would first be asked to dismantle the nets on their own before it takes the action. The department is also issuing a public notice via newspapers to the owners to dismantle the nets or face losing them and other assets entirely.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Youngster arrested with ecstacy pills||The city police arrested a person with 10 ecstasy tablets from Palarivattom on Thursday. The arrested is Jabir, 21, of Edathala. According to the police, the accused used to procure drugs from Bengaluru through middlemen and sold them at higher margins to youngsters in Vyttila and Palarivattom areas. Also known just as ‘pills’ among users and sought after at rave parties, high dosage of the drug could even lead to death, the police said. Theft Gold ornaments weighing around 13 sovereigns and valued at Rs. 13 lakh were found stolen from an office of the Cochin Devaswom Board adjoining the Siva-Subramanya Temple at Vyttila. The theft came to the notice of the board employees who found the office broken open on Thursday morning.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over four acres of barren land turn into green patches||Twenty-three local bodies in Ernakulam have converted nearly 4.41 acres of barren land into lush patches as part of the government’s ‘Pachathuruthu’ initiative. The objective of the Statewide project launched under the Haritha Keralam Mission was to tackle the issue of climate change by increasing the green cover. The guidelines issued by the mission had stated that green islands could be set up in government or private land, puramboke , city centres and unused land. The larger objective was to create mini forests across the State in a phased manner. Local bodies in Ernakulam that have set up green pastures include Palakuzha (50 cents); Pampakuda (30); Vadekkakara (30); Valakom (31); Vayakkara LP School, Ramamangalam (25); Vazhakkulam (25); Varapetti (25); Govt ITI, Kalamassery (20); Ramamangalam (18) and Thirumaradi (18). “Geographical mapping of green islands has been done to ensure regular monitoring. It will help local bodies identify the location of green pastures, besides taking stock of the types of trees and plants available in each area,” said Sujith Karun, District Coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBI seeks vacation of interim stay||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a petition in the Kerala High Court seeking to vacate the interim order staying the investigation into the alleged irregularities in the LIFE Mission project implementation at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. The High Court had stayed for two months the further proceedings against U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the LIFE Mission. While issuing the stay order, the court had allowed the CBI to go ahead with the probe against Santhosh Eappen, MD of Unitac company and first accused in the case. The interim order came on the petitions filed by the CEO and Mr. Eappen seeking to quash the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the CBI in connection with the case. The CBI said in its petition that it could not collect the files of the project and related files from the government on account of the the stay order. Besides, the CBI was not able to question and summon officers, government employees and people acquainted with facts of the case. As such, the stay order had created serious roadblocks in the investigation of the case.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Father, son injured in drunken brawl||A father-son duo sustained injuries after they allegedly hacked each other following a drunken brawl at their home at Cheranalloor on Thursday night. Both the father, Bharathan, 68, and son Unnikrishnan, 38, have been admitted to a hospital. The condition of Bharathan is said to be serious, the police said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One more held in drug case||More than seven months after arresting two college students on the charge of possessing 21 grams of MDMA from a rented room at Edappally, the city police on Thursday arrested another youngster allegedly for whom the drug was smuggled in from Bengaluru. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Shifas, 20, of Aluva.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Thoppumpady harbour to reopen today||The Thoppumpady fishing harbour, which has been lying idle over the past four days, will reopen on Friday following reconciliation between purse seine boat operators and harbour workers over the arrival of longline and gillnet boats from Tamil Nadu at the harbour. The arrival of a fleet of longline and gillnet boats last Saturday at the harbour had triggered a standoff between purse seine boat operators, who refused to allow longline and gillnet catch being unloaded and auctioned off at the harbour. Harbour Coordination Committee leader M. Majeed said talks on the initiative of Cochin Port Labour Union leader B. Hamsa on Thursday had brought peace to the harbour, as both purse seine boat operators and harbour workers agreed to cooperate, even as they respected the protocol.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Adalat postponed||The e-adalat which was to be held across the State on October 17 has been postponed due to technical reasons, the organisers have said here in a pressnote. The revised dates would be announced later, said K. T. Nizar Ahamad, member secretary of the Kerala State Legal Services Authority.
22 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) faction begins consultations with LDF||A day after announcing the party’s decision with the Left Democratic Front, Kerala Congress (M) factional leader Jose K. Mani on Thursday kick-started consultations with the coalition leaders in this regard. Party sources said only a few formalities remain for the regional party to find a berth in the coalition. According to them, the party is likely to get five seats in Kottayam, including Pala, Poonjar and Changanassery, besides one seat in Idukki and five seats in various other districts. Vacant seat Earlier in the day, Mr. Mani asserted his party's claim over the Rajya Sabha seat which became vacant due to his decision to resign from the post. “Considering the influence that the KC(M) enjoys as a party, we deserve that seat,” he said, while expressing hope that the party would get appropriate representation during the upcoming local body elections. Notwithstanding a statement from Mani C. Kappen, MLA asserting the decision of his party to stay firm with the LDF, speculations are now rife about him exploring options to join the United Democratic Front (UDF) to contest from the Pala seat once again. In case if the NCP decides to exit the LDF, the Mani group may also get the Kuttanad seat to contest from. Filling vacuum Meanwhile, the United Democratic Front looks to fill in the vacuum created by the Mani group’s exit by poaching UDF sympathisers from the breakaway faction . According to sources, the KC(M) faction led by P.J. Joseph has reached out to the KC (M) leaders and workers who have apprehensions about the party’s move to the Left camp. To make most of the opportunity, the party will highlight the ‘bitter treatment' of K.M .Mani, founder leader of the KC (M), by the Left parties during the bar -bribery case. Cong. to take seats The Congress, at the same time, too looks to firm up its position in the district by taking over a few seats previously contested by the Mani group.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cases surge again in Kozhikode, test positivity rate at 18.21%||COVID-19 cases surged again in Kozhikode after declining for a couple of days, when 1,264 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. It was also the highest number of infected persons recorded in the State. A release from the District Medical Officer said that a test positivity rate of 18.21% was reported here when 6,765 samples were examined. After reaching a high of around 18%, the TPR had slumped to around 9% and then 7% in the past two days. As many as 1,203 people acquired the infection through local transmission and the source was unknown in 46 cases. A total of 685 people recovered and the number of active cases is 11,124. Kozhikode corporation (546) accounted for a large number of fresh cases, while Peruvayal (78), Olavanna (43), Kadalundi (35) and Thamarassery (31) also figured as clusters. Five deaths Meanwhile, five deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Thursday. Nine others had died on Wednesday and Tuesday, a medical bulletin said.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Test-and-treat’ to tackle tuberculosis in children||Children aged below 15 constitute 5% of the tuberculosis (TB) cases in the State. The Health Department is planning to launch a test-and-treat approach and preventive therapy for them from next month.  Akshaya Keralam  The initiative is part of the recently launched Akshaya Keralam project, the third phase of a drive to eliminate TB by 2025, according to the State TB cell. As many as 15,307 cases have been diagnosed between January and September this year and 968 people died. The corresponding figures for 2019 were 25,248 and 1,821, respectively. Sources at the cell claimed that 561 of the 1,034 local self-government institutions had not reported a single case of paediatric TB in 2019. The average annual decline in childhood TB cases from 2009 to 2019 had been 7.5% . Drop in drug sale Paediatric anti-TB drug sale had a steeper decline. Pharmaceuticals reported a dip in the sale of kid formulations by 90% from 2006 to 2019. The preventive therapy is meant to reduce it further, they pointed out. This is expected to prevent 1,000 children getting TB every year in the State. The Kerala branch of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics is a partner in the venture. Meanwhile, the officials said that TB elimination efforts had faced some trouble after the spread of COVID-19. Fear of transmission of the infection to lab technicians through TB sputum examination, stigma to cough, and difficulty in accessing suspected patients were some of the issues. Advisory issued An advisory was issued for ensuring TB care in April. Laboratories were equipped with bio-safety equipment and instruments for molecular tests like Truenat and Xperts which could test both TB and COVID-19 were additionally purchased. Bidirectional screening for TB and COVID was put in place, the officials said. Following this, an estimated 1,500 cases were found to have missed diagnosis. The Akshaya Keralam project is an attempt to find out all those through a catch-up campaign. The search is for cases among vulnerable individuals at their homes along with reverse quarantine efforts in coordination with care for the elderly and palliative care.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Now, Kozhikode has 117 ‘green spots’||Haritha Keralam Mission’s efforts to set up ‘green spots’ as part of the State-wide ‘Pachathuruthu’ (green islet) project have borne fruit in Kozhikode district with the support of various local bodies and youth movements. Project officials said, under the scheme, there were 117 green spots in the district, which were officially opened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconferencing on Thursday. Some of the green spots now nurture medicinal plants and fruit-bearing trees. According to Corporation authorities, there are four such green spots within Kozhikode city limits. Two of them are inside the V.K. Krishna Menon Memorial Garden at Komeri. The green spots, realised with the support of the Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme in 2019 and 2020, were home to thousands of saplings and fruit plants, they added. The completion of the four green spots was officially declared by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran here on Thursday. At the event, he received the official letter of commendation issued by the Haritha Keralam Mission for cooperating with the project. V.K.C. Mammad Koya, MLA, presented the letter to the Mayor. A decision was taken to expand the conservation project to more urban areas. It was in 2019 that the Pachathuruthu project was launched in Kozhikode district with an aim to promote miniature forests, giving priority to the conservation of rare plants. Training was imparted to a number of volunteers, local body members and clubs to take the project up in their villages. In Kannur Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday announced the completion of 65 green spots in Kannur district through videoconferencing. The green spots are in 38 gram panchayats in the district and one each in Mattannur and Taliparamba municipalities in 68.98 acres.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Muslim organisations demand changes in COVID-19 protocol||A meeting of various Muslim religious organisations on Thursday requested the State government to consider some reasonable amendments to the existing COVID-19 protocol to facilitate respectful treatment and burial of bodies. The meeting, which was chaired by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, in Kozhikode, also called upon the Health Department to check whether it was actually giving a decent funeral to COVID-19 victims as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Indian Constitution. “Now, the State government is enforcing a protocol, which was not even recommended by the World Health Organisation in the case of COVID-19 victims,” said Mr. Basheer. The government should accept some healthy and reasonable changes in rules considering religious sentiments, he added. Religious leaders who attended the meeting said there should be freedom for bathing the body, as it was an essential part of funeral ritual in Islam. The support of trained volunteers or family members of the victim could be used for the purpose rather than leaving the job to sanitation workers, they pointed out. Considering safety issues, some leaders said they would recommend the Islamic act of dry ritual purification method using purified sand or dust (Tayammum), which was often accepted in situations where water could not be used for the ritual. They appealed to the government to realise the sentiments of the faithful at the grassroots level. Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly M.K. Muneer, Kerala State Haj Committee chairman C. Mohammed Faizi, and Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen leader Hussain Madavoor were among those who attended the meeting.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Award for Calicut varsity professor (pic mailed 16kznampy)||Santhosh Nampy, Professor, Department of Botany, Calicut University, has been chosen for the Tod F. Stuessy Medal Award instituted by East Himalayan Society for Spermatophyte Taxonomy. A release says the award is in recognition of his contribution to botanical research. It will be presented to him during a webinar hosted by Mansarovar Global University on November 6.
22 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Recoveries outpace new cases in Malappuram||As many as 1,010 infected persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Thursday when 447 persons tested positive for the virus. District officials said it was a good sign in general. However, they warned the people not to lower their guard against the disease. As many as 327 of the new cases were found to have contracted the virus through direct local contact. There were 54 cases without an identifiable source of origin. 30 health workers Among the cases tested positive on Thursday, there were 30 health workers. It was the biggest number of health workers testing positive on a single day in the district. While 26 of the newly infected came from abroad, 10 came from other States. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district dipped to 7,993 on Thursday. However, more than 49,000 people are quarantined across Malappuram. ‘Stay at home’ District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that it was time that people maintained more vigil and that their cooperation was a must to prevent the spread of the virus. Dr. Sakeena advised people to stay put at their homes. “Please come out of your homes only if it is necessary,” she said. In Wayanad As many as 143 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Of them, 141 were infected through contact and two persons came back from other States. The district has so far reported 5,352 COVID-19 cases. Of those, 4,203 have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases stands at 1,119 in the district.
22 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Akkitham leaves Mahakavi’s throne vacant||Malayalam poet and Jnanpith laureate Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, 94, died at a private hospital in Thrissur on Thursday. He was hospitalised for two days after his health failed following urinary infection. Malayalam celebrated Akkitham last month when he won the the 55th edition of the country’s most prestigious Jnanpith Award. Born in 1926 at Kumaranallur in Palakkad, he has authored four dozen works in poetry, stories, plays and essays. Some of his seminal works include Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam, Nimisha Kshetram and Balidarshanam . Among his widely read works were Bhagavatham, Vennakkallinte Katha, Manassakshiyude Pookkal, Panchavarnakkili, Arangettam, Madhuvidhu, Oru Kula Munthiringa, Idinju Polinja Lokam, Amritagathika, Samathwathinte Akasham, Prathikara Devata and Manasapooja . His work Balidarshanam won the Kerala and Kendra Sahitya Akademi Awards in 1972-73. The death of Akkitham, the tallest of Malayalam poets, has left the throne of Mahakavi (great poet) vacant. He was the last Mahakavi of Malayalam. Writers are of the opinion that Malayalam may not see another Mahakavi in the near future. Rare commitment Akkitham rose to the league of great poets such as Kumaran Asan, Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer, Vallathol Narayana Menon, G. Sankara Kurup, Edassery Govindan Nair, Pala Narayanan Nair and O.N.V. Kurup not only by the quantity and quality of his poetry, but also by displaying a rare commitment and unconditional love to human race. “He was committed to the human race, and not to any parochial groups. The unconditional love of human beings that he projected through his poetry is good enough to lift him to a global level,” said poet Alankode Leelakrishnan. A Gandhian at heart, Akkitham imbibed values of freedom and virtues of ideologies that led the human race across the continents to progress in the last century. “His works reflected those great values and ideals, and gave us solace and positive reassurances. That is why people called him Mahakavi,” said Mr. Leelakrishnan. Akkitham gave Malayalam a number of quotable quotes. Lines such as “Oru kanneerkkanam mattullavarkkai njan pozhikkave, Udikkayanen aatmavil aayiram sauramandalam,’’ and “Velicham dukhamanunnee, thamassallo sughapradam,” have fewer parallels in modern Malayalam poetry not only in popularity but also in gravity and depth. Writer M.T. Vasudevan Nair used to refer to Akkitham as “my poet.” Akkitham enjoyed a permanent number one position at poets’ meetings held at Thunchanparamba. Even if he could not attend, his poems were prioritised over that of others and recited at Thunchan festivals every year. According to poet Manamboor Rajanbabu, Akkitham deserved to be called Mahakavi not only because of the greatness of his works, but also because of his virtuous life. “He was a man of inimitable virtue who displayed great positivity and optimism. The modernism he heralded was quite meaningful. People easily understood his poetry which abounded in imagery that they could associate with. That is his greatness,” said Mr. Rajanbabu. Mr. Leelakrishnan and Mr. Rajanbabu too share the view of several other poets that there will not be another Mahakavi in Malayalam too soon. His work Balidarshanam won the Kerala and Kendra Sahitya Akademi Awards in 1972-73. He was awarded Padma Shri in 2017. Apart from the Ezhuthachan Award he won in 2008, Akkitham was bestowed with Odakkuzhal Award, Asan Award, Sanjayan Award, Lalithambika Antharjanam Award and several other honours. Cremated His body was cremated at his house at Kumaranellur, near Thrithala, in the afternoon with full State honours. His elder son Vasudevan Akkitham lit the pyre.
22 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Help for poor women||P.K. Das Institute of Medical Sciences (PKDIMS) at Vaniyamkulam has launched a charity programme to help indigent women struggling to maintain their family. Destitute women from Vaniyambalam panchayat will be eligible for financial aid under the programme. The programme providing a monthly aid of Rs. 1,500 to beneficiaries was launched in memory of P.K. Das, the founder of the Nehru Group of Institutions. Application forms will be available at the hospital reception. For details, PKDIMS can be contacted at 0466-2344500 or 9037737710.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital records 679 new cases||At 679 cases on Thursday, the daily COVID-19 caseload in the district remained below the 800-mark for the fifth consecutive day, but the death toll rose sharply with 18 more recent deaths getting confirmed as due to the infection. The deceased included nine men and nine women hailing from Mannamkunnu, Kanjiramkulam, Balaramapuram, Nalanchira, Perunthanni, Bhagavathinada, Poovar, Kallambalam, Kodangavila, Manacaud, Chittatumukku, Kallara, Vellanad, Sreekaryam, Beemapalli, Plamootukada, Perumbazhuthoor, and Karamana. Two of the deceased were below the age of 40. With this, the COVID-19 death toll in the district has risen to 329. Source untraced Of the new cases reported on Thursday, local transmission accounted for 350 cases. In 295 cases, the source of infection could not be immediately ascertained by health officials. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his customary COVID-19 briefing, said that the district had witnessed a decline in cases over the past one week. “The number of cases where the source of infection is unknown also has come down. There is no shortage of beds in hospitals in the district,” he said on Thursday. At the same time, the important thing is to reduce the chance of local transmission, he said. In all, 302 women and 377 men tested positive over the past 24 hours. The list included 68 children below the age of 15 and 125 persons above 60. In the first half of October alone, 1,251 children below the age 15 have tested positive in the district, 535 of them in the past one week. Fifteen more health workers have been diagnosed with COVID-19. 775 recoveries The number of recoveries stood at 775 on Thursday. As on Thursday, 11,068 persons were being treated for COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram district. In all, 2,861 persons were newly quarantined while 3,295 others completed the surveillance period without developing symptoms of the disease. As many as 30,845 persons are under disease surveillance at the moment. The City police booked 36 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for not complying with COVID-19 guidelines. Action was taken against 252 others for not wearing masks and failing to maintain physical distancing in public places.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Greening drive yields 1,261 ‘islets’||More green spaces should be set up to make the State carbon-neutral, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating through videoconference here on Thursday 1,261 Pachathuruthu (green islets) set up by the Haritha Kerala Mission across the State. Mr. Vijayan said against a target of 1,000 islets, the mission could set up 1,261. Every year, more such spaces should be set up. If there was no common land, Pachathuruthu should be promoted on land owned by people interested in greening the earth. On 454 acres The setting up of green spaces across 454 acres in the State was an investment in our future, Mr. Vijayan said. With trees, shrubs, medicinal plants, and biofencing in one place, these were small models of biodiversity. The project envisaged not only planting of saplings but also their nurture for three years. MGNREGS workers, local conservation committees, and students were all part of the initiative. Suitable trees only Each green space was set up by selecting plants suitable to the area. The first Pachathuruthu in the State at Vengode at Pothencode in Thiruvananthapuram had rare medicinal plants grown with the support of JNTBGRI, Palode. In some places, there was only bamboo, and in others, fruit-bearing trees. In the backwaters and on beaches, mangroves were planted. Sacred groves were expanded to create Pachathuruthu in some places. A visible change The initiative, Mr. Vijayan said, had created a visible difference in the ecosystem in the past one year. The mangroves planted at Kumarakom had increased the fish wealth there. In other spaces, birds and insects had benefited. Kilimanoor tops In Thiruvananthapuram district, Kilimanoor block panchayat has the most number of these green islets – 76. Kilimanoor also achieved the tag of the first completely Pachathuruthu block panchayat in the State. All eight panchayats in the block limits have realised these green spaces. The Perunkadavila grama panchayat has 9.4 acres of land under Pachathuruthu. In Parassala, plants have been grown on 5.05 acres, in Kilimanoor 4.35 acres, and in Neyyattinkara municipality 2.3 acres, taking the total area under the project in the district to 36.7 acres. Nearly 20,000 plants have been grown. The biggest Pachathuruthu has been created near Neyyar Dam in Kallikad grama panchayat on eight acres of land.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,789 COVID-19 cases in State||Kerala registered 7,789 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 50,154 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 3,17,929 cases. The test positivity rate is still around 15.5%, indicating that disease transmission continues to be on a high. The State also recorded 7,082 recoveries on the day. The number of recoveries so far has reached 2,22,231. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment is 94,517. Of the active cases, 720 patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs with 169 on ventilator support The toll of the State went up to 1,089, with 23 more deaths which occurred in the past few weeks. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 18 deaths, Kozhikode has two while Kollam, Ernakulam and Thrissur reported one death each. Of the new COVID-19 cases reported on Thursday, 7,663 cases (98.3%) are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraced in 1,049 cases. These include infections reported in 128 health-care workers. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram’s case graph is beginning to plateau, while it is on the rise in rest of the districts. Kozhikode and Ernakulam now top the list of maximum cases. On Thursday, Kozhikode reported the highest case burden with 1,264 cases, Ernakulam 1,209, Thrissur 867, Thiruvananthapuram 679, Kannur 557, Kollam 551, Alappuzha 521, Kottayam 495, Malappuram 447, Palakkad 354, Pathanamthitta 248, Kasaragod 311, Idukki 143 and Wayanad 1,143 cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Kerala is now reporting 8,911 cases per 10 lakh population against the national average of 6,974 per 10 lakh. However, even while the case graph in the State is climbing, Kerala’s case fatality rate continued to be the lowest at 0.34% against the national average of 1.6%, a sign of the robustness and efficiency of the State’s public health system, Mr. Vijayan said.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IAV’s first phase becomes operational||The Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV) in the district will evolve into a global centre for high-end virology research and help Kerala scale greater heights in its efforts to improve public health and contain virus outbreaks, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The first phase of IAV, situated at the Bio 360 Life Science Park at Thonnakkal, became functional with two divisions on Thursday. Dedicating the facility to the State at an online function, the Chief Minister said it was heartening to note that IAV has become functional at a time when Kerala is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. Institutes such as the IAV will enable high-end medical research and give more teeth to the State’s efforts to tackle epidemics, Mr. Vijayan said. The constant interaction of Keralites with people of other States and nationalities also means that it is easier for epidemics to find their way into the State. A robust public health system has helped Kerala check the Nipah virus outbreak of 2018 and fight the COVID-19 pandemic. However, such a system alone will not help the State tackle lifestyle diseases or epidemics. Institutes such as the IAV gain relevance in this context. In 2017 The State government took the decision to establish a high-end research facility in virology in 2017. According to the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), the IAV “is envisioned as an institute of global standards networking Global Virology Institutes with most modern laboratories focusing on research, diagnosis and management of emerging and re-emerging infectious viral diseases.” The Phase 1 A building of the IAV was inaugurated in February 2019. On Thursday, the divisions on clinical virology and viral diagnostics became operational in a 25,000 sq ft pre-fab building. Once fully functional, the IAV will have eight scientific divisions on multiple aspects of virology research and occupy an 80,000 sq ft building at the park. At the helm Akhil C. Banerjee has taken charge as IAV director, and Mohanan Valiyaveetil, as the Senior Principal Scientist. The Chief Minister said the IAV would work closely with national-level institutions such as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). Now functioning under the KSCSTE, the IAV will gain the status of an autonomous institution once it is fully functional, according to the government.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New attempt to block coastal erosion||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has joined hands with Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. (TTP) to protect houses threatened by coastal erosion using special blocks made from red gypsum and cement packed in geobags. Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated a pilot project using B-CAP (Block for Coastal Area Protection) at Vettucaud on Thursday in the presence of TTP chairman A.A. Rasheed and managing director Georgee Ninan. B-CAPs have a long life and have been found ideal for the construction of railway platforms, roads, and houses, according to the TTP. For coastal protection, the blocks are filled in geobags manufactured by Coirfed and deposited around residences as a bulwark against the waves. Red gypsum is a by-product of titanium dioxide production. The ingredients of B-CAP are red gypsum (32%), sand (58%) and cement (10%), TTP officials said. If the project is found successful, it would be extended to other stretches of the coast in the Corporation area, Mr. Sreekumar said. The blocks offer better protection to the houses than sandbags often used by the residents, he said. Councillors Solomon Vettucaud and Mary Lily Rajas, local parish authorities, and TTP officials were present.  Red gypsum, a major component, is a by-product of titanium dioxide production
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional halts allowed for Janshatabdi special trains||Railways have allowed additional stopppages for Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Central Janshatabdi specials (02076/02075) at Varkala Sivagiri, Kayamkulam Junction, Cherthala, and Aluva. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur-Thiruvananthapuram Janshatabdi specials (02082/02081) will also stop at Kayamkulam Junction, Mavelikara, Vadakara and Thalassery with effect from October 16, a release said. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode Janshatabdi daily special (02076) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 5.55 a.m. to reach Kozhikode at 1.05 p.m. The Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Central Janshatabdi (02075) will leave Kozhikode at 1.45 p.m. to arrive at Thiruvananthapuram Central at 9.25 p.m. Thiruvananthapuram Cental-Kannur Janshatabdi (02082) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.50 p.m. to reach Kannnu at 12.25 a.m. The Kannur-Thiruvananthapuram Cental Janshatabdi Special (02081) will leave Kannur at 4.50 a.m. to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.10 p.m. Conditions Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station. All passengers will be screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF sees no dent in its traditional base||A meeting of the United Democratic Front (UDF) here on Thursday settled that the desertion of the alliance by the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) would scarcely dent the electoral prospects of the opposition alliance in central Travancore in the forthcoming local body and Assembly elections. P. J. Joseph, Mr. Mani’s arch-rival in the KC (M), reportedly assured the meeting that the party's traditional base was unlikely to shift its loyalty to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) merely because an individual leader had played turncoat. Mr. Joseph ‘claimed’ that KC (M) workers were abandoning Mr. Mani in the heartland of the party in Kottayam. The trickle would soon become a flood. The UDF noted that the CPI had reservations about Mr. Mani's inclusion. So did the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) whose Pala seat was at stake given Mr. Mani’s strong pitch for the constituency. NCP leader and Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan ‘feared’ that Mr. Mani would displace him. So did other Kerala Congress splinter groups in the LDF. Indian Union Muslim League leader P. K. Kunhalikutty reportedly opined that Mr. Mani would be hard-pressed to explain his defection to KC(M) supporters. At a media briefing later, UDF convener M.M. Hassan said the UDF would meet on October 23 in Kochi to weigh the political situation.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Port work stalled by local people’s protest||The work on the Vizhinjam international multi-purpose deepwater seaport has been stalled following a stir by the local people. With the protesters launching an agitation near the project site and the parish committee extending support, the construction of the 3.1-km breakwater, a critical component of the seaport, has been stalled. Secretary, Ports, Sanjay M. Kaul has convened a meeting on Friday to end the agitation. The District Collector has already held talks with the protesters. The protesters are demanding that the assurances given by the government to those displaced and those who lost their livelihood be fulfilled. Employment in the seaport figures among the 18 demands submitted by the residents. Road blockade Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd. (AVPPL), tasked with the execution of the seaport, has been unable to go ahead with the breakwater construction due to the road blockade by the protesters. The AVPPL is of the view that the issue has to be sorted out between the people and the government. “There will be jobs and we will train local people. But, this will happen only when the port operations commence,” a project official said.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks report on damaged road||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the city Corporation Secretary to inquire into the non-tarring of Puthenpalam road in Vallakkadavu after it was dug up two years ago for laying a drainage line. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic sought a report within three weeks. A complaint by human rights activists said that after the pipe was laid, it was just covered by earth. Without tarring, travel on the road was a nightmare. Nearly a hundred families live in the area.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No reason to oppose Mani, says Kanam||CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran on Thursday said he saw no reason to treat the Jose. K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) as a political opponent. The decision of Mr. Mani to work in league with the LDF without setting any conditions reflected his affinity towards the pro-farmer policies of the ruling front. The CPI had opposed Mr. Mani when he was aligned with the UDF and opposed to the policies of the LDF. Now, Mr. Mani has unilaterally and unconditionally declared his support to the LDF and disavowed the UDF camp. However, Mr. Rajendran seemed unwilling to comment publicly whether the CPI would back Mr. Mani's admission to the LDF. He said the CPI State executive would meet on October 21 and decide.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handwashing Day observed||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja on Thursday inaugurated the State-level observance of Global Handwashing Day. The day was observed as part of the Break the Chain campaign to effective COVID-19 prevention.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three vet clinics to offer 24x7 service from today||Farmers in the animal husbandry sector in the district and pet owners have cause for cheer. From Friday, three veterinary hospitals in the district will start providing round-the-clock services. Bowing to a long-pending demand of farmers and pet owners, the Animal Husbandry Department has decided to provide 24-hour services at the veterinary polyclinics at Nedumangad and Parassala and the veterinary hospital at Attingal. Surgeon, doctors Each of the facilities will have a senior veterinary surgeon, three doctors, two livestock inspectors, and other staff to ensure day-and-night services. Minister for Animal Husbandry K. Raju will perform the State-level inauguration on Friday.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Paintings invited for Children’s Day stamp||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare has invited paintings to be featured on the stamp to be released on November 14, Children’s Day. Children in the 9-17 age group can send in their paintings on the theme ‘Athijeevanathinte Keralapadham.’ Entries can be sent by post or directly. The last date is October 31.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical camp for differently abled kids||A week-long medical camp for differently abled children is being organised by the Kilimanoor block resource centre of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala from Thursday. As many as 152 children are taking part in the camp where equipment to overcome difficulties diagnosed by the camp doctors will be distributed.
22 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Operation Brigade launched||The Excise Department has initiated Operation Brigade, a raid against the liquor-drug mafia. The initiative was launched against the backdrop of increasing incidence of drug cases and ganja hauls in the district. Raids were conducted in the hideouts of habitual drug peddlers and users. Led by Deputy Excise Commissioner K. Pradeep Kumar, the excise officials in the district formed five teams and held raids. Three NDPC (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) cases and one Abkari case were registered during the raids conducted from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. Four people were arrested in connection with these cases. Apart from this, four kg of ganja was seized from a car at Kunnamkulam.
22 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records 867 new cases||Thrissur recorded 867 COVID-19 cases on Thursday while 550 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,473 active cases in the district and 157 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts. So far, 25,233 cases have been reported in the district and 15,506 people recovered. According to official statistics, 865 people contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Cases were reported from eight COVID-19 clusters. As many as 6,186 people are under home observation. In all, 3,081 people underwent antigen tests on Thursday. 6,434 active cases As many as 354 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. However, there were 441 recoveries in the district. District officials said that 217 of the new cases had got the infection from local contacts. When two cases came from other States, the source of infection could not be traced in 121 cases. There are 6,434 active cases currently under treatment in the district. Besides them, 57 infected persons from Palakkad are being treated in Ernakulam, 46 in Malappuram, 17 in Kozhikode, seven in Thrissur, two in Alappuzha, and one each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur districts.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kollam’s caseload up by 551||Kollam reported 551 new cases of COVID-19 and 794 recoveries on Thursday. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of an 85-year-old Thaikavoor resident is due to COVID-19. While 550 patients contracted the infection through contact, the remaining patient is a health worker. Among the new patients, 150 persons are from Kollam. Several contact cases were reported from Neendakara, Chavara and Sasthamcotta. The district currently has 19,015 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,74,901. While 2,402 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 60,380 primary and 7,255 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of active cases is 7,663. 521 cases in Alappuzha Alappuzha reported 521 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. As many as 506 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Eleven health-care workers and four persons who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the fresh cases, 93 were reported from Alappuzha, 48 from Aroor, 41 from Punnapra South and 40 from Mararikulam South. Meanwhile, 465 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,200. Ward 29 in Kayamkulam, ward 20 in Chengannur, ward 8 in Thazhakara, ward 13 in Thanneermukkom, ward 13 in Nooranad, ward 6 in Arattuppuzha and parts of ward 12 in Ambalappuzha North, ward 9 in Thanneermukkom, ward 22 in Mannancherry and ward 52 in Alappuzha were declared as containment zones. 495 cases in Kottayam As many as 495 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 491 persons, including 10 health-care workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of 43 persons is yet to be identified. With 185 recoveries on the day, the district currently has 5,986 active cases. 248 in Pathanamthitta As many as 248 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta. The district also reported 257 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 218 contracted the virus through local contact while two patients are foreign returnees. The contact source of 21 persons is yet to be traced. The district currently has 2,984 active cases.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||An ambiguous take on ‘restrained filmmaking ’||Boundaries, as to what can be shown and what should not be, are not something artistes would like to encounter in their creative process. In Halal Love Story , streaming now on Amazon Prime, we have a filmmaking crew working within the confines set by a not so progressive Islamic organisation, which has hired them to make a telefilm. The cultural wing of the organisation, which campaigns through street plays and seminars, decides that they need to make a telefilm to reach out to more people. They hire filmmaker Siraj (Joju George) to shoot the film, but he has to stay within the boundaries set by Taufeeq (Sharaf U Dheen)’s ‘Halal’ script, written considering the delicate sensibilities of the intended audience and the strictures of the religious laws. Shareef (Indrajith), a deeply religious man who has dreams of being an actor, gets cast as the male lead, with his wife Suhara (Grace Antony) being forced to act as his wife in the film too so that the halal laws are not broken. Zakariya, and Muhsin Parari who has co-written the film, uses this peculiar situation to draw out some humour. Slow start It takes its time to get into its groove, especially with the initial parts where the show of religiosity is overdone. The real-life issues of the actors and the director merging seamlessly into the film’s content makes for some of the film’s most interesting passages. Not to forget how the reluctant-actor Suhara, with acting lessons from Stanislavsky, makes her actor husband envious even as he hams up his scenes. The smatterings of humour and the performances of Grace Antony and Joju George hold together the film to an extent. Yet, the script, which does not have an emotional core like Zakariya’s sparkling debut Sudani from Nigeria , slackens later and meanders to a tame ending. Ambiguity on stand Although the film’s writers try to convey an impression that they are lampooning some of the regressive aspects of this religious organisation, there is a level of ambiguity on where they stand. When Taufeeq, the writer of the film within the film, passionately argues with the director that they also want to make films that can cater to the narrow sensibilities of the members of their organisation, one gets the sense of the film casting a very sympathetic, supportive light on him. At a time when newer boundaries, previously non-existent, appear out of nowhere to hem in artists and even advertisement film makers, this rather positive, lighter take on ‘conservative’ filmmaking is somewhat problematic despite some of the effective humour. S.R. Praveen
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety no walk in the park||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gearing up||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Productive protest||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dampened trade||
22 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP will not support any move to impeach judges: Madhav||The BJP will not support the impeachment motion against Supreme Court judges in Parliament if the YSRCP musters enough support and moves one in both Houses, after having written a letter to the Chief Justice of India, party State general secretary P.V.N. Madhav has said. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Madhav said the YSRCP complaint against the judges was not in good taste. “But the BJP believes that the TDP used the judges and resorted to insider trading in Amaravati lands. The TDP is now openly supporting the judges after the complaint,” Mr. Madhav said. “The BJP, however, will not support any move of the YSRCP, as it has faith in the judiciary of the country and will not be a party to the impeachment proceedings against the judges,” he added. Launching the ‘Jana Jagaran’ programme in support of the farm Acts and to explain people as to how they were beneficial, Mr. Madhav said the TDP had resorted to cheating the farmers in Amaravati in the name of land pooling and did not give them the promised developed plot. “The YSRCP is no better with the issue hanging fire even today,” he said. The BJP, he said, was for only single capital at Amaravati.
22 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. launches signature campaign against farm Acts||APCC president S. Sailajanath launched the ‘Two crore signature campaign’ here on Thursday to mobilise support against the three farm Acts enacted by Parliament recently. “We will meet the President on November 14 in New Delhi after gathering the signatures from across the country and request him to intervene in getting the legislations repealed. These Acts will work against the interests of the farmers as the Minimum Support Price is being done away with,” Dr. Sailajanath told reporters while launching the campaign here. The Congress government had introduced the MSP to protect the rights of the farmers seven decades ago, but the BJP government was implementing the RSS agenda by handing over the entire farming activity to the corporates on a platter, he said, and added that the farmers would be forced to grow only what these companies wanted at a price fixed by them. “The BJP has handed over the Railways partially to the corporates,” he alleged. With regard to the MSP too, the Centre was following the Bihar model, where MSP was done away with 15 years ago, Dr. Sailajanath said. Power meters Criticising the YSRCP government for deciding to go ahead with the its plan to fix power meters for agriculture connections, Dr. Sailajanath asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to shelve the proposal. “Let the Chief Minister first tour Kurnool and Anantapur districts, where farmers have lost groundnut and cotton crops in a big way. They farmers should immediately be compensated,” he said. Dr. Sailajanath further demanded that additional input subsidy be given immediately to all the farmers who had lost their crops, besides paying them the input subsidy dues the previous government had kept pending since 2018.
22 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ twin sons in Kalyandurg||A washerman, suspected to be mentally unstable, allegedly killed his twin sons aged six and reportedly buried their bodies in a reserved forest close to Boilapalli village in Kalyandurg mandal of Anantapur district in the early hours of Thursday. The accused Chakali Ravi Kumar, in his 30s, allegedly had an altercation with his wife on Wednesday, and after she fell asleep, he took his sons, Sudeep and Sudheer, into the reserve forest, close to the village late in the night and allegedly strangled them to death. When his wife woke up at 3 a.m., alerted the neighbours on not finding the three at home. The neighbours while searching for them, saw Ravi returning from the reserve forest. On questioning, Ravi reportedly showed the place where he had buried the bodies. The residents retrieved the bodies and informed the police on Thursday. The Kalyandurg Rural police have registered a case and are investigating.
22 October 2020||DINDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||House boats set to make a splash in the Godavari||The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) has obtained permission from the A.P. Maritime Board to resume the operation of the famed house boats in Vasista, a branch of the Godavari, enabling tourists to explore the serene beauty of the Konaseema region in Andhra Pradesh. The boating operations were suspended in September last year following the sinking of a tourist boat in the Godavari in the midst of the Papikonda hills. Later, the State government came up with a set of revised guidelines for boat operations. APTDC Divisional Manager (East and West Godavari Districts) Thota Veera Narayana told The Hindu that they are geared up to resume operations. “We have obtained the permission to operate two house boats in the Vasista at Dindi. We have already prepared the ground to resume the operation of the house boats mostly likely by October-end. Necessary facilities have been provided in the boats and all precautions will be taken. Required repairs have also been done to the house boats,” he said. “On the business front, we are hoping that the house boats will give a boost to tourism in the Konaseema region,” Mr. Veera Narayana said. ‘Fully fit’ “The two boats are kept ready for the operations as they are fully fit. We have already received a communication from higher officials to prepare for boat operations. Most likely, boating will commence on an auspicious day immediately after Dasara (October 25)”, house boats in-charge D. Subba Rao told The Hindu . The two house boats, each with a seating capacity of 20, are operated from Dindi resort in East Godavari district every day, facilitating tourists to explore the Konaseema and tranquil waters of the Godavari before it empties out into the sea, passing amid lush green canopies of coconut orchids along the banks of the river. Fare The boating services are offered to tourists for a seven-hour day trip (Rs. 9,000) or a single day-and-night trip (Rs. 12,000). While most of the bookings are done by families, group bookings are also allowed. Mr. Subba Rao said, “The boat starts at 10 a.m. from Dindi village in Konaseema to cross the Vasista to reach Narsapur in West Godavari. It will be back in Dindi for lunch and then proceed towards Rajole to wind up the seven-hour trip by 6 p.m.”. For a 24-hour trip, the house boat will be anchored on the waters throughout the night as it is equipped with accommodation facility.
22 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister promises Rs. 1 cr. for meal scheme||Minister for Housing and District In-Charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju has assured that he will donate Rs. 1 crore from his personal funds to launch a free meal programme at Government General Hospital in Guntur. The Minister told mediapersons after visiting the hospital that he had taken the decision in view of the massive influx of patients to the GGH from six districts. The meal programme would be launched soon and the meals would be provided during 10 a.m. to 2 .p.m and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. everyday. Facilities to provide meals to 200 people at one go would be made, said the Minister. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said even now the hospital had over 1,500 non-COVID beds and many patients come from neighbouring district.
22 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. seeks grounding of NTPC-BHEL plant||The Congress activists on Thursday staged a demonstration in front of the tahsildar’s office at Venkatagiri, demanding the early grounding of the Rs. 8,000-crore NTPC-BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) plant proposed at Mannavaram in Chittoor district to manufacture turbines for power plants and generate jobs for local youth. The activists led by Congress leaders from the Assembly segments of Venkatagiri, Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sullurpeta, and Srikalahasti lamented that the foundation stone for the proposed plant was laid by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2010, but there has been no progress in the last 10 years. “The plant, which was scheduled to start commercial production in 2015, is yet to see the light of the day. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should bring pressure on the Central government to speed up the implementation the project,” they said. Congress leaders P.Srinivasulu Reddy, P. Chandrasekar, Battaiah Naidu, N. Rajasekar, C. Eswaraiah and P. Venkateswarlu took part in the protest. ‘State govt. must make its stand clear’ Special Correspondent from Tirupati adds: Meanwhile, the Congress activists staged a similar demonstration in Srikalahasti town. Leading the demonstration, APCC member Batheiah Naidu demanded that the State government must clear the air on the issue and spell out its stand on the status of the proposed NTPC-BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) plant. The party leaders also recalled that it was promised during the foundation stone laying ceremony that the project would create job opportunities to every household in the Srikalahasti and Venkatagiri Assembly constituencies. On the backburner “However, the NTPC-BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) plant had been pushed to the backburner by the subsequent Central and State governments for the reasons known to them. It is high time the YSRCP government spelt out its stand on the fate of the plant,” said Mr. Batheiah Naidu, adding that the hopes of the local residents to get jobs at the proposed plant have been dashed. Talks are also doing the rounds that the project has been shifted to somewhere in North India, he added.
22 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees zero deaths, Prakasam reports 10||With 10 more fatalties in the last 24 hours ending Thursday night, the total coronavirus deaths jumped to 1,024 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh. After remaining in single digit for several days, the death count spurted to double digit in Prakasam district, taking the total to 550. However, the toll remained unchanged at 474 in the neighbouring Nellore district, with no death being reported during the period, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. Meanwhile, 1,436 patients were recovered from the infection in the two districts during the period, while only 477 persons tested positive for the virus. Prakasam district accounted for 867 recoveries while the same for Nellore district was put at 569. With 178 new infections, the cumulative tally rose to 59,035 in Nellore district, pushing the number of active cases down to 2,693. As many as 56,342 patients have been cured in the district till date. Cumulative tally In Prakasam district, the total number of positive cases went up to 55,545 with 299 new cases being repoeted in 24 hours. The number of active cases put at 3,320. Meanwhile, district in-charge Minister P.Viswaroop at a meeting of the District Development Review Committee meeting said that the situation in the district had improved. He lauded the effective health management by the district administration. “The single-day spike in the COVID-19 cases has come down to a few hundreds while the number of fatalities stood little over 1% of the total positive cases. The recovery count is also very high (93.03%),” the Minister said.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers flay CM’s letter to CJI||The Bar Council of India on Thursday condemned the “reprehensible move” by A.P. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to “target” Supreme Court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, and several judges of the A.P. High Court. The day saw lawyers’ bodies rally to support Justice Ramana, saying the CM acted in an “irresponsible” manner. The Delhi Bar Association said Mr. Reddy’s letter to the Chief Justice of India was written with a “mala fide intent”. The BCI, in a statement, said Mr. Reddy’s aim was to “undermine the independence of the judiciary and browbeat judges to suit his own purposes”.
22 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children of trafficking victims worst hit by COVID situation||All sections of people are adversely affected by COVID-19 situation in one way or the other but the children of trafficking victims are among the worst-hit, finds a survey by an Ongole-based non-governmental organisation. Their vulnerability to social and psychological problems has increased manifold during the pandemic, observes HELP director N.V.S. Rammohan while underscoring the need for providing not only mental health care but also community-based rehabilitation for their recovery and emotional well-being. In the current situation, sex workers, many of them single parents, are deprived of their income and the stigma and criminalisation of their work make it hard for them to find an alternative job. With nil or minimal government support, they seek financial help from money-lenders. This makes their children more vulnerable to abuse and exploitation as some of the lenders act as middlemen for traffickers. Their mental health further deteriorates with the psychological stress triggered by COVID-19. Revealing the survey findings on the mental health status of the children of trafficking victims in the State to The Hindu here, he says 407 children in 10-24 age group interviewed by HELP volunteers recently revealed that they suffered from multiple types of emotional disorders such as depression, anxiety, fear and avoidance. The survey covered 67 children of women in commercial sex work, including 25 girls in Prakasam district, 210 in Guntur district, including 75 girls, and 130 in Krishna, including 45 girls. Findings It has been found that 62% of them felt very bad in the present environment, 12% had entertained the thought of committing suicide at least once, 30% avoided or feared speaking with their mother and 39% with their father. While 70% of them felt humiliated, 45% stammered/trembled and another 41% felt demotivated. There were 47.9% who said they were not comfortable with the environment that they lived in, 61.7% often felt stressful, 96.3% were abused by parents (physically or emotionally). Over 70% of them did not even get a few hours per week to play sports or pursue any other hobby, 61.7% did not feel safe at home or at school or in their neighbourhood and 86.7% didn’t know whom to access for help if in trouble. The gravity of the problem could be understood in the State where about 3,250 prostitution localities existed with over 90,000 registered sex workers as found by the Andhra Pradesh State Aids Control Society, he says. There is an urgent need to enact a comprehensive piece of legislation to deal with trafficking and ensure protection to children, he adds.
22 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuchipudi artistes educate people on coronavirus||The coronavirus theme came apt for the artistes who celebrated the World Kuchipudi Day here on Thursday. Santhapeta Sai Baba temple set the right ambiance for the artistes led by ‘Save Kuchipudi Artistes’ Prakasam district coordinator S.V.Sivakumari and others to perform a variety of Mudras, depicting the precautionary measures to be taken to keep the spread the virus at bay. The celebrations marked the 91st birth anniversary of guru Vempati Chinna Satyam. Artistes A. Phanikumar, V.Sushila and Saraswati Roy, guided by their gurus Saraswati and Suresh Babu, presented a scintillating performance. The dancers also paid tributes to noted Kuchipudi dancer Shobha Naidu, who died on Wednesday. The programme was presided by temple trust president A. Chenchala Rao.
22 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Signature drive held against farm laws||The Congress will not rest till the recently enacted ‘anti-farmer laws’ are scrapped , Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) vice-president Sripathy Prakasam said on Thursday. Leading a signature campaign against the laws at Kondepi in Prakasam district, he said two crore signatures would be collected from farmers and agricultural workers and submitted to President Ramnath Kovind on November 14. The Congress leaders raised voice against the State government’s move to fix electricity meters to the farm pumpsets.
22 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks ‘Ankurarpanam’||Spiritual fervour marked ‘Ankurarpanam’ at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Thursday. The festival was observed as a prelude to the nine-day annual Navaratri Brahmotsavams scheduled to begin on Friday. Performance of Ankurarpanam is a standard practice observed at all Sri Vaishnavite temples seeking the blessings of the Almighty for the successful conduct of the religious events. In connection with the festival, special rituals were conducted to Lord Viswaksena —the chief of the army of Lord’s domain — even as the priests ceremoniously sowed navadhanyams in the sacred earthern pots for germination at Yagasala specially set-up inside the temple. The festivities were observed at Ranganayakula Mandapam with the management resolving to confine the event to the inner precincts of the hill temple in strict adherence to COVID restrictions. Even though it was earlier decided to take out the daily processions of Lord on various vahanams around the Mada Streets encircling the sacred shrine, the TTD beat a retreat and rather preferred to abide by the health directive issued by Union government, which prohibited congregation of more than 200 people during any outdoor cultural and religious events. The two-time daily vahana sevas will be conducted at Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the temple from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 .p.m in accordance to the tenets laid down in the sastras.
22 October 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donated||The representatives of Chennai-based Auto Tech industries on Thursday donated Rs. 64 lakh to the TTD’s ‘Balaji Aarogya Varaprasadini’ scheme. A demand draft for the amount was handed over to Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy inside the temple.
22 October 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Natural farming with an urban flavour||A father-son duo are making waves by growing organic vegetables in an area of six acres in a bustling locality of Tirupati city. P. Prabhakar Naidu and his son Ajay Parthasarathy have been growing vegetables using the natural farming method with no chemicals at their family farm in Thimminaidupalem on the city outskirts. Mr. Ajay, who was working as a mechanical engineer for six years, quit his profession and turned to agriculture three years ago. Mr. Prabhakar Naidu said that he used to cultivate sugarcane and paddy on his farm and had nearly called it quits after failing to find labour in the city. The father-son duo then switched to growing vegetables like lady’s finger, bitter gourd, brinjal, ridge gourd and bottle gourd on their farm. Shunning traditional practices, Ajay developed bunds with a tractor, spread mulching sheets on them to keep weeds at bay, employed drip technology for optimal water usage and administered micro-nutrients like egg amino acid, fish amino acid and neem extract for balanced growth and pest control. Similarly, pheromone traps, sticky traps and fruitfly traps were brought in to eradicate aphids, sucking insects and moths. The biggest cost advantage that the duo achieved was in the form of zero spending on labour.  Zero labour “There is not even a single worker employed on the farm, as the entirely solar-fenced and mechanised farm is looked after only by my father and me, though in turns,” Mr. Ajay told The Hindu . The State government had bestowed the ‘Best Progressive Farmer’ award on Mr. Ajay for the year 2019. Though the daily yield is close to 100 kg (three to four varieties included), the ‘organic’ tag has not helped them bag a sizeable market. “We are now tying up with apartments and social organisations like Rotary Club for bulk purchase of the naturally-grown produce. If the consumers look beyond the price tag and acknowledge the health benefits, even a 15% premium pricing will help meet the higher costs,” said Mr. Prabhakar Naidu. Apart from vegetables, the duo grows betel leaves, lemongrass, Brahmi, teasel gourd, peppermint, basil seeds and Nela Vemu (a Siddha herb now used to build immunity against COVID-19 for their personal use. “We haven’t tried it on a commercial scale yet, as the demand is yet to be explored,” Mr. Ajay said.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preacher accused of sexual assault arrested||The Tirupati Urban police on Thursday arrested religious preacher M. Deva Sahayam for allegedly sexually assaulting his woman employee. According to Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy, the accused was picked up from APSRTC bus station, based on a complaint filed by the victim in Gajulamandyam Police Station. He said the accused had tried several times in the past to sexually exploit the girl, a single woman. On October 3, he had taken her in his vehicle to Thukivakam on Chennai highway on the pretext of taking delivery of some stock, allegedly sexually assaulted her and threatened her against revealing it to anyone. Mr. Reddy appreciated Disha police station Deputy Superintendent R. Rama Raju and his team for the arrest in a short time. The case came to light after AIDWA members raised their voice against the alleged indifference of the Disha police station officials in accepting the complaint. It gained strength after Vishwa Hindu Parishat (VHP) took the plunge in demanding action. Earlier in the day, VHP and BJP leaders met Mr. Reddy and explained to him how the victim was made to run from pillar to post for getting a case registered. The SP assured them the case would be expedited and investigated by an officer of the Deputy Superintendent rank.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Abdul Kalam||Rich tributes were paid to former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on the occasion of his birth anniversary at a function organised by SRK Educational Society on Thursday. The society presented lifetime achievement awards to IIT Tirupati Director K.N. Satyanarayana, ‘Ayushmanbhava’ CMD Pathan Abdul Rahiman, Seva Bharathi founder B. Subramanyam Reddy, Vignan University V-C M.Y.S. Prasad, JNTU-A Registrar M. Vijaya Kumar and Govindadhamam (eco-friendly crematorium) chairman T. Damodaram. The speakers at the function described Dr. Kalam as ‘an epitome of success through simple living’. Prof. Satyanarayana narrated the manner the national institute succeeded in overcoming Covid pandemic by taking to online education. He called IIT Tirupati as an example of promoting sustainable environment. Mr. Damodaram recalled Dr. Kalam’s dream of spreading ‘Indianness’ across the world and appealed to the youth to help make the country self-sufficient.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks civic bodies to become self-sustainable||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the government will not touch the revenue generated by the municipal corporations and municipalities, and has ordered that it be spent on local development. He has called upon the local bodies to strive to achieve self-sustainability to the extent possible. Thrust areas Addressing a review meeting on the reforms to be initiated in the urban local bodies on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stressed the need for evolving SOPs that help in rendering citizen services in the desired manner, and said the government would pay the employees’ salaries through ‘010 head of account’ as usual. He instructed the officials to give priority to drinking water supply and sanitation. He said an action plan should be drafted for improving the financial standing of the corporations and municipalities by doing a detailed study of the expenditure (operational and maintenance, employees’ salaries and other expenses) and sources of revenue. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Principal Secretaries S.S. Rawat (finance) and J. Syamala Rao (municipal administration), and Commissioner G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar were present.  An action plan should be prepared for improving the financial standing of the corporations and municipalities by doing a detailed study of their expenditure and sources of revenue Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanakadurga flyover inauguration today||Kankadurga flyover in Vijayawada will be inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy virtually on Friday at 11.30 a.m. Also, foundation stones will be laid for 61 project works worth Rs. 15,592 crore at the same programme. Roads and Buildings Minister M. Shankar Narayana along with Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, MLAs Jogi Ramesh and Malladi Vishnu inspected the arrangements along with officials on Thursday. Mr. Imtiaz said that after the virtual inauguration, Mr. Narayana and other Ministers would flag off vehicles from Bhavanipuram Bus Stop towards the flyover. According to the Collector, the 2.6-km length flyover has six-lane facility. The flyover is one of the complex structures of its kind in the country.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna river continues to be on the rise||The flood in Krishna river continued to remain in spate throughout the day, with the inflow and outflow constantly above 7 lakh cusecs. A slight dip in the inflows was registered by evening and the same situation is likely to continue on Friday as the outflows at Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar Project were increasing. As of 8 p.m., the barrage was receiving an inflow of 7.28 lakh cusecs flood water and 7.24 lakh cusecs of it was being discharged into the sea. About 3,900 cusecs of water was being released into the canals. Meanwhile, hundreds of families were in the flood relief centres as their houses in Krishnalanka, Ranigari Thota, Ramalingeswara Nagar and other areas continue to be marooned for the third day.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Young social entrepreneurs making a difference||When the lockdown was announced in March, people rushed home from wherever they were and religiously followed the “Stay Home, Stay Safe” directive to avoid the risk of contracting the COVID-19 virus. “A conversation on the need for safety for all, with a cousin Vamsi Krishna, set us thinking about the plight of the marginalised families who do not have homes. Where would they go, we wondered,” recalls Lakshmi Janaki, a chartered accountant and co-founder of Givetoday, a crowdfunding platform that caters to the needs of the underprivileged sections through different online campaigns launched in collaboration with NGOs. After five months of discussions and research on the best ways to reach out to the needy, with two other like-minded friends, Sai Vivek and Praveen, they decided to start a crowd-funding platform and Givetoday was born. Joined soon by three volunteers, the four youngsters started their first campaign on distribution of grocery kits to the marginalised families, in August. Pooling in their own money, crowd-sourcing through internet, they collaborated with Dalit Bahujan Research Centre (DBRC) to identify the beneficiaries and distributed the kits comprising rice, pulses, wheat flour, oil and masala powders to around 70 families who eke out a living as rag-pickers at Poranki and a dump yard at Kandriga, a couple of days back. “The help of grocery kits is very timely as many low income group families are starving after losing their livelihood due to COVID-19,” said A. Dev Kumar, Director, DBRC. When asked why crowd funding, Ms. Janaki explains: “Raising small amounts of money from a large number of people and funding a project is easy. There are many people willing to do their bit, but how do you identify them? Internet is the right space where the whole world is today, especially in the wake of the pandemic,” she says, informing that they were happy to see people from overseas nations offering help. Prior to that, Givetoday also donated tabs to five bright students from low income families who were unable to attend online classes. Their next campaign is distribution of sanitary pads and inner wear to 75 orphan girls, through an NGO Providence Charitable Trust. “Personal hygiene is important,” she emphasised. Within four weeks of its launch, the Givetoday team has raised over 600 products from over 100 donors that benefited over 300 families. An e-shopping portal for sale of organic products is on the cards. “five per cent of the cost will go for charity," says the young CA, who donates a monthly sum to an orphanage. “The idea is to promote charity as a habit. It doesn’t take much to bring a smile on the face of the have-nots,” she says.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of RTPP put on hold||The State government, for the time being, has dropped its plan to sell the 1,650 MW Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) to the NTPC, going by the recent communication sent by Energy Secretary N. Srikant to the A.P. State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee. Mr. Srikant, in his letter, said that the sale of RTPP had not been envisaged, which, a JAC leader said, was due to stiff resistance from the employees and some other reasons. A four-member committee constituted by the government in January 2020 to look into the problems faced by the RTPP was learnt to have deliberated on the proposed acquisition of a majority stake in the RTPP by the NTPC, and had reportedly recommended to the government to not go ahead with it “with undue haste.” Two options The committee had initially suggested that the RTPP could be made viable by reducing costs through rationalisation of coal supply and staff pattern, or by bringing in a Joint Venture (JV) partner, subject to the jurisdiction of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. Reliable sources in the power sector said that the government had considered the sale of RTPP through the JV route on the grounds of high unit cost, large capital investments needed by it and coal problems, but chose to keep it on hold. It may be noted that a delegation of the NTPC had held deliberations with top officials of the State Energy Department and even visited the plant to obtain a first-hand account of its operational and financial performance. In fact, the AP-Genco had reviewed the functioning of all thermal plants in the context of the mandate given by the Central government to improve efficiencies and gradually phase out the obsolete ones.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People recall bond with the post office||The Vijayawada Postal Division of the Department of Posts felicitated its customers and staff members as part of National Postal Week, celebrated from October 9 to 15 at all the post offices in Krishna district. In a statement released on Thursday, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices K. Sudheer Babu said oldest SB customers, older post box holders and customers who paid the highest premium, expressed their gratitude and recalled their good old memories associated with the Department of Posts. Philately Day, celebrated as part of the celebrations, was attended by philatelists from Vijayawada, Guntur and Gudivada, who shared interesting stories on their collections, particularly those related to Mahatma Gandhi, which is relevant even today. Campaigns such as Know Your Postman, Know your area PIN code and Know your Nearest Letterbox drew good response. Mr. Babu said the department had opened new PPF accounts, Sukanya Samridhi Yojana accounts and had entered into Memorandums of Understanding with various organisations for bulk door delivery of articles. The services of the Vijayawada Postal Division included delivery of laddu prasadam of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, Matha Vaishnodvi prasadam and from various other holy shrines in the country. “Ganga jal is the most popular and sought-after product delivered through Department of Posts. He said Ganga jal was sold across all post offices in Vijayawada and Krishna district.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre concedes State’s request to surrender 125 MW thermal power||The Union Ministry of Power (MoP) has conceded the Andhra Pradesh government’s request to surrender 125 MW of thermal power allocated to the distribution companies (Discoms) by the NTPC for bundling with the solar energy under the National Solar Mission (NSM). With this, the Discoms will be saving Rs. 150 crore per annum on fixed costs, according to an official release. The power was allocated to the Discoms on July 5, 2017, from the coal-based stations of the NTPC. On receiving a communication from the MoP, the Central Electricity Authority gave its consent. The State’s Energy Department welcomed the decision, and said it would help in minimising the power procurement costs and reducing unwanted financial burden on the Discoms. Priority area Energy Secretary N. Srikant thanked the secretary of MoP, Sanjiv Nandan Sahai, for approving the government’s proposal. He stated the government was exploring ways to reduce the power purchase costs and accorded high priority to cost-effective power. The measures being taken for the last one year for reviving and strengthening the power utilities, mainly by procuring power at cheaper rate, were yielding the desired result, he said. With spot purchase of power at an average price of Rs. 1.63 to Rs. 2.80 per unit during March and April of the current year, the power utilities reduced the financial burden on Discoms to a large extent. The government also saved around Rs. 180 crore in coal tenders, Mr. Srikant added.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel chief condemns girl’s murder||A.P. Mahila Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma condemned the fatal attack on engineering student V. Divya Tejaswini on Thursday. Responding to the incident, Ms. Padma wondered how could women be killed for rejecting proposals. She sought speedy probe and punishment for the accused.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister takes stock of crop damage in district||Heavy rains in recent days have inundated 5,795 hectares of agricultural crops in the district, with 13,135 farmers from 285 villages in 30 mandals of the district suffering extensive losses. Rambilli, Yelamanchili, S. Rayavaram and Atchutapuram mandals are said to be the worst-hit by the heavy rains caused by a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal and the subsequent flooding of rivers and streams. According to details given by Collector V. Vinay Chand to Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao during a review meeting on Thursday, nearly 5,075 hectares of paddy fields, 666 hectares of sugarcane and several commercial crops have been affected due to the rains. He also said that 84 hectares of banana, 19 hectares of cotton, 13 hectares of ragi and nine hectares of maize were affected. Horticulture crops were also badly hit, with 26 hectares of vegetables, 23.6 hectares of banana and 15 hectares of papaya spread over 84 hectares in 49 villages from 15 mandals suffering extensive damage. Cattle and fisheries The Collector also said that 25 animals, including cows and buffaloes, and 11,100 heads of poultry chicken, died in the rains. Eight nets, 39 boats, and one aquaculture pond, all worth Rs. 57 lakh, were damaged. Mr. Vinay Chand informed the Minister that 30 mandals out of 46 were affected due to heavy rains. He said that six persons died in various incidents due to the rains. The Collector said 157 km of roads were damaged in the district. The Varaha right river bank at Somideipalli at S. Rayavaram mandal suffered damage. Six km of road in Yelamanchali mandal was completely damaged, he said. While the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) sustained losses of around Rs. 15 crore, APEPDCL suffered damages worth Rs. 16 lakh. Govt. aid Addressing a press conference after the review meeting, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that every affected farmer will be provided compensation by the government. He also said that details regarding the crop damage are being displayed at all the Sachivalayams in the district. “If any farmer has not registered the details about their losses with the government, they can do it at the sachivalayam,” he said. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the district has received 500% more rainfall than normal. S. Rayavaram, Bheemili, Yelamanchali, Sabbavaram, Visakha (Urban), Rambilli and Gajuwaka received 20 cm of rain on October 12, 13 and 14, he said. Officials from Panchayat Raj, R&B, Irrigation and Fisheries have estimated losses and submitted a report. Soon, a complete report will be sent to the government, he said.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environmental concerns over ship that ran aground||The 3,000-tonne Bangladeshi ship MV Maa that ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, has become a cause of worry for environmentalists and experts who have served in the shipping industry. They feel that the ship has to be recovered and towed back to the high seas before it becomes a permanent feature on the coast, and end up like MV River Princess in Goa. The 1.14 lakh-tonne MV River Princess, an oil tanker, ran aground on June 6, 2000, due to a cyclone at the Candolim beach in Goa. The ship could not be salvaged or towed back and remained in the beach for over 12 years, and it had to be dismantled part-by-part in situ , creating a lot of ecological and environmental problems. “To avoid such a fate, the authorities concerned such as Visakhapatnam Port Trust and the district administration, should pressure the ship owners and agents to see that the vessel is towed back to safety at the earliest,” said Marine Chief Engineer S.V. Durga Prasad, who also served in the Mercantile Marine Department. “Any ship that runs aground, should be removed as fast as possible, otherwise it can become a huge environmental issue. Luckily, in this case there is no oil spill, and efforts are on to remove the diesel stock of around 40 tonnes onboard. Not only oil, a ship carries a lot of contaminants and over the years, it only increases and that is why it needs to be pulled back to safety on war footing,” he said. Mr. Prasad pointed out that pulling it back might not be a very difficult task, as the ship till date looks stable and it was a small ship of only about 3000 tonnes and not as huge as River Princess that weighed over 1.14 lakh tonnes DWT. Once the tide was on the higher side, high-power tugs could be used to tow it, he said. Meanwhile, it is learnt that VPT had approached DG Shipping, and a team would be surveying the damage and asking the owners to take up the salvage operation. According to a senior VPT official, it was the responsibility of the owner to take care of the operation. They may fund it themselves or ask Protection and Indemnity Club to do it, he said. Sources in VPT say that there appeared to be no power onboard the ship and that could be one reason, why the engines had died down. “The engines might not have functioned and that is why the ship drifted towards the shore, after losing both its anchors, due to the high wind speed on that day. Ideally, the ship should have sailed towards the high seas or moved into the safety of the harbour, after we clearly gave the options and update on the weather,” sources said. “We are ready to supply the required number of tugs and manpower and Indian Coast Guard is ready for containing any oil spill or rescue the crew on board. It is now up to the owners of the ship to take a call,” said a senior officer from VPT.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vasupalli requests Jagan to sanction pending works||Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office at Tadepalli on Thursday and sought his cooperation in sanctioning pending works in South Constituency. Among other things, Mr. Ganesh Kumar sought an end to the land problem at ‘Angati Dibba’ by sanctioning pattas to eligible persons, sanctioning of 10 acres of land to the Wakf Board at Madhurawada for establishing a burial ground for Muslims, developing the Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at a cost of Rs. 10 crore and developing the Port Venkateswara Swamy temple at Isukakonda, Sri Jagannadha Swamy temple, Vigneswara Swamy, Old Town Sivalayam and Yerukumamba temples and the revival of the Kurupam Market and three choultries, at a total cost of Rs. 7 crore. The MLA also submitted DPRs for Rs. 100 crore for development of the Fishing Harbour and for revival of the Indira Priyadarshini Municipal Stadium at a cost of Rs. 50 crore. He also sought revival of the Janata Bazaar at the Hawker’s Zone, opposite the stadium, at a cost of Rs. 20 crore, development of Government Queen Mary’s School at a cost of Rs. 10 crore and widening of the road from Jagadamba Junction to Old Head Post Office at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy responded positively to the MLA’s plea and advised him to work hard to strengthen the YSRCP’s base in the constituency.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||WFH a mixed bag of pros and cons||The IT sector has seamlessly adapted to the Work From Home (WFH) concept in the wake of the restrictions on the movement of people due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While the move has both pros and cons, it cannot go on for long like this, opine IT honchos. While small companies, with limited seats, can partly close down and reduce their utility costs, the big ones do not have that option. They cannot shut down or modify their large work spaces easily and have to pay taxes and bear utility costs, irrespective of the usage. ‘Productivity up’ On the positive side, WFH has reduced transportation cost and improved employee productivity as time for travel to work and back home is being saved. The employees may, however, have to cope with problems like lower bandwidth, connectivity issues, pay for Internet charges and may have to forgo office comforts like central AC and ergonomic seating. “Thankfully, in our case, employee productivity has increased. Our employees are working on weekends also. However, in the case of BPOs and KPO (ITES) not everything can be done from home as there would be access controls and security issues. It will be difficult to set up facilities like international calling and outbound calling at home,” says Ravi Eswarapu, CEO, Schemax Tech and chairman of the Advisory Board of IT Association of AP. “We have adopted WFH in a limited way even before the pandemic for the convenience of women employees. We had to shift to 100% WFH overnight due to the pandemic. We strengthened monitoring tools and auditing of systems remotely. Our overseas business has been hit,” says Shiva Kumar Gunturu CEO of Maple Software.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man shot dead accidentally during hunting in Vizag Agency||A 24-year-old tribal youth was shot dead allegedly by his friend with a country-made gun during a hunting expedition at Baliaguda forest area in Dumbriguda mandal of Visakhapatnam district. The incident occurred when one person in the hunting party reportedly opened fire towards a bush at a distance, presuming that an animal was moving behind it. Though the incident occurred on Wednesday night, it came to light after police registered a case on Thursday. The deceased was identified B. Balaram (24), a resident of Gadabagolugu village of Dumbriguda mandal. According to Inspector of Araku Police Station, Pydaiah, about 20 friends from Gadabagolugu village went for hunting to Baliaguda on Wednesday evening. While they were in search for a hunt, 29-year-old T. Poorva noticed some movement behind a bush and allegedly opened fire. Later the friends realised that it was one their friend, Balaram, and not an animal, behind the bush. Three wounds The Inspector said that Balaram had three pellets wounds in the body and died on the spot. The victim is survived by wife and a son. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Police are yet to arrest Poorva and seize the weapon. The Dumbriguda police registered cases under various sections.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre, U.P. govt. trying to shield rape accused’||CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy on Thursday alleged that the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh State government are shielding the accused in the Hathras rape case while trying to intimidate the victim’s family and their supporters. A rally was taken out by the Left parties in protest against the growing incidents of violence against women and Dalits. Mr. Murthy alleged that the BJP leaders were trying to portray rapes as a part of Indian culture. He condemned the U.P. government for not allowing Opposition parties to show their support to the victim, while at the same time allowing people from an upper caste community to hold rallies in support of the accused.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalam remembered on 89th birth anniversary||The birth anniversary of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam was observed by the Bharatiya Janata Party here on Thursday. BJP Parliamentary District president M. Raveendra recalled the contributions of Dr. Kalam to the nation and his simplicity despite holding high positions. Dr. Kalam was born on October 15, 1931 in a middle-class family. He obtained a degree in aeronautical engineering from IIT-Madras in 1958 and aspired to become a fighter pilot in the Indian Air Force. However, he lost the opportunity by a whisker as he finished ninth in the recruitment round while there were only eight posts, Mr. Raveendra said. Dr. Kalam then joined the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and later shifted to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in 1969, and became Project Director of the Satellite Launch Vehicle III (SLV-3) project, which was carried out with the first indigenously-designed rocket. Later, Dr. Kalam became the 11th President of India during NDA rule. His name was proposed by the NDA government and the Congress Party had also extended support, and he became President in 2002. On completion of his tenure as President, Dr. Kalam took to his favourite pastime of teaching students across the country. He breathed his last while teaching students of IIM-Shillong on July 27, 2015. BJP leaders S.R.K.K.S. Jagapathi Raja Bahadur, Albert, Jacob, Chokkakula Rambabu and K.V.S.N. Prasad were among those who attended the function.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MIDHANI gets new Director of Finance||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the proposal of the Department of Defence Production for appointment of N. Gowri Sankara Rao, General Manager (Finance), Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, RINL to the post of Director (Finance) of Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited (MIDHANI). A Chartered Accountant, Mr. Gowri Sankara Rao initially worked in Hyderabad for one-and-a-half years before joining RINL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant as Junior Manager (F&A) in 1991 and is presently working as General Manager (F&A).
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 196 cases, three deaths||Visakhapatnam district reported 196 new COVID-19 infections and three deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Thursday afternoon. The new cases have taken the district’s total case load to 53,690, while the death toll rose to 453. As many as 235 persons have recovered after undergoing treatment for the virus. This takes the total number of recoveries to 51,128. The active cases have declined to 2,109. In the first half of October, the district reported 3,150 COVID-19 cases. On an average, around 210 cases were reported every day. Compared to previous months, the average cases are low. However, the number of deaths reported in these 15 days was 52, which is on the higher side. Out of 316 clusters in the district, four are very active clusters, 68 are active clusters and 244 are dormant clusters, said Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. The district administration has de-notified 627 clusters.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA PO inspects Araku hospital||Project Officer of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in Paderu, S. Venkateswar, inspected the Area Hospital in Araku here on Thursday. Dr. Venkateswar visited the casualty ward, women’s ward and the pharmacy and enquired about the Dental Outpatient block and checked the attendance register. Later, the Project Officer spoke with several in-patients and took their feedback on the functioning of the hospital. He also asked the doctors to increase COVID-19 testing at the hospital.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22-year-old electrocuted||A 22-year-old youth was reportedly electrocuted at Parawada in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as K. Vamsi (22), hailing from Gummalakshmipuram in Vizianagaram district. According to police, Vamsi was an electrical worker at a company in Parawada. On Wednesday night, he was allegedly electrocuted while working at the company. Police suspect that the incident reportedly occurred due to a short circuit. A probe is on.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven injured as container lorry falls on auto-rickshaw||Seven persons reportedly sustained injuries after a container lorry overturned on to an auto-rickshaw near the NAD Junction in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The driver of the container lorry reportedly lost control over the vehicle at the NAD flyover where construction works are in progress. Six passengers who are on board the auto-rickshaw and the driver were trapped inside the vehicle after the lorry overturned on it. Upon information, the police rushed to the spot and commenced rescue operations. The container lorry was lifted off the auto-rickshaw with the help of a crane and the injured persons were shifted to the King George Hospital (KGH). Police have registered a case. Further investigation is on.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 New flights to Chennai from Vizag||One of the two new daily flights proposed between Visakhapatnam and Chennai began its operations on Thursday. The IndiGo flight (6E 246/166) will arrive in Visakhapatnam at 8.20 a.m. and take off to Chennai at 9 a.m. The second flight to be operated by AirAsia (i5 802/803) will commence its operations from October 20. It will arrive in Visakhapatnam at 9.40 a.m. and take off to Chennai at 10.25 a.m. These will be in addition to the existing daily flight (6E 6835 /6001) in the evening.
22 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram-Parvatipuram route takes toll on motorists||The commute between Vizianagaram and Parvatipuram — a distance of roughly 75 km — has become a nightmare for motorists. The condition of the road has worsened to such an extent that the commute between the two towns, which should ideally take less than two hours, now takes three-and-a-half hours. Motorists say they cannot drive faster than 30-40 kmph, and have to slow down to a crawl every few hundred metres due to huge potholes. The absence of road markings is also proving to be dangerous for motorists, particularly at night, as the road is a single-lane highway with no dividers. Though the government had laid new roads in many parts of the district, no work was taken up on this important route. The deterioration of the road is now resulting in long traffic jams and frequent accidents. The rainy season only adds to motorists’ woes. Due to recent heavy rains in the district, the road has suffered even more damage in several parts.“The road used to be in good condition earlier. But over the years, lack of repairs has left it in a dilapidated condition. The traffic jams and railway crossing at Manapuram add to the delay,” said Vangali Dalinaidu, a resident of Parvatipuram. With APSRTC operating only limited services on the route due to COVID-19, many people are forced to use personal transport. “There is every chance of the vehicle breaking down on the highway due to the potholes. And in case of a breakdown at night, it is extremely risky as it is a single-lane highway. Riding two-wheelers on this route is very dangerous. It is unfortunate as this is an important route connecting Vizianagaram to Raipur,” said M. Janakiram Reddy, a resident of Vizianagaram, urging the government to take up immediate repairs in order to restore smooth flow of traffic. ‘Funds sanctioned’ Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said that repairs would be taken up on a war footing on all routes. “The main damage was done to R&B Roads. That is why we have sanctioned Rs. 10 crore for immediate repairs. The new roads will be laid after getting details from all places,” he said. The R&B and Panchayat Raj departments have been told to submit details immediately for the administrative sanction of funds for repairs. Senior officials will personally inspect the roads to identify damages. They have been directed to submit a report on the repairs of important bridges located near Saluru, Bobbili and Parvatipuram.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colossal loss||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kitten connection||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navaratri Utsavalu from Oct. 17||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will organise the ‘Navaratri Utsavalu’ at Sri Kariyamanikya Swamy and Sri Neelakanteswara Swamy temples at Thummuru in Naidupeta mandal in Nellore district from October 17 to 26. The goddess will be adroned with in various alankaranam during the nine-day festival.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain plays spoilsport||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business runs dry||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the making||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||The Department of Yoga & Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University is conducting an online, one-month yoga therapy camps on ‘Migraine & Sinus’ from October 19, said Head of the Department Dr. K. Ramesh Babu. The programme will be held from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. People interested to know more can contact 9177555055.
22 October 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Yadadri Collector, staff have a close shave||District Collector Anita Ramachandran had a lucky escape on Thursday when a truck rammed her official vehicle near Anajipuram village, about 6 km from her Bhongir office, during her return journey from a field tour. Ms. Ramachandran and her four staff in the SUV escaped without injuries and are said to be safe. The incident took place at around 4.30 p.m., between Anajipuram crossroad and Nandanam village, a 15-minute drive away from the town, when they were returning from Valigonda. According to the staff accompanying Ms. Ramachandran, the oncoming truck was speeding and it hit a car ahead of it, before ramming into the driver side of their vehicle. “It is a two-lane road. The small car ended in the roadside bushes, and the truck then rammed into our driver’s side. All of us are safe, only the vehicle was damaged,” an official said. The three others in the rear seats included a personal security officer, a clerk and an attender. Soon, an alternate arrangement was made and Ms. Ramachandran was moved to her official residence in the town. Bhongir Rural police, who reached the accident site, said the truck driver was found to be in an inebriated condition. “All the five persons in the Collector’s vehicle are safe, and those in the small car suffered minor injuries. The truck driver was booked for rash driving and endangering lives,” sub-inspector K. Raghavender Goud said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State targets paddy cultivation on 50 lakh acres||The State government has exhorted farmers to take up paddy cultivation in 50 lakh acres and other crops in another 15 lakh acres during Yasangi (Rabi) 2020-21. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Agriculture Department officials to sensitise farmers about the crops that should be sown district, mandal and cluster wise. Farmers followed the regulated cropping pattern suggested by the government during the Vaanakalam (kharif) season and the same spirit should be followed in the ensuing rabi. The Chief Minister convened a meeting to prepare a plan of action for the crops that should be taken up in the ensuing season with senior officials on Thursday. The agricultural officers submitted the estimates prepared relating to kharif cultivation that were prepared on the directions given by the Chief Minister during the recent meeting. The meeting elaborately discussed the current cropping pattern and prepared the action plan for the coming season. Accordingly, it was decided to take up paddy cultivation in 50 lakh acres, Bengal gram in 4.5 lakh acres, groundnut (4 lakh acres) and other crops including chillies, vegetables and other pulses in the remaining extent. The government had taken steps to ensure timely supply of seed and fertilizer pertaining to these crops. He exhorted farmers to take up cultivation following the advise of the agricultural officers so that they could secure remunerative prices for their produce. The regulated cropping introduced by the government should accordingly become a continuous process and detailed reports on the cropping pattern, extent on which different crops were sown and other issues should be prepared by the officials concerned. Officials should be prepared with action plan for the next season once sowing operations of the existing season were completed. The Rythu Bandhu Samitis constituted by the government should play an active role in this direction. Since the completion of a majority of the Rythu Vedikas was expected to be completed by Dasara, the samitis should utilise them for forging effective coordination with farmers. “People will not accept change in a single attempt and new systems will be adapted effectively with consistent attempts. Farmers need to be sensitised that the steps taken by the government are in their interests,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Rao advised farmers against cultivation of maize as there is uncertainty over the price as well as the market conditions for the produce. Officials should accordingly educate farmers about these aspects involved in taking up cultivation of the crop as there is no scope for providing minimum support price of more than Rs. 900 a quintal for the crop. The Chief Minister reiterated that cultivation of maize is risky and decision on the cultivation of the crop should be left to farmers.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad slowly getting back on its feet||The city, battered by the devastating rain on the intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday, is in the process of staggering on its feet again, as the rain water is slowly receding from its several colonies. The causeway bridges on Musi River at Chaderghat and Moosarambagh are visible on Thursday, as against the spectacle on Wednesday when they were drowned by the swirling waters cutting off access to the other side. Residents of Moosanagar, Shankar Nagar and other areas in the river banks got busy cleaning their premises and reorganising their homes, which went under water when the river was full stream. There are, however, still areas where the water is taking longer to recede. Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki, for instance, still has 12 feet of water, keeping several homes drowned and residents stranded. Boats deployed by the Disaster Response Forces have been continuously at work, rescuing people and shifting them to temporary shelters. According to the data shared by GHMC control room, Ganesh Temple area in Devi Nagar, Chudi Bazaar is 10 feet under water, and area under the Muslim Jung Bridge in Goshamahal, seven feet. Shankar Nagar, Talab Katta, Shiva Nagar in Uppuguda, Moin Bagh in Eidi Bazaar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Riyasat Nagar, Ghazi-e-Millat Colony and Old Mahabubnagar Crossroads in Chandrayangutta, Al Jubail Colony and Hashamabad in Falaknuma, Prakash Nagar, Mayuri Marg, Chikoti Garden, and Brahmanwadi in Begumpet, and Ahmed Colony in Tolichowki, Mallikarjuna Nagar, Gunti Jangaiah Nagar, Reddy Colony, Sagar Enclave, Venkateshwara Colony, Sai Ganesh Nagar, Sri Datta Nagar, Bairamalguda, Malreddy Ranga Reddy Nagar, Durga Nagar, Yadagiri Nagar, Maruti Nagar, Dharmpuri Colony, Bhagyanagar, Tapovan Colony, Green Park Colony, Altaf Nagar, Sai Nagar, Kakatiya Nagar and Sowbhagya Nagar colonies, all in L.B.Nagar circle still have three to four feet of water, while one to two feet of water has remained stagnant in several other localities. It is estimated that a total of 35,309 residents of these areas are affected, of whom, 550 persons are staying in various temporary relief camps where they have been shifted. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, along with corporators and zonal commissioners of L.B. Nagar, Charminar, and Secunderabad, visited several inundated localities in the city. He visited Singareni Colony and then the relief camp in social welfare hostel, Vivekananda Govt School where the evacuated people have been provided shelter where he instructed officials to provide medical check up and masks to them. Along with MLA D. Sudheer Reddy and Zonal Commissioner Upender Reddy, he visited Saroornagar Tank, where the water is still flowing through low lying colonies. He inspected the Moosarambagh bridge along with MLA Kaleru Venkatesh, and directed the officials to have the debris on the bridge cleared immediately so as to allow traffic on it.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lake encroachments led to flooding||The message for help was on social media within hours of the beginning of the downpour on Tuesday night. The location: Chakradhar Colony, Nagaram. A quick search on the map reveals the colony to be built to the north of the Nagaram lake. Search for the locality 20 years ago and it doesn’t exist. Twenty years ago, the land where the colony exists now was part of the lake. Till 2015 the colony didn’t exist. The same story repeats in various other localities where flooding has wrecked havoc due to the heaviest rainfall in recorded history in Hyderabad. Boduppal, Bandari Colony, Nadeem Colony, Macca Colony, Singareni Colony, Vambay Colony and Gaganpahad area. A corollary to the flooding in these localities is no change in the water quality or levels in the lake near Taj Banjara Hotel, Masab Tank and Mir Alam Tank. On Thursday when the city was coming to terms with the flood and estimating the damage, rain water didn’t even dislodge the water hyacinth plants in the Mir Alam Tank or the pond scum in Masab Tank. Housing colonies But the same could not be said about the lakes and tanks in the southern part of Hyderabad. Yerra Kunta, Madikunta, Jalapalli, Umda Sagar and Palle Cheruvu were just a series of interconnected lakes bound by rocks and natural terrain about 20 years ago. But a series of housing colonies for the poor built on land reclaimed from lakes and encroachments by prospectors has shrunk the lakes. On Thursday water overflowed the lakes and flowed onto the roads and open spaces. But on Wednesday at about 1.20 a.m., water from these lakes had raced onto opens spaces and crashed a wall, upturned vehicles plying on roads and killed at least three persons in the Gaganpahad area. “What could have been a miracle of nature has been turned into an object of terror due to government policies,” says Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes who has been campaigning against encroachments in lake beds. “We need a mechanism like lake tribunals that will take quick and informed decisions rather than depend on civil courts which take time,” says Ms. Sarwath. Incidentally, the flooding has affected many plots that have been created on the lake beds near Jalapally. “Encroached land is almost free but if the same plot has to be purchased it will cost a lot. That’s why lake beds have become easy targets. It is not population pressure but land value pressure that is driving this destructive growth,” says B. V. Subba Rao who works in the field of convergence and sustainability.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Portion of Qila Shahpur collapses||The rains which pounded the State claimed its first casualty in the form of its heritage on Thursday morning. A large portion of Qila Shahpur in Jangaon district cracked and collapsed. The Qila belonged to local legend Sardar Sarvai Paparayudu, a leader who lived in the early 18th century, who according to historian Bhangya Bhukya, Head of the Department of History, University of Hyderabad, was celebrated for his resistance to the Mughals after the decline of the Qutb Shahi dynasty. Jangaon police and district administration confirmed the development to The Hindu . “The incident took place around 7.30 a.m. There are no casualties,” police said. The district administration said that the debris from the fort came crashing down on three houses. Locals were shifted to safe places. A video clip of the collapse of the heritage structure was captured on camera and shared widely on social media. Department of Heritage Telangana was apprised of the situation. A senior official of the department Narayana B. told The Hindu , “I am going to Jangaon now and will be able to tell the exact situation once I reach.” In the recent past, the department had taken up conservation work at the fort and a CR wall was constructed. A ‘before’ and ‘after’ image of this conservation work is available on the website. Tracing Sarvai Paparayudu’s history, Prof. Bhukya explained, “He was a local chief and bandit who resisted Mughul expansion in Telangana. He formed a bond with locals in Bhongir - Warangal to do this.”
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR inspects inundated areas for second day||Municipal Administration Minister, K.T. Rama Rao continued his visit to the flood-affected areas in the city for the second day on Thursday, interacting with residents in Nallakunta, Musheerabad, Amberpet and Tolichowki. The Minister assured the residents that all the necessary measures would be taken immediately to bring normalcy in the area. He also instructed the officials to submit proposals on setting up of pipelines and sewer systems to avoid flooding in future. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, MLAs Muta Gopal and Kaleru Venkatesh and senior officials were present. Earlier, KTR, along with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, reviewed the relief activities taken up in rain-affected areas wherein senior officials from various departments were present. He instructed the Health and MAUD departments to take up sanitation and disinfection activities to prevent spread of water-borne, and vector-borne diseases. The Minister also instructed the officials to alert people about precautions to be taken for the next few days. He said the HMWSSB had increased testing of water samples and also started distribution of chlorine tablets. He instructed the officials to station 104 vehicles at various locations to cater to healthcare needs and also stock adequate medicines and disinfectants required. The Minister asked the officials to arrange 50,000 bedsheets for the needy.  Kishan visit Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy on Thursday visited flood-affected areas of Ramantapur Chinna Cheruvu and Pedda Cheruvu, and interacted with affected families. Speaking to the media, Mr. Kishan Reddy stressed the need to strengthen storm water drain and sewerage systems pertaining to the two tanks. Only a storm water drain laid from Ramantapur Pedda Cheruvu up to the Musi could provide permanent solution to the flooding problem in the area, he said.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prepare for water-borne diseases, KTR tells officials||Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao has instructed the officials concerned to take all necessary measures to tackle the situation in the aftermath of the heavy rains in most parts of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. As the water started receding, there is a likelihood of sudden outbreak of epidemics and spread of water borne diseases. Steps should, accordingly, be taken to set up medical camps and 104 ambulances equipped with doctors and medicines should be deployed in all places. The Minister, accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, held a review meeting with senior officials on the situation arising out of the deluge that threw life out of gear in most of the GHMC areas. He exhorted medical officers to sensitise people that they should take precautionary measures like drinking hot water for the next couple of days. Spraying operations should be taken up in areas where water had stagnated. As part of relief measures, 44,000 people were put up in 64 relief camps and 45,000 food packets had been provided to the needy. Officials should provide blankets to the destitute and shelterless people as there was every likelihood of severe cold wave conditions prevailing. People should be evacuated from dilapidated buildings and other construction sites to prevent any damages. Works should be taken up with immediate effect to restore damaged roads, he added.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Even floods couldn’t move KCR: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has found fault with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for not visiting the flood-affected areas and said it only shows his insensitivity towards people’s problems. “While the entire city is flooded with unprecedented rains, and people suffering, the Chief Minister reviewed the Horticulture Department activities as if it was more important than the lives of lakhs of people suffering in the floods,” he said. He said Mr. Rao is like Roman emperor Nero who played the fiddle while Rome was burning, and demanded that he visit flood-hit areas of Hyderabad and take immediate measures to help the affected families. He was speaking to reporters after visiting B.S. Makhta and other flood-hit areas of Khairatabad constituency on Thursday. He alleged that the devastation caused due to floods was not only due to unprecedented rainfall, but was also primarily due to the failure of the government in managing the civic infrastructure. “Minister K.T. Rama Rao's claim of government spending Rs. 67,000 crore on Hyderabad's development in the last six years is ridiculous. Nothing has been done to repair, maintain or upgrade the storm water drains. The Monsoon Action Plan has just remained on paper,” he said. The TPCC chief claimed that more than 100 people were killed due to rain-related incidents across Telangana in the last two days. However, he alleged that the State government is hiding the real figures of deaths as it did with deaths due to COVID-19. Earlier, Mr. Reddy and other Congress leaders interacted with the affected people and also distributed relief. He assured them that that he would pressurise the government for quick relief measures. He also spoke to the concerned officials over phone and demanded relief measures on war-footing.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Missing postman’s body found in lake||One more death was reported on Thursday, after Tuesday and Wednesday’s unprecedented downpour. The body of postman J. Sunder Raj, who had left his office for delivering posts on Tuesday, was found in Nagole lake by police on Thursday morning. He may have been swept away in a flooding nala, police said. Sunder Raj worked in GSI Bandlguda post office. On Wednesday, his superior Arram Sreeramulu, Sub-Postmaster GSI Bandlaguda, approached the L.B. Nagar police stating that Sunder Raj neither reported for duty on Wednesday nor returned home. On Tuesday, he attended office as usual and 56 letters were invoiced to him for delivery in Jaipuri Colony and Nuvvulabanda, APCO Colony and Hanuman Nagar areas. “Due to heavy rains, he was instructed to return the remaining post next day and at 5 p.m., the office was closed,” Mr. Sreeramulu told the police. However, on Wednesday, the Sub-Postmaster learnt that Sunder Raj did not reach home the previous night, and also the letters invoiced to him were with him and were not returned to office. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and Sunder Raj’s body was found in the lake on Thursday morning.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police impose traffic curbs||Hyderabad police issued traffic advisory in view of heavy rainfall that caused overflowing drains. National Highway 44 (Hyderabad to Kurnool) after Aramghar junction is still inundated and no traffic can move till water reduces. All vehicles going towards the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shadnagar, and Kurnool, are advised to take Nehru Outer Ring Road to reach the airport and NH 44. Police said that commuters should not take the PVNR Expressway. Commuters intending to go towards Gachibowli from Mehdipatnam are advised to avoid Tolichowki flyover and take Seven Tombs road and traffic coming from Gachibowli towards Mehdipatnam are advised to take alternative routes via Shaikpet, Senor Valley, Filmnagar, BVB junction and Road No. 12 Banjara Hills. Puranapul 100-feet road is completely closed due to the overflowing Musi river. Motorists are advised to take diversion towards Karwan as Malakpet rail-under-bridge is totally blocked. Commuters coming from Chaderghat are advised to take diversion towards Nimboliadda, Golnaka, Ambarpet, Ramanthapur, Uppal and take alternate routes. In case of emergency, contact Hyderabad Traffic Police Helpline No. 9010203626 and Traffic Control 040-27852482, he said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minor girl set on fire for resisting rape dies||The 13-year-old minor dalit girl, who was set on fire allegedly by a 25-year-old married man for resisting his rape attempt at his house in Khammam on September 18, has died. The girl worked as a domestic help at the accused Allam Maraiah’s home in Mustafanagar. The horrifying incident came to light in October first week. The accused tried to hush it up by intimidating the girl’s parents through some community leaders as both the accused and the victim hail from the same community, as per sources. The incident sparked outrage when women organisations activists staged dharna in protest against the ‘rising tide of violence’ against young girls. Thereafter, when officials visited the girl, the victim said that the accused tried to whisk her away to his room though she pleaded him to leave. She further told officials that when she managed to rush towards main entrance of the house, Maraiah came to her a short while later with a petrol can, poured the fuel all over her and set fire. The victim suffered from around 70% burns. She was initially taken to a private hospital there, and shifted to Osmania General Hospital on October 5. A few days later, she was taken to a private hospital in Hyderabad. It was reliably learnt that she died. However, Khammam police said they cannot confirm the death. The police arrested Maraiah. The accused was booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and relevant sections of the IPC.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Huge quantity of gutka seized, two held||Hyderabad Commissioner's Task Force (North zone) sleuths on Thursday apprehended two people for procuring and selling gutka, the banned tobacco products in the State capital. They seized 41 bags of ‘Rani’ brand gutka, (6,39,600 sachets), a goods vehicle worth Rs. 63.96 lakh. Acting on a tip-off, the Task Force team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao conducted simultaneous raids in Afzalgunj police station area apprehended the gutka transporter Mirzal Fazil Hussain Baig (36) near Hindustan Transport, Osmangunj, and seized 10 bags of Gutka and transport vehicle. Further, the team raided a godown at Kishan Bagh, Bahuddurpura and apprehended Dastagir Abbas Miya (50). He was caught with 31 bags of gutka. Speaking to media, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that the prime accused Mohd Hassanuddin and his brothers Mohd Mazaruddin, MohdAtif along with their five others formed a gang and are organising gutka sales in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to make a fast buck. They are currently at large. The key persons of the gang came in contact with Rizwan, gutka supplier from Bidar in Karnataka State and started purchasing Noxious Gutka in huge quantity at a lower price, he said. “They were transporting the contraband from Bidar to Hyderabad in various goods vehicles and selling the same in Telangana and AP at a high price,” Mr. Kumar said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL petition over Khammam cable operators’ alleged GST evasion||A PIL petition was filed in Telangana High Court seeking a direction to Union Ministry of Finance to launch an investigation into alleged evasion of Goods and Service Tax (GST) by six cable service operators in Khammam town. A social worker N. Rama Rao of Wyra in Khammam, who filed the petition, requested the court to direct Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to ensure the cable operators pay to the Centre the GST they had collected from the subscribers. The petitioner charged that the cable operators, who are also known as Multi System Operators (MSOs), are bound to register with the authorities and pay GST under the GST Act. He stated that the TRAI had replied, to a question under RTI Act, that none of the six MSOs in Khammam district were registered with the Centre. They had not paid any GST so far, the petitioner said quoting TRAI reply. The GST Assistant Commissioner of Khammam’s reply to a similar question suggested that the MSOs were not paying GST to the government. According to the petitioner, there are nearly one lakh households in Khammam town. If even 50% of them are availing cable services, there would be 50,000 subscribers. Siti Cable Network, Siti Digital Network, Hathway, Bright Way Communications, NXT Digital and Act Fibernet were the cable operators in Khammam town, the petitioner stated. In a package of Rs. 154, each subscriber is charged with Rs. 24 towards GST. That translates to Rs. 12 lakh collection of GST every month by the MSOs from the subscribers. Since the GST was being collected since 2017, the total sum collected by the cable operators from subscribers would be nearly Rs. 1.44 crore so far, the petitioner said. Replies from the TRAI and the GST authorities made it clear that the cable operators were evading payment of tax to the government. He requested the court to declare the inaction of TRAI and GST authorities against the erring cable operators as illegal and arbitrary. The plea is likely to be heard by the HC in a day or two.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State second in cotton cultivation||The regulated farming concept introduced in the State has started paying dividends with Telangana ranking second in the country in the extent of cotton cultivation. Of the 3.19 crore acres in which cotton was sown across the country, Maharashtra stood first with the crop sown in 1.04 crore acres. Telangana stood next with 60.52 lakh acres followed by Gujarat with 56.29 lakh acres in the third place and Haryana with 18 lakh acres in the fourth place. The State was in the third position till the last year with cultivation in 54.45 lakh acres while Gujarat was next to Maharashtra registering cotton cultivation over an extent of 65.88 lakh acres, according to an official release.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bus service resumes, many routes off limits||A day after being suspended due to the rains that battered the city, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Thursday resumed its city bus services. “We ran the first shift but when it rained continuously, we had to halt the services. Many buses returned to their depots, and some were diverted to depots close by. On Thursday, we resumed service with around 600 buses,” a TSRTC official who did not wish to be identified said. While services were resumed, the official said that due to water-logging, road blockages, and roads being inaccessible due to poor conditions and overflowing drains or lakes, a large number of routes are off limits. “There is either limited or no service to or in areas in Old City and beyond like Bandlaguda, Balapur and other places. This is because of road conditions and inaccessible roads,” he said. Officials said that the number of trips have also been reduced given the current condition. They will be increased in due course of time. The rains took a toll on the occupancy as well. Officials estimated that buses witness occupancy of around 20%. They said that they were hopeful that this will increase as the situation becomes better.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emergency no. to pump out water||The TS Disaster Response and Fire Services Department has urged citizens to call up its emergency number ‘101’ or 9949991101 of the fire control room for any emergency pumping of water out of buildings or water-logging. Regional FO V. Papaiah on Thursday said that the department personnel have been responsible for saving as many as 196 lives.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Navaratri fest at Vemulawada||Devi Navaratri celebrations would be held in Vemulawada Rajarajeshwara Swamy temple from Saturday to Oct 25. They would begin with Shailaputri Alamkaram on Saturday and culminate with Maha Gauri Alamkaram and Teppotsavam on Oct 24 and Raja Rajeshwari Devi Alamkaram on Dasara on Oct 25, said executive officer Krishna Prasad on Thursday.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Certificate courses by Koti Women’s College||University College for Women, Koti, is offering two certificate courses — Basics of Forensic Sciences and Basics of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Both are approved by the UGC. Any student who has passed Intermediate or ITI and Polytechnic is eligible Details can be had from Aliya Begum on 98491-70130, a press release said.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nizamabad Red Cross Society chief gets gold medal||Dr. Neeli Ramchander, chairman of Indian Red Cross Society, Nizamabad, has been awarded a gold medal for his contribution to the Red Cross for the past two decades. Union Health Minister Dr. Harsha Vardhan announced the Red Cross Awards at its Annual General Body meeting held virtually on Thursday in New Delhi.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former college principal dead||Former principal of Women’s College, Koti, B. T. Seetha passed away in the USA on Wednesday. She recently underwent surgery for heart ailment and was under observation. A professor of English, she worked as principal of Women’s College from 2012 to 2017. She also worked as Director, OU Centre for International Programmes.
22 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI (ML-ND) extends support to Kodandaram||The attempts by the Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) to emerge triumphant at the upcoming elections to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates' Constituency in the Legislative Council received an impetus with the CPI (ML-New Democracy) pledging its support to the candidature of TJS chief M Kodandaram for the forthcoming hustings. The decision gains prominence as the CPI (ML-ND) and its frontal organisations hold significant influence among youth, women, and other sections besides professionals such as teachers and advocates mainly in Agency areas of the former composite Khammam district. The support extended by the former constituent of the Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC), an apolitical platform, which spearheaded a mass movement for separate Telangana under the aegis of Mr Kodandaram earlier this decade, provided a fillip to the TJS cadres in the district. A host of TJS district leaders including Dr Papa Rao on Thursday met the CPI (ML-ND) State Assistant Secretary Potu Ranga Rao at Ramnarsaiah Vignana Kendram here in a thanksgiving gesture. According to party sources, the TJS leaders reportedly conveyed the details of the ensuing visit of Mr Kodandaram to Khammam on October 20 to address a preparatory meeting in connection with the upcoming hustings.
22 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Move to relocate rythu bazar opposed||A host of leaders of various farmers’ organisations held a demonstration by farmers here on Thursday in protest against the alleged move to shift the centrally located rythu bazar near the Bhakta Ramadasu Kalakshetram to some other area in Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits. Local leaders of various Opposition parties including the Left parties, the Congress and the BJP, cutting across party lines, extended their support to the protest. The demonstrators alleged that the move to shift the rythu bazar from the present location will deprive farmers of a platform in the heart of the town to sell their farm produce directly to consumers. The present rythu bazar has been serving the farmers from nearby villages as well as consumers for the last two decades, they said, alleging that any move to relocate it will undermine the interests of farmers and help middlemen thrive at the cost of vegetable growers and consumers.
22 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Harish visits Singur project||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that incessant rains caused heavy losses to farmers and damaged the road network in the district. The officials are in the process of assessing the loss, he said and asked the agriculture department officials to submit their report at the earliest. Mr. Harish Rao visited the Singur project along with Zilla Parishad chairperson P Manjusree, MLA Ch Kranthi Kiran and Collector M Hanumantha Rao on Thursday. He also inspected some farms on the roadside which were damaged due to heavy rains and interacted with farmers. He assured that the government would come to their rescue. He also held a review meeting with irrigation, panchayat raj and roads and buildings officials and directed them to prepare a report on the losses. “As many as 170 tanks can be filled with the Singur reservoir getting full water. Irrigation officials were directed to repair canals and fill the tanks without any delay. Roads to the extent of 144 km were damaged and an amount of Rs. 30 crore was requested for immediate repairs. Similarly, 42 causeways and culverts were damaged and Rs. 45 crore is required for that,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that officials were also directed to immediately address the roads that were cut in Narayanakhed and Andol constituency limits.
22 October 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Man kills wife suspecting her fidelity||In a ghastly incident, suspecting his wife’s fidelity, a man beheaded her and kept the head in front of the house of a person with whom he suspected her of having extramarital relationship. Later, he surrendered before the police. The incident took place at Anantasagar village in Narayankhed mandal late last night and came to light on Thursday. According to Narayankhed Circle Inspector Ravinder Reddy, J. Sailu suspected his wife Anasuyama of having an extramarital relationship. On Wednesday night, both of them had a heated argument over the issue. After sometime, he took an axe, killed his wife, cut the head from the body and placed it before the house of the person whom he suspected.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Five rescued in Medak||Officials of Air Force and police rescued five persons who were struck in a stream of Manjeera at a village in Kulcharam mandal on Thursday. According to police, Boyini Nagaraju, Potual Sridhar, Gudala Durgaprasad, Siddula Mahesh and Kumaru Komaraiah went to a seed farm house two days ago at Kishtapur village. After they reached there the gates of Singur were lifted due to heavy flooding they were stuck in the field. They informed officials who alerted in-charge Collector P Venkatarami Reddy and in-charge Superintendent of Police Joyal Davis. They contacted the Air Force officials and pressed a helicopter into service. It rescued the labourers. Medak Deputy Superintendent of POlice (DSP) P Krishna Murthy, Rural circle inspector Palavelli and Kulcharam Sub-Inspector Srinivas supervised the rescue operations. The rescued persons thanked the police for timely response and saving them.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||AUD releases first cut-off list for UG applicants||The Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) released the first cut-off list for its merit-based undergraduate courses on Thursday night. Highest cut-off At 99%, BA(Hons) psychology has the highest cut-off for students outside of Delhi. The cut-off on the same course for those from within Delhi is 97%. BA (Hons) sociology has a 98.25% cut-off for students from outside Delhi and for applicants from the city, it demands 96.5%. For BA (Hons) social sciences and humanities, there was a difference of 2% in the cut-off for candidates in NCT and outside Delhi, 96.25% and 98.25%, respectively. The cut-off for BA (Hons) economics stood at 96.5% and 96.75% for NCT and outside NCT candidates respectively. BA (Hons) mathematics has an asking score of 94.5% for students outside of the city while 93% for those from Delhi. Applicants will be able to upload documents only till October 17, but the portal will remain open for fee payment till October 19. Entire process online The entire admission process will be online this year, including the verification of documents. AUD reserves 85% of its seats for students from Delhi.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi House has no power to call FB official: Centre||The Central government on Thursday prima facie told the Supreme Court that the Delhi Legislative Assembly has no jurisdiction to summon Facebook’s senior official Ajit Mohan to testify in connection with the February communal riots as police and public order are not within its domain. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that “public order and police are not within the domain of the Legislative Assembly. So it [Delhi Assembly] is without jurisdiction”. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for the Assembly, explained that Mr. Mohan was called as an expert to put forth “constructive suggestions” in order to prevent such incidents from happening due to the indiscriminate use of social media platforms. He said the role of the Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony, before which Mr. Mohan was asked to appear, was to make “positive recommendations”. There was no coercive action intended against him. But senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mr. Mohan and Facebook, maintained that his client cannot be “compelled” to appear against his “right of silence” in an issue on which he did not want to comment. He said the threat of breach of privilege action was “worse than clutching at straws”. The case required detailed hearing on the jurisdiction of the committee to summon his client. Justice Kaul observed that the court needed to examine the competency of the Assembly to constitute a fact-finding committee. Hearing on Dec. 2 The court scheduled the case for December 2 for detailed hearing of arguments of both sides. Meanwhile, the committee will not issue any further summons to Mr. Mohan.
22 October 2020||Bhopal,||Bhind police to stamp bullets with QR codes||The Bhind police have launched an initiative to stamp bullets with quick response (QR) codes which will help in tracing them back to the firearm, in a bid to curb gun violence. The police had exhorted nearly 22,000 firearms licensees of the district to come forward to get casings of bullets printed with the code ahead of the byelection, as part of the country’s first such initiative, said Superintendent of Police Manoj Kumar. In the past five years, the district had witnessed around 150 murders, most committed using illegal weapons. “Hardcore criminals procure country weapons and bullets from different locations, but others buy a country pistol and use factory-made bullets. My effort is to reduce gun violence, even if by 10%,” Mr. Kumar added.
22 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Normal OPD services to resume in Punjab||With COVID-19 cases declining in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered resumption of normal Out Patient Department (OPD) services and elective surgeries, but warned against any complacency given the projections of a possible second wave of the pandemic. The Chief Minister has also allowed opening of government schools from October 19 after due sanitation and disinfection procedures, and with clear SOPs mandating parents’ consent as well as ceiling on number of students and hours of operation. Expressing concern over warnings by medical experts of the possibility of the second wave hitting the State during the festival season or during the winter months, Captain Amarinder directed the concerned departments to take all steps to ensure that things remain under control.  Review meeting The Chief Minister, who was chairing a virtual review meeting on COVID-19 situation, also asked the departments to ensure that the medical staff is kept motivated and all vacancies are filled up immediately so that normal OPD services and elective surgeries can be carried out seamlessly amid the pandemic situation.
22 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Concessionaire of waste management project accused of violating agreement clause||Ecogreen Energy Gurgaon Faridabad Private Limited, the concessionaire for implementation of Integrated Solid Waste Management project in the two cities, has been accused of entering into an agreement with a third company for door-to-door collection of waste in contravention of the concession agreement with the Haryana government. Holding a press conference at Shama Tourist Complex here on Thursday, Panipat-based RTI activist P.P. Kapoor distributed copies of the agreement between the Ecogreen Energy and India Green to claim that the former had violated ‘No Partnership’ clause of the concession agreement. The two firms have signed the agreement for a period of one year from March 1 for wards no. 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 9 of Zone-II. ‘Clause 19.9: No Partnership’ of the concession agreement says that “nothing contained in this agreement shall be construed or interpreted to create an association, joint venture or partnership between the parties”. Mr. Kapoor also claimed that the husband of the head of the Project Monitoring Unit, responsible for the enforcement of the concession agreement, was employed on a senior position in Ecogreen Energy in a direct “conflict of interest”. Ecogreen Deputy CEO Sanjay Singh and the PMU head Sonia did not respond to calls and messages made to seek their reaction on the allegations. Mr. Kapoor said the reply to his RTI application had revealed that Municipal Corporation Faridabad had imposed a fine of Rs. 1.57 crore and the Municipal Corporation Gurugram had imposed penalties in 400 instances on the concessionaire following complaints received on social media and monitoring by the municipal corporation staffers. He claimed the MCG did not reveal the amount of fine imposed on the company and an appeal was pending in this connection. The MCG has the right to cancel the concession agreement in case aggregated liquidated damages levied by it on the company on account of non-performance exceed Rs. 7 lakh for a quarter. Haryana State Pollution Control Board also imposed a fine of Rs. 25 lakh on Ecogreen last year. Mr. Kapoor said the two municipal corporations had together paid Rs. 126 crore to the concessionaire over the past 30 months to transport 18 lakh ton waste to Bandhwari.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Furnish data on illegal constructions, HC tells civic bodies||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and other civic bodies around Mumbai to furnish data on unauthorised constructions in their respective areas. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) after it took cognisance of the collapse of the 43-year-old Jilani building in Bhiwandi on September 21, wherein over 40 people died. The court had widened the scope of the PIL to include all dilapidated buildings in the city. Civic bodies ‘silent’ on data During the last hearing, the High Court had asked all these civic bodies to file replies detailing what had been done so far to regulate such construction. On Thursday, as per direction from the court, most civic bodies had filed their affidavits. The court, however, noted that while most civic bodies, including the BMC, had submitted details of the dilapidated structures, they had stayed “silent” on unauthorised constructions. The Bench said the BMC and other civic bodies must file additional affidavits by October 26 informing the court of the number of unauthorised constructions, the action taken so far, and the measures they plan to take against such structures in future. The court also directed the State Urban Development Department to look at what each municipal corporation had said in the affidavits filed in the HC on Thursday, and to file a comprehensive reply summing up everything by October 26. On September 24, the court had made the State of Maharashtra, the BMC, and the municipal corporations of Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Kalyan-Dombivli, and Navi Mumbai, respondents in the case. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the court, “We will file our replies detailing what has been done so far across the State for such buildings and measures taken, as well as the steps we propose to take in future.”  Probe into wall collapse Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday ordered a probe into the death of six people following a wall collapse in Pandharpur town and instructed that an offence of culpable homicide be filed against those found responsible for the incident.  (With PTI inputs)
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Theatres reopen to poor response||After staying shut for more than six months due to the COVID-19 outbreak, theatres and multiplexes reopened to a poor response on Thursday. Multiplexes across the city resumed operations as per the guidelines issued under Unlock 5. However, theatre owners are hopeful of bouncing back to business during the festive season when new multistarrer movies are scheduled to release. Following the protocol, all theatres have maintained that auditorium occupancy will not be more than 50%, adjacent seats on either sides will be left vacant. Floor markers will be placed at ticket counter and food counters. Digital modes of transactions have been encouraged. Availability of PPE kits for purchase has also been made. Safety protocol “Security persons have been instructed to follow the safety protocol and people will not be allowed inside the premises without face masks and thermal screening. Show timing, intermissions and exits will be staggered to maintain social distancing. Contactless sanitiser dispensers will be placed at entrance and in lobbies. There will be designated bins for masks, gloves etc,” said a staffer at INOX Eros One in Jangpura. Alok Tandon, CEO of INOX Leisure Ltd said: “The SOPs are simple and audience-friendly, and will ensure that the overall cinema viewing experience is safe and reliable. We are completely geared up and prepared for the new normal, which would assign top-most priority to safety and hygiene. Our preparations on the hygiene and disinfection front will set new benchmarks for any public premises, whether inside the auditorium, or in our lobbies and F&B counters.” PVR Icon at Vasant Kunj has encouraged contactless sale of ticket by placing QR code at windows. They are also offering PPE kits, gloves, disposable 3D glasses, disposable seat and armrest covers at extra cost to make cinema viewing experience more safe. “Cinema goers will be encouraged to download Aarogya Setu app. Food items will not be allowed inside halls. At the food and beverages section, all food will be sterilised under UV rays in a machine for eight minutes before being handed over to customers. Enhanced air filtration systems are in place for the safety of visitors,” said an employee at a multiplex in South Delhi. “We are hopeful to bring the crowd back to theatres with the new releases. Presently, we are screening Bollywood movies released a few months ago,” said a member of the PVR cinema in Ghaziabad. Delightful offers To draw more crowd, multiplexes are offering cashbacks on more than one ticket, discount food coupons and selling two movie tickets at the the price of one. At PVR Plaza in Connaught Place, the ticket prices are just Rs. 99 flat for all categories. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas said, “We are pleased to be back and as we reopen slowly and steadily, ensuring the safety of our customers and employees is our first priority. Currently, the focus is on building consumer confidence and following the guidelines laid down by the MHA. We are optimistic that we will emerge out of this stronger and more robust.”  We are pleased to be back for our customers. Our focus is on building consumer confidence and following the guidelines laid down by the MHA Gautam Dutta PVR Cinemas CEO
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 3,483 new virus cases||As many as 3,483 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,21,031, according to a Delhi government health bulletin on Thursday. Also, 26 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,924. Of the total cases, 2,92,502, people have recovered and there are 22,605 active cases. Out of the total 16,109 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi, 68.2% were vacant. Doctors strike Meanwhile, healthcare workers under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation continued their protest against non-payment of salaries since three-four months. Doctors working at Hindu Rao Hospital said that they have got one month’s salary on Thursday and will continue the protest. The Resident Doctor’s Association of the hospital said that they will hold a protest at Jantar Mantar on Friday.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP kisan brief||A BJP Kisan Morcha delegation met APMC secretary and handed over a memorandum demanding the opening of Kisan Bhavan, which is meant for the facilitation of travelling of farmers seeking to sell their produce at Azadpur Mandi. “The resumption of Kisan Bhavan will be a big win for the farmers. If it is not opened within one month, then the farmers of Delhi and the BJP Kisan Morcha workers will take this issue to the streets,” said Rajan Tiwari, Delhi BJP vice-president.
22 October 2020||Pune,||Heavy rain claims 27 lives in Solapur, Sangli, Pune districts||At least 27 people have died in rain-related incidents in Solapur, Sangli and Pune districts of western Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. Over 20,000 people were evacuated to safer places in these three districts. Mumbai too witnessed waterlogging after overnight rains on Thursday. “A total of 27 people have died due to rain-related incidents in Solapur, Sangli and Pune districts since Wednesday. Fourteen casualties are from Solapur district, nine from Sangli and four from Pune district,” said an official from the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s office. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) began rescue work in Pandharpur, where six people died in wall collapse on Wednesday, while over 6,000 people from 500 families were evacuated in Solapur. In Pune, the police retrieved three bodies, including that of a woman, after four people on two two-wheelers were washed away in Daund taluk. Two NDRF teams stationed in Maval taluk have been deployed for rescue and rehabilitation efforts. While one team reached Pandharpur, the other was pressed into action in Latur in Marathwada. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting to take a review of the flood situation and asked the State administration, Army, Navy and Air Force to be on high alert to tackle any emergency in parts of western Maharashtra and Marathwada. In a statement, the Chief Minister’s Office said, “NDRF teams have been stationed in Osmanabad, Solapur, Pandharpur and Baramati.” The Chief Minister asked the administration to avoid loss of life, property and agriculture and expeditiously carry out assessment of the losses caused by the rains. He also directed the local administration to provide financial aid to the kin of those who lost their lives in the wall collapse in Pandharpur. Thousands marooned Relentless overnight rain led to massive property damage in Solapur and Pune districts, with thousands of villagers marooned by rising floodwaters in rural Solapur. Rising levels of Sina river have affected residents in at least 100 villages in Madha and Mohol taluks in Solapur, with several livestock being washed away by the floodwaters. The Vakav village was entirely cut-off from the rest of the district by the swollen waters of Sina river. As per the Solapur district administration, at least 1,000 people were evacuated from Pandharpur on Wednesday night. Authorities of the Vitthal-Rukmini temple trust said it would take the responsibility of feeding and lodging those evacuated from their homes.   Two lakh cusecs of water were discharged from Ujjani dam since 10 p.m. last night. With rains providing a temporary reprieve to Solapur in the morning, the discharge has been reduced to one lakh cusecs. The rains have compelled authorities to shut traffic on Pune-Solapur road, as well as roads connecting Solapur to other districts like Bijapur in neighbouring Karnataka. Intense and continuous showers saw an alarming rise in the water levels of all major rivers in western Maharashtra: the Panchganga in Kolhapur rose by seven feet, owing to massive rainfall throughout Wednesday night, while the Krishna river level in Sangli has risen by five feet in just three hours. All main roads in Sangli have been closed for traffic as a precautionary measure. In Pune, overnight showers caused damage to property in the city with furious rainwaters mangling scores of two-wheelers parked in the open. In Baramati in rural Pune, a flood-like situation prevails as several residents have moved to higher grounds for safety. The rains have led the Savitribai Phule Pune University to postpone the final year examinations scheduled for Thursday. As per a notification put up on the varsity’s website, authorities said it was postponing the online and offline exams given the flood-like situation and the fact that the civic administration had issued a cyclone and heavy rainfall alert. They said the revised schedule would be announced soon. In Pune city, Katraj-Sinhagad Road, Sahakarnagar and Shivajinagar areas were badly hit with water entering houses, including Patil hospital on Sinhagad road.   PMC to blame, says Sule Baramati MP and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Supriya Sule visited the worst-hit areas in Katraj in Pune city later in the day. Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) controlled-Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Ms. Sule said it was responsible for the deplorable state of the city’s public works. She said, “A similar situation occurred last year in which more than 20 people lost their lives owing to intense bouts of rain. But it appears that the PMC has not grown any wiser and is not expending sufficient funds to improve the city’s anti-rain infrastructure.” BJP leader and Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said that no one ought to play politics over natural calamities. He said, “The BJP has only been in power for the last three years in the PMC. It was the NCP and Congress who were in power for the past two decades in the civic body. So, why weren’t any repairs carried out then?” (With PTI inputs)  NDRF teams have been stationed in Osmanabad, Solapur, Pandharpur and Baramati Statement from the Chief Minister’s Office
22 October 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka faces biggest test yet to its virus response||As the number of daily cases of COVID-19 continues to rise in Sri Lanka, following a new wave identified at a garment factory earlier this month, the spotlight has fallen on two issues. One, the source of these infections, and the other, the plight of workers engaged in the apparel factories that fetch precious foreign exchange. Although Sri Lanka contained the pandemic effectively in the last few months, the latest outbreak is the biggest test yet to the country’s much-hailed pandemic response from the public health sector with the Army’s support. Especially since authorities are yet to track down the source of the latest cluster, unlike in the previous waves of COVID-19 infections in the country. Sri Lanka’s Chief Epidemiologist Dr. Sudath Samaraweera has said the women worker who tested positive on October 4 may not be the first case, while cautioning the public about a more virulent strain of the virus attack this time. Steep rise The recent bout of infections — nearly 2,000 new cases in the last 10 days — is witnessing the steepest rise in cases in Sri Lanka since the global pandemic hit the island nation in March. The new cluster, known as the ‘Brandix cluster’, referring to the garment factory where it broke out, has infected several hundred workers and their contacts in the last two weeks. The Army has since been leading an extensive contact-tracing exercise to find all those that the over 1,000 workers — who tested positive — may have met. They have so far traced patients from 21 out of Sri Lanka’s 25 districts. Curfews have been limited to areas around the cluster, in contrast to the government’s earlier response of shutting down the entire country for two months. “Our main strategy is the same as before — to trace, isolate and provide swift treatment to those found infected. This time, we find more middle-aged and older people infected,” Dr. Jayaruwan Bandara, spokesperson of the Ministry of Health told The Hindu on Thursday. Concern over treatment Meanwhile, trade unionists and activists have voiced concern about the treatment of workers — those infected and others. Addressing reporters on Thursday, Sandun Thudugala of the Law and Society Trust said in several instances, Army personnel visiting the workers at their boarding rooms gave them only a few minutes to pack up and leave for the quarantine centre. “Sometimes, they are made to travel with their colleagues who tested positive. Many praised the military for their work in running quarantine centres, but why are these workers being treated differently, like second-class citizens?” he asked. Further, the new wave has also made the workers’ employment more uncertain, according to Anton Marcus, joint secretary, Free Trade Zones and General Services Employees Union. “There are some 37,000 workers engaged in the Free Trade Zone in Katunayake [near Colombo]. Following the two-month curfew earlier, several of them lost their jobs and their employment benefits were withdrawn. Workers are also complaining of very poor facilities in their quarantine centres. We have urged the government to look into this,” he said. The Employer’s Federation of Ceylon has estimated job cuts for 21% of the labour force in the export sector.
22 October 2020||Brussels,||EU imposes sanctions on six Russians over Navalny attack||The European Union (EU)and Britain imposed sanctions on Thursday on six Russians, some among the highest-ranked officials in the nation, and a state research institute over the nerve agent poisoning of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny. The move comes a day after Russia’s Foreign Minister threatened the 27-nation EU with retaliatory action. “Russia is our neighbour and shares this continent with us, but we will not give up our principles and convictions when it comes to chemical weapons,” French President Emmanuel Marcon told reporters at a summit of EU leaders in Brussels. He said the bloc must continue “a transparent but demanding dialogue” with Moscow. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas of Germany, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, said that “only with a clear position and by sticking to principles can we as the European Union make progress with respect to Russia”. Those hit by the sanctions, which consist of an asset freeze and travel bans in Europe, include Alexander Bortnikov, the chief of Russia’s Federal Security Service, the top KGB successor agency that is in charge of domestic security, and Sergei Kiriyenko, President Vladimir Putin’s Deputy Chief of Staff. The State Scientific Research Institute for Organic Chemistry and Technology was also targeted. The EU said that institute, which was responsible for destroying Soviet-era chemical weapon, was years ago involved in the development and production of chemical weapons, including the nerve agent Novichok allegedly used to poison Mr. Navalny. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov called the move “a deliberate, unfriendly step towards Russia” and said the EU “inflicted damage” on the bloc’s relations with Russia.
22 October 2020||Kyrgyzstan,||Kyrgyzstan President resigns to end post-election crisis||Kyrgyzstan’s President Sooronbay Jeenbekov resigned on Thursday, saying he wanted to bring an end to the crisis sparked by disputed parliamentary elections earlier this month and avoid any further bloodshed. Protests had erupted after the October 4 election was won by parties loyal to Mr. Jeenbekov, with opponents disputing the results, alleging vote-buying. The vote was later annulled but this did not quell the tensions. “I am not clinging to power. I do not want to go down in the history of Kyrgyzstan as a President who allowed bloodshed and shooting on its people. I have taken the decision to resign,” Mr. Jeenbekov said in a statement released by his office. More than 1,200 people were injured and one killed during the post-election clashes between protesters and police. Little resistance During the unrest, protesters met little resistance as they sprang prominent figures from jail, including populist figurehead Sadyr Japarov. Mr. Japarov had been serving jail time for hostage-taking, but was named Prime Minister soon after his release. In a growing power struggle, Mr. Japarov’s supporters had gathered once more on Thursday to demand Mr. Jeenbekov’s immediate resignation. The President had on Wednesday finally affirmed Mr. Japarov as Prime Minister, in a move seen as the first step towards calming the crisis. Mr. Jeenbekov had previously pledged to resign after overseeing fresh parliamentary elections in the country. But Mr. Japarov insisted that the President should step down without delay.
22 October 2020||Sanaa,||Yemen’s warring sides begin hard-won prisoner exchange||A hard-won prisoner exchange between the Yemeni government and Houthi rebels got under way on Thursday with the departure of the first planeloads of released combatants. The warring sides in Yemen’s long conflict are to exchange 1,081 prisoners over two days under a deal struck in Switzerland last month, the largest number since the conflict erupted in 2014. One of them was headed for the city of Abha in neighbouring Saudi Arabia with released prisoners of war from a Saudi-led military coalition that supports the Yemeni government, rebel officials said. Those on board included 15 Saudis and four Sudanese. Planes are also due to depart from Abha and from the Yemeni government-held city of Seiyun in a complex operation overseen by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), rebel officials said. United Nations (UN) Yemen Envoy Martin Griffiths, who attended last month’s talks in Switzerland, hailed the successful start of the operation. “Today’s release operation, led by the ICRC, is another sign that peaceful dialogue can deliver,” the Envoy said. The Yemeni government and the Iran-backed rebels resolved to swap some 15,000 detainees as part of a peace deal brokered by the UN in Sweden back in 2018. This week’s planned swap would mark the first large-scale handover since the war erupted in 2014.
22 October 2020||Washington,||U.S. warship in Taiwan Strait enrages China||A U.S. warship sailed through the Taiwan Strait in what the American military described as a “routine” passage on Wednesday, but enraging China, which claims sovereignty over the island and surrounding seas. Ties between Beijing and Washington have deteriorated in recent months, over issues including trade and Hong Kong, with the self-ruled island of Taiwan a long-running source of tension. The guided-missile destroyer USS Barry passed through the Strait on October 14, according to a statement by the U.S. Pacific Fleet. “The ship’s transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific,” it said. “We warn the U.S. to stop its words and deeds that provoke trouble and disturb the situation in the Taiwan Strait,” Eastern Theatre Command spokesperson Colonel Zhang Chunhui said. Beijing views the passage of foreign vessels through the Strait as a violation of its sovereignty.
22 October 2020||Hong Kong,||Media mogul’s office raided in Hong Kong||Hong Kong police raided a private office of pro-democracy media mogul Jimmy Lai on Thursday as part of their investigation into whether he has broken Beijing’s new national security law. Mr. Lai, 71, is among more than two dozen people who have been arrested under a draconian security law imposed by Beijing in June to quell massive pro-democracy protests over the past year. Police confirmed the raid was triggered by officers from the same newly-formed national security unit that first arrested him in April. “No person was arrested today,” the police said. Mr. Lai accused officers of removing items before his lawyers could get there.
22 October 2020||Wellington,||Facebook shuts New Zealand party’s page ahead of election||Facebook shut down the page of conspiracy-embracing political party Advance New Zealand on Thursday just two days out from a general election, accusing it of spreading misinformation about COVID-19.AFP
22 October 2020||Athens,||Greece accuses Turkey of delaying Foreign Minister’s plane||Greece on Thursday lodged a formal protest with Turkey, saying a state plane carrying its Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias was delayed on a flight home from Iraq. The incident came ahead of EU talks between the two over energy resources in the eastern Mediterranean.AFP
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Should the government regulate TRPs?||Last week, the Mumbai Police said that a TRP (Target Rating Points) racket involving three news channels had been busted. Since then, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), which monitors the TRPs, has suspended ratings of news channels for three months. The alleged scam has once again highlighted the need for regulation. Television channels are driven by TRPs and it is viewership that drives their business. In a conversation moderated by Anuradha Raman , S.Y. Quraishi and Sashi Kumar discuss how TRPs are manipulated and what could be the solution. Edited excerpts:  Mr. Quraishi, you wrote recently that manipulating TRPs is not only a financial scam but also morally and ethically wrong. Could you elaborate on that? S.Y. Quraishi:Viewership generates advertisement spending of nearly Rs. 27,000 crore. Now, every channel from Doordarshan (DD) to the private channels are eyeing the pie. This kitty should be distributed honestly. And that is where the dishonesty comes through TRPs. The financial fraud, which has been highlighted by the Mumbai Police Commissioner, is one aspect. Now because of that cheating, the channels’ ratings are getting distorted. That is the other aspect. Channels are spreading a hate narrative which is violative of the fundamental right of the citizen to know the truth through the media. The media has become a source of disinformation. And that is the ethical issue. Both dimensions, legal and ethical, are equally serious. What is now being investigated is the financial fraud, which is good enough. We should get to the bottom of the problem. Mr. Sashi Kumar, as the founder of Asianet, were you bothered by the menace of TRPs? Sashi Kumar:Yes, certainly. When you are running a private channel, TRPs are in your face. In the early 1990s, when private channels started, we didn’t have people’s meters. We didn’t have the modern, so-called sophisticated systems of verifying who was watching what. We had the diary method. You gave diaries to people and found out what they were watching during the week. That was inadequate and the sampling size was also very small. It was an unscientific method, but the only method and we used that. Advertisers used that along with their own common sense and what their people on the ground — agents, retailers, sellers of consumer durables — told them about the claims of a particular channel and the kind of viewership it was talking about. Today I think it’s only a difference of degree, not of kind. We still have the same small sampling size for the huge ecosystem of TV viewership that we were introduced to at the beginning. Now, 44,000 homes is the sampling size of BARC. The sample size of Mumbai, which is in the eye of the storm of this TRP fiasco, is only about 2,000 homes, and Mumbai is the biggest TV viewing metropolis in the country. The sample of 2,000 homes is woefully inadequate and distorted. And as Mr. Quraishi said, the problem with this competition for TRPs is that there’s a race to the bottom and therefore, you find people insulting each other, insulting people, doing anything to attract attention. We have ample evidence of this, particularly in the context of the Sushant Singh Rajput case and how it was covered. I think this whole TRP dispute is a sequel to that. It’s a ratings mindset. This ratings mindset has taken over us. This is not peculiar to television. If you go to a bookshop these days, there is somebody who has already rated the first top-selling 50 books. There is somebody who’s rated the top-selling music. Who’s doing this? There is no transparency in who is rating this. We are therefore limited to choosing from what has already been rated for us. Our intellectual horizons are shrinking, not expanding. And therefore, there’s something very distorted in this process of the ratings mindset and television is a good example we have of that. Would you like to weigh in on what Mr. Quraishi said, which is the right of the people to be informed? That the TRP race is not just a financial fraud, but also is also morally and ethically wrong? SK:Certainly. The role of TV news is to create an informed citizenry which makes for a better, more mature democracy. The duty to inform should be an equivalent duty. Is that what we are getting on TV news? That is a big question mark. TRPs can be deceptive. For example, DD is the biggest act in town. And as recently as April-May this year, BARC itself admitted that DD has the highest reach, demographically and geographically, but it doesn’t get a proportionate share of the advertising revenue because advertising goes by another calculation, which is your purchasing power. So, the advertiser goes for that segment which has better purchasing power, which is why this small sliver of the English news channels, which incidentally account for less than 1% of total TV viewership, and each of these channels, which will be 0.4% of that 1% TV viewing ecosystem, is fighting for the advertisement pie. So, they need these TRP ratings far more than the entertainment channels. The pie is very small. And so the circus every night on these channels. The scam, as we are calling it now, is nothing new. AC Nielsen-owned TAM was in the news back in 2003-04 when allegations of viewership being rigged surfaced. TAM was dissolved and BARC took its place. It would seem that nothing has really changed. SYQ:Yes. People meter is the key to understanding the problem, as the entire system of viewership is based on this. Unfortunately, nobody seems to know how it works. When I was in DD, we realised that despite 50% of the country being dependent only on terrestrial network, which meant that half of India was watching only DD, TAM showed us as a shareholder of only 2% of the audience. As a result, the advertisement revenue was assigned to only 2%, which was a fraud. I asked TAM to install a meter on my official TV. The people meter is operated by a remote control with buttons assigned to every member of the family. They are expected to switch on the button when they are watching a channel and switch it off when they step out of the viewing room. Who is going to do this day after day? The technician who had come to install a people meter admitted after some hesitation that they paid the household in kind: a dinner set for one family, a TV set for another, with a request to watch a channel. Who are the buyers of these products for whom advertisers advertise the Mercedes cars and BMWs? And where are the people meters installed? In poor people’s homes. They are the ones who can be bought over by a pressure cooker and a TV set. So, despite a socioeconomic classification of households on the lines of ABCD and E, the top three segments from A to C will not install a people meter in their homes for Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 a month. To my mind the cheating was inbuilt into the system. The same people meter continues, only the owner has changed from TAM to BARC. Two years ago, there was a similar scam unearthed in Gwalior. Would we achieve anything if we increased the sample size? SK:Increasing the sample size is a first step. But equally important is to get the demographic right so that it is truly representative. As I understand it, BARC pays something like Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 to households (a month) where the people meters are installed. And so these households obviously have a particular economic status. There’s a uniformity about it. They are not representative of the TV viewing public, particularly for an English news channel. It is distorted. It’s not just the sampling size. It’s the methodology, the quality of sampling, the geographic and demographic spread. How should the industry be regulated and who should regulate it? BARC viewership ratings haven’t really addressed the problem. SYQ:I had put this question to advertisers in my meeting many years ago. This was in the context of TAM being accused of rigging viewership. Namely, this is your money and all of us are interested in your money. So, what precautions are you taking? They said, we have to go by some statistic, some audience figures. Let me also remind you that before TAM became a monopoly, there used to be INTAM, and every week, they would give diametrically opposite viewership figures. TAM bought over INTAM and said, now instead of two currencies there will be one currency. To my mind this was nothing more than cartelisation. Let there be four or five agencies in the same city. They will come up with different figures. And let us aggregate the figures coming from four or five different agencies. Probably, we will get to the truth. What is wrong with a single currency? We are talking of one nation, one vote, one GST, etc. SK:Everybody’s vying for the same small sliver of the pie of advertising spend. So, I think it’s a good idea to have checks and balances, to have, say, competing agencies which are professional, so that the industry can then decide which agencies’ figures it wants to follow. There should be some oversight too. For instance, in 2017 BARC had set up an independent disciplinary committee, headed by the retired judge, Justice Mukul Mudgal. Over the next two years, they got about 18 to 20 cases referred to that committee. So, there should be also an oversight committee with teeth. It’s important because the industry is going through a big shift. Already, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has notified a new tariff order where customers can choose channels they want to watch. The people meters have not adapted to reflect these big shifts that have taken place. And if it’s not up to date, it gets distorted. This case of rigging households really affects the medium, smaller players, and the regional media players. I think it makes for a different kind of cartelisation through a corrupt mode. Therefore, these measures must come in to correct the situation. Otherwise, the losers are not just the advertisers. The losers are also the consumers because consumers have a right to be informed. There’s a larger public interest in this and it’s not just something that the industry can incestuously decide for itself. Should the government get into the business of regulation? SK:I wouldn’t say the government should step into any such role to regulate the media. It has to be an autonomous body. It has to be the industry, as it’s in the interest of the industry. It’s in the interest of those who are spending Rs. 25,000 crore or Rs. 27,000 crore on advertising to make sure that it is cost effective.  SYQ:There’s no question of government regulation, but at the same time, the government can facilitate the process. Maybe the government can pass a law that any violation will face a legal action, criminal action. The government can play an honest broker, but it has to be industry run, it has to be self-regulation and at the same time an independent regulation. Can’t the industry come up with a good, technically foolproof solution? They only have to sit together and apply their mind.  Who are the buyers of products for whom advertisers advertise the BMWs? And where are the people meters installed? In poor people’s homes. They are the ones who can be bought over by a pressure cooker and a TV set. S.Y. QURAISHI
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The message in the Peace Nobel — multilateralism||It is a paradox that precisely at a time when the salience of cross-national and global challenges has significantly increased, nation states are less willing to cooperate and collaborate in tackling them. COVID-19 recognises no national or regional boundaries as it rages across the world. One would have expected that countries, particularly those with technological and financial capabilities, would agree to pool their resources together to work on an effective and affordable anti-virus vaccine. Instead, there are several parallel national efforts under way even as the World Health Organization (WHO) has put together a Covax alliance for the same purpose. There is a competitive compulsion at work which may be appropriate in economic and commercial domains. When the lives of people are at stake, active collaboration would have enhanced our collective ability to overcome what has become a public health-cum-economic crisis. But we live in an era when nationalist urges, fuelled by a political opportunism, diminish the appeal of international cooperation. As pointed out by Nicholas Eberstadt of The National Bureau of Asian Research, “The post pandemic world will have no choice but to contend at last with a problem long in the making: the awful dilemma of global integration without solidarity.” Looming food crisis This year’s Nobel Peace Prize to the World Food Programme (WFP) is a recognition of its role in combating hunger and malnutrition across the developing world. But the WFP’s achievement are modest, not because it is an inefficient institution, but because it is perennially under-funded. But more important is the message which this award is sending to the world — that we need multilateralism as an expression of international solidarity. It is also a warning that the novel coronavirus pandemic is reversing the substantial gains made in the fight against poverty. According to the WFP, 132 million more people could become malnourished as a consequence of the pandemic. To the 690 million people who go to bed each night on an empty stomach, perhaps another 100 million or more will be added. This counts for a major world-wide catastrophe and unless the conscience of the world is aroused, we will be condemning vast pools of humanity to living in wretchedness and deprivation. The Nobel Prize to the WFP will hopefully nudge our collective conscience to come together and relieve this looming humanitarian crisis. The UN at 75 is still important The United Nations is at the centre of multilateral institutions and processes. It is celebrating the 75th anniversary of its founding. While it is a pale shadow of the vision with which it was invested at its founding, nevertheless it has kept alive the notion of international solidarity and cooperation. If it has become increasingly marginal in mobilising international responses to global challenges, the fault lies with its most powerful member countries. They have deprived the UN of resources. They have resisted efforts to institute long overdue reforms; 75 years on, its structure no longer reflects the changes in power equations that have taken place. It is anachronistic that a country such as India continues to be denied permanent membership of the Security Council. And yet despite these disabilities ,the UN is now an essential part of the fabric of international relations; its role has become even more important precisely because the salience of global issues has expanded and the need for multilateral approaches in finding solutions has greatly increased. India has been a consistent advocate of multilateralism and Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently said: “India firmly believes that the path to achieve sustainable peace and prosperity is through multilateralism. As children of Planet Earth we must join hands to address our common challenges and achieve our common goals.” Institutions and problems There is a network of multilateral institutions, several as part of the UN system. Others are inter-governmental in nature; still others may be non-governmental of a hybrid character. This is a network which enables governance in areas which require coordination among nation states and set norms to regulate the behaviour of states so as to avoid conflict and to ensure both equitable burden sharing and, equally, a fair distribution of benefits. This network continues to function and deliver benefits to participating states despite the less than propitious international environment. However, going forward, there are more complex challenges which would require a different mind-set and patterns of behaviour. While there are multilateral institutions they have become platforms for contestations among their member states. There is recognition of the need to cooperate but this is seen as compulsion rather than desirable. When participating in multilateral negotiations, whether at the Committee on Disarmament in Geneva, or later at multilateral negotiations on climate change in the run-up to the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference in 2009, my brief would be the same as other country representatives — concede as little as possible, and extract as much as you can. If all delegations work on the same brief, is it any wonder that even a supposedly “successful” outcome is invariably the least common denominator? This may be appropriate when dealing with trade or security matters but not in tackling global challenges such as climate change or the current pandemic. Globalisation here to stay Given the scale, urgency and seriousness of the challenges we confront, we need maximal, not minimal, responses. The dynamics of negotiations and their outcomes would dramatically change if delegations came with a brief to contribute as much as possible within the limitation of resources and demand the minimum in terms of assessed needs. This is the international solidarity which a globalised world requires to handle the dense interconnections that bind us. Globalisation may have stalled, but as we become increasingly digitised, there will be more, not less, globalisation. The pandemic has triggered galloping globalisation in the digital economy . Globalisation is driven by technology and as long as technology remains the key driver of economic growth, there is no escape from globalisation. Don’t we need to first focus on getting our domestic imperatives right and then think of international cooperation? In the contemporary world, the line separating the domestic from the external has become increasingly blurred. In tackling domestic challenges deeper external engagement is often indispensable. This is certainly true of climate change. Even if India’s carbon emissions became zero tomorrow, climate change would continue to affect us if others do not also reduce their emissions. The pandemic originated in a third country, but soon raged across national borders. If there had been a robust and truly global early warning system, perhaps it could have been contained. The thread in challenges When one speaks of the rising salience of cross-national issues we must also take into account the inter-connectedness among various challenges. For example, food, energy and water security are inter-linked with strong feedback loops . Enhancing food security may lead to diminished water and energy security. It may also have collateral impact on health security. Raising crop yields with current agricultural strategies means higher incremental use of chemical fertilizers and toxic pesticides. India’s unprotected farmers are exposed to serious health risks as a result and often get bankrupted not due to crop failure but debilitating health costs. It is in recognition of these inter-connections that the international community agreed on a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are cross-domain but also cross-national in character, and hence demand greater multilateral cooperation in order to succeed. Finally, this also points to the need for a more democratic world order since lack of cooperation from even a single state may frustrate success in tackling a global challenge. A fresh pandemic may erupt in any remote corner of the world and spread throughout the globe. Prevention cannot be achieved through coercion, only through cooperation. It is only multilateralism that makes this possible. Shyam Saran is a former Foreign Secretary and Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The road to zero hunger by 2030||Food is the essence of life and the bedrock of our cultures and communities. It can be a powerful means to bring people together to grow, nourish and sustain the planet. The exceptional circumstances we have all been living in through 2020 underscores this — not only does COVID-19 pose a threat to food security and agricultural livelihoods, it compounds the threats already faced by 690 million people around the world. This World Food Day, we — the food agencies of the United Nations (UN) — pledge to work together to end hunger, eradicate food insecurity and achieve Sustainable Development Goal 2. There is much to be done. While we can all be proud of the progress we have made — for instance, agricultural productivity has improved significantly in recent decades — yet sadly, more than two billion people globally still lack access to sufficient, nutritious and safe food. Projections show that the world is not on track to achieve zero hunger by 2030, or to meet global nutrition targets. India has gone from being a net importer to a net exporter of food grains. This strength has been evident through the pandemic. Central and State governments were able to distribute around 23 million tonnes from India’s large domestic food grain reserves in three months (April to June) through the Public Distribution System, providing much-needed emergency assistance to families around the country. The government also successfully mobilised food rations for 820 million people from April to November 2020, including finding alternate solutions to provide food rations to 90 million schoolchildren. Throughout the national lockdown imposed in March, there were efforts to remove bottlenecks in the food supply chain due to restrictions on movements, and to ensure that agricultural activities weren’t disrupted. Thanks to these measures, agriculture grew at 3.4% during the first quarter this financial year and the area cultivated this kharif exceeded 110 million hectares. This is a major achievement. Malnutrition, anaemia But the focus on food during the COVID-19 containment measures has also brought out the multi-dimensionality of India’s food challenges — not least those centred around malnutrition and climate change. Even as malnutrition in India has notably declined over the past decade, the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey 2016-18 revealed that over 40 million children are chronically malnourished, and more than half of Indian women aged 15-49 years are anaemic. Initiatives such as the Integrated Child Development Services — which provides cooked meals and take-home rations to 100 million children under the age of six, as well as to pregnant and lactating mothers — and the mid-day meal programme, are however stellar examples of how the government is working to fix these challenges. Climate change continues to be a real and potent threat to agrobiodiversity, which will impact everything from productivity to livelihoods across food and farm systems. Though India is dealing innovatively with climate change — for example, through the development of drought and flood tolerant seed varieties, weather-based agricultural advisories, promotion of millets, and small-scale irrigation — this year, we saw how climate-related shocks made it difficult for farmers to deal with pest and locust attacks, as well as floods and cyclones. Intensified food production systems with excessive use of chemicals and unsustainable farming practices cause soil degradation, fast depletion of groundwater table and rapid loss of agro-biodiversity. These challenges multiply with an increase in fragmentation of landholdings. In India, more than 86% farmers have less than two hectares of land contributing around 60% of the total food grain production and over half the country’s fruits and vegetables.  All this points to two undeniable imperatives: the way we produce food must change through agroecology and sustainable production practices in agriculture and allied sectors; and second, we must stop the waste — one-third of the food we produce is wasted. That is why the UN, and our three agencies — the FAO (The Food and Agriculture Organization), IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development) and WFP (The World Food Programme) — are committed to working with government, civil society, farmers’ organisations and the private sector to build sustainable food systems.  Supporting India During the COVID-19-precipitated lockdown, the FAO, IFAD and the WFP worked in close coordination to support the Government of India’s Empowered Group 5 on facilitating supply chain and logistics management, so necessary items such as food and medicines were available. The agencies provided daily updates on the real-time situation on the ground, collating challenges/red flags, dynamic anecdotal data and good practices from their sources in the field. This prompted swift action in terms of resolving bottlenecks and ensured progress on addressing red flag issues. What is a food system? It is a framework that includes every aspect of feeding and nourishing people: from growing, harvesting and processing to packaging, transporting, marketing and consuming food. To be sustainable, a food system must provide enough nutritious food for all without compromising feeding future generations. As countries begin to develop and implement COVID-19 recovery plans, it is also an opportunity to adopt innovative solutions based on scientific evidence so they can build back better and make food systems more resilient and sustainable. Today, with the FAO celebrating 75 years of fighting hunger in over 130 countries, IFAD becoming the first UN agency to receive a credit rating, and the WFP being awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace this year, we are more committed — and better prepared — than ever to together develop solutions with the government, civil society and private sector. Working in concert That is why this World Food Day (October 16), we call for global solidarity to help all populations, and especially the most vulnerable, to recover from the crisis, and to make food systems more resilient and robust. Everybody — governments, the private sector, civil society and local communities — has a role to play in transforming our food systems so they can withstand increasing volatility and climate shocks, deliver affordable and sustainable healthy diets for all, and provide decent livelihoods for food chain workers. We must all work in concert to make sure that our food systems nourish a growing population and sustain the planet, together. Tomio Shichiri is the FAO Representative in India; Rasha Omar is Country Director, IFAD India, and Bishow Parajuli is Representative and Country Director, WFP India. The views expressed are personal
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Dealing with a deluge||A deep monsoon depression over the west central Bay of Bengal, which weakened as it moved over Telangana, resulted in downpours over several districts in the State, severely affecting the city of Hyderabad as well. On October 13, the monthly average rainfall of Hyderabad for October (103.6 mm according to Skymet) was surpassed on a single day when 192 mm of rain fell. According to the India Meteorological Department, this is the highest rainfall for October recorded in Telangana’s capital since 1903. Such a high intensity downpour in a short span is bound to affect a densely populated urban area, and Hyderabad was no exception. At least 24 people were killed and several localities submerged and isolated following incessant rains and the overflowing of the city’s lakes. Other districts were badly affected too: roads damaged and irrigation tanks breached. The monsoon storm that never became a cyclone, has managed to cross the east (Andhra Pradesh) and west coasts (north Karnataka and Maharashtra) of India. This is rare and a rain-related disaster event that is difficult to plan for. Floods and deluges, like any other disaster, disproportionately affect the poor. Disaster management agencies have managed to limit the impact of the disaster as many of those marooned in submerged areas and flooded houses were rescued. But the extent of the damage and the turmoil show a lack of preparation and disaster mitigation, a problem that plagues most urban centres in the country. Much of the damage was due to the overflowing of lakes — in particular, the Hussain Sagar Lake in the middle of the city and the breaching of storm water drains. Construction over lake beds and encroachments of drainage channels have been identified as problems that have exacerbated flooding and inundation in the city in the past (the deluge in August 2000, for example). But the little that has been done to unblock existing storm drains over the last decade has not been enough to handle the requirements of the city, which still depends upon an antiquated sewerage and drainage system. Hyderabad urgently needs to expand and remodel its drainage system. Besides lakes and canals, wetlands and watersheds play a vital role in absorbing excess rainfall, but regrettably, rapid urbanisation in the twin cities has resulted in the loss of a large portion of the wetlands. An analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment in 2016 revealed that 3,245 hectares of water bodies were lost in Hyderabad between 1989 and 2001. In the long term, the effects of flooding due to deluges can only be mitigated if urban planners take into account the hydro-geology of cities and ensure that construction, development and land occupation do not take place in a way that reduces the area of wetlands.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Showdown in Thailand||The Thai government’s decision to issue an emergency decree, banning public gatherings and censoring the media, demonstrates both its acknowledgement of the seriousness of the challenge it is facing in the wake of months-long street protests and its refusal to address the actual problems. The protests, from July, by students against the authoritarian government of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha have since grown into a large political movement, raising challenges for the government and also to the monarchy, an institution that has historically been protected from public criticism by tough lèse-majesté laws. Mr. Prayuth, who captured power in 2014 through a military coup, won a disputed election last year. Backed by the King, he has tightened his grip on power and cracked down on dissent. In 2017, a new Constitution saw democracy being eroded further. This gradual erosion of political rights, along with the outbreak of COVID-19 and its related economic woes, triggered the protests. The protesters have earned the support of sections of society. They now call for the Prime Minister’s resignation, free and fair elections, a new Constitution that guarantees democratic rights, and want the powers of the monarchy clipped. The declaration of the emergency decree comes a day after protesters raised the three-finger salute, a symbol of resistance taken from The Hunger Games trilogy, at a royal motorcade. Under the new rules, the authorities have banned the gathering of five or more people and restricted the publication of news “that could create fear”. They can also prohibit people from entering “any area they designate”. Clearly, the government has granted itself sweeping powers and wants to crack down on the protests. But this could have the opposite impact. That the students continued their agitation despite government pressure and have started questioning even the monarchy shows their resolve. The Thai monarchy, which lost absolute powers in the 1932 revolution, continued to maintain its high influence in the government and god-like status in society. Now, the protesters are openly challenging the powers of King Vajiralongkorn, who ascended the throne in 2016 after the death of his father, Bhumibol Adulyadej. The new King, who is mostly in Europe, and Mr. Prayuth, have become symbols of extravagance and oppression for the protesters, who have dismissed the emergency decree, saying the movement has gone past the point of no-return, and in turn setting the stage for a showdown with the police. In the past, authorities had used brutal force to suppress protests. In 1976, the police and right-wing thugs massacred protesters in Thammasat University, Bangkok. Mr. Prayuth and his Generals should ask themselves whether they should take matters to such a dangerous turn or reach out to the protesters, seeking a solution to the crisis.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Bollywood’s moment of reckoning?||The Hindi film industry, or Bollywood as it is popularly known, has finally woken up. To counter the smear campaign launched by certain news channels to tarnish its image and invade the privacy of its leading actors, several producers and actors have filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court. This suit has been filed against two English news channels and their star anchors to restrain them from attributing certain terms and behaviour to the industry and people involved with its functioning. A new soap opera The campaign launched by these news channels with unsubstantiated claims has been derogatory and disrespectful to say the least. It is nothing less than the grotesque soap operas that play on several Indian channels every evening. Many of these serials are derived from or try to mimic the iconography and vocabulary of similar Hindi films. Television news in contemporary India is often the new soap opera where willing suspension of disbelief is its raison d’être. The campaign that has irked and damaged the image of Bollywood and angered its leading players is a result of the ongoing controversy over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. It was a well-designed campaign to divert attention from pressing issues at hand and other raging debates in the country such as the farmers’ agitation, the citizenship debate, the COVID-19 pandemic, the rights of migrant labourers, women’s safety and the killing of Dalits, and focus on the untimely and unfortunate death of a promising actor who did not belong to the power cliques of Mumbai. These news channels thus found the perfect plot to be developed across months of prime-time television news where a young actor’s aspirations are “crushed” by a powerful Bollywood lobby. This is the same powerful-powerless binary that Hindi cinema has sold to us for decades without delving deep into the power structures of society. When these news channels found very little to link their dubious claims with the death of the actor, the focus of these shows turned to some big names, their apparently amorous lifestyle and purported villainy. It is easy to attribute qualities to the film industry about which very little is known. Even the little we do know about the lives of filmstars and the rumours and gossip pertaining to their films is often the handiwork of their PR machinery for visibility of their films. Hindi cinema by itself is responsible for furthering the myth about the industry. It needs more transparency in its dealings to counter such an image. Others joined the nepotism debate blaming certain industry children, or ‘star kids’, for being favoured and privileged over outsiders. The campaign was relentless and malicious. Perhaps there’s no antecedent to an event like this in the history of independent India when an entire industry with enormous soft power has been vilified by some news channels to serve their narrow gains. Also Bollywood is a big draw to win the TRP race. Unsuspecting audiences believe that the news channels are on the path of satyagraha to perform an act of cleansing. Reason for protest Bollywood’s collective action to expose the fake media trial is welcome. The industry has shown a united front because its interests are being compromised. The news campaign might have an effect on the movie business leading to the boycott of certain films. This collective outburst shouldn’t be misconstrued as a unified condemnation of the quality and health of television news in the country. It is a protest to ensure that Bollywood’s economic interests aren’t undermined. Further action should lead to boycott of film awards and magazines that belong to the same media conglomerate that also owns one of these news channels engaged in spewing venom against the industry. While there may not be a radical shift in Bollywood, we certainly hope that this intervention will help to reduce the toxicity of some news channels and their anchors if not obliterate it. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The importance of building trust||The district of Visakhapatnam, and especially the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border region, is densely forested and filled with water bodies. As a result, it is a difficult one to traverse. There is no access to these areas; only long treks can get you there. There is no cell phone connectivity in most parts of the 11 Adivasi mandals of the district. Malaria is a common disease in these areas and getting drinking water is a big challenge. Without gaining the trust of the Adivasis, a journalist covering the Maoist problem in the region can not only get lost easily in the jungle but also fall sick. The Adivasis, who are often caught between the police and the Maoists, are naturally suspicious of questions and conversations. They wonder whether people who want to interview them are actually officers from the Intelligence Wing of the police who have come to gather information about the ‘Annas’ (elder brothers, as the Maoists are called), or are Maoists who have come to recruit them. If journalists pose questions, they pose as many in return. They only open up once they are satisfied that the journalist is neither a police officer nor a Maoist. Some years ago, during a visit to Ramaguda, the photographer and I did not do our homework of networking with local reporters. We were covering a fact-finding mission of the Human Rights Forum after an encounter between the elite anti-Naxal force of Andhra Pradesh, the Greyhounds, and the Maoists. The encounter took place on October 24, 2016 at Ramaguda, a remote village. More than 30 Maoists, including some top leaders, were killed in the incident. We visited the site about four days after the encounter. We travelled till a village called Beijingi in a vehicle after which we set out on foot to the site. We made our way through the forest for two hours until we finally came across a man carrying firewood. We asked him about the encounter site. He did not understand our tongue and we did not comprehend his. But he understood our query from our gestures. He looked at us suspiciously and then gave us some directions. We learnt over the next couple of hours how unprepared we were. The man who had sized us up had directed us the wrong way. We wandered about aimlessly in the heat until we reached an Adivasi hamlet. We were exhausted. We sat down in the village square and asked for some water, though we had brought bottles of water with us. Past experience had taught us that there is no better way of gaining the confidence of the Adivasis than sitting cross-legged on the porch of their homes, requesting them for some water and food, and chatting for a while. We finally got our bearings right, but only after trekking for about 10 km in the wrong direction. Though the 15-km distance from Beijingi to Ramaguda that day stretched to 25 km, we reached the spot and completed our work. But we learnt an important lesson that day: always reach villages a day earlier if you’re on an assignment, interact a lot with the locals, and build trust. Only trust can yield good reports. And only through trust can you avoid getting lost in difficult, unfamiliar terrain.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Mr. Pennington's letter to Mr. Gandhi||The following letter sent by Mr. J.B. Pennington, I.C.S. (Retd.) to Mr. Gandhi is published in “Young India” — Dear Sir, I do not like your scheme for “boycotting” the Government of India under what seems to be the somewhat less offensive name of “Non-Co-Operation”; but I have always given you credit for a genuine desire to carry out revolution of peaceful means and am astonished at the violence of the language you use in describing General Dyer on page 4 of your issue of the 14th July last. You begin by saying that he is “by no means the worst ‘offender’,” and so far I am inclined to agree, though as there has been no proper trial of anyone it is impossible to apportion their guilt; but then you say “his brutality is unmistakable”, “his object and unsoldierlike cowardice is apparent,” he has called an ‘unarmed crowd’ of men and children — mostly holiday makers — a rebel army.” You must excuse me for saying that all this is mere rhetoric unsupported by any proof, even where proof was possible. To begin with neither you nor I were present at the Jallianwala Bagh on that dreadful day - dreadful especially for General Dyer for whom you show no sympathy -, and therefore cannot know for certain whether the crowd was or was not ‘unarmed’.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Call to UN to develop new vision||The United Nations Secretary-General, U Thant, yesterday [October 15, United Nations], said that the United Nations had done well in its first 25 years – but not well enough. In an anniversary message, he said: “It is unforgivable that so many problems from the past are still with us, absorbing vast energies and resources desperately needed for nobler purposes”. He cited the “horrid and futile armaments race”, remnants of colonialism, racism and violations of human rights, power and domination instead of fraternal coexistence, China’s exclusion from the U.N. extension of ideological domains, and the local conflicts that plagued the world. “It is time for governments to make a fresh start and to lift themselves again to the same high level, if not a higher level, of vision and determination as that of the authors of the Charter”. “We must give the Charter a real chance at least. We must pass from words to deeds. We must pass from rights to obligations. We must pass from self interest to mutual interest. We must pass from partial peace to total peace”, U Thant said.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sensex snaps 10-day rally, slumps 2.6%||Snapping its 10-session winning run, the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex plunged 1,066.33 points on Thursday as investors pressed the exit button amid a massive sell-off in global markets. The 30-share index slumped 2.61% to close at 39,728.41. The broader NSE Nifty crashed 290.70 points, or 2.43%, to 11,680.35. Recovery at risk Global equities cratered as hopes of a pre-election stimulus deal in the U.S. faded, while multiple countries in Europe braced for a second round of lockdowns to curb rising COVID-19 cases, jeopardising the already shaky economic recovery. Back home, market participants were also eager to book profits after the recent rally amid already stretched valuations, traders said. Barring Asian Paints, which inched up 0.32% , all Sensex constituents closed in the red. Bajaj Finance was the top loser, tumbling 4.68%, followed by Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech. Investors lost Rs. 3.25 lakh crore in Thursday’s session as the total market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies fell to Rs. 157.31 lakh crore. “The market had moved-up in expectation of a big stimulus, but the desired fiscal package was not announced in India and a delay of it in U.S. has changed the trend,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. ‘High infection rates’ “At the same time, the pace of economic recovery is under stress because of a resurgence of high rates of COVID infections,” he said. “The margin of safety is low given premium prices and the slowdown in economic recovery. The trend, going forward, will depend on the supportive measures announced in context to the stimulus and commentary of Q2 results,” Mr. Nair added.  All sectors in red All sectoral indices closed lower, with BSE telecom, bankex, energy, finance, teck and IT indices plunging as much as 3.54%. The broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices nosedived, falling by up to 1.75%. In the rest of Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended up to 2% lower. Stock exchanges in Europe slumped up to 3% in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.17% lower at $42.38 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee pared its initial gains and settled 5 paise lower at 73.36 against the U.S. dollar.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Latest stimulus to have minimal growth impact’||The government’s latest fiscal stimulus measures will have a minimal impact on India’s growth prospects, rating agency Moody’s Investors Service said on Thursday, stressing that their ‘small scale’ is actually a credit negative as it reflects the country has ‘limited budgetary firepower to support the economy’. On Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a leave travel cash voucher scheme and an interest-free festival advance of Rs. 10,000 for all central government employees, to spur consumer demand. She also announced a Rs. 25,000 crore enhancement in the Centre’s capital spending and a 50-year loan facility worth Rs. 12,000 crore for States to expand capital expenditure. Moody’s expects India’s GDP to shrink 11.5% in 2020-21, so the 0.5% of GDP gain expected by the government from these stimulus measures will provide only ‘a small boost’, it pointed out. The package amounts to a fiscal cost of 0.2% of real GDP this year, as per the rating agency. ‘Weak fiscal position’ “Notwithstanding the fiscal prudence of the measures, the small scale of the stimulus highlights limited budgetary firepower to support the economy during a very sharp contraction, a credit negative... India’s very weak fiscal position has constrained its scope for discretionary stimulus spending in response to the coronavirus shock,” Moody’s observed. “Even when combined with the fiscal stimulus earlier in 2020, the size of the measures remains modest. In total, the two rounds of stimulus bring the government’s direct spending on coronavirus-related fiscal support to around 1.2% of GDP. This compares with an average of around 2.5% of GDP for Baa-rated peers as of mid-June,” the firm said in a note. The average fiscal stimulus of 13 Baa-rated nations was calculated from the International Monetary Fund’s database of fiscal policy responses to COVID-19, for this comparison. India’s rating is Baa3 negative as per Moody’s, following a downgrade this June from Baa2 negative. The country’s policymaking institutions will be challenged in enacting policies that effectively mitigate the risks of a sustained period of relatively low growth, significant further deterioration in the general government fiscal position and stress in the financial sector, the agency had said in its rationale for the downgrade. ‘Growth may rebound’ Consumer confidence, the agency pointed out, has remained subdued even as India has emerged from a very stringent nationwide lockdown, which drove a 24.5% year-on-year contraction in private consumption in the April-June quarter.  While Moody’s has forecast growth to rebound to 10.6% in 2021-22, due to base effects and a gradual normalisation in economic activity, it expects growth to settle around 6% over the medium term, with downside risks that partly arise from ‘ongoing stress’ within India’s financial system.  Measures taken so far will cost 1.2% of our GDP. Peer nations are spending up to 2.5% of their GDP
22 October 2020||new delhi,||Exports grow 6%, snap six-month-long slide||After contracting for six straight months, India’s exports rose 5.99% to $27.58 billion in September on account of growth in shipments of drugs and pharmaceuticals and ready-made garments, as per the government data. Exports were $26.02 billion in September 2019. Imports contracted 19.6% to $30.31 billion in September. It was $37.69 billion a year earlier. The trade deficit narrowed to $2.72 billion, compared to a shortfall of $11.67 billion a year earlier. Gold imports fell by almost 53% to $601.43 million in September. Major export commodities that grew in September include iron ore (109.7% at $303.42 million), ready-made garments (10.2% at $1.19 billion), rice (93.9% at $725.14 million), and drugs and pharmaceuticals (24.4% at $2.24 billion).  Since March, outbound shipments had been contracting due to the pandemic and the resultant fall in global demand.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI unveils standard term life insurance cover||Insurance regulator IRDAI has come up with a standard individual term life insurance product whose simple features as well as standard terms and conditions are expected to help customers make an informed choice and reduce mis-selling. The product, Saral Jeevan Bima, will be a non-linked, non-participating individual pure risk premium life insurance plan providing for payment of the sum assured in lump sum to the nominee in case of the insured’s death during the policy term. Issuing guidelines, the regulator mandated all life insurers to offer the standard product by January 1. The plan will be for those in the 18-65 years age group. The policy term will be 5-40 years, while the sum assured will be a minimum of Rs. 5 lakh and a maximum of Rs. 25 lakh, IRDAI said. Insurers, however, have the option of offering sum assured beyond Rs. 25 lakh with all other terms and conditions remaining the same. The product shall be offered to individuals without restrictions on gender, place of residence, travel, occupation or educational qualifications. There will be no maturity benefit. Neither will there be any surrender value nor can any loan be taken against the product.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||IFF questions India’s move to seek encryption access||With India joining six other nations in demanding that tech firms build backdoors to deal with ‘significant challenges to public safety’ posed by end-to-end encryption, a Delhi-based digital rights and liberties advocacy group has filed an RTI plea, raising questions over the move. In the petition, filed with the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of External Affairs, and Ministry of Electronics and IT, the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF)sought to know if any legal opinion was sought before India became a signatory to the statement and whether the government planned to introduce any legislation pursuant to becoming a signatory. This follows an October 11 joint statement by seven countries — the U.K., the U.S., Australia, New Zealand, India and Japan — urging tech companies to work with governments to find solutions to ensure the safety of citizens, without eroding user privacy or cybersecurity. In the recent past, the Centre had demanded that WhatsApp help it trace the origin of fake messages. However, the demand was turned down by WhatsApp, which pointed out such a move would undermine the privacy of users.  The advocacy group asked if the govt. had sought legal opinion prior to becoming a signatory
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Theatres likelier choice for new releases than OTT’||With theatres across the country opening up from Thursday, Ashish Saksena, COO — Cinemas at BookMyShow, said he expected producers and audience to prefer theatres for new movie releases over OTT players such as Amazon Prime and Netflix. He, however, added that both platforms would continue to coexist. “I don’t think we can wish any one format away... OTT was there even before lockdown and there were movies being released on TV... Theatrical business, unlike in the U.S., is very large in India and contribute about 60-65% of the overall revenue,” he told The Hindu . He added that OTT platforms would continue to remain an option and not disappear just because theatres had reopened. A recent survey done by the platform among 4,000 active BookMyShow transactors found that 54% respondents were eager to get to theatres within 15-90 days of the lockdown lifting and 98% expected cinemas to implement strict safety and hygiene measures.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Mindtree Q2 net rises 88% to Rs. 253.7 crore||IT services firm Mindtree reported an almost 88% year-on-year increase in its second quarter net profit to Rs. 253.7 crore. Revenue rose 0.6% to Rs. 1,926 crore. The firm added eight new clients during the quarter. “Our revenue momentum is back on track. Green shoots are visible in the travel, hospitality and transportation sector while growth momentum is picking up for other sectors as well,” said Debashis Chatterjee, CEO and MD. Mindtree said it would give increments to its 21,000 employees in January 2021. The firm declared an interim dividend of Rs. 7.5 apiece on the shares which have face value of Rs. 10 each.
22 October 2020||Chennai,||Rane Brake to buy back Rs. 22 cr. shares||The board of directors of Rane Brake Lining Ltd. (RBL) on Thursday approved a share buy-back proposal. The company will acquire the shares at a maximum price of Rs. 825 apiece. The buy-back is estimated to cost Rs. 22 crore. The buy-back will be made from all shareholders of the company other than the promoters and promoter group of the company, RBL said. The company also reported a second quarter net profit of Rs. 11.5 crore, a 54% growth from the year-earlier period. Total revenue, however, dropped 4% to Rs. 107.7 crore on an 8% decline in sales to OEM customers.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Remittances growth turning muted: report||Remittances growth is muted due to ‘structural’ reasons which will hamper consumption demand locally, according to a report on Thursday. “The muted external remittances growth is more of a structural issue than transitory,” India Ratings and Research said in its note. India received over $70 billion inflows last year. The agency argued that flows had started to moderate even before the pandemic outbreak, pointing out that as a percentage of gross disposable income, the share of remittances fell to 2.5% in FY19 as against 3.5% in FY10.
22 October 2020||DUBAI,||‘I didn’t know I had bowled the fastest ball’||Delhi Capitals’ speedster Anrich Nortje, who bowled the fastest delivery in IPL history, says he was unaware of the feat until after the end of the match. The 26-year-old South African clocked a breathtaking 156.2 kmph while bowling to Jos Buttler in the third over of Rajasthan Royals’ run-chase against Delhi Capitals on Wednesday. Bettering Steyn He bettered compatriot Dale Steyn’s (154.4 kmph) record in the process. “I heard about it afterwards. I did not know about it at the time,” Nortje told his teammate Shikhar Dhawan in a video posted by IPLT20.com. Working hard “I have been working really hard to get my pace up, been a couple of seasons. Been working on my braced leg and my front arm... simple stuff. Happy to get some pace behind it but you obviously need to get it in the right area, that’s the most important thing.” Bowling the fastest delivery did not have the desired result for Nortje as Buttler scooped it for a boundary. The Englishman had played the same shot the previous delivery. However, the duel didn’t last long as the South African claimed Buttler’s wicket with a 155 kmph thunderbolt, the second fastest ball in IPL history. “Yeah, the battle against Buttler was interesting. I know he plays the scoop shots, but when he played the first one, it took me by surprise,” Nortje said. Nortje, who made his debut after Capitals roped him as a replacement for all-rounder Chris Woakes ahead of the start of the season, has clocked the five fastest deliveries in the ongoing edition of the IPL. Rabada full of praise Kagiso Rabada, who bowls in tandem with Nortje, was delighted for his compatriot, adding that they are learning from each other. “It looks like that every game. Really happy for him but not happy for the batter,” said Rabada. “When we play we only think about the delivery and not about the speed gun. We learn a lot from each other. He is a real fast bowler and I can learn some technical stuff from him. have some experience which I can tell him about. It is good to chat,” added Rabada.  I have been working really hard to get my pace up, been a couple of seasons. Been working on my braced leg and my front arm...
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings finally win, put a spoke in Royal Challengers’ wheel||Kings XI Punjab nearly made a mess of it once again, but Nicholas Pooran's six off the last ball ended the team's losing streak on Thursday. K.L. Rahul's men beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by eight wickets at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium. With Rahul (61 n.o., 49b, 1x4, 5x6) and comeback man Chris Gayle (53, 45b, 1x4, 5x6) at the wicket, seven runs from the last two overs should have been a walk in the park. Just five came off the 19th over bowled by Isuru Udana, but only two were required off six balls. But Yuzvendra Chahal kept Gayle — who did well to overcome the rustiness of not playing a game for nine months — quiet for the first two balls. The scores were tied — at 171 — when the ‘Universe Boss’ was run out off the penultimate ball. He was called through for a non-existent single by Rahul, who only managed two runs off six balls in the 19th and 20th overs. Fortunately Pooran took charge, stepping out and hitting the final ball over long-on. KXIP's only other win this season was also against RCB. Sigh of relief Rahul must have heaved a sigh of relief when he saw Pooran clear the fence. The skipper had played some glorious strokes, like the pull over square-leg off Navdeep Saini. Along with Mayank Agarwal (45, 25b, 4x4, 3x6), he added 78 for the first wicket. And for once, the big runs from the openers were translated into points. Earlier, captain Virat Kohli, in his 200th game for RCB, top-scored with 48 (39b, 3x4), but his side was restricted well by the KXIP bowlers, led by leg-spinner M. Ashwin. If it wasn’t for the 24 runs clobbered in the final over by Chris Morris (25 not out, 8b, 1x4, 3x6) and Udana off Mohammed Shami, RCB likely wouldn’t have been in the game. Before the nightmare, though, Shami had bowled a dream over in which he dismissed both Kohli and A.B. de Villiers. The South African genius had come in too late, however, with RCB promoting left-handers Washington Sundar and Shivam Dube to tackle leg-spin. The decision raised questions, especially given what de Villiers managed in his previous outing in Sharjah, earlier this week, when he single-handedly put the game beyond Kolkata Knight Riders.   Kings 161 for one  Kings were 161 for one in 17 overs. Rahul (58) and Gayle (50) were batting while Mayank (45) was the batsman dismissed
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,||DYES circulates SOP for swimming pool use||The State government’s Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (DYES) circulated the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for opening swimming pools for athletes’ training. After the Union government, as part of Unlock 5.0, had given the go-ahead for swimming activities to resume, DYES has come up with the SOP detailing all safety precautions. It also mandates the setting up of a COVID-19 task force at every training centre. It will bring relief to the likes of Srihari Nataraj who had travelled to Dubai in August for training and is set to return to India next week. Get back to form “Very glad that pools are opening up in Bengaluru,” Srihari said. “We had to decide what to do if things weren’t opening up. Now we have the option to train at home. “Dubai stint felt good. Now need to get back to the form that I was in before the lockdown.”  Noted training institutes like Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre and Dolphin Aquatics are waiting for coronavirus tests (for swimmers and coaches) to be completed before restarting activities.
22 October 2020||Kochi,||Sejin included in Indian camp for FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers||Sejin Mathew of Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram, has been called to the Indian men’s basketball camp for the 2021 FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers’ second window matches which will be held from November 24 to 30. Camp from Oct. 18 The camp will begin in Bengaluru on October 18. He is the lone player from Kerala called to the camp. The Asia Cup qualifiers will be held in three windows and in the first window, India began with a one-point loss against Bahrain (67-68) on February 21 and then had a comfortable 94-75 victory over Iraq on February 24 in the four-team Group ‘D’. India’s matches India will play Lebanon on November 26 and Bahrain on November 29. The matches were scheduled to have been played on a home-and-away basis but this format has been scrapped for the second (November 2020) and third (February 21) windows and the games are likely to be held in one or two venues in a ‘mini bubble’. The top two teams from each of the six groups directly qualify to 2021 Asia Cup and the six third-placed teams will fight for the last four spots.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Jayawardene happy with MI’s progress||Mumbai Indians has achieved much more in the first half of the Indian Premier League than it had hoped for. Not only has the defending champion broke its winless streak in the United Arab Emirates, it has also shed the tag of poor starters by winning five of its seven games. No wonder then that head coach Mahela Jayawardene was upbeat ahead of its Thursday’s encounter against Kolkata Knight Riders. Wobbly start “The start was little wobbly. The first game (versus CSK), we played good cricket but we didn’t have that clinical instinct to finish it off. The second game was much better against KKR, and then third game again (against RCB) we showed inconsistency in certain departments but great game, where we came back and pushed it to the Super Over,” Jayawardene said on Wednesday. “Since then we have been very consistent, trying to improve in all departments, and playing some consistent cricket, so you can’t complain. After seven matches, to be on 10 points and having two losses, one of those being Super Over. Overall, as a coach, I am happy but there are areas we can improve and keep improving because the tournament is always going to get tough and tougher at the back-end.” Having lost all its five games in UAE in 2014, the team has made a strong comeback this time around. In fact, having used just 12 players in seven games, it appears the most settled unit in the tournament so far.
22 October 2020||KOLLATA,||Got to make amends against MI: Cummins||Kolkata Knight Riders speedster Pat Cummins hopes that his side would learn from its mistakes and perform better against Mumbai Indians in their second meeting of the Indian Premier League at Abu Dhabi on Saturday. “We have got to make amends for our first match. They beat us, (we) did not play our best game. Now there is a chance to test ourselves,” Cummins said. Big hitters The Australian said KKR bowlers must give their best against an opponent packed with big-hitters. “Hopefully we will bowl better than we did in the first match. We will concentrate on what we do well as bowlers.” Cummins looked forward to providing more breakthroughs. “I have been bowling quite well. I am happy with my rhythm, would love to take a few more wickets, especially bowling the PowerPlay… Trying, working on a few new things.” Assessing KKR’s performance, including four wins and three losses, Cummins said the team could improve further. Good signs  “I don’t think we have played anywhere near our best yet... The real good signs were we had two matches against Chennai and Kings XI where we had no rights to win and we still won. We feel like we can win from any position,” said Cummins.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Getting the viewing experience right||One of the biggest talking points of the current Indian Premier League is the crowd sound that’s introduced into the broadcast to make up for the empty stands. Admitting it was one of the biggest challenges the broadcasting crew faced ahead of the tournament, Sanjog Gupta, Star India’s newly appointed Head - Sports, was pleased with the manner in which his team tackled the issue. “The (biggest) challenge was: how do you design IPL viewing experience in such a way that it doesn’t look like a compromised version of previous editions of IPL. The last thing that we would want is for a viewer to log on to IPL and say: ‘ yaar, isme woh baat nahi hai (something’s missing here)’,” Gupta told The Hindu from a bio-secure bubble his organisation has created for 450 employees in Mumbai, in addition to 300 in UAE. “We would like to believe that we have overcome this.” Getting into the groove Just like cricketers, even the sound engineers appeared to have taken some time to get into the groove as far as adjusting the decibel levels of the crowd chants is concerned. According to Gupta, not only did the broadcaster create a library of sounds based on the team, players and situations, it even introduced an audio producer to take care of the sound. “The sync between the striker — the audio engineer who pumps the sound — and the non-striker — that’s the audio producer — was a problem. The second problem we tackled was, when a ball is hit in the air you don’t know whether it’s going for a six or into hands of a fielder. So we created an additional feed only for the sound engineer where he could see the entire field,” Gupta said. “He knows before anyone else whether there’s a fielder coming under it and curates the sound accordingly. These were some of the learnings over the first three weeks where we evolved the sound to really suit the situation.” With two top honchos suddenly exiting the set-up, Gupta has been elevated as the Head - Sports in the middle of the IPL. Besides dealing with the pandemic, he will also have to figure out a way to devise a strategy in dealing with renewing the broadcast rights cycle for the Indian Premier League and the International Cricket Council. Gupta played safe when asked about whether he foresees a correction in the bid amount for the forthcoming cycle. “It’s too early to say and this is a conversation we should have once the IPL is over. It’s not appropriate to discuss this in the middle of IPL, but I am happy to have this conversation once the tournament is over. It’ll be unfair for the Board and our partners for me to comment on when the tournament is on,” he said.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Spirited Capitals bowlers stifle Royals||On a night when some quality, express pace lit up the Dubai International Stadium, Delhi Capitals emerged victorious against Rajasthan Royals. The South Africans, Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje, received good support from debutant seamer Tushar Deshpande and spinners R. Ashwin and Axar Patel too, as DC won by 13 runs, defending an unimposing total of 161 for seven. The win also put Shreyas Iyer's men back on top of the table. Jos Buttler and Ben Stokes gave a brisk start to RR's chase. Nortje was welcomed into the attack by Buttler with a glorious six over long-on. The batsman then ramped him to fine-leg twice for four. But the bowler had his revenge off the last ball, as Buttler was bowled through the gate by a delivery that clocked 155kmph. The others tried but couldn’t take the team home.   RR 115 for five  RR was 115 for five in 14 overs, with Uthappa (23) and Tewatia (0) batting. Buttler (22), Smith (1), Stokes (41), Samson (25), Parag (1) were dismissed
22 October 2020||Chennai,||Range-hitting is the name of the new game||Range-hitting has changed the dynamics of PowerPlay. The batsmen who practise this form of brutal but scientific strokeplay start with an enormous advantage in T20s. Why do some batsmen keep clearing the fence with astonishing regularity while others walk back having been caught in the deep? The answer lies in Range-hitting. Range-hitting is a specific drill where the batsman places cones at different corners of the ground — where the boundaries are — and then strikes the ball only with the intention of clearing them. He could use a RobotArm, a bowling machine or even regulars. The batsman expands his range and enhances his power in a calculated fashion. Range-hitting is done with the intention of going over the fielders stationed on the fence, making them hapless spectators. And Range-hitting is not reckless striking of the ball. For instance, your head has to be still and low when you make contact with the ball for it to travel the maximum distance. And when your head is still and low, your eyes are invariably focused on the ball. So, your head is still, your eyes are on the ball and you hit the ball with a lovely, free swing of the willow. More often than not, the sphere lands in the stands. You also have baseball techniques coming into range-hitting. There is this transfer of weight from the thighs and hips as the ball is struck rather flat and with frightening force. In fact, transfer of weight, as much as a still head, is the key in every aspect of range-hitting.  Now, the bats are super strong, the batsmen are muscular having worked out in the gym. But then, it is range-hitting that lends them the cutting edge. In fact, after his incredible 32-ball 74 with nine sixes for Rajasthan Royals against CSK in the ongoing IPL, Sanju Samson said, “Range-hitting is what the game demands in this generation. I had time to work out in these five months [lockdown period] and I think I have increased that ability.” Range-hitting is the name of the new game.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Esha excited at being part of National camp||Junior World Cup medallist Esha Singh is excited at being part of the National preparatory camp for Olympic shooting hopefuls in Delhi. Great feeling “Yes, it is a great feeling to be in the company of some of the country’s biggest names in shooting. “I look forward to seeing an all-round improvement in my skills during the two-month camp (which began on Thursday),” the 15-year-old shooter told The Hindu . The youngest shooter at the camp, Esha has been practising on the ‘range’ in her backyard since March, when the lockdown was imposed because of the pandemic. “I stayed in touch with the sport despite the global crisis. I am also lucky to have my father (Sachin Singh) as mentor and coach,” Esha said. “The last major event I took part in was the Olympic trials in March in Delhi. This camp will be about mental and physical preparation and not just shooting,” she said. No immediate targets “I don’t have any immediate targets. Anyway, this year is almost gone and there are hints the Nationals, World Cup and Olympic qualifying events will begin early next year. “Hopefully, by that time I should be ready for any challenge,” she said.
22 October 2020||Zagreb,||Mbappe fires France past Croatia||Kylian Mbappe scored late as France beat Croatia in a closely-contested UEFA Nations League match 2-1 to stay level on points with group leader Portugal.  The results: Nations League: League A: Group 1: Poland 3 (Lewandowski 40, 52 Linetty 45+1) bt Bosnia and Herzegovina 0; Italy 1 (Lorenzo Pellegrini 16) drew with the Netherlands 1 (Van de Beek 25).   Group 2: England 0 lost to Denmark 1 (Eriksen 35-pen); Iceland 1 (B. Saevarsson 17) lost to Belgium 2 (Lukaku 9, 38-pen).   Group 3: Croatia 1 (Vlasic 65) lost to France 2 (Griezmann 8, Mbappe 79); Portugal 3 (B. Silva 21, Jota 44, 72) bt Sweden 0.   League B: Group 1: Norway 1 (Dallas 68-og) bt Northern Ireland 0; Romania 0 lost to Austria 1 (Schopf 76).   Group 2: Scotland 1 (Fraser 6) bt Czech Republic 0; Slovakia 2 (Hamsik 16, Mak 38) lost to Israel 3 (Zahavi 68, 76, 89).   Group 3: Turkey 2 (Calhanoglu 57, Ozan Tufan 76) drew with Serbia 2 (Milinkovic-Savic 22, Mitrovic 49-pen) ; Russia 0 drew with Hungary 0.   Group 4: Bulgaria 0 lost to Wales 1 (J. Williams 85); Finland 1 (Jensen 66) bt Republic of Ireland 0.   League C: Group 2: North Macedonia 1 (Alioski 90+3-pen) drew with Georgia 1 (Kvaratskhelia 74); Estonia 1 (Sappinen 14) drew with Armenia 1 (K. Hovhannisyan 8).   Group 3: Moldova 0 lost to Slovenia 4 (Lovric 8, Vuckic 37-pen, 42, 55); Greece 0 drew with Kosovo 0.
22 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Can Kolkata halt Mumbai’s run?||An explosive batting line-up and a lethal death-bowling attack will give defending champion Mumbai Indians a definitive edge over Kolkata Knight Riders when the two teams clash here on Friday. MI is on a roll having won its last four games, while there are problems aplenty for KKR, which was decimated by Royal Challengers Bangalore in its last game. For KKR, questions remain on whether key spinner Sunil Narine (reported for suspect bowling action) will be able to play. When the two teams met last, MI rode on skipper Rohit Sharma’s belligerent 80 to register a 49-run win. Apart from Rohit, the Mumbai top and middle-order is in good form. KKR also possesses a number of batsmen who can take any attack to the cleaners.
22 October 2020||Barcelona,||Coutinho makes his second chance count at Barca||Two months after helping Bayern Munich hand Barcelona its most humbling loss in decades, Philippe Coutinho is helping the Spanish club rebuild. Coutinho has been through plenty since joining Barcelona from Liverpool in January 2018.Besides his price tag of €160 million euros , he had also been tasked to replace the irreplaceable Andres Iniesta. Hoping that a temporary move would be good for the player, and possibly the club’s chances to eventually sell him, Barcelona loaned Coutinho to Bayern in 2019. His goals for Bayern in the Champions League, ironically, may have helped him regain his post in Barcelona. “Like any player, he needs the support and confidence of his coach, but this all starts with the player. He has demonstrated that he is a great player, and I am happy to have him with us,” coach Ronald Koeman said about Coutinho after he scored in a 1-1 draw with Sevilla two weeks ago. Coutinho has proved to be a key piece in Koeman’s new-look Barcelona. The Dutch coach has moved on from the classic 4-3-3 of Barcelona and shifted to a 4-2-3-1, with Coutinho acting as the central playmaker behind Lionel Messi as striker. With Ansu Fati on his left, Antoine Griezmann on his right, and Frenkie de Jong and Sergio Busquets defending his back, Coutinho has a full range of passing options and orders to go forward. Gone was the player who looked uncertain and appeared to shrink from the action during long stretches of his first stint with Barcelona. Coutinho now seems to be in his ideal position, as the assists and goals have shown so far.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Siddhant scores six in Sona Polo’s big win||Siddhant Sharma scored six goals in guiding Sona Polo to an overwhelming 11 goals to 1-1/2 victory over Army Green in a league match of the Bhopal Pataudi Cup 8-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground here on Thursday. It was the second loss for the Army Green team, which had been beaten by Army Red on the opening day. Jindal Panther revived its fortunes by beating Aravali Polo 10 goals to 5-1/2, after having lost to Rajnigandha Achievers.  The results (league): Sona Polo 11 (Siddhant Sharma 6, Tommy Severn 4, Sunjay Kapur) bt Army Green 1-1/2 (Anant Rajpurohit, handicap 1/2); Jindal Panther 10 (Phil Seller 5, Simran Shergill 4, Naveen Jindal) bt Aravali Polo 5-1/2 (Angad Kalaan 3, Nick Sherring 2, handicap 1/2).   Army Red 12 (Vishal Chauhan 6, ARS Warraich 3, NK Ravinder Mang 2, Aman Singh) bt Army Green 6 (Sameer Choudhary 3, Anant Rajpurohit 3); Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 5, Padmanabh Singh 3) bt Jindal Panther 6-1/2 (Simran Shergill 3, Phil Seller 2, Venkatesh Jindal, handicap 1/2).
22 October 2020||Melbourne,||Relax quarantine for players: Aus Open chief||Australian Open chief executive Craig Tiley wants international tennis players arriving for the first Grand Slam tournament of 2021 to be exempt from the 14-day strict hotel quarantines that are mandatory now for in-bound travellers. Tiley said on Thursday he was absolutely confident the Australian Open would go ahead as planned at Melbourne Park from January 18 to 31, 2021, along with lead-up events including the men’s ATP Cup and tournaments in Brisbane, Sydney and Hobart. He said he was counting on Australia’s State and Federal governments to relax border restrictions and grant special approval for players to go into a bio-secure training bubble, similar to what the U.S. Open and French Open did recently. “You can’t ask players to quarantine for two weeks and then step out and be ready to play a Grand Slam,” he said. Roger Federer and Serena Williamshave already committed to playing in Australia, but Tiley said players simply wouldn’t show up if they were not allowed to prepare properly. “We completely accept that everyone coming from overseas has got to have two weeks in quarantine,” Tiley said. “But what we are negotiating, or what we’re trying to have an agreement on, is that we set up a quarantine environment where they can train and go between the hotel and the courts in those two weeks.” At the U.S. Open and French Open, players weren’t required to quarantine but instead had to operate in a bio-secure bubble and undergo regular COVID-19 tests before being allowed to compete. Tiley said preparations for the Australian Open were getting to crunch time now. “We need commitments from the governments and the health officers,” he said.
22 October 2020||Prague,||Will only play Slams from now: Kvitova||Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova jokingly suggested she might only play Grand Slams in the future after ending a “very, very successful” Grand Slam season on Thursday. The 30-year-old World No. 8 reached the quarterfinals at the Australian Open and the last-16 phase at the US Open before losing in the semifinals of the French Open last week. “I guess I will only play Grand Slams from now on,” a smiling Kvitova told reporters in Prague, looking back at her best Grand Slam season in years. “I'll just get ready and go to a Grand Slam,” chuckled the left-handed big hitter, who switched from the US Open hardcourt to the French Open clay without playing a single tournament in between. “The season looked doomed, but it turned out a very, very successful one at Grand Slams,” Kvitova said about the year heavily affected by the coronavirus pandemic which had torn up the tournament calendar. Wimbledon is special “Unfortunately, Wimbledon was cancelled. I'm still sad, it's a pity, because Wimbledon is very special,” added Kvitova, who won the tournament in 2011 and 2014. “But I'm looking forward to next season and Wimbledon in particular.” “I hope next season won't be as tough as this year, that things will calm down and that the world will get back to normal at least a bit,” she added. Kvitova said she was now planning to rest and then train in Dubai before leaving for the Australian Open, where she will be looking to use her mental improvement from the virus-plagued season. “We didn't play tournaments for three months and the motivation was really poor, I didn't really feel like training... but I could get ready for the important events,” Kvitova said. “I guess I just set my head right, I made myself work hard to win each point, and even when I wasn't playing well, I could find a way out,” she added. It marks a remarkable resurgence from Kvitova who suffered a career-threatening injury to her playing hand when she fought off a knife-wielding burglar at her home in 2016. “Since 2017, I've been grateful for being able to play at this level. I call this my second career,” Kvitova said. “Even if I hadn't reached the French Open semifinals, I'd still be here and be happy. Sometimes there are more important things in your life than just hitting the ball.”
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhakti bhava||It is the tradition to call devotional hymns ‘paa maalai,’ a garland of verses that can never fade, as is the case with the Tiruppavai hymns that Andal offers to the Lord along with the garland of flowers. It is also a fact that if such devout hymns are always evergreen and strike a chord with like-minded bhaktas, it is owing to the inherent power or atma shakti in them that never diminishes even with the passage of time, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. It is possible to revisit the intense emotion and thought expressed in the devotional hymns of Azhwars every time they are recited, recalled or meditated upon. Kulasekhara Azhwar’s bhakti bhava overflows as the Mukunda Mala Stotra and it is truly a ‘paa maalai’ that sings praises on the Lord’s endless auspicious qualities. The first and foremost bhava is paying obeisance and this is signified in the phrase Vande Mukundam Aravinda Dalaya Daksham. It is clear that by paying obeisance to the Lord the jivatma stands to benefit, as it gives him much Sreyas when God comes forward to save him from samsara. The epithet Aravinda Dalaya Daksham refers to the lotus eyed Lord. The Upanishads such as the Chandogya describe His eyes that resemble the lotus as His unique characteristic. The Bhagavata purana states that when as Varaha He snorts and grunts, His eyes shine with brilliance to reveal His identity to Brahma and the rishis. In Narasimha avatar, His form is terrible but His eyes are full of compassion. In Rama avatar, He is always addressed as kamala patraksha; Sabhari realises Rama as the ultimate goal and resort. She says she has been purified by His kind glances. Markandeya tells Pandavas that Krishna is none other than the primordial Lord He had seen during the great deluge long back.
22 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,||It’s Anilkumar||O.T. Anilkumar (Kozhikode) won the Malappuram leg of qualifiers for the online all-Kerala Open chess tournament here on Thursday. Ten players from the district qualified for the mega final.  The standings: 1. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz, 8.5 points), 2. Chandar Raju (Ekm, 8), 3. Arpith S. Bijoy (Knr, 8), 4. Jinan Jomon (Wyd, 7.5), 5. John Jeny Akkarakaran (Koz, 7.5), 6. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm, 7.5), 7. Jubin Jimmy (Klm, 7.5), 8. Ebin Benny (Tsr, 7), A.K. Mihir (Koz, 7), V.M. Jishore (Knr, 7).
22 October 2020||Cologne,||Divij-Withrow pair loses||Divij Sharan and Jackson Withrow (US) lost 6-3, 6-3 to Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut of France in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €325,610 ATP tennis tournament here in Germany.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Alicante, Spain: Doubles (quarterfinals): Gerard Granollers & Pedro Martinez (Esp) bt Purav Raja & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-2, 6-2; Enzo Couacaud & Albano Olivetti (Fra) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 6-4, 6-4 .
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 07:41 IST,||Sudoku - October 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||D u a l energy||A raw yet controlled riff from Vikram Vivekanand’s guitar gets a pick-me-up — first from Ramku Kanakarajan’s drums, then Reshwin Nishith’s bass guitar. The trio’s pulsing energy lasts about 20 seconds, before giving way to a sudden calm. Karthick Iyer’s soothing voice seamlessly steps in, singing saint Thyagaraja’s ‘Dwaitamu Sukama’, to the soft accompaniment of Sumesh Narayanan on the mridangam. This ebb and flow of energy continues through Indosouls new track ‘Dwaitamu’, titled after saint Thyagaraja’s kriti on duality by the same name. The song is the first to be released in Indosoul’s fourth album Equilibrium . Guitarist Vikram says the band hopes to release a song each month from now, but clarifies that not all of them will have the philosophical bent of mind that the album title suggests. He adds, “This album has elements of both our first album and our third ( Two Sides of Karma ). The first album was very feel-good and happy; the third was contemplative.” This one, he says, will be a bit of both: “You can talk about balance in so many ways — both musical and non-musical — especially considering what’s happening around us now.” Karthick, vocalist and violinist, elaborates, “This song marries the philosophy of the album, with what saint Thyagaraja talks about in ‘Dwaitamu Sukama’: the Hindu concept of duality and non-duality.” The track, like all seven tracks in the album, can be traced back to a weekend in Puducherry that the band spent together in the summer of 2019. Says Karthick, “We decided to just jam for five days. The sessions were open-ended, with no ideas built beforehand. We tried to not get caught up in any one idea; every session had to be a different one. We came up with seven different ideas.” The band then took their time deliberating with each, coordinating virtually once the pandemic hit. Vikram points out, “We were lucky that everyone in the band has a recording setup at home. We were able to work using the reference track recorded in Pondy.” The video was shot largely at home. Drone footage of empty Chennai roads form the opening shot — “These were taken in the beginning of lockdown, when there was hardly anyone on the streets,” says Vikram. More such shots, interspersed with each member playing on his own against a black backdrop, form the rest of the video. How similar or different will the next track be? All Karthick shares is its story of origin. “We had a performance at Sir Mutha Venkata Subbarao auditorium, years ago. During the sound check then, we were jamming and came up with something. We recorded it and hoped to use it later. Inspiration usually strikes on impulse, when the five of us are in the moment.”  The track can be traced back to a weekend in Puducherry that the band spent together in the summer of 2019
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Like father, like son||There is much interest over the Tamil anthology Putham Pudhu Kaalai releasing on Amazon Prime Video today, featuring five shorts from five acclaimed directors exploring themes. A cursory glance at the list of names involved is enough to whet the appetite of any Tamil movie-goer; but special mention to Sudha Kongara for pulling off a casting coup in her segment, Ilamai Idho Idho . If bringing back one of the most cherished on-screen pairings in Jayaram and Urvashi was not exciting enough, the former’s son Kalidas and Kalyani Priyadarshan join the two veterans in what seems to be a breezy feature on two couples discovering/ re-discovering love in the time of COVID-19. While Kalidas has acted with Jayaram before (as a child artiste, even winning a National Award for Ente Veedu Appuvinteyum in 2003), the father-son duo has not made an appearance on screen since Kalidas’ debut as a lead actor. “I haven’t had any influence at all on his career decisions; right from when he wanted to act as a kid to his choices now as a hero. We don’t even discuss cinema at home,” says Jayaram, who looks dapper in the new, snazzy look that he has been sporting since his turn in Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo earlier this year. “Fitness is an integral part of cinema today; everyone looks for it and expects it even now. So I too felt a makeover was important; I took off for 70 days, dedicated myself to a new routine and worked really hard to get in shape,” he grins. Joining us together on a Zoom call, the father-son duo is as charming and warm as ever. Excerpts: How did this project take shape under Sudha Kongara?  Jayaram : We actually have to thank the director for casting us. Kalidas had already worked with her on another project, and broached the idea with me. I am a huge fan of her earlier films like Irudhi Suttru , and was longing to collaborate with someone like her. It is also my digital debut in a space like this, which makes it all the more so exciting. But I was most interested in seeing how Sudha and her team would overcome the challenge of shooting this footage in just a couple of days. After the shoot, I can safely say that she is not just a director... but also an assistant, costumer and make-up artist rolled in one!  Ilamai Idho Idho features veterans in the field. Was there concern about garnering screen space?  Kalidas : I have to be honest; I went through a year where nobody called me for work and I felt quite chastened. That is when Sudha ma’am got in touch and gave me an opportunity (they worked on an anthology for another OTT platform). The only thing running through my mind during both projects was that I should not make her regret choosing me. I also know that she casts actors only if she genuinely wants to convey a story with them, and give prominence to their roles. From the trailer, we see that both of you share a commendable chemistry with your co-stars, Urvashi and Kalyani Priyadarshan...  Kalidas : I have known Kalyani for a while, but this is the first time I am acting with her. Our working styles are similar; we like to be prepared and do our research. Due to lockdown restrictions, there could not be more than three actors on set at all times. However, after finishing my portions, I used to be present there as an AD as I am very comfortable with the team, to watch my dad and Urvashi take over. They have decades of experience together, and I could learn a lot merely by just looking at them perform.  Jayaram : Urvashi is the co-star I have worked with the most. We go back 32 years. Why do you think Malayalam cinema has been so popular on OTT platforms during the pandemic? How has the space opened up work for aspirants?  Jayaram : Irrespective of the genre or length of the film, it is all about the filmmaker trying to express his voice and intention to the viewers through his story. I think that is where the success lies. It has also got to do with the simplicity of the script; we have seen so many young, brilliant directors and writers emerge in the last year who I badly want to work with.  Kalidas : In feature films, you cannot even imagine characters like the ones that are now being explored in the content on streaming platforms. It is because the industry is built that way. I know the pandemic has been hard on everyone, including cinema, with theatres shut down and productions stalled… but the silver lining is for some actors who have been lucky enough to get such opportunities.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Goddess descends through livestream||The call of the conch will be heard through headphones. The dhunuchi ’s scent — a smoky mix of camphor and coconut husks — will be summoned from memory. Durga Puja celebrations are innovating and adapting to the challenges of COVID-19 to usher in necessary cheer in a difficult year. CR Park, the bastsion of Delhi’s Bengalis, will be unusually quiet this pujo, as will pandals across the country in this year of social distancing. In any other year, they would have seen a footfall of over two lakh daily. This time, of the nearly 10 pujas that take place there, only the one inside the premises of the Kali temple will be held. “All rituals will be followed, Saptami through Navami. We have a partnership with DEN (a popular cable channel) and Tata Sky to stream the morning pujas and eveningaartis. You can also watch them on our website, YouTube and Facebook,” says Prodip Ganguly, of the CR Park Kali Mandir Society, echoing the intentions of others across the country. In Chennai, secretary Jaypal Menon of Dakshin Chennai Prabasi Cultural Association (DCPCA) says the live rituals will be “virtually aired for members who want to experience it from home.” He adds, “Last year, we had a footfall of about 2,500 people each day. This time, however, we are not inviting non-members or even our regular patrons. Association members who are older than 65 and younger than 10 are also being asked to stay home, for their own safety.” In Hyderabad, too, puja committees will be streaming their sessions online — live on social media platforms. Many, like Attar puja committee, are also talking about restricting the number of visitors to 50. Atin Chowdhary, member of Bangiya Sankskriti Sangha, says “Core committee members and the priest make up about 20 people. Controlling people will be a tough job, so we have decided to stream the puja instead. There will be no food stalls, no bhog .” Mukul Dasgupta, secretary of Chennai’s Dakshini Society echoes this: “We will not be serving bhog . Every year, we bring dhaki s (drummers) to make things festive and a thakur (traditional chef) to prepare the traditional bhog , all the way from West Bengal. We provide them housing and take care of their food. But this time, we didn’t want them to travel all the way and be put at risk.” Not everyone, however, can imagine Durga puja without the bhog . DCPCA is arranging for the meal to be packed in eco-friendly boxes and delivered to members’ home. “It will be cooked by our regular Chennai caterers. After all, food is a big part of puja,” says Menon. In Delhi, those living in a two-kilometre radius from CR Park’s Kali Mandir can book the five-item bhog online. “We have got special four-tier dabba carriers from Mumbai for this purpose,” Ganguly says, adding that the cooks and delivery persons will be tested for COVID-19. Hyderabad’s Marigold hotel has a bhog package with khichdi , dalna , begun bhaja (fried brinjal), a selection of tok s (Bengali bittersweet dips) and a much-loved ilish (hilsa) selection. The khichdi comes with a smoky flavour, to give the feel of it being cooked at a puja pandal’s firewood kitchen. Kathi rolls, Mughlai parathas, ghugni — Visakhapatnam-based Sayantika Adak Ghosh devours it all at the city’s pandals every year. This time, she will be serving them from her home kitchen instead. “This way, I can recreate the festive feel at home for my seven-year-old son,” she says. Sayantika is also busy finishing her Mandala art series of Maa Durga which will be the highlight of this year’s homey Durga Puja for her. In fact, all around the country this year, celebrations have shifted from the pandals to homes. “In my entire lifetime, I have never seen Durga Puja being celebrated this way,” says Rita Basu, a core committee member of Utsav, that conducts the festival every year at AMCOSA in Visakhapatnam. “We used to start preparing for it from June with rehearsals for cultural programmes and corporate sponsorships.” About the idol A lack of food stalls and banner space, however, means a lack of advertising and funds for the idol. Chennai’s DCPCA and Dakshini Society nevertheless are making it a point to support the idol-makers, who arrived in August only to be met with a drop in demand. As Menon points out, “They set out from Kolkata, and in the absence of a direct train to Chennai, took a detour via train and bus to get here. This, even though they were not sure if they would get orders.” Most committees are bringing in the idols on October 21, for celebrations that will run till October 26. Many have also turned from idols to the ghot (a copper, brass or silver pot) puja: this involves worshipping a representation of the idol, in the form of a coconut in a kalash . The festivities remain emotionally significant for other reasons. DCPCA is moving back to the grounds where it had its first celebrations in 2013. And for Delhi’s Kashmere Gate puja, this year is historic. It is their 111th puja, shares Som Prakash Mitra, president of the puja committee: “Up until 1911, we would only have ghot puja. And now after 109 years, history is repeating itself.” With inputs fromPrabalika M Borah,Nivedita Ganguly,Sweta AkundiandMeghna Majumdar
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘OTTs cannot replace the magic of theatre’||The pandemic-induced lockdown turned out to be a productive phase for Rajisha Vijayan, who has shot for two films, Khalid Rahman’s Love and Rahul Riji Nair’s Kho-Kho, during this period. Love released in GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries on Thursday. She is also working in her first Tamil film, Karnan , opposite Dhanush. In a chat with MetroPlus , Rajisha says that it was a blessing to get back to work. “When the lockdown started, it was fun initially since I could take a break. But within a few weeks, I couldn’t wait to be on a film set. So when Rahman [Khalid Rahman] called up to discuss the project I was so thrilled that I didn’t even ask for the details,” she says. Talking about Karnan , directed by Pariyerum Perumal -fame Mari Selvaraj, Rajisha says that it is a rustic tale set in a different era. “Being on the set of a Tamil film has been a new experience. I had to work on the look. And since I don’t know Tamil, I learnt it. My character speaks the Tirunelveli dialect,” she says. Given that Love has finally released in theatres, the actor admits that she never expected it to reach cinemas while shooting. “It’s disappointing that I won’t be able to watch it. But I am happy that at least some viewers can. After all, OTTs can’t replace the magic of the theatre experience,” she signs off.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ally’s home makeover||For all of Ally’s 17-year-old life, Madras Crocodile Bank Trust (MCBT) has been home, as it has been for her parents. Now, this young alligator is also surrounded by reminders of her heritage — the outside of her pen is painted with animals and birds that originate from the Everglades in Florida, US. With the continuing downtime at the enclosure, Croc Bank has found time for renovation. Pen 1, comprising three enclosures — housing the Cuban crocodile, a critically endangered species in the (International Union for Conservation of Nature) IUCN list, Ally, the alligator and the slender-snouted crocodile — has been painted to resemble the habitat of origin of each of these three reptiles. They sunbathe inside as murals of their warmer blooded friends, including leopards, elephants, and the Cuban tody, pop out of the wall to keep an eye on the visitors. “We were very lucky to have got a grant from Cholamandalam Finance, as part of its CSR, just before the lockdown started, to reconstruct our first pen,” says Zai Whitaker, author and director MCBT. “We wanted the pen art to give people an idea of the kind of habitats these species live in,” explains Zai. “So you have the hutia from Cuba, which is a funny little animal — looks like a large guinea pig, and then you have raccoons for the alligator.” The slender-snouted crocodile is from West Africa, and so, has leopards and elephants for company. The artists behind the project, K Veerabathiran and his team, belong to the nearby village, Vadanemmeli in Kanchipuram. “I have been working with this wonderful group since I rejoined the Croc Bank in 2015,” says Zai. The team has previously painted stone pillars and signboards imparting information on birds and snake bites for the centre. Pen 8, which is one of the mother pens, is illustrated with information on crocodiles for kids. “We realised people engage with visual information better. So we thought why not do more of that, the Croc Bank is full of walls!” adds Zai. Key conversations Even though it is primarily a reptile zoo, Zai thinks adding wall art of mammals and birds is a good idea as it emphasises the reptiles’ place in the ecosystem. “From the beginning, when Rom [Whitaker] started his work and I joined him, our real mission was to bring reptiles into the sphere of conversation. By that time in the 1970s, everyone wanted to save the elephant and giraffes, and called for Project Tiger, but snakes were still called pests. So this is part of our journey to make people feel more empathetic towards reptiles.” What is also likely to help is the dynamic nature of the first three reptiles that visitors will meet upon entry. Ally is currently being trained in basic communication. The seven-footer appears when called, and understands a mixture of visual and voice commands, including instructions to look up at the trainer, hold the position, jump, or get into the water again. Despite having to make do without visitors for all this while, Zai believes that the pandemic has underlined how much support the centre has from Chennai. “The response we have had, in terms of donations as well, shows us that people in Chennai see this place as important to the city and are willing to protect it,” she says, happily.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Goddess descends through livestream||The call of the conch will be heard through headphones. The dhunuchi ’s scent — a smoky mix of camphor and coconut husks — will be summoned from memory. Durga Puja celebrations are innovating and adapting to the challenges of COVID-19 to usher in necessary cheer in a difficult year. CR Park, the bastsion of Delhi’s Bengalis, will be unusually quiet this puja, as will pandals across the country in this year of social distancing. In any other year, they would have seen a footfall of over two lakh daily. This time, of the nearly 10 pujas that take place there, only the one inside the premises of the Kali temple will be held. “All rituals will be followed, Saptami through Navami. We have a partnership with DEN (a popular cable channel) and Tata Sky to stream the morning pujas and eveningaartis. You can also watch them on our website, YouTube and Facebook,” says Prodip Ganguly, of the CR Park Kali Mandir Society, echoing the intentions of others across the country. In Chennai, secretary Jaypal Menon of Dakshin Chennai Prabasi Cultural Association (DCPCA) says the live rituals will be “virtually aired for members who want to experience it from home.” Jaypal adds, “Last year, we had a footfall of about 2,500 people each day. This time, however, we are not inviting non-members or even our regular patrons. The association members who are older than 65 and younger than 10 are also being asked to stay within their homes, for their own safety.” In Hyderabad, too, puja committees will be streaming their sessions online — live on social media platforms. Many, like Attar puja committee, are also talking about restricting the number of visitors to 50. Atin Chowdhary, member of Bangiya Sankskriti Sangha, says, “Core committee members and the priest make up about 20 people. Controlling people will be a tough job, so we have decided to stream the puja instead. There will be no food stalls, no bhog .” Mukul Dasgupta, secretary of Chennai’s Dakshini Society, echoes this: “We will not be serving bhog . Every year, we bring dhaki s (drummers) to make things festive and a thakur (traditional chef) to prepare the traditional bhog , all the way from West Bengal. We provide them housing and take care of their food. But this time, we didn’t want them to travel all the way and be put at risk.” Not everyone, however, can imagine Durga Puja without the bhog . DCPCA is arranging for the meal to be packed in eco-friendly boxes and delivered to members’ home. “It will be cooked by our regular Chennai caterers. After all, food is a big part of puja,” says Menon. In Delhi, those living in a two-kilometre radius from CR Park’s Kali Mandir can book the five-item bhog online. “We have got special four-tier dabba carriers from Mumbai for this purpose,” Ganguly says, adding that the cooks and delivery persons will be tested for COVID-19. Hyderabad’s Marigold hotel has a bhog package with khichdi , dalna , begun bhaja (fried brinjal), a selection of tok s (Bengali bittersweet dips) and a much-loved ilish (hilsa) selection. The khichdi comes with a smoky flavour, to give the feel of it being cooked at a puja pandal’s firewood kitchen. Kathi rolls, Mughlai parathas, ghugni — Visakhapatnam-based Sayantika Adak Ghosh devours it all at the city’s pandals every year. This time, she will be serving them from her home kitchen instead. “This way, I can recreate the festive feel at home for my seven-year-old son,” she says. Sayantika is also busy finishing her Mandala art series of Maa Durga which will be the highlight of this year’s homey Durga Puja for her. In fact, all around the country this year, celebrations have shifted from the pandals to homes. “In my entire lifetime, I have never seen Durga Puja being celebrated this way,” says Rita Basu, a core committee member of Utsav, which conducts the festival every year at AMCOSA in Visakhapatnam. “We used to start preparing for it from June with rehearsals for cultural programmes and corporate sponsorships.” Waltair Kali Bari, which hosts the city’s oldest Durga Puja, will celebrate the festival in a traditional manner, but with no pandals, lightings or bhog-prasad. While the puja budget each year is over Rs. 20 lakh, this year it has been reduced to Rs. 2 lakh, according to Krishnendu Chowdhury, general secretary of Sarbojanin and East Coast Railway Durga Puja Committee. Chowdhary reiterates from Hyderabad, “Keeping in mind Bengalis’ love for music and cultural activities, the Bangiya Sankskriti Sangha has decided to keep that online as well. So artists will perform from their respective homes and bring home the puja mood.” About the idol A lack of food stalls and banner space, however, means a lack of advertising and funds for the idol. Chennai’s DCPCA and Dakshini Society nevertheless are making it a point to support the idol-makers, who arrived in August only to be met with a drop in demand. As Menon points out, “They set out from Kolkata, and in the absence of a direct train to Chennai, took a detour via train and bus to get here. This, even though they were not sure if they would get orders.” Most committees are bringing in the idols on October 21, for celebrations that will run till October 26. Many have also turned from idols to the ghot (a copper, brass or silver pot) puja: this involves worshipping a representation of the idol, in the form of a coconut in a kalash . The festivities remain emotionally significant for other reasons. DCPCA is moving back to the grounds where it had its first celebrations in 2013. And for Delhi’s Kashmere Gate puja, this year is historic. It is their 111th puja, shares Som Prakash Mitra, president of the puja committee: “Up until 1911, we would only have ghot puja. And now after 109 years, history is repeating itself.” (With inputs fromPrabalika M. Borah,Nivedita Ganguly,Sweta AkundiandMeghna Majumdar)
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A missing tail||Laddoo was a pup who was black from the top of his little nose to the tip of his tiny tail. Six-year-old Riya was fond of laddoos and so, she named her best buddy Laddoo. Laddoo loved to eat and he had a trick to get everyone to feed him. He would sit on his hind legs, wag his tail ever so slightly, and wear a poor hungry puppy look. It always worked and he repaid his patron with umpteen licks and scores of wags. Laddoo’s mum, Kachori, was worried that all the food had made him roly-poly. He could not run as fast as the other pups. “Laddoo, you have to stop eating so much.” “Why, mamma?” “You will become very fat which is not good for your health.” Love of his life Laddoo tried, but he couldn’t stop himself. The smell, sight and taste of food made him crazy. His second love was playing with Riya, and then came chasing his tail. Whenever his tummy was full and Riya was busy, he would go around in circles trying to catch his own tail. When Riya’s school closed, they spent the day together. Riya shared all the yummy dishes her mum made with Laddoo. At night, Riya had to drink a glass of milk, which she hated. One day, she got an idea and put the cup under her bed and looked at Laddoo. The pup knew exactly what he had to do. In a few seconds, the milk had disappeared. This made them both even closer, and Laddoo now got an extra portion with every meal. He was so busy with Riya that he had no time to chase his tail. One evening, Laddoo was digging for a bone in the garden. Riya’s school had reopened and she was doing her homework. After some time, he got bored and wanted to chase his tail. He turned his head to the right to reach for it but couldn’t see it. He then turned to the left, but his tail was still missing. He put his head between his legs, but still no tail. Finally Laddoo tried to stand on his head and look for it. He tumbled over but couldn’t spot it. His tail had vanished! In panic, he ran to his mother and jumped on her. “Mamma, my... my tail… is gone… What will I catch now? And how will I look – a tailless pup...” he howled. Kachori laughed. “You tail is there. You can’t see it because your fat tummy and your big bottom come in between. If you want to see your tail and catch it, eat less and run more.” Laddoo hung his head and nodded, as his mamma gently picked him up by his tail and licked him on the nose.  Riya shared all the yummy dishes her mum made with Laddoo.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Hit a home run||Movie: Rookie of the Year  Genre: Sports comedy  Twelve-year-old Henry Rowengartner has a dream: of playing in the major baseball leagues. When playing, one day, he fractures his arm. When it heals, the doctor finds that his tendons are “a little too tight”, which now allows Henry an edge in his game. His pitching now has tremendous force. Larry Fisher, the manager of the Chicago Cubs team spots him and recruits him. Though the older members of the team are not very welcoming initially, they warm up to him. Henry’s manager is Jack, his mother’s money-hungry boyfriend, whom he despises. While the Cubs leave for the National League Championship series, Henry and his mother discover that Jack has sold Henry’s contract to the New York Yankees for a whopping $25 million. Can Henry wriggle out of the sticky situation? Will the Cubs win the Championship?   Trivia  This is the only film directed by actor and artist Daniel Stern. John Candy, as the radio broadcaster, is uncredited. His role isn’t mentioned in the movie credits because he wasn’t part of the original cast. Thomas Ian Nicholas, who plays Henry Rowengartner, starred as a baseball player again in “A Kid in King Arthur's Court” two years later. Chet “Rocket” Steadman is based on popular Major League Baseball player Roger Clemens, whose nickname is Rocket.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts Use Facebook Is it really Nana?||The story so far: Maya’s Nana responds to her Facebook request, but Konica suspects it might be a fake person. So, they decide to investigate further.  “Not so fast, Maya,” Konica interrupted. “Let’s first confirm this. How do you find a ghost?” “We can only connect with those people who had a Facebook account when they were alive,” explained Maya. But just then, Maya’s mother called her home. So, they decided to chat with Nana the next day. “Mummy,” said Maya, as she sat down for breakfast the next day. “Can I go play with Rocky?” “Why do you suddenly want to chat with Nana?” asked the mother. “I miss Nana. He was the only person who talked to me. You’re always busy, even when you’re home. Papa’s always on tour. Rocky is so silly,” rued Maya. “Every child is doing something, so they don’t get bored,” her mother said. “How about joining a computer class? You like computers.” “Yes, but I already know everything about computers.” If she could figure out how to connect with a ghost through Facebook, she was way ahead of the regular kids. “There is always something new to discover.” Maya shrugged. “I don’t mind sharing my knowledge with others. Now can I go play?” He mother nodded and Maya ran off to Rocky’s house. Testing the ghost Konica handed Maya her mobile. “I tried to find some of our relatives, but it appears none of them had a Facebook account.” “I’m sure Nana can see me,” said Maya. “How?” asked Konica. “He knows mummy wants to enrol me in computer classes,” Maya showed them his message: Computer classes are fun . “And, he typed it just now. Nana’s online.” “Can he see us?” asked Rocky. “Let’s find out.” Maya typed, ‘Nana, what colour dress am I wearing?’   ‘Yellow. My sunshine.’  Konica’s face glowed. “Please ask Nana if he can get me Ranbir Kapoor’s mobile number.” “What?” Maya frowned. “A dodo feather would be more up Nana’s alley.” “Ask!” screamed Konica, “Or, I’ll take my phone away.” Maya typed. There was no reply. “Nana is slow. I used to help Nana with typing,” said Maya.  ‘We do not have a telephone directory here in heaven.’  “I think it’s all a hoax!” Konica muttered. “My Nana’s not a hoax!” Maya’s eyes became slits. “He’s a real ghost!” Konica snatched her mobile from Maya and typed, ‘If you really are Maya’s Nana, come and meet us.’    To be continued...    “My Nana’s not a hoax!” Maya’s eyes became slits. “He’s a real ghost!”
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||When friends come a-visiting||Let’s read an African folk tale about two great friends — Grasshopper and Toad. The two spent almost every waking hour together. They only bid goodbye to each other when they had to go home for meals. Everyone thought it strange that such good friends had never ever shared a meal together. They remarked about this to one another and soon the friends got to hear of it. One morning, Toad said, “I say, Grasshopper, why don’t you stop by for dinner tomorrow? I’ll cook something special for you.” Grasshopper was a bachelor, and an invitation to a good dinner was welcome. The next evening, togged up in his Sunday best, he waltzed up to Toad’s door and rang the bell. They spoke about this and that, the weather and the government, until it was time to go in for dinner. Before sitting down to eat, Toad washed his forelegs. He said, “I say Grasshopper, why don’t you wash your forelegs too?” So, Grasshopper washed his forelegs. But, when he did so, it made a loud noise. “Can’t you leave your chirping behind?” asked Toad. “There is so much noise, I cannot eat.” Try as he might, Grasshopper could not prevent his forelegs from coming together and making a noise. Every time he chirped, Toad complained and asked him to be quiet. Before leaving, Grasshopper said, “Toad, I invite you to my house tomorrow, for dinner.” Tables are turned The next evening, when Toad appeared Grasshopper led him straight to the dinner table. But, before he could be seated, Grasshopper washed his forelegs and said, “Hey Toad, why don’t you wash your forelegs before you sit down to eat?” Toad quickly washed his forelegs and hopped towards to table. Grasshopper frowned and said, “My dear chap, you had better go back and wash again. All that hopping has made your forelegs dirty.” So, Toad did as he was told. He reached out for some food when Grasshopper frowned again and said, “Please be a pal and don’t put your dirty paws into the food. Go and wash them.” All through the meal, Toad hopped from the water jar to the table. Not a morsel went down his throat. By the end of the evening, he was livid. “You do not want me to eat with you. You know very well that I must use my paws and forelegs to hop. I cannot help it if they get dirty.” Grasshopper smiled, “You started it. Remember yesterday, when you complained about my forelegs making a noise?” Toad had the grace to blush. He was remorseful yet, both friends were annoyed. They never spoke to one another again. That is, until the monkey came by and noticed it. But, that’s a story for another day.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Survival skills for the new age||Have you read about the theory of evolution and survival of the fittest, in Biology, yet? Basically, Charles Darwin said that evolution is a change in the characteristics of a species over several generations and relies on the process of natural selection. Natural selection means that some individuals in a species are better at surviving than others and will have more children because they’re stronger or better at surviving or something. If online school goes on for any longer, I think that I’m going to have to undergo adaptations to survive. For starters, I think compound eyes like a fly would be super helpful. After five hours of online school and three hours of homework, my eyes are so tired. Just imagine, if I had a whole bunch of tiny eyes, I could use some for school, some for IPL and some for homework. Who am I kidding? I’d use all for IPL. Eight limbs are better than four. I really need an extra set (or two) of hands to keep up with all the homework. There are projects, homework, classwork, reflection, end-of-chapters assessments, ASL, AFL, Kahoot quizzes and Jam Boards. Okay, maybe eight limbs won’t be enough after all. Clever hacks Did you know that chipmunks use their cheek pouches to carry large amounts of food at once? I’d find that super handy, wouldn’t you? Somehow I’m hungry all day long when there’s online school! But we aren’t allowed to snack during class because, according to our Principal J Ma’am, we don’t snack during class in real school. So why should we snack during online school? But, if you knew there was a dabba of murukku two  feet away, wouldn’t you want to snack too? Did you know snakes can sleep with their eyes open? That’s because they don’t have eyelids! You know where I’m going with this, don’t you? I could just sleep through the history of the Delhi Sultanate and N Ma’am would never know. Okay, she might find out when she asks me a question and I don’t have an answer, but let’s cross that bridge when we come to it. Wait! I’ve got it! Forget all of the above. Here’s the only thing I need to be able to do! You know caterpillars weave a cocoon for themselves and then emerge from them as butterflies? I’d like to sleep in a cocoon till COVID-19 is over and emerge with everything I need to know to get to the next grade fed into my brain while I’ve been asleep. Now that’s called survival of the fittest!  I really need an extra set (or two) of hands to keep up with all the homework
23 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Safari capital||Kenya, officially the Republic of Kenya, is a country in East Africa. It is bordered on the north by South Sudan and Ethiopia, on the east by Somalia and the Indian Ocean, on the south by Tanzania, and on the west by Lake Victoria and Uganda. Kenya has over 50 national parks, including the famous Maasai Mara National Park, a popular safari destination. The capital is the bustling metropolis of Nairobi.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||For a healthy mind and body||C is for Cat, D is for Depression is a personal story that talks about what depression is and how one can cope. It helps you develop empathy and understand what depression is all about. Author Kairavi Bharat Ram, who is an advocate for mental health, weaves stories of despair, courage and grit that have been beautifully and sensitively illustrated by award-winning writer-illustrator Priya Kuriyan. The takeaway from this book is that hope is always around the corner. A collection of stories and essays by children from across India, A Bend in Time: Writings by Children on the COVID-19 Pandemic, is a peek into the mind of the next generation. While one writer wonders why her dreams have gone missing, another turns to history to see what lockdowns would have been like, in ancient times. Some writers wonder if the star of hope will ever shine again, and others look for relief in scientific thought, in writing, and in books. Introduced by award-winning children’s writer Bijal Vachharajani,  it puts forth the emotions and thoughts of children, about the greatest global crisis, in recent times. You are never too young to practice mindfulness. It improves concentration, boosts happiness and creativity, and lowers stress and anxiety.Mindfulness with Moksha,by yoga acharya Ira Trivedi, has a bunch of fun exercises that can help you explore the benefits of this discipline. Join Moksha the Mindful Elephant and learn how focusing on even small things can help, and how being mindful makes everything so much better.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Reading Room||Across  1. Strider / Ranger / rightful king of Gondor (7) 6. ‘____ Karenina’ by Leo Tolstoy (4) 7. Aslan the lion lives here (6) 8. ___ de Maupassant, writer of short stories (3) 9. Mickey’s friend (6) 11. Katniss _____, Hunger Games tribute (8) 14. ‘___ of the Wild’ by Jack London (4) 15. Kaa is one, so is Nagini (5) 16. Novel by Jane Austen (4) 17. A writer who writes verse (4)  Down  1. ‘The Diary of ____ Frank’ (4) 2. Ron Weasley’s sister (5) 3. ____ Dahl, author (5) 4. ‘Discovery of ____’ by Jawaharlal Nehru (5) 5. ‘____ Copperfield’ by Charles Dickens (5) 8. ‘The _____ Tree’ by Shel Silverstein (6) 10. ____ Drew, teenage detective (5) 12. ‘A Midsummer Night’s ____’ by Shakespeare (5) 13. ‘____ in Wonderland’ by Lewis Carroll (5)
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||How do worms appear on fruits that are stored in closed containers?  In almost all cases of worms appearing in containers with food especially fruits, the insects — maggots or fruit flies — would have laid the eggs in the fruit just before it ripened. Once the fruit ripens or rots, the eggs hatch and the larvae feed on the food to sustain themselves. Hence, they seem to appear out of nowhere.  Why does a peaplant burst?  Plants disperse seeds through various method to pro. Plants like pea, which belong to the pod-producing plant family, like gorse and wisteria, disperse seeds through a method called explosion. These plants keep their seeds in a pod. When the seeds are ripe, the pod bursts open and the seeds are scattered far away from the parent plant where they can get nutrients. How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
16 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Music’s eternal effect||The passing away of legendary playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam  (SPB) has made me recall my experience of listening to his songs from when I was in primary school. While SPB sang over 40,000 songs across 16 languages, for me he will live on in the half-a-dozen songs he sang for one Telugu movie. To me these songs highlight the unparalleled power that music possesses to germinate paths of discovery. For many of us from the South, SPB is synonymous with the Telugu movie Sankarabharanam . Though Tamil is my mother tongue, the incredibly melodious songs sung by SPB in this movie left an indelible mark on me. At a young age, when Carnatic music can seem like Greek and Latin to someone who did not learn it, these songs got deeply rooted in my psyche. When I now wonder why these songs had such a profound impact on my young mind, it becomes clear that the songs and the movie — as complementary to each other as a lamp and its wick — uplift and inspire in a way that I have found nonpareil. The beauty of Sankarabharanam is that it is but the first step of an incredible journey of discovery. SPB’s songs were the most important step that drew me into this journey. Over the years, I have watched the movie more than a dozen times, and each time, I discovered something new. On each occasion, I have been drawn into watching the movie after I felt like listening to one of its eternal songs. After marvelling at the devotion the songs induce, I would feel inspired to unlock their meaning. Then, my appetite whetted, I invariably watched the movie to understand the context of the song. This process, from melody to meaning to context, has been a deeply enriching personal journey, as it has helped me understand the spiritual ethos we inherit as Indians. Song with a message A line from the last song in the movie, ‘ ragalanantalu nee veyi roopalu bhava roga timirala pokarchu deepalu ,’ captures beautifully the essence of this ethos. ‘Your thousands of forms are like the infinite number of ragas that dispel the darkness of worldly bondage’. That the divine can be attained through music (Nada Bramhan), through selfless action (Karma Yoga), through pursuit of knowledge (Jnana Yoga) or through sincere devotion (Bhakti Yoga) is a credo that carries in its embryo the truth that the divine can be attained through unshakeable faith in any religion. In this context, I have realised how secularism in the Indian ethos is different from the Western conception. The subtle but crucial difference is akin to the difference between the numbers 0 and 1. Though adjacent to each other, metaphysically the numbers capture opposites: 0 conveys nothing while 1 captures entirety. The Western conception resembles the number zero, that is, no religion, while the Indian concept of secularism resembles the number one, that is, taking in the entirety of all religions, paths, faiths and beliefs. By being all inclusive, the Indian conception makes no distinction among them. The film’s title song captures the many nuances of our spiritual ethos and the role of music. A key stanza describes music as life or essence ( sangeetame pranamu ) as well as the staircase ( ganame sopanamu ) for advaita siddhiki , to attain the state of Advaita or non-duality, where the worshipper and the worshipped merge into each other; for amaratva labdhiki , to gain immortality; for satva sadhanaku , undertaking penance to achieve harmony within oneself and thereby with the universe and all its beings; and for satya shodhanaku , the pursuit of the eternal truth.  Devotional aspect SPB’s songs in this movie uplift one in so many ways. Take the song ‘ Shankara, nada sharirapara .’ Every time I listen to it, I am moved not only by the bhakti embedded in it but also by the impact that pure devotion is shown to have on the divine. As SPB entreats the divine with his incredibly high notes that few can match, the clouds burst, affirming godly disapproval of social discrimination. The song also goads one to pursue one’s convictions irrespective of social criticism. SPB’s last song in the film is by far the best as it embodies the virtue of niswartha seva or selfless service: ‘ Dorakuna itu vanti seva ?’ (Will I be blessed with the privilege to serve you?) It offers the greatest meaning to us public servants as the divine permeates every living being on this planet. Therefore, serving the people selflessly is ultimate service to the lord. For offering us this inseparable complementarity between divine songs and an inspiring movie, SPB, you have lived your own words amaratva labdhiki , that is, gained immortality. Such lives must only be celebrated and not mourned.  The writer is the Chief Economic Advisor to the government.   Though Tamil is my mother tongue, the incredibly melodious songs sung by SPB in this movie left an indelible mark on me
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||If music be the love of food, play on||Samaithu Paar is a cookbook that hardly needs any introduction for South Indians. Written by Meenakshi Ammal several decades ago, it became a best-seller and was later translated into English as Cook and See . Based on this, I have often wondered why a book titled Cook and Sing should not be done based on Carnatic songs that contain recipes for, or carry mention of, various dishes. I am nowhere near writing such a book, but each time I come across references to dishes I make a note of them and recently when singer S. Sowmya asked me to put together an online quiz, I dedicated one round to food in Carnatic music. And no, it had no questions related to the famous sabha canteens. Thiruppavai reference Andal in her Thiruppavai arguably describes the best pongal. The verse, ‘Koodarai Vellum’, is the 27th in the set and after having observed all the austerities during the previous days of Margazhi, Andal sings of pongal, made by boiling rice and milk, in a covered vessel, with so much ghee that when the dish is eaten, the ghee trickles down the elbows. In his ‘Poompavai Padhigam,’ composed at Mylapore, Gnanasambandar sings of pongal with lashings of ghee, cooked by straight-waisted women, during the month of Thai (January). Annamacharya in the 15th and 16th centuries mentions many food items in his compositions. Of these, ‘Entamatramuna’ mentions the nippatu — crispy deep-fried rice crackers. How it turns out depends on the quality of batter, says the composer, and adds that this is true even of Venkateswara in Tirumala: those who worship Devi say this is a Goddess, the Kapalikas claim him as Adi Bhairava, and the Vaishnavites say he is Vishnu. Purandaradasa gives a recipe for payasam in his ‘Ramanama Payasake’. It starts right from the making of the vermicelli itself. But a lesser-known song of his goes to even greater detail. ‘Naivedya Kollo Narayanaswami’ describes a veritable feast and those interested can see Manmathan Ullathil’s blog, www.maddy06.blogspot.com, where he has studied several other Purandaradasa kritis that mention recipes. Sumptuous feast Of course, when it comes to a feast who better than a king to prepare the bill of fare? In his ‘Pallaki Seva Prabandha,’ King Shahji of Thanjavur, writing in the 17th century, offers dinner to Lord Tyagesa — sherbets of high quality, pongal, morkuzhambu, rice fritters, pooris fried in ghee, dosas and idlis, pickles, shelled and roasted lentils, sweets, fruits, mixed rice of various kinds, payasam, thirattupaal, honey, curd rice, puliyogare, thick sour cream, spiced buttermilk, water from the Ganges, and paan with camphor. Can’t believe it? Read his ‘Aragimpavayya’ in raga Nadanamakriya. Could this be the first song to mention dosas? Apparently not. In ‘Daniye Noditheno’, Purandaradasa speaks of Venkateswara feasting on boiled rice and dosas. The sale of prasadam in Tirupati is also not something new. Kanakadasa, a contemporary of Purandaradasa in the 16th century, derides the deity, in his ‘Bandevayya Govinda Shetty’, for commercialising everything, including appam, adhirasam, and the other prasadam on sale. Of course, by far the sweet most closely associated with the shrine is the famous laddu. There is a theory that Muthuswami Dikshitar in his song ‘Shanka Chakra Gada Panim’ in Purnachandrika mentions this dish in the line ‘Amritasara Bhakshanam’. Apte’s Sanskrit dictionary acknowledges that amritasara is a sweetmeat, but it need not necessarily be the laddu, and as far as we know, the laddu in its present form at Tirumala is a 20th century creation. But yes, as Kanakadasa attests, the place was famous for sweets from much earlier. Dikshitar, however, does mention sesame rice or ellu sadam in ‘Divakara Tanujam,’ set in raga Yadukula Kamboji. Dedicated as the composition is to Saturn, the song includes the deity’s favourite dish, and it is common practice to see it being offered at temples on Saturdays. Like Purandaradasa, Kanakadasa also gives us a recipe — for self-realisation, in his ‘Adigeyanu Madabekanna’. I go by Prof. William Jackson’s translation and it starts off right from the washing of the vessel, the cleaning of the ingredients, and the heating of the medium — these being, respectively, truth, arrogance and the body. It is most interesting that almost 400 years later, Bhagavan Ramana Maharshi at Tiruvannamalai created a similar song on the making of the appalam. Translated into English by Prof. K. Swaminathan, it is structured as a straightforward recipe for appalams and is at the same time an exposition on the pathway to realisation. There are surely many more examples of this kind. We need to cook and sing to find out.  The author, a historian, writes on Carnatic music.   Dikshitar mentions sesame rice or ellu sadam in ‘Divakara Tanujam,’ set in raga Yadukula Kamboji
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Shakti and her avatars||Dance was once an ornament, displayed at temples, royal courts and during functions in the houses of the rich. What mattered most were the aesthetics of the form, the beauty of the dancer, and technical proficiency. But somewhere during its journey to the proscenium, the dancer too embarked on an inward journey, realising the liberating expression of the art form and how it is as much about an agile body as it is about emotional and personal strength. The dancer, who had till then equated Shakti only with the goddess, began to expand the idea and experience the concept as something defining herself, which spurred her to perceive and perform the art purely on her terms. Over the decades, the concept of Shakti has been explored in various classical dance styles through traditional compositions and contemporary choreography. From a revered image to a relevant idea rooted in current social contexts, Shakti has inspired dancers, both female and male, to experiment and come up with intense narratives. Five young dancers describe how the term for them extends beyond the nine days of Navaratri, and is much more than a symbolic representation of divinity in their art. “As a child,” says Kuchipudi artiste Prateeksha Kashi, it was just a simple and straightforward concept of victory of good over evil. “As I matured, the many layers of Shakti came alive. And I gradually realised it is not just a word but a process. It is the power to love, to imagine, to endure and to let go. We have always found inspiration in the life stories of great artistes who transformed their pain and struggle into Shakti.” Myriad forms Besides Devi tarangams that are part of the Kuchipudi repertoire, Prateeksha’s mother, senior dancer-choreographer Vyjayanthi Kashi, choreographed a production on Kanyakumari. “Despite being angry and dejected when Lord Shiva fails to return as promised and marry her, the goddess doesn’t forget the task assigned to her by the Devas to kill demon Banasura. Devi seems to reiterate the essence of Shakti here as not losing the purpose of life despite things not happening as you desire,” says Prateesksha. Interestingly, in a society that has for long viewed woman as one who needs to be protected and saved, it is ironic, points out Odissi dancer Arushi Mudgal, that our ancient texts are full of instances where, each time the world is threatened by a demon, it is Shakti who has taken different avatars to come and vanquish the asuras, thereby becoming the one who protects. “Shakti has been given several names and described in various forms. Each form has individual attributes; an individual ‘shakti.’ Nurturing, loving, giving, forgiving, protecting, yet fierce. What I find interesting is that these qualities and names ultimately belong to the same energy. To me, it is a reminder of how we too as individuals have several, and at times conflicting, qualities coexisting in us. At once, the idea of labelling gets shattered,” says Arushi, who has trained under her Odissi exponent aunt Madhavi Mudgal. Bharatanatyam dancer Shweta Prachande sees Shakti manifesting in everything and everyone — it could be the ASHA workers spreading hope during the pandemic, women balancing work and home, or modern artistes striving to keep traditional art forms alive. “To me, what makes art a powerful advocacy tool is its ability sometimes to paint an entirely parallel universe that reflects what we hope for and sometimes its ability to mirror reality. As artistes, we have the power or shakti to explore, interpret and engage with an idea the way we want to. It feels nice when art influences dialogue or people’s thinking,” says Shweta, a student of Priyadarsini Govind. How does a male dancer perceive Shakti, the quintessential feminine form and energy? Artistic director of Punyah Dance Company, Bengaluru, Parshwanath Upadhye, experiences it in the energies of nature. “It may take a long time for an artiste to realise this power,” he says. “It may be in the form of one’s mother, friends, other family members or even students. Shakti is similar to a tree. What we reap is what we sow. Whatever kind of energy we dwell in, we become that. And unintentionally that reflects in my choreographies. For the past few years, I have been starting my solo performances with compositions on Devi.” Parshwanath’s recent production ‘Abha’ was based on Sita. “It’s never been a conscious decision. Yet, the state of mind I am in while either choreographing or presenting a Devi work is impeccable,” he says. Sharing power In the context of Shiva and Shakti, what strikes Arushi is the idea of equality. “They are as independent as they are incomplete without each other. There is a sense of irony there, yet it is the point of ultimate balance. In the form of Ardhanarishwar, we depict one side as Shiva and the other as Shakti. For me, the qualities that we choose to label as masculine and feminine coexist in the same form: perhaps Shiva as feminine and Shakti as masculine too? And why not? For Kathak dancer Gauri Diwakar, understanding Shakti helped gain deeper insight into her dance form. “I realised power is not in the brisk whirls or footwork, it is in the intent, as my guru Aditi Mangaldas always emphasises. It defines the spirit with which you approach your art.” Born during Durga Puja, Gauri says that she has always felt a strong connect with the concept of Shakti. “You could choreograph the most amazing moves, strike statuesque poses, turn your face into a canvas of expressions, but unless the art is spiritually elevating it cannot stir the soul. And that defines my art’s shakti.” As these youngsters practise age-old art forms, it is not as much a need as a strong desire to try and draw parallels between the ancient texts they study, the pieces they perform, and the deities they describe in dance with the times that they live in. “Perhaps it’s an attempt to find relevance in what we do,” says Arushi Mudgal.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The Satyabhama of Kuchipudi||It’s not often that a dancer becomes synonymous with certain roles. But Shobha Naidu’s artistic journey was defined by the role of Satyabhama, which she performed innumerable times at the insistence of audiences. Her stylish gait, those large expressive eyes, the beautiful smile... she owned the stage from the moment she stepped on it. As an artiste, I am immensely beholden to her. She inspired me to make dance my calling. When in school, I happened to watch her in the role of Padmavathi in Guru Vempati Chinna Satyam's popular production, ‘Srinivasa Kalyanam’. I recall leaving the hall completely mesmerised. And by the time I reached home, I knew Kuchipudi was where my heart lay. I headed to Chennai to train under the inimitable Guru Vempati. Like guru, like sishya Shobha Naidu was not only among the guru’s foremost disciples, but the one who amazingly translated his thoughts and ideas through her dance. She would bring alive the nuances in his choreographic works in her distinct way. I cannot forget her brilliant portrayal of Chandalika. She tugged at our heartstrings with her abhinaya in ‘Enduku Naki Shapamaya’. She used to recount how, when master was choreographing ‘Oyi Dinajanavana’ for her, he remarked in anger one day that she was unfit to dance. This pushed her to practise relentlessly till he finally nodded in appreciation. They made a great guru-sishya combination. Shobha’s appeal cut across dance styles, and she was able to popularise Kuchipudi around the world. What set her apart as a dancer was also her versatility; she could play any role with ease, including male roles. A warm and humble person off stage, she would transform into a striking performer once she donned the costume and put on the make-up. In the past few years, Shobha had dedicated herself to grooming young enthusiasts in the idiom. A loving and generous guru, she would guide them in every possible way. Whenever I invited her to Deepanjali, my dance school, she would always turn up and wholeheartedly appreciate something she liked. At the same time, she would also point out all the flaws in the most polite manner. The moment I heard of her demise, I scrolled though the complimentary messages she sent me after watching my tribute video to Covid workers. A few years ago, while preparing for a Kuchipudi festival themed on Annamacharya kritis, when I came to know she would be performing her favourite piece, ‘Paluku Tenela Talli’, I called her up to request if I could do it instead. She immediately agreed. ‘I will do ‘Okapari Kokapari,’’ she said. For me, each time I have watched Shobha perform ‘Paluku Tenela Talli’, it has taken me closer to my art. In the shifting cultural dynamics of today, she held on to her traditional moorings, bringing alive age-old padams and javalis. If we look at the trajectory of her work, both as a soloist and a choreographer, we will understand what gave her the strength to rule the world of Kuchipudi till her last breath. The rhythm of her gajjalu (bells) will continue to echo.  The author is a well-known Kuchipudi dancer based in Hyderabad.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A meeting ground||“Art will always find a way to survive even during tough times like the pandemic. The advent of online music and full-length virtual concerts proves that,” says Sikkil Gurucharan. The lockdown helped him rethink and present music in a different way. Result: the ‘Advaitam series’, which he presents this Navaratri, along with B.S. Purushotham on the ganjira, N. Ananthanarayanan on the veena, Mylai Karthikeyan on the nagaswaram, H. Vishwas on the mandolin and Vedanth Bharadwaj on the banjo. “Several dialogues happen during a concert — between violin and vocal, mridangam and ghatam, vocal and mridangam and so on. The whole concert is full of these moments,” says Gurucharan. While the concert format doesn’t let artists explore this exchange further, Advaitam brings out its nuances and lets them explore the beauty of ragas and talas. The first season of the series, consisting of five episodes, will be released on Sarvamangala Productions’ YouTube channel. “Each instrument’s speciality is discussed first, followed by musical exchanges based on a theme. For instance, with the veena, the communication happens through Muthuswami Dikshitar kritis, while with the banjo, it’s over folk music,” says Gurucharan. There’s also a change in the vocal element. “I have reversed the format. The instrumentalists play and I follow,” he says. The series targets young audiences. “The next gen should also get a taste of the excitement of live concerts; that comes only through such dialogues,” he says. The Chennai-based author writes on Carnatic music.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||AQI slips to ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida, all part of the National Capital Region (NCR), worsened to “very poor” category on Thursday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. This is the first time this season that Delhi’s air quality has plunged to “very poor”. It is expected to remain unchanged on Friday. As per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin on Thursday, which is the average for the past 24 hours, the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at 312, Gurugram 311 and Noida 321. All the values are in the “red” category and can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, said CPCB. The AQI of all three cities were in the “poor” category on Wednesday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘’good’’, 51 and 100 ‘’satisfactory’’, 101 and 200 ‘’moderate’’, 201 and 300 ‘’poor’’, 301 and 400 ‘’very poor’’, and 401 and 500 ‘’severe’’. “AQI is likely to stay at the very poor category for tomorrow [Friday]. Marginal improvement is likely on October 17 but in the lower end of the very poor to poor category,” SAFAR said. An increase in stubble burning fire counts was observed on Wednesday around Haryana, Punjab, and neighboring border regions and as per SAFAR, the fire counts were estimated to be 740. Also, wind direction is partly favorable for transfer of pollutants from these states to Delhi and hence an increase in the contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi is expected. Also, a ban on diesel generators, except for emergency purposes, came into force in Delhi and neighbouring cities from Thursday as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) measures to control air pollution. The Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) on Thursday wrote to the Haryana government that last year an affidavit was given by the government that all colonies will be connected to power grids before the onset of winter of 2020, but it was not done. The EPCA has also asked for fresh timelines for the same in view of a ban on diesel generators in NCR cities. The Haryana government had asked for an exemption from the ban. Rai writes to EPCA In a related development, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai wrote letters to the EPCA and the CPCB to close 11 power plants outside Delhi, but in the NCR region, within a week. He also urged them to not allow diesel generators in Haryana. “It feels that the Central government has become the spokesperson of these States [where stubble burning is happening] and is competing with Delhi,” Mr. Rai said at a press meet.
22 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Farm fires not key factor in Delhi pollution spike’||As the air quality in the national capital has started to worsen over the past few days and stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is being blamed as one of the reasons behind it, experts and officials in Punjab have dismissed it as a key factor. As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), the average air quality index (AQI) in Punjab has been 120 from September 21 till October 14, 2020, while the AQI in Delhi has been 179 for the same period. The stubble burning cases in Punjab started around September 21. PPCB member secretary Kurnesh Garg said that AQI levels in Punjab during this period had largely remained within ‘moderate’ level whereas in Delhi the AQI has slipped into ‘very poor’ category. “Contribution of stubble burning from Punjab is minimal to Delhi’s air pollution. The ambient air quality of Delhi remains poor or very poor even in December, January and February even though there’s no stubble burning during that period. The major factor of air pollution in Delhi is inherent to the anthropogenic, vehicular, solid waste burning and industrial activity within the NCR. Even active farms fires in the NCR are significantly responsible for deteriorating the Delhi environment than Punjab,” he said. As paddy (rice) harvesting has gathered momentum in Punjab, as many as 3,517 cases of stubble fire incidents have been reported between September 21 and October 14. A joint study by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, and PPCB in 2018 — “Impact of Aerosol from Paddy Residue Burning on New Delhi-NCR” —had concluded that a significant fraction of Delhi’s air pollution problems are located within the NCR or in Uttar Pradesh. And it is the dominant reason for the poor air quality persisting throughout the winter instead of improving in December onwards as it does in Punjab relative to the paddy burning season. The hypothesis of stubble fires being responsible for most of the PM enhancements in Delhi does not hold, the study points out.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||COVID-19: Tourist places in Kodagu, Mandya to remain closed||After Mysuru, Kodagu’s popular tourist sites too will be out of bounds for tourists as a measure to control the COVID-19 spread during the festive season. The tourist destinations in the coffee land will remain closed on October 17 and on October 26 to prevent people from visiting the sites during the Dasara season. The Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery will take place on October 17 and the Dasara finale in Madikeri and Gonikoppal will be held on October 26. In view of these events which will be a simple affair but celebrated with all traditional aspects, the restrictions for tourists’ entry had been imposed on the two days. As these events usually attract a large number of devotees and tourists, the district administration decided to restrict public gathering for curbing the spread of the infection. Accordingly, the major tourist sites in the district, including Raja Seat, Abbey Falls, and Cauvery Nisargadhama will remain closed on October 17 and 26. Warning Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy issued an order in this connection, restricting public entry to the tourist sites. Those found flouting the order were punishable under IPC Section 188, she said in her order. Meanwhile, the Mandya district administration has also ordered closure of Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary and Brindavan Gardens near Srirangapatna over the COVID-19 scare. Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh, in his order on Thursday, said the two popular tourist sites will be closed for tourists from October 24 to 31. As it was difficult for the public to maintain social distancing at these sites when people turn up in large numbers during the festive season, it was resolved to keep the sites closed in the interest of public health and for controlling the pandemic, the DC said. With Mysuru Dasara being one of the biggest events in the State, the footfall was likely to go up despite the COVID-19 restrictions and scaled-down festivities. In this connection, the Mysuru district administration, which closed all tourist sites in the district till November 1, had said on Wednesday that it would request the administrations of the neighbouring districts, especially Mandya, to close tourist sites in its jurisdictions as a safety precaution.   Poor footfall Both Brindavan Gardens at the KRS dam site and the Ranganathittu sanctuary are the major sites in Mandya and attract a lot of visitors during weekends and holidays from various places. However, post-COVID-19, the tourist sites in the region were struggling to draw tourists.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Chittoor district reports maximum COVID deaths in 24 hours||The State reported another 4,038 infections in 24 hours ending Thursday morning taking the tally to 7,71,503. The death toll increased to 6,357 with the reporting of 38 new deaths. Also, more 5,622 patients have recovered and the total number of recoveries increased to 7,25,099. The recovery rate was at 9.399% and the death rate was at 0.82%. As many as 40,047 patients are undergoing treatment and they account for only 5.19% of the total infected persons reported so far. Positivity rate The positivity rate of the 73,767 tests conducted in the past day was the lowest in several months at 5.47%. The overall positivity rate of the 68.46 lakh tests conducted was 11.27%. The tests per million ratio has further increased to 1.28 lakh. Meanwhile, West Godavari has again reported the highest single-day spike in new cases while Chittoor reported the highest number of new deaths. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (686 and 1), East Godavari (548 and 4), Chittoor (489 and 9), Krishna (421 and 5), Guntur (390 and 3), Prakasam (299 and 7), Kadapa (281 and 3), Anantapur (232 and 1), Visakhpatnam (196 and 3), Nellore (178 and 0), Srikakulam (119 and 0), Kurnool (103 and 1) and Vizianagaram (96 and 1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,08,436), West Godavari (77,445), Chittoor (72,214), Anantapur (61,842), Guntur (61,347), Kurnool (58,536), Nellore (57,469), Prakasam (55,545), Visakhapatnam (53,178), Kadapa (49,139), Srikakulam (42,205), Vizianagaram (37,921) and Krishna (33,331).
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Case doubling time increases to 73 days||The doubling time of COVID-19 infection has improved to almost 73 days (72.8 days) currently from 25.5 days in mid-August, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The country reported 680 fatalities in the past 24 hours. “These have been sustained below the 1,000 mark since 12 days. Of these, nearly 80% are concentrated in 10 States/UTs. More than 23% of the new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (158),” the Ministry said. Presently, the active cases comprised 11.12% of the total positive cases in the country, which stood at 8,12,390. The active case tally has been below the 9 lakh mark for a week now. The country recorded 67,708 new cases in the past 24 hours. Seventy seven per cent of the new cases were from 10 States and UTs. Maharashtra had the highest number, with more than 10,000 cases. It was followed by Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases. Also 10 States/UTs accounted for 79% of the new recovereries, with Maharashtra contributing more than 19,000 to the single day tally. It was followed by Karnataka, with more than 8,000 recoveries. On the occasion of Global Handwashing Day on Thursday, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia Region, said: “Ten months into the pandemic, handwashing with soap remains one of our best defences against the virus, along with other public health measures such as maintaining physical distance, avoiding crowded places, practising cough etiquette and wearing a mask wherever recommended.” She said the simple act of handwashing was one of the cornerstones of COVID-19 prevention. “Now, more than ever, as we embrace the new normal and live with COVID-19, hand hygiene needs to become an integral part of our daily routine and our lives, as we live through this pandemic, and beyond, to protect us from diseases,” she added. Hand hygiene A release issued by WHO, South South-East Asia Region, pointed out that promoting hand hygiene at all levels of healthcare was also critical. “Hand hygiene, a very simple action, is well accepted to be one of the primary modes of reducing health care-associated infection and of enhancing patient safety. The pandemic is still among us and it is far from over. We must remind ourselves of the basics that we as individuals can do to keep ourselves safe,” it said.
22 October 2020||Madurai,||Centre did not pay for Shramik trains from T.N., shows RTI reply||The Tamil Nadu government ran 265 Shramik Special trains at a cost of Rs. 34.6 crore to help 3.54 lakh migrant workers reach their homes in various States during the COVID-19 pandemic. A reply given by the Southern Railway under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, sought by RTI activist R. Pandiaraja, revealed that the Centre did not make any contribution towards the fare. The special trains were run with sleeper class coaches, wherein only passengers who were identified by the State governments were allowed to board. Unreserved tickets were distributed to the migrant workers by the State governments.  Highest number The Tamil Nadu government operated 265 Shramik Specials, the highest number of special trains run by any southern State, including the Union Territory of Puducherry, under the Southern Railway. This is more than 50% of the 507 Shramik specials run by Southern Railway to transport home about 7.35 lakh migrant workers between May and August. “Tamil Nadu paid for the fare of all passengers on the 264 trains. For the passengers of one train, the Uttarakhand government paid the fare. Probably that was a train operated on the request of the Uttarakhand government to take back tourists/pilgrims from their State who were stranded in Tamil Nadu,” said Mr. Pandiaraja. Of the total Rs. 66.28 crore collected by Southern Railway through ticket fare for all the Shramik Specials, Tamil Nadu alone paid Rs. 34.6 crore. The trains were operated from 26 railway stations across the State. The highest number of special trains were operated from the MGR Chennai Central station (77), followed by Tiruppur and Coimbatore (34 each), Tiruvallur (22), and Chennai Egmore (15). Following Tamil Nadu, 218 trains originated from different stations in Kerala. However, the Kerala government paid the fare for only 53 trains. “Sources in Kerala say that since the State government had spent a lot of money on the welfare of migrant workers, their food, stay and health during the initial period of the lockdown in March and April, it could not afford to pay for their travel. The destination States had paid for most of the trains,” said Mr. Pandiaraja. While Karnataka operated 21 trains (within the Southern Railway jurisdiction), it paid the fare for 19 trains; Puducherry paid for only one of the three trains that plied from the Union Territory.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal launches campaign to tackle rising levels of air pollution||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched an initiative — Red Light On, Gaadi Off — to tackle the problem of rising air pollution in the Capital. Mr. Kejriwal said there are one crore vehicles registered in Delhi out of which if 10 lakh turn off their ignition at traffic signals, around 1.5 tonnes of PM10 will reduce in a year and PM 2.5 will decrease by 0.4 tonnes. The initiative has been launched under the “Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh” campaign of the government. ‘Farmers are worst hit’ “The pollution here is increasing and the situation deteriorates every year due to stubble burning in the neighboring States. With time, the number of cases of stubble burning is increasing in neighboring States. I think the toxic air becomes a bit diluted when it reaches the Capital, but the farmers who burn the stubble are the worst hit,” he said at a digital briefing. “From today, we are launching a new initiative. Every time vehicles stop at a red signal, we have noticed that drivers do not turn the engine off. This is known as idling when the vehicle emits a lot of toxic air. In Delhi, there are around one crore registered vehicles. Even if we estimate that around 30-40% of the vehicles come out in the streets of Delhi and cause emissions, we can imagine how polluting the air can get,” he added. Experts had calculated and informed him that the initiative could lead to a decrease in PM 10 levels by 1.5 tonnes and PM 2.5 by 0.4 tonnes, he said. The experts noted that when a car is in idling mode, it emits a lot more pollutants than when traveling. “If the car is in idling mode for 10 seconds, it emits more pollutants than if you stop the engine and then restart it. In this way, you can also save more fuel in your car. Every day, one car spends around 15 to 20 minutes at the red signal on an average. During this time one car utilizes around 200 mL of fuel. But if you switch off the engine at the red signals, you can save Rs. 7,000 per month,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal said vehicular emissions in winters stay near the surface and contribute to the air pollution. Kejriwal to citizens “I want every citizen of Delhi to cooperate with us to bring down the pollution levels. This is the time of pandemic and if the pollution level increases now, the situation can worsen,” he said.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Landlord calls Kashmiri student terrorist, threatens her in policeman’s presence||A 22-year-old student from Kashmir was allegedly called a “terrorist”, abused and threatened by the owner of her rented accommodation in south-east Delhi’s Amar Colony on Wednesday night, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that a case has been registered on charges of house trespass, theft, house break-in, causing hurt, and intending to insult modesty of woman based on a complaint submitted by the victim identified as Noor Bhatt, who lives on the fourth floor of a house in East of Kailash. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Bhatt said that she was in Kalkaji on Wednesday evening and when she returned to the house, where she has been living since June, she saw the lock broken and her belongings stolen. “My furniture, clothes and money were stolen. The whole house was turned upside down. I immediately messaged my sister and then called police,” she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Bhatt said that the house owner Taruna Makhija came with a man and a police personnel and alleged that she had stolen the furniture. “I asked him to check CCTV footage if I had taken anything. The owner couldn’t say anything to that,” she said. Ms. Bhatt alleged that the man who had come with the woman called her a terrorist after which the owner also called her the same. “She said ‘You are a terrorist. Your father is a terrorist. You have come from Kashmir to spread terrorism’,” Ms. Bhatt said, adding that the owner also made derogatory statements pointing at her religion. “I asked the policeman how he could allow this to happen in front of him,” she said. Subsequently, senior officers from the police station also came after which Ms. Bhatt submitted her written complaint. “I was standing in the balcony of the house when the owner threatened me about my life. That too, in front of police personnel,” she alleged. Bill dispute According to Ms. Bhatt, an incident took place about a month ago when a man came to the house and claimed to be from BSES. Ms. Bhatt claimed that the man had trespassed the house and they called the police at that time as well but the matter reached a compromise. “The owner has a problem with us because we flagged the issue over our electricity bill. Our fourth floor meter was connected with the fifth floor, which we don’t use. The bill was fine for the first month but it was exorbitant for the next month because of fifth floor,” she said. DCP Meena said: “It has also come to notice that a dispute has also taken place earlier over the payment of rent and not paying electricity bills by the tenant. The electricity was also disconnected by the BSES”. Police said that the owner Taruna Makhija has also given a written complaint, which is being examined. Ms. Bhatt also claimed that she has been in the Capital for the last four years and she has been subject to “subtle bullying” because of her Kashmiri identity. “I have been bullied in college. I have been denied accommodation by landlords because I am a Kashmiri. Does being a Kashmiri make me any less of an Indian?” she said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP, AAP spar over contribution of stubble burning to city’s pollution||A political tussle over air pollution in the Capital ensued between the Centre and the Delhi government on Sunday when Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said the stubble burning in neighbouring States contribute only 4% of Delhi’s pollution and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal retaliated by calling it a ‘denial’. According to government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, was only 1% in Delhi NCT on Wednesday and 6% on Thursday. According to SAFAR officials, the contribution varies between 0 and 40%, depending on the number of farm fires and wind direction among other factors. “As many as 50 teams from CPCB will be deployed for inspection in Delhi-NCR from today (Thursday) . Stubble burning contributes only 4% of pollutants in the environment of Delhi, rest is due to local factors like dust, construction and biomass burning,” Mr. Javadekar said on Thursday. ‘Denial won’t help’ Meanwhile, Mr. Kejriwal tweeted, “Staying in denial will not help. If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution, then why has pollution suddenly increased last fortnite? Air was clean before that. Same story every yr. There’s no massive jump in any local source of pollution in last few days to cause this spike [sic]?” Later, Mr. Javadekar said his statement has been “misinterpreted” by a section of the media. “Let me clarify, the figures of 4% share of stubble burning in AQI in Delhi, pertained to this week. It varies from 4% to 40% during peak stubble burning. At the same time, let us not be in denial that there are several local factors — vehicular pollution, non-agricultural biomass burning, dust, geographical and metrological — that are primarily responsible for high air pollution during winters in Delhi,” the Union Minister tweeted.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,||Frontline warriors felicitated on Kalam’s birth anniversary||The frontline warriors who have been serving the coronavirus patients were felicitated here on Thursday, commemorating the birth anniversary of former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Sri Padmavathi Nilayam at Tiruchanur, which belongs to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) was converted into a COVID Care Centre and has been rated among the best in extending services. Recalling the efforts of the frontline workers in extending services at the centre since March, TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy felicitated the medical and sanitary staff. He said the staff infused confidence in the people admitted to the centre by paying personal attention. He recalled that a British national was among the first to get admitted to the centre and treated here during the first phase of national lockdown. The British national appreciated this centre’s hospitality on global platforms. TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna and Secretary S. Lakshmi (in-charge of the centre) spoke and felicitated the 250 workers for extending round-the-clock service at the complex. SETVEN CEO Muralikrishna Reddy, IMA members D. Srihari Rao amd D.Yugandhar were present on the occasion.
22 October 2020||Guwahati,||BJP eyes Bodoland Territorial Council||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is eyeing the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) where elections, deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, are expected to be held in December. Assam Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the BJP would contest the elections to the 40-member council alone, hinting at the widening gap between the saffron party and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), one of the two regional partners in the government it heads. The BPF had been ruling the BTC comprising four districts since February 2003, until the council was dissolved after the expiry of the last five-year term on April 27. The dissolution followed the deferment of the elections, earlier scheduled on April 4, due to the COVID-19 restrictions. “As in the other autonomous councils of Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao, we are looking at forming the government in BTC, which will bring about a complete transformation for the development of the areas administered by the council,” Dr. Sarma said during a meeting of the BJP Scheduled Tribe Morcha in western Assam’s Kokrajhar district on October 13. He later said the alliance with the BPF would depend on how things pan out. “Our relationship with the BPF at the State level is still intact. We are hopeful of good ties with the BPF and AGP (Asom Gana Parishad) in the next five years as well but the alliance will depend on the prevailing situation,” he said. The Minister also downplayed speculations about a few BJP legislators and senior leaders joining the BPF. “We cannot say anything about the internal matters of another party,” he said.  Bodo peace accord The BJP and the BPF have reportedly been drifting apart since the signing of the new Bodo peace accord in January with all the factions of the National Democratic Front of Boroland (NDFB). Leaders of the influential All Bodo Students’ Union (ABSU), aligned against the BPF leadership, had played a key role in the accord. There are allegations that the BJP has been cultivating the leaders of the disbanded NDFB factions as well as the BPF’s rival United People’s Party Liberal headed by former ABSU president Promod Boro.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS inching towards 2 lakh recovered cases||Telangana is inching towards two lakh COVID-19-recovered cases. From March 2 to October 14, a total of 2,17,670 people in the State were detected with coronavirus. Of them, 1,93,218 people have won the fight over the infectious disease. While the recovery rate across the country is 87.3%, it is 88.76% in the State. Spike or drop in the number of positive cases detected in a day depends on the number of tests performed. Upon skimming through data from the past few weeks provided by the Telangana Health department, it was found that over 2,100 people are detected with coronavirus if around 55,000 tests are performed in a day. And the positive cases drop if the number of tests decrease. Regardless of such tests, around 1,900 to 2,500 people are declared to have recovered every day. On Wednesday, 1,949 people had recovered. As per available details, a 103-year-old man, Paruchuri Ramaswamy, who resides in Hyderabad is the oldest person in the State to have won over COVID-19. He was admitted at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and later shifted to Gandhi Hospital, both government hospitals. Patients with life-threatening diseases or medical conditions such as cancer, kidney failure, too have survived. Doctors who attend the patients in government hospitals earlier said that their treatment protocols have improved over the time. The doctors and officials have stressed multiple times that early diagnosis, consultation and treatment help in early recovery.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Adhere to COVID-19 norms on trains: RPF||Southern Railway will operate special trains during the festival season for crowd management. With heavy rush expected on trains and at railway stations, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has issued guidelines to be followed by the passengers to combat COVID-19. In a press release, RPF advised the passengers not to board trains or visit railway station premises without wearing masks. Physical distancing norms should be adhered to at all times. It sought the cooperation of Railway staff to check temperature and other health parameters of those taking the trains. The RPF has advised those testing positive for COVID-19 and those waiting for their test results not to travel. Passengers have also been warned against spitting in public areas, and have been directed to follow other safety norms. Southern Railway proposes to create awareness among its passengers about COVID-19 prevention guidelines, the release added. In case people are seen violating the norms, action would be taken against them for wilful omission and neglect, entailing imprisonment or a penalty under Sections 145, 153 and 154 of the Railway Act, 1989.  The RPF has advised those testing positive for COVID-19 and those waiting for their test results not to travel
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen apprehended for proxy exam writing||A teenager has been apprehended for allegedly trying to appear in a Jamia Millia Islamia University entrance examination in place of another candidate, the police said on Thursday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said that a complaint was received from university official stating that the boy, who tried to appear in the entrance exam for B.Voc (Solar Energy) course on Wednesday in place of the original candidate, was wearing a mask and might have thought that the invigilator will not check. Asked to remove mask “He was asked to remove the mask and it was found that the photo on the admit card did not match the photo on the Aadhaar card of the candidate. The invigilator informed the superintendent who in turn informed the Controller of Examination after which the police were approached,” he said. The police said that the minor, however, claimed that he didn’t know the whereabouts of the actual candidate. The police said that the minor attends coaching classes in Joga Bai Extension and a month ago, he met Shahnawaj at the coaching centre and was asked to appear in the entrance exam in place of another candidate on the assurance of waiving his coaching fees. Shahnawaj then took the boy to Sajid, the owner of the coaching class. Sajid told the boy that the real candidate was unable to come to Delhi from Jharkhand because his ticket was not confirmed. The original admit card and Aadhaar card of the actual candidate have been recovered from the accused and a case has been registered. The police are looking for the accused, who are absconding, the officer said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||DPCC imposes Rs. 10,000 fine each on ten people||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Thursday imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 each against 10 people in Mundka for setting farm waste on fire. FIRs were also filed against these people based on complaints by the DPCC, said authorities. Though the Delhi government blames neighbouring States for stubble burning, many farmers in the outskirts of the city, set stubble on fire. Residents of Mundka said plastic waste and other materials are still set on fire in the area by businessmen. Mundka is one of the 13 air pollution hot spots of the city. “Action will also be initiated by SDM Punjabi Bagh against these violators. The team also met the local farmers in Mundka village and informed them about legal consequences for burning crop residue/stubble in future,” the DPCC said. Also, the pollution control body said it will impose a fine of Rs. 20 lakh on the PWD for not following anti-pollution measures at a construction site along the main road in Burari. “We have directed the DPCC to impose an environmental compensation penalty of Rs. 20 lakh on the PWD. In addition, PWD has been directed to instal two water tankers at the site. At the same time, it is instructed to cover the ejected soil,” Environment Minister Gopal Rai said after an inspection of the area. “The government has started an anti-dust campaign to prevent pollution from dust blowing in Delhi. Under which the government has issued necessary guidelines and strict action will be taken on its violation. Particularly, the departments should take caution in the way the pollution crisis is increasing within the city,” the Minister added.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Couple kidnap toddler for ‘begging’, arrested||A couple has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping a toddler from south-east Delhi for begging, the police said on Thursday. They said on October 3, one Asiya Khatoon from Batla House in Jamia Nagar reported the kidnapping of her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter. She told the police that on October 2 at 6 p.m., her daughter was playing with other children on the street when she went missing. “The police recovered the toddler from Jogabai Extension in Jamia Nagar with one Mohammad Ali and Jehnara on Tuesday,” said DCP (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj. During interrogation, the couple confessed to the crime.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,432 COVID cases recorded in Telangana||Telangana recorded 1,432 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total to 2,17,670. While 38,895 people were examined, results of 884 were awaited. Eight more COVID-19 patients died. The toll is 1,249. The new cases include 244 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 115 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 99 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 91 from Khammam, 88 from Rangareddy,74 from Karimnagar. Telangana Health department staff have started to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests for people who are brought to rain relief camps in Hyderabad limits. Till Thursday, a total of 37,03,047 samples were put to test and 2,17,670 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 1,93,218 have recovered, 23,203 were active cases, and 1,249 who contracted the infectious disease have died. In the 62 State government hospitals, 4,662 oxygen beds and 1,068 ICU beds were available on Wednesday. And in case of the 228 private hospitals, 2,697 oxygen beds and 2,186 ICU beds were vacant.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Hospitals asked to follow ‘syndromic approach’||Following a few RT-PCR negative cases presenting typical COVID-19 symptoms, the State government has directed all government and private hospitals to strictly follow a “syndromic approach” in treating such cases. “Although some patients show clinical-radiological features that are suggestive of COVID-19, the RT-PCR test, which is considered as a gold standard test, may be negative. With sensitivity and specificity of RT-PCR tests for nasal and throat swab ranging between 60%-70%, we may miss many positive cases, i.e false negative reports. Also, the Standard Q COVID-19 Ag rapid antigen detection test, which is recommended by the ICMR has shown sensitivity (i.e. ability to detect true positives) ranging from 50.6% to 84% and specificity (i.e. ability to detect true negatives) of 99.3 to 100%, after two independent evaluations,” the circular said adding that a syndromic approach is essential. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said two nurses in Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences had typical symptoms but were RT-PCR negative. “Although such cases are less than 5%, it is important to detect and treat them on time to save lives and prevent further spread,” he said. With some studies finding that CT Thorax has greater sensitivity (86%-98%) and lower false-negative rate than RT-PCR, it is essential that a proxy syndrome, called COVID-19 Like Syndrome or COVID-19 Probable case, has to be used to identify such cases with correlation of clinical features, CT Thorax findings and laboratory investigations.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Merely because triple talaq is void, doesn’t mean it can’t be criminalised’||The Delhi High Court has sought response from the Centre on a plea seeking to declare the provision penalising a Muslim husband for pronouncing ‘triple talaq’ upon his wife as unconstitutional. The High Court’s order came on a petition which argued that since the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, has declared the practice of ‘triple talaq’, to be void and illegal, there is no justification for criminalising pronouncement of ‘triple talaq’. Section 4 of the Act provides that any Muslim husband who pronounces ‘triple talaq’ upon his wife shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years. “The purpose of Section 4 appears to be to provide a deterrent against such practice. Merely because triple talaq has been declared to be void and illegal, it does not mean that the legislature could not have made the continuation of such practice an offence. This is our prima facie view,” the Bench said. The court also declined to grant interim relief sought by Nadeem Khan.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Disclosure statement in riots case not leaked by us’||The city police on Thursday informed the Delhi High Court that the information about disclosure statement of a Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student, who was arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi communal violence, was not leaked by its officers. DCP (Special Cell) in an affidavit stated that Delhi Police was also aggrieved by the news report in which the alleged confessional statement of JMI university student Asif Iqbal Tanha was leaked. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, after perusing the affidavit, asked the counsel for Zee News and OpIndia to disclose the source of the statement by the next date of hearing on October 19. Mr. Tanha, a 24-year old student, had in his plea stated that he was aggrieved by various news reports which appeared in electronic media that he has confessed to organising and inciting the communal riots. It was Mr. Tanha’s case that he was coerced by the police officers to sign certain papers and make statements while in their effective custody. He contends that the alleged disclosure statements, which are subject matter of news reports, were not given voluntarily and are inadmissible as evidence. He had alleged that Delhi police officers have with the “mala fide intention of prejudicing” him in pending proceedings, leaked the statement to media. Mr. Tanha is currently lodged in judicial custody.
22 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam paper leak case: ex-SP arrested||The Assam police’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Thursday arrested a police officer accused in the sub-inspector recruitment exam scam, 24 hours after he had gone “missing”. A police spokesperson said Kumar Sanjit Krishna, the former Superintendent of Police of southern Assam’s Karimganj district, turned up at the office of Director-General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta where he had a marathon meeting with senior officials. Medical test “His arrest followed a medical test. He would be produced before a competent court tomorrow (Friday),” the spokesperson said. The name of the former Karimganj SP, the brother of Assam’s Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, had cropped up after the CID interrogated one Rubul Ali, an accused in the leaking of question papers of the exam to recruit 597 unarmed sub-inspectors. Some 66,000 candidates were answering the questions on September 20 when the exam was cancelled after the leaked question paper went viral on social media.
22 October 2020||October 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The show resumes||
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP inaugurates Nakshatra Vatika and sports complex||The BJP on Thursday inaugurated the Nakshatra Vatika and sports complex on the occasion of former Delhi CM Madan Lal Khurana’s birth anniversary. The facility was inaugurated in the presence of Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta and MP Meenakshi Lekhi. “Khurana ji steered Delhi on the path of development,” Mr. Thakur said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Women’s panel issues notice to Delhi Police over assault||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday issued notice to Delhi Police over the alleged assault on a Kashmiri woman by her landlady. The women’s panel wrote to Delhi Police seeking details on the matter, including whether action has been taken against the accused. Noting that the woman had alleged that she was assaulted in the presence of a police officer, the DCW in its letter wrote: “Please provide information and details of any police personnel present at the spot as alleged and the action taken against them.” The DCW also sought information pertaining to the steps taken by the force to increase the security around the woman and her friends. A detailed action taken report has also been sought by the DCW. In the notice issued, the women’s panel asked Delhi Police to respond by October 19.
