17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. FDA nod for rapid, inexpensive saliva test||In what could prove a game-changer in the global battle against COVID-19, a new, rapid diagnostic test for the novel coronavirus that uses saliva samples was granted an emergency use authorisation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Saturday. The inexpensive test, called SalivaDirect, developed by a team from the Yale School of Public Health, has high sensitivity and can detect the virus even when the number of virus copies in the saliva sample is as low as 6-12 copies per microlitre. In contrast, tests using nasopharyngeal swabs lead to false negative results due to errors at the time of sample collection. The sensitivity of the new test was about 93%, according to a preprint posted on medRxiv. “Official data shows 88-94% [sensitivity]. If you assume 90% sensitivity, this is the best accuracy (sensitivity) of any saliva test,” Andy Slavitt, a former acting administrator of the Centres for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Obama administration, tweeted. Stephen Hahn, the Food and Drugs Administration Commissioner, said the new saliva test would increase efficiency and avoid shortage of crucial test components such as reagents. Collecting and testing saliva samples involves three steps — collecting saliva without preservative buffers, proteinase K treatment and heat inactivation, and dualplex RT-qPCR virus detection. The Yale team was led by Nathan Grubaugh and Anne Wyllie, who partnered with the National Basketball Association and the National Basketball Players Association, to validate the efficacy of SalivaDirect in part by testing players, coaches and staff looking to continue playing while ensuring health safety. Prior to testing on NBA players, Yale tested it on 44 inpatients and 98 health care workers.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airlines fighting to stay airborne||From dipping into reserves and using cargo flights as a source of revenue, Indian airlines have struggled to stay afloat as COVID-19 fears continue to haunt travellers across the country. As infections started to mount and travel restrictions were imposed in March, the number of unique passenger trips fell by 33%. On March 25, the government imposed a ban on domestic flights, which was lifted two months later. Flights resumed on May 25, but demand remained tepid — 21 lakh passengers travelled in July, which is just 18% of the figure for the corresponding month last year. Scraping the barrel With thinning revenue streams and depleting cash reserves, IndiGo dug into its reserves and withdrew up to Rs. 2,000 crore after registering a loss of Rs. 2,800 crore between April and June 2020. Tata Sons is also said to have extended equity to support Vistara. “Except IndiGo, most of the airlines have no cash and are totally dependent on their promoters. The financial impact is very severe and demand risks will continue. Airlines have to recapitalise and fund next two years of operations and without massive recapitalisation, I don’t see some airlines surviving,” Kapil Kaul, India-CEO at Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), told The Hindu in an email. The slump in passenger demand has also forced airlines to tweak business strategies to keep as many planes flying and open new revenue streams. Before COVID-19, SpiceJet was the only airline that had three to four planes exclusively for cargo; other private carriers used the belly of their passenger flights for shipments. This has begun to change.
17 August 2020||Belagavi,||Farmers on the banks of several rivers face flood threat as more water is released||Incessant rainfall in South Maharashtra and some North Karnataka districts led to increased release of water from reservoirs, creating a flood scare among farmers on the banks of several rivers. The inflow and outflow in reservoirs in the Krishna basin in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Yadgir districts is increasing by the hour. Officials have begun preparations for rescue and relief, if the villages were to face floods. NDRF teams have arrived in the district headquarters in the Kalyan Karnataka region. In the Bombay Karnataka region, they have been paired with SDRF teams and are being sent from the taluk and sub-division towns concerned to villages likely to be affected, officials said. Maharashtra released around 2 lakh cusecs of water into the Krishna and its tributaries. This includes the 40,000 cusecs released from the Koyna dam on Sunday. The total release into the Krishna and its tributaries from Maharashtra dams, including Kanher, Warna, Dudhganga, Radhanagari, Tulashi, Kansari, Dhom Balkewadi and Urmodi was around two lakh cusecs. This water released on Sunday could reach the Kallol barrage on the inter-State border on Tuesday. The inflow and outflow in the Lal Bahadur Shastry reservoir on the Krishna in Alamatti stood at two lakh cusecs. The dam had around 113 tmcft of water against its gross capacity of 123 tmcft. Over 2.38 lakh cusecs of water was gushing out of the Basavasagar dam in Narayanpur in Yadgir district. Rainfall in Khanapur increased the inflow to the Malaprabha. This led to increased outflow from the Navilu Teertha dam near Saundatti. The outflow from Navilu Teertha increased to 11,264 cusecs, which is slightly less than one tmcft of standing water. This follows heavy rain in the jungles of Khanapur where the river takes birth and the catchment areas of Belagavi taluk and surrounding areas. Inflow into the Malaprabha increased to 19,900 cusecs by Sunday morning. The dam with a gross capacity 37.7 tmcft now has around 78.3 % water now, with around 29.08 tmcft. The outflow could go up to 15,000 cusecs if the inflow increased, officers said. The district administration has urged farmers in all low-lying areas to move to safer places. Assistant Commissioner of Bailhongal has asked farmers not to go to their fields on the river bank. State Disaster Relief Force teams are camping in Chikkodi and Belagavi. A flood care centre has been opened in Nippani to house around 30 families. More such centres would be opened if the flood situation worsens, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said. Sunday’s release from the dam in Saundatti is also eight times the release of last year. The outflow on August 16, 2019 was just 1,514 cusecs, as there was a lull in rainfall. The fact that officers were releasing large amounts of water from the Alamatti dam was another reason for the low outflow then. A bridge connecting Parishwad and Hire Munawalli villages over the Malaprabha near Khanapur in Belagavi district was submerged on Sunday morning following heavy rain. Outflow from the Ghataprabha was around 33,549 cusecs, Hiranyakeshi 5,250 cusecs, Markandeya 3,030 cusecs, Ballari Nala 4,890 cusecs and Hidkal reservoir was 20,379 cusecs. The Gadag district administration declared an emergency alert in the villages along the banks of the Malaprabha. Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu has asked farmers from low- lying areas to move to safer places. Officials said that 16 villages in Gadag disstrict faced the threat of submergence if the outflow from the Malaprabha increased. Heavy rain in Dharwad district also added to the inflow into the Malaprabha river.  A bridge connecting Parishwad and Hire Munawalli villages near Khanapur in Belagavi district was submerged on Sunday  The Gadag district administration has declared an emergency alert in the villages along the banks of the Malaprabha
17 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Stop making baseless allegations, Karjol responds to Congress on D.J. Halli riots||Responding to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar who had slammed the BJP government over the recent Bengaluru riots stating that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai was blaming the Congress corporators just to cover up his failure in preventing violence, Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol said that the State government was not “doing any politics” over the riots and asked the former to “first stop making baseless allegations”. “Our government is not doing any politics over the Bengaluru riots. Police and the officers concerned have acted prudently and tried their best to control the mob. Mr. Shivakumar should first stop making baseless allegations against the State government in the matter,” he said. He was speaking to mediapersons at Sedam in Kalaburagi district on Sunday. “That the government is blackmailing BBMP Congress corporators by directing the police to issue notices to them in connection with the riots is false. The government is, in fact, identifying and curbing those elements who are working to disturb the unity and integrity of the nation. Mr. Shivakumar must uphold national unity and must not indulge in vote-bank politics,” he said. To a question, the Deputy Chief Minister firmly asserted that the State government would definitely ban anti-national organisations which ever it might be and which worked against national interests. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would shortly take a decision on this,” he said.
17 August 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),||ITDA shifts pregnant women to hospitals||At least 161 tribal pregnant women, who included those whose expected date of delivery falls in this month, have been admitted to various hospitals in the Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district, which is simultaneously tackling the spread of COVID-19 and floods in the Godavari. “A total of 103 pregnant women have been admitted to the Community Health Centre at Kunavaram, where they will be under the watch of doctors 24 x 7 until the floods subside and the Agency returns to normal,” ITDA-Chintoor Administrative Officer Kosa Raju told The Hindu . On Sunday alone, 34 pregnant women were evacuated from the habitations badly affected by the floods. There are 33 pregnant women in the Chintoor Area Hospital and 21 in the Primary Health Centre at Gowridevipeta. Dedicated relief camps The ITDA authorities have initially set up a dedicated relief camp for the pregnant women. However, they are being sent to the hospitals where they can be under the watch of the doctors. “The village secretariat staff have been directed to ensure that every pregnant woman is sent to the hospital,” said ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana. In the Rampa Agency, the officials are focusing on the pregnant women whose expected date of delivery falls only in August. By Sunday, as many as four women in their trimester have been evacuated to a dedicated relief camp in the Devipatnam mandal headquarters. Flood water has entered at least 12 tribal habitations in Devipatnam mandal, forcing the authorities to intensify the evacuation operation. As per an official release issued by Project Officer of ITDA-Rampachodavaram C.V. Praveen Kumar, the 12 habitations affected were Penikelapadu, Toyyeru, Ganugolegondi, Moolapadu, Agraharam, Devipatnam, Enugulagudem, Posammagandi, S.C. Peta, Poodimalli, K. Veeravaram and Dandangi. A total of 33 habitations are likely to be affected in the days to come. At least 17 boats and three tourist launches were pressed into service to evacuate the people from the affected habitations. “A total of 345 members of the Medical and Health Department have been deputed in the 33 habitations facing the flood threat,” said Mr. Praveen Adithya.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||When Dhoni won many a heart in Visakhapatnam||A partly cloudy sky hung over the ACA-VDCA Stadium on April 5, 2005, as spectators lined up outside for the 100th ODI between arch-rivals India and Pakistan. Little did anyone know that they were about to witness a young cricketer who would go on to become the most successful captain of Indian cricket — Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Winning the toss, captain Sourav Ganguly elected to bat, and the iconic opening duo of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag walked in to take strike. India was cruising at 26/0 in the fourth over when Sachin Tendulkar was run out, leaving spectators crestfallen. Then came the masterstroke from Ganguly — ahead of himself and the ever-consistent Rahul Dravid, the skipper chose to send in a youngster who was yet to prove himself on the big stage. In walked Dhoni, who was till then known only as a young wicket-keeper fairly new to the team, with his flowing locks and burly swagger. Fans were surprised to see the change in batting order, but all their doubts were laid to rest as Dhoni demolished the Pakistani bowlers. By the time the first innings ended, the scorecard read 356/9, with Dhoni scoring a fine 148 off 123 balls. That knock made him an overnight poster boy of Indian cricket. Fifteen years on, the city still remembers that iconic knock. “People of Vizag adore Mahi, and he equally loves the city and its people as it is here where his career really took off,” said former Indian cricketer Y. Venugopal Rao, who played with Dhoni at different levels, including ODI, India-A and Challengers Trophy. “Mahi was a surprise weapon unleashed by Dada (Ganguly) in that match. Apart from his superb batting, his wicket-keeping skills also came as a surprise. Later on, his captaincy and team-building would surprise the world, and in the end, his retirement too. His way of announcing his retirement was also in keeping with his character — quiet and simple,” Venugopal Rao told The Hindu.  Recollecting his association with Dhoni, he said, “The day before his blitzkrieg in Vizag, he called me asking if I could join him for dinner. At dinner, he was tense as Sourav had already sounded him that he would go in to bat at Number 3. Somehow, he felt that it was his last chance to prove himself as he had failed with the bat in a few outings earlier. I assured him that he would excel, and he proved me right.”  According to former AU Rector and cricket commentator A. Prasanna Kumar, Dhoni was an unforgettable era of Indian cricket. “In Indian cricket, we had three eras – the Gavaskar era, Kapil Dev era and Dhoni era. If Gavaskar taught us how to play the new ball, Kapil taught us how to move the new ball while Dhoni taught us how to build a team and win matches and championships,” he said.
17 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),||Flood alert sounded as Godavari rises||Officials issued the third warning with the water level in the Godavari river touching 55 feet at Bhadrachalam by 7 p.m. on Sunday. The level might increase further, Central Water Commission officials said. At 6 p.m., the water level at Koida was 26.12 metres, coffer dam 29.35 metres, Polavaram 14.18 metres and Old Railway bridge (Havelock bridge) 17.48 metres. The discharge from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage (at Dowleswaram) was 15.23 lakh cusecs. More than 100 tribal hamlets in West and East Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh were under knee-deep water. Residents of several habitations in Devipatnam, V.R. Puram, Chintur and other mandals were shifted to safer places. Officials sounded alert in Kukunur, Velerupadu, Polavaram, Chintur, V.R. Puram, Kunavaram and other mandals. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and police teams were pressed into service, said Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority officials. Above danger mark In Telangana, the swollen Godavari river continued to flow above the danger mark on Sunday, triggering the threat of flooding in the riverside areas of Bhadrachalam Agency. Incidentally, the water level in the Godavari recorded its highest ever level of 75.6 feet at Bhadrachalam on August 16 in 1986. The last time when the river crossed the danger mark of 53 feet was on September 8, 2014, when the water level shot up to 56.1 feet. At 7 p.m. on Sunday, the Godavari flowed at 55.20 feet carrying 14.52 lakh cusecs of floodwaters downstream at Bhadrachalam, sources said. The river is expected to rise by another three to four feet, official sources said, quoting CWC forecast and the copious inflows from Medigadda and other barrages in the upstream. Road connectivity between Bhadrachalam-Dummugudem-Charla, Charla-Venkatapuram and various important routes along the inter-State borders with Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh was disrupted as the floodwaters surged through the low-level road points at Turubaka, Kudunuru, Alubaka and various other agency areas. As the river turned perilous, the authorities started evacuating people living in the flood-prone areas to safer places and ramped up emergency response measures. The backwaters of the Godavari entered into Kotha Colony and AMC colony besides the areas surrounding the flood bank (Karakatta) in Bhadrachalam. This has prompted the authorities to shift as many as 24 families to a temporary flood relief camp set up at a private school in the temple town.  (With inputs from Hyderabad bureau)
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 8,012 new COVID cases, tally inches closer to 3 lakh-mark||The State’s tally inched closer to the three lakh-mark with 88 new COVID-19 deaths and 8,012 new infections detected in the past 24 hours. The toll reached 2,650 and the tally increased to 2,89,829 as of Sunday morning, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries is steadily increasing. In the past 24 hours, 10,117 patients have recovered and were discharged, taking the total to 2,01,234. The recovery rate went up to 69.43%, the highest so far and only 31% or 85, 945 persons of all the COVID-infected persons in the State so far are active. The government tested 48,746 samples in the past day and so far, the number of samples tested is 28,60,953. The positivity rate of these tests is 10.13%. The tests per million ratio is at 53,576 while the death rate continues to stand at 0.91%. Spike in Chittoor Chittoor reported the highest number of new cases as well as new deaths in the past day. It saw 981 cases and 10 deaths. It is followed by West Godavari (893 cases, 8 deaths), East Godavari (875, 10), Kurnool (834,9), Srikakulam (773, 4), Prakasam (614, 4), Guntur (590, 6), Anantapur (580,8), Visakhapatnam (512,8), Nellore (423,9), Vizianagaram (286,6), Kadapa (286, 6), and Krishna (263,3). Meanwhile, East Godavari's tally crossed the 40,000-mark and reached 40,293 which is 14% of the State’s tally. It is followed by Kurnool (33,580), Anantapur (29,527), Guntur (26,139), Visakhapatnam (24,808), West Godavari (23,582), Chittoor (23,459), Nellore (17,164), Kadapa (16,808), Srikakulam (14,731), Vizianagaram (12,633), Krishna (12,344) and Prakasam (11,866). The recovery rate is above 59% in 12 districts and only that of Vizianagaram is at 46% which is the lowest.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata, Darjeeling zoos go online||Animal lovers in West Bengal will now be able to watch wildlife from the comfort of their homes with the forest department starting live streaming of animals from Alipore Zoological Garden, Kolkata, and Padmja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling. The live steaming facilities were inaugurated by State’s Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Sunday. “This is a unique initiative. Every year about 35 lakh people visit Alipore zoo. Many of these visitors make it a point to visit the zoo at least once a year. We do not want to deprive these people, including children, any more,” Mr. Banerjee said.
17 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally nears 6 lakh||Maharashtra reported 11,111 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday as its total case tally rose to 5,95,865. With 288 more deaths, the State’s death toll has breached the 20,000-mark to reach 20,037. As many as 8,837 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries till date to 4,17,123. The number of active cases has now risen to 1,58,395. Sunday’s spike is particularly big given that only 51,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours as opposed to the average 70,000 samples being tested in the last few weeks. “Till date, of a total 31,62,740 laboratory samples, 5,95,865 (18.84%) have been tested positive with nearly 51,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 70%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding the State’s case fatality rate had marginally come down to 3.36%. With 1,010 new cases reported on Sunday, Mumbai's total cases have touched 1,28,726 of whom only 17,825 are active. With 47 more deaths, the city’s fatality toll has climbed to 7,133. Pune district recorded more than 3,000 new cases and 63 fatalities as its total case tally reached 1,30,606 while its death toll rose to 3,193. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was just over 26,000 with the district's recovery rate standing at 76.44%. Along with Pune, Kolhapur and Sangli districts — the new virus hotspots in western Maharashtra — reported high fatality surges. Kolhapur reported a record-high fatality spike of 36 deaths, taking its mortality toll to 375. The district saw 518 new cases taking its total tally to 13,902 of whom 7,109 are active. With 13 deaths, Sangli’s fatality toll has risen to 209. The district reported 322 fresh cases taking its total cases to 6,402 of whom 2,575 are active. Nagpur district in Vidarbha saw 691 new cases to take the total case tally to 13,564 of whom 7,539 are active.
17 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Two held in connection with student’s death case||The Bulandshahr police on Sunday arrested two men in connection with the death of Sudeeksha Bhati, a 19-year-old student studying in a prestigious U.S. university, in a road accident on August 10. The accused — Deepak Chaudhary, 25, an architect, and Raju, 56, a mason — were arrested by a three-member SIT formed to probe the case. Sudeeksha’s family had alle-ged that she was harassed by “two men on a motorcycle” when she was going to meet her uncle on a motorbike. SSP, Bulandshahr, Santosh Kumar Singh ruled out the harassment angle. “CCTV footage of 12 different locations revealed that the accused were always ahead of the motorcycle on which Sudeeksha was riding pillion.” He said investigators had come to the conclusion that it was a case of an accident.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Rains cause flooding across north Telangana||The incessant rains lashing different parts of the State, north and east Telangana in particular have caused flooding of low lying areas. The IMD has forecast that the rains are likely to continue for another two days with another low pressure area forming over north Bay of Bengal. A woman and her daughter reportedly died due to roof collapse in Mulugu district while three youths who got washed away in the Musi canal at K.T. Annaram were rescued by the locals. The swollen Godavari river continued to flow above the danger mark after breaching the third warning level of 53 feet at Bhadrachalam on Sunday. In view of the severe damage caused in Warangal, the GHMC has deputed three disaster response vehicles and 40 personnel to enable the civic authorities deal with the heavy rains and urban flooding.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Liquor outlets in Chennai to open from tomorrow||Retail liquor shops run by Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) Ltd. in areas within Greater Chennai Police limits will be reopened from August 18. “Liquor shops will be open between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Every shop will distribute only 500 tokens a day,” an official release said. All those visiting Tasmac shops would have to wear face masks and strictly follow physical distancing norms, the release said. No shops in malls However, shops that are within the malls and in COVID-19 containment zones will not be opened. Although Tasmac closed all its shops in view of the COVID-19 lockdown in the State, shops in other parts of the State were reopened on May 7.
17 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 1,530 new cases, 1,099 recoveries||The State on Sunday reported 1,530 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,099 recoveries. The cumulative case burden now stands at 44,415. The number of patients undergoing treatment has risen to 15,310. A total of 28,894 persons have recovered so far. With rise in case burden, mortality rate too has increased.
17 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Two flights diverted from Kalaburagi||An Alliance Air 9I 509 flight with 50 passengers on-board that was supposed to reach Kalaburagi on Sunday morning could not land owing to bad weather condition and was diverted to Hyderabad. The authorities in the airport said that the flight was on hold flying in the skies around Kalaburagi for 40 minutes hoping for improvement in the weather condition but was later diverted to Hyderabad. It took off from Hyderabad at 4.22 p.m. and landed in Kalaburagi and again, lifted off from Kalaburagi at 5.10 p.m. with 53 passengers for Bengaluru. Another flight, Star Air, which took off from Bengaluru Airport and was supposed to land at Kalaburagi at 9.45 a.m., also could not land here. Director of Kalaburagi Airport Gnaneshwar Rao said that the flight, after waiting for some time, returned to Bengaluru and later, was cancelled for the day.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Weatherman forecasts another low-pressure||The well-marked low-pressure area over north coastal Odisha and the adjoining areas of north-west Bay of Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal persists. The associated cyclonic circulation now extends up to 9.5 km above the mean sea level, tilting south-westwards with height. It is likely to move west-northwestwards. A fresh low-pressure is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal at around August 19, according to the IMD. Heavy rain occurred at isolated places in East Godavari district of coastal A.P. Thunderstorm, along with lightning, is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on Monday. Advice to fishermen The Cyclone Warning Centre here has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea along and off coastal A.P. and Yanam till August 18.
17 August 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. under fire after rape, murder of minor||The Uttar Pradesh government has come under fresh criticism after a 13-year-old girl was raped and strangled in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Talking to the media, the victim’s father claimed that the body, which was found in a sugarcane field, was mutilated. However, the district police chief on Sunday said the reports of injuries to the girl’s eyes and tongue were “completely false”. The post-mortem report only confirmed rape, Kheri SP Satendra Kumar said. The police have arrested two men, both locals. They have been booked under the National Security Act. The police said the body was found in the field hours after the girl had gone out to answer the call of nature.
17 August 2020||GURUGRAM/Lucknow,||Chetan Chauhan succumbs to COVID-19||Former Indian cricketer and Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister Chetan Chauhan died at the Medanta Hospital here on Sunday due to multiple organ failure. He was 73. Chauhan was admitted to the hospital on July 17 after he tested positive for COVID-19 and breathed his last around 5 p.m., hospital sources said. He was put on ventilator support a day earlier after he developed kidney and blood pressure-related problems and his condition deteriorated. Expressing condolences over his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a tweet, described him as a “wonderful cricketer” and a “diligent political leader”. Mr. Modi said Chauhan had made effective contributions to public service and in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh.   Soon after retiring from the game, he contested the Lok Sabha election on a BJP ticket, winning from west U.P.’s Amroha in 1991. He lost the election in 1996, won again in 1998, and lost again in 1999 and 2004. In 2017, he won the Assembly election on a BJP ticket from the Naugawan Sadat seat in Amroha securing over 96,000 votes. He currently held the Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, Prantiya Rakshak Dal and Civil Security portfolios.  (With inputs from Omar Rashid)
17 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Army sergeant assaulted on I-Day||The Taloja police have booked eight men for rioting and assaulting an Army sergeant on Independence Day after his wife asked an autorickshaw driver not to litter. Pratap Jagannath More (38), deputed at the Army Institute of Physical Training in Pune, took leave from August 13 to 30 and reached his wife’s house in Taloja on Saturday. “They then stepped out to buy vegetables and saw an auto driver throw two empty bottles on the road. Rutuja More (32) complained about it and the driver picked up a quarrel,” police inspector Raju Adagle said. When Mr. More intervened, seven others joined the auto driver in assaulting him. Mr. More then filed a complaint with the Taloja police against the auto driver, who has been identified as Mithun Ulwekar (31). “We have registered a case and are scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused. Mr. More sustained minor injuries on his face and hand,” Mr. Adagle said. The accused have been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata, Darjeeling Zoos go online||Animal lovers in West Bengal will now be able to watch animals and birds from the comfort of their homes with the West Bengal Forest Department starting live streaming of animals from Alipore Zoological Garden in Kolkata and Padmja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling. The live streaming facilities were inaugurated by State’s Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Sunday at Alipore Zoological Garden. “This is a unique initiative. Every year, about 35 lakh people visit Alipore zoo. Many of these visitors are regulars and they make it a point to visit the zoo at least once a year. We do not want to deprive these people, including children, anymore,” he said. The Minister said that live streaming will be available for an hour each in the morning and the afternoon from the social media handles of the respective zoos.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||State records over 3,000 new COVID-19 cases, 51 deaths||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 3,066 COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 1,16,498. The State also recorded 51 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,428. The number of active cases increased to 27,299 and the recovery rate is now up to 74.48%. Of the 51 deaths, 13 were recorded in Kolkata, taking the city’s death toll due to COVID-19 to 1,070. North 24 Parganas reported 10 fatalities, taking the district’s death toll to 565. Kolkata also recorded 563 cases of COVID-19, taking its case tally to 32,319, while North 24 Parganas recorded 560 cases taking its tally to 24,669. The State government tested 32,286 samples in the day. The number of samples tested has increased to 12.82 lakh. A detailed analysis of the fatalities points to co-morbidities in 88.7% of them and 11.3% without them. An age-wise analysis reveals that 13.85% of the people who died were above 75 and 6.51% in the 61-75 age group. Another 2.16 % of those who succumbed to COVID-19 were in the age group of 46-60 years.
17 August 2020||Belagavi,||Incessant rains create fear of floods in NK||Incessant rains in South Maharashtra and some North Karnataka districts have led to an increase in the release of water from reservoirs, creating a flood scare among farmers on the banks of the rivers.
17 August 2020||BENGALURU,||More arrests made in D.J. Halli riots case||Central Crime Branch sleuths raided a house at Hegde Nagar, north of the violence-hit D.J. Halli, late on Saturday night and arrested eight youngsters, most of whom are allegedly workers of the Social Democratic Party of India.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,||124 more COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka||As many as 124 new deaths by COVID-19 were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to 3,947. In addition, 7,040 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 2,26,966.
17 August 2020||Srinagar,||4G Internet restored in two J&K districts||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday decided to restore 4G mobile Internet in the twin districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur on “a trial basis”. It’s the first time in over a year that the J&K administration has decided to restore 4G services on mobile phones.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital witnesses 652 new cases, fewer tests||The national capital reported 652 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 1,52,580, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, eight more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 4,196.
17 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Father-son killed in fight during panchayat meet||A man and his son were killed in a fight between two families in Shiekhupura village in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh during a panchayat meeting, the police said on Sunday. The meeting had been called to resolve a land dispute between the two families.
17 August 2020||Panaji,||Utpal Parrikar tests coronavirus positive||BJP leader Utpal Parrikar, the son of former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, said he had tested positive for novel coronavirus and got admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors. He tweeted, “On advice of Doctors and to take proper line of treatment, I’ve got admitted to Hospital. Thank you everyone for the wishes.”PTI
17 August 2020||Rajkot,||23 prisoners of Rajkot Central jail test coronavirus positive||As many as 23 prisoners of the Rajkot Central Jail in Gujarat have tested positive for novel coronavirus, a senior official said on Sunday. Rapid antigen tests were conducted on 94 inmates and results of 23 of them, including undertrials and convicts, came out positive on Saturday night, jail superintendent Banno Joshi said.PTI
17 August 2020||Pune,||Pune waste pickers seek life insurance cover, pending dues||Around 3,500 workers who are part of SWaCHhave launched a symbolic week-long agitation against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s delay in providing them with benefits such as life insurance cover and dues for working during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The workers, who started wearing white ‘Freedom from Exploitation’ bands on Friday, said they would observe physical distancing and protest peacefully.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Doctors deputed for COVID-19 duty not paid||A majority of the service and non-service postgraduate (PG) doctors who were deputed to Chennai on COVID-19 duty are yet to receive their salaries for two months. In June, the PG doctors were diverted to government hospitals in Chennai amid a surge in cases. They were relieved recently, and have returned to their original stations.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,||55 arrested as maanja thread injures three||The maanja menace seems to be increasing in the city. Three motorists, including a woman, were injured after the thread slit their throat on Ennore Expressway on Saturday. The police have arrested 55 persons.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||nearby||
17 August 2020||Belagavi,||410 discharged in Belagavi district||As many as 410 persons were discharged from the district designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi on Sunday. With 478 fresh cases reported, the total number of active cases in the district was put at 3,769. Nine of them are in the intensive care unit, and on ventilator support. A total of 3,920 patients have been discharged till now. There have been 121 deaths, of which three occurred on Sunday. The test results of 313 persons are awaited.
17 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka reports 7,040 cases, 124 more deaths||Kerala reported 1,530 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,099 recoveries on Sunday. The total for cases was 44,415 and the number of patients under treatment in hospitals rose to 15,310. In all, 28,894 persons had recovered. With the increase in cases, mortality was also higher. On Sunday, the Health department added 10 more deaths, pushing up the toll to 156. Five of the deaths confirmed were from Kannur, two in Ernakulam and one each in Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. Among Sunday’s cases, nearly 92% or 1,404 cases were locally acquired infections, of which 53 were health care workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest cases among districts at 519 new cases. There were over 1.62 lakh people in quarantine, 13,424 with mild symptoms isolated in hospitals. Samples tested in 24 hours stood at 30,123. Andhra Pradesh’s tally moved closer to the three lakh mark, with 88 deaths and 8,012 new infections. The death toll touched 2,650 and the tally was 2,89,829 on Sunday, the Health department said. Also, 85,945 COVID-19 cases were active. The government tested 48,746 samples in the past day, adding up to 28,60,953 so far. The positivity rate of tests was 10.13%. Chittoor reported the highest number of new cases and new deaths at 981 cases and 10 deaths. Cases in Telangana stood at 91,361 with 1,102 new cases on Saturday, against the previous day’s incidence of 1,863. Testing to detect the virus was lower too. Usually, around 20,000 tests were conducted in a day, but on Saturday it was only 12,120. Tests to detect COVID-19 in a day were seen to be dropping every weekend, only to rise on Mondays, since the last week of July. Of the 1,102 cases on August 15, 234 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 101 from Karimnagar and 81 from Rangareddy. Test results of 1,046 samples were awaited. The toll touched 693 as nine more patients died. Of the total, 22,542 were active cases, 68,126 were discharged, and 693 died. Karnataka’s case trend continued with 124 more deaths on Sunday, raising the overall toll to 3,947. In addition, 7,040 new cases were reported, the tally rising to 2,26,966. Of Sunday’s cases, 2,131 were from Bengaluru Urban. Ten other districts had over 200 cases. Of 81,512 active cases, 692 were in ICU. The State conducted 43,626 more tests. With 5,950 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu rose to 54,019 and the tally of positive cases to 3,38,055. On the same day, 6,019 persons were discharged, taking the total number to 2,78,270. Fatalities remained high as 125 more persons died of the infection on Sunday. So far, a total of 5,766 persons have died due to COVID-19.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru bureaus)
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament to see several firsts||The monsoon session of Parliament will be marked by several firsts, including the use of an ultraviolet germicidal irradiation system and polycarbonate separators, with the arrangements being in compliance with the physical distancing norms being observed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Use of the chambers and galleries of both the Houses for holding the session will be the first in the history of Parliament since 1952. Parliament has to meet by September 23. Audiovisual signals Four large display screens in the chamber of the Rajya Sabha, six small screens in its four galleries, audio consoles in the galleries, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation, special cables connecting the two Houses for transmission of audiovisual signals and a polycarbonate sheet separating the official gallery from the chamber of the House are being installed. Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had held a meeting on July 17, after a detailed examination of various options for holding the session. They decided that chambers and galleries would be used for conducting the session. Mr. Naidu has directed full preparedness by the third week of August. The work is in progress for ensuring several additional installations. As per the arrangements, the Rajya Sabha chamber, its galleries and the Lok Sabha chamber will be used for seating the members. This includes 60 members in the chamber and 51 in the galleries of the Rajya Sabha, leaving out the first row, and the remaining 132 (including bypolls for two seats) in the chamber of the Lok Sabha. Political parties will be allotted seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber and galleries based on their respective strength and the remaining will be seated in the Lok Sabha chamber in the two blocks meant for ruling parties and the others. In the Rajya Sabha chamber, seats will be earmarked for the Prime Minister, Leader of the House, Leader of the Opposition and leaders of other parties. Former Prime Ministers and former Leaders of the House, including Manmohan Singh and H.D. Deve Gowda, besides Ramvilas Paswan and Ramdas Athawale, being Ministers and members of the House, will have designated seats in the chamber. Other Ministers will get the seats meant for the ruling party. All the seats in the galleries are being fitted with consoles to enable participation of members in the proceedings. Placards will indicate the parties accommodated in each gallery of the Rajya Sabha. Use of ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air conditioning system of the Rajya Sabha for killing bacteria and viruses in the air supply is also being considered. Physical distancing norms will also be observed in the seating arrangement in the officials’ gallery and the press gallery, each accommodating 15, while a limited number of Secretariat officials will be allowed at the Table of the House. The reporters taking verbatim notes will be seated in the special box meant for foreign dignitaries. Live telecast Three interpretation booths of the Rajya Sabha will be integrated with audio systems for simultaneous interpretation for the members seated in both the Houses. The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha TV channels will telecast the proceedings of the two Houses live, apart from displaying the proceedings of each of House on the screens in the other.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||It’s no time to lower guard, warn experts||COVID-19 continues to be a challenge, and this is a long-drawn battle to be fought by each of us, V.K. Paul, member of the Central government’s COVID-19 response team, warned on Sunday, speaking exclusively to The Hindu . The cautionary statement comes at a time when the country crossed the bleak milestone of half a lakh deaths due to the infection on Saturday and has now registered over 50,443 deaths till Sunday, making it the fourth country with the highest virus deaths in the world. India has 12 States that have a case load of 55,000 each. Dr. Paul, also a member of the NITI Aayog, said: “This is no time to lower our guard. Follow safe behaviour every moment, every time. India has done well so far despite such a large population. Our ability to fight this battle is stronger than ever now.” India registered its first death due to the virus on March 13 and registered its first 25,000 virus-related deaths by July 16. The next 25,000 deaths have been reported within a month now. “India’s large population is fodder for the virus. What we have understood till now is that it cannot be controlled, stopped or prevented. All we can do is to slow the spread. India is moving rapidly to its peak viral load,’’ said T. Jacob John, virologist and former Professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. He said always wearing a mask, following proper hygiene and ensuring measured, small scale and effective lockdowns is our only way forward. “The speed of growth of epidemic depends partly on how many importations occurred. We had probably too few compared to U.S. and Brazil. Wait and we will surpass both countries,” he said. “The growth of infection spread by asymptomatic patients is a cause of worry. The pandemic seems to be following the same path that we saw with 2009 pandemic influenza. It is travelling from large cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad to small cities, etc. But the two advantages that India has is the fact that the country has a relatively young population and the small portion of people who seem to have ‘hidden protection’. World over 100% people aren’t getting it and the trend is evident in India also,” he said. He said the vaccine will come when it will. “We have to strengthen lockdown measures and ensure that all human interactions are undertaken wearing a mask.’’ Falling fatality rate The Health Ministry, on Sunday, said India is registering a sharply falling case fatality rate, which is one of the lowest across the world. “Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, U.P., Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Telangana have the maximum caseload. The case fatality rate stands at 1.93% and while the U.S. crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days, India took 156 days to reach this national figure,’’ it said. It said India is now rapidly moving towards completing 3 crore COVID-19 tests. “2,93,09,703 samples tested so far and 7,46,608 tests were done in the last 24 hours. ,” the Ministry said.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Age no bar for learning: Minister||A break of two decades from the classroom could not dampen the spirit of 54-year-oldJagarnath Mahto, Jharkhand School Education and Literacy Development Minister, from wearing the hat of a student again. The last time he stepped into a classroom was when he appeared for the matriculation examination in 1995. Driven by the urge to complete his education, Mr. Mahto decided to jump headlong into the world of learning despite his advancing age. He spoke about his rather curious journey.   Congratulations for resuming your studies. What made you decide to return to the classroom after so many years? When I was sworn in as Education Minister in the Hemant Soren government in January this year, people mocked me over my educational qualification. They were taunting as to what a matriculate Education Minister can do for Jharkhand. According to them, an Education Minister must lead by example. I was very hurt. I resolved not to respond by issuing mere statements, but by action. So I took admission in XI standard in Devi Mahto Inter School at Nawadih in Bokaro district, which I had helped set up in 2005. Tell us about your educational journey and why you had to leave it midway? I belong to a poor farmer family. I passed my matriculation examination in the year 1995 from Nehru High School at Telo in Bokaro. Many people have written that lack of resources had become a hindrance to my continuation of studies. It is wrong. There are many examples of great personalities overcoming poverty to achieve new heights in their lives. I could have also found an answer to the issue of financial crisis. But, there was a bigger challenge before me. I joined the separate Statehood movement led by Sibu Soren and Binod Bihari Mahato. Do you repent discontinuing your education? No. I have realised a bigger dream. The creation of Jharkhand as a new State has reduced the backwardness of the region. Had the State continued under Bihar, I would not have dreamt of making it to higher echelon of governance. Now, I am a Minister and contributing my part to shape the future of Jharkhand. Now, you have already taken admission in a school. How will you do justice to your duty as an Education Minister, which is a very demanding job, and role of being a student? I have accepted the challenge that I will study hard as a student and facilitate education for all as the Education Minister. Besides, I will also carve out time to till my land as a farmer. I am confident of fitting into each role. I have the backing of my Chief Minister who always lays emphasis on education. Did you ever feel that lack of higher education was a hindrance to executing your official duty?   Never. I have been in public life for over two decades. I have seen the condition of our education system from very close quarters. As a Minister, I have brought all my experience into play. While my role is to give direction and ensure that people’s issues are reflected in policies, the bureaucracy takes care of process nitty-gritty. Will the other Ministers who have not completed college education take a cue from your decision? (As per Jharkhand Election Watch, four other Ministers have just passed matriculation.)   There is no age for learning. One can get education at any point of time. But, going back to school is my personal choice. I cannot tell about other Ministers. They will take a call on it.  What is your observation on the status of education in Jharkhand?  Government schools have been neglected for long. Children coming to government schools require motivation and attention similar to what is being provided in privately-run schools.  I have taken admission in Standard 11 in Devi Mahto Inter School at Nawadih, which I had helped set up in 2005
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Prisoner dies of COVID-19 in Kerala||The Poojappura Central Prison in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram, which has been ravaged by COVID-19, reported its first casualty after an aged undertrial prisoner succumbed to the virus on Saturday. Raising the spectre of a large community cluster having formed in the prison, 144 more inmates and an assistant prison officer tested positive for the infection. The deceased, a 71-year-old Kilimanoor native, was the first inmate to be diagnosed with the disease. Suffering from various other comorbidities, including asthma, he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after falling unconscious on August 11. Though he had exhibited various symptoms, including fever, jail officials had initially considered COVID-19 a remote possibility considering his lack of parole history. Imprisoned since 2016, the deceased had been awaiting trial in a murder case. He had been arrested by the Kilimanoor police and was being tried at the court of the Judicial First Class Magistrate-III at Attingal. He was lodged in Block 7 of the Central Prison along with other inmates of the same age group. His diagnosis prompted the jail authorities to launch intensive COVID-19 testing in all prisons across the State. In the Poojappura Central Prison alone, 361 prisoners and five staff members, including four assistant prison officers and a doctor, tested positive within six days. As many as 660 people, including around 20 officials, have been tested so far there. Prison hospital All those infected are being treated at the hospital on the prison premises. However, with one of the two medical officers indisposed, the Prison Department has written to the Health Department seeking the services of a medical team to attend to the growing number of COVID-19 patients.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. demands JPC probe into FB ‘interference’ in polls||Accusing Facebook India of interfering with India’s electoral process, the Congress on Sunday demanded a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to investigate allegations, triggering a war of words between the Union government and the Opposition party. The latest spat between the two parties follows an investigation published by the Wall Street Journal which reported that officials of Facebook India provided “favourable treatment to the BJP on election-related issues” and violated the company’s own guidelines on hate speech by refusing to take down objectionable comments by BJP leaders. Responding to the news report, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) of “controlling” Facebook India to spread fake news, hatred and influence the electorate. He also tagged the WSJ report that said FB India’s top public policy executive, Ankhi Das, had opposed taking down controversial statements of a BJP leader and that she is reported to have told her colleagues that “punishing violations by BJP leaders would affect the company’s business in the country”. Prasad’s personal attack In a personal attack, Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit back by calling Mr. Gandhi a “loser”. Mr. Prasad accused the Congress of trying to manipulate data with the help of Facebook and the now-defunct political consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica. “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?” Mr. Prasad responded to the Congress leader. Amid the social media storm over the investigative report, BJP’s IT Cell chief Amit Malviya said Facebook had “unilaterally” taken down 700 pages of their supporters just ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and many of their digital properties were not allowed to “monetize” their content. At a virtual press conference, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken and the party’s data analytics chief, Praveen Chakravarty alleged that Facebook India’s actions amounted to interfering with Indian elections. “We have two demands: first a JPC should be constituted to inquire into all these allegations and second, FB Head Office should conduct their own probe and remove all those who have political links...Why is the government scared of a JPC? Issues raised by Ravi Shankar Prasad can be also be part of the JPC probe,” Mr. Maken said.
17 August 2020||Patna,||JD(U) expels Bihar Minister in pre-poll churn||Ahead of the Assembly elections, Bihar Minister Shyam Rajak is likely to return to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) from the Janata Dal(U) on Monday. Late on Sunday, amid speculation that he was likely to quit, JD(U) State president Basistha Narayan Singh expelled him from the party for anti-party activities. Sources said Mr. Rajak, Phulwarisharief MLA, was hurt over “neglect” in the party. Of late, the party had been promoting Arun Manjhi in the reserved constituency, the sources said, adding that Mr. Rajak was ignored by senior party leaders during the party’s recent virtual meeting. Mr. Rajak, who was with the RJD and close to RJD chief Lalu Prasad, quit the party in 2009 and joined the JD(U). After the 2015 Assembly election, when the mahagathbandhan came to power, he was not inducted into the Cabinet. However, after Nitish Kumar parted ways with the RJD to form the National Democratic Alliance government, Mr. Rajak was made the Industries Minister. He had been the Dalit face of the JD(U). The RJD on Sunday expelled three of its MLAs — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat), Prema Chaudhury (Patepur) and Faraz Fatmi (Keoti) — from the party for six years. “According to Article 33 of the party under rules 5(a) and (b), if a party MLA is found involved in anti-party activities or acting against the principles of the party, then the MLA can be expelled...,” RJD national general secretary Alok Mehta told presspersons. LJP stand Earlier, NDA partner and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan had asked party leaders to gear up to contest all 243 seats, pointing to the widening rift between the LJP and the ruling JD(U). “Our party’s loyalty and alliance has always been with the BJP and not with JD(U)… I’ll keep pointing out failures of the State government whenever and wherever it was required,” he said on Saturday. The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), which is part of the mahagathbandhan , is likely to join the NDA by August-end. Party chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has hinted about his political move ahead of the election. The Assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November this year and the Election Commission recently said it would be held on schedule.
17 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘U.P. govt. trying to stifle Opposition’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Sunday accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of getting the party’s Lucknow office forcibly shut and trying to suppress the voice of the Opposition by lodging FIRs against him for alleging that the State government was selectively working for Thakurs. At a press conference on August 12, Mr. Singh had accused the police under the Yogi Adityanath government of “selectively killing people”, especially Brahmins. Mr. Singh alleged that the State’s Special Task Force had become the “Special Thakur Force”, in a dig at the Thakur identity of the Chief Minister.  Since then, Mr. Singh said the police had lodged FIRs against him in five districts, including Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Aligarh. He was charged with spreading animosity between communities and hurting national integration. On Sunday, standing outside the AAP’s local office, Mr. Singh accused the police of getting it closed by pressuring the landlord of the building. He said Mr. Adityanath was engaging in a “childish game” of hounding him through police. “I am in Lucknow. You have lodged FIR in five districts. Arrest and send me to jail,” Mr. Singh dared the Chief Minister. The police are yet to respond to the MP’s allegations. Despite having 58 Brahmin MLAs in the State, BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma was unable to raise his voice for his community, the AAP leader said, levelling similar charges against Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Mr. Singh’s remarks fit into the recent onslaught against the Yogi government in which Opposition leaders are accusing it of for allegedly pandering to Thakurs and targeting the Brahmin community. The recent controversy and counter-allegations over caste was triggered by the Vikas Dubey episode in Kanpur and reinforced by found fresh arsenal Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra’s arrest. Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, extended support to Mr. Singh and accused the Yogi government of “honouring just one caste” while targeting the others. On August 15, Mr. Rajbhar called upon Mr. Singh at his residence here and indicated that the two parties would tie up for the 2022 State elections.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India is moving towards a form of elected autocracy’||With Parliament becoming a “ghost town” due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the judiciary having ‘abdicated’ its role, accountability mechanisms have become diluted and the central executive has become all-powerful and given free rein to do whatever it pleases”, former Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court A.P. Shah said in a hard-hitting speech on Sunday. He was speaking at the inaugural session of the Janta Parliament webinar being organised jointly by hundreds of civil society groups this week. Justice Shah said the budget session had been adjourned sine die on March 23, despite the fact that Parliament had previously continued to function through other times of crisis, including the wars of 1962 and 1971, and met the very next day after its own building faced a terror attack in 2001. Parliaments of other countries had also continued to function through hybrid or completely virtual sessions through the pandemic, enabling remote voting to ensure that legislative business could continue. In contrast, the Indian Parliament “has remained a ghost town since March 2020,” said Justice Shah. “Besides failing to provide leadership to the people in a time of crisis, like the pandemic, it compounds the problem of representation and accountability by granting the executive a free rein to do as it pleases. Executive accountability, in these conditions, is a thing of memory, for there is no one to raise any questions about its actions,” he said. Social activist Aruna Roy accused the government of “using this opportunity to push through policies in the most undemocratic way”. She listed the dilution of labour laws, waiving of environmental protections and ramming through a new education policy with no vetting by Parliament as examples. Justice Shah did not spare his own branch of the government either. “Today, the judiciary appears once again to be failing us,” he said, drawing parallels to the Emergency and accusing the apex court of ignoring or delaying cases related to important issues such as the Kashmir trifurcation, the Citizenship Amendment Act and electoral bonds. “In some cases, such as that of Internet access in Kashmir, the Supreme Court has all but abdicated its role as arbiter, and handed over the matter to an executive-run committee to determine,” he said. He warned that the dilution of accountability mechanisms during the pandemic is the continuation of a dangerous trend, moving India towards “a form of elected autocracy”. “What we see happening in India today is an insidious takedown of each of these institutions and mechanisms empowered to hold the executive accountable,” he said.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||All eyes on Mani faction MLAs’ RS vote||The schism in the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] and the decision of the United Democratic Front (UDF) to expel the Jose K. Mani faction for refusing to abide by its diktat would play out in the Rajya Sabha election on August 24. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to declare its stance, but its lone member O. Rajagopal may abstain from voting to reiterate the party’s stance against both fronts. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) with 89 members is set to romp home comfortably. However, of the five KC(M) MLAs, the decision of the two who have aligned with Mr. Mani — Roshy Augustine and N. Jayaraj — to vote for either the LDF or the UDF would be quite decisive for both fronts ahead of the local body and Assembly elections. UDF’s dilemma The fortunes of the UDF in central Kerala largely rest on the KC(M) stance. Having the party again on board would anger P.J. Joseph and if he decides to quit, it would only compound the internal dissensions in the front ahead of the two elections. The LDF leadership has clarified that it has not opened any parleys with the Mani faction. Moreover, the front could win the seat on its own strength. Mr. Mani has expressed his resolve to remain independent for the time being. After expelling the Mani faction, the UDF seems to have had second thoughts and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said on Thursday that the faction had not been officially ousted from the front. But he was not clear whether the two legislators would vote for the UDF. Mr. Chennithala also went a step ahead and said that the BJP would only vote for the LDF. Since the election is being held amid COVID-19 crisis, even if the KC(M) MLAs do not turn up for the election the UDF could use it as a premise to mask its embarrassment.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad firm launches AI and ML-based ventilators||LEVEN Medical, an India-Dutch collaboration conceived three months ago and mentored by Hyderabad Security Cluster (TS Government initiative), on Sunday came out with three new ventilators integrated with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). SMART Ventilator, C5 Covid-19 Ventilator and ICU Ventilator, were launched IT & Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan in the presence of CISF IG - South sector Anjana Sinha, HSC CEO and chief executive of LEVEN Medical Zaki Qureshey. These ventilators can capture patient data and user data to help take decisions about medical intervention, unlike regular ventilators, Mr Ranjan said, adding, “Hyderabad remains a hotbed of healthcare related innovation and the fact that this innovation has come out here makes us feel very proud,” said Mr. Ranjan. LEVEN C5 ventilator is priced around Rs. 75,000 with COVID tracking software when compared to basic ventilators available in the market range between Rs. 1.5-Rs. 5 lakh without a tracking software. LEVEN ICU is priced around Rs. 9 lakh with proprietary GUI software with remote monitoring feature and COVID tracking software whereas corresponding models available in the market cost between Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 35 lakh. The LEVEN Smart Ventilator is priced around Rs. 12 lakh integrated with AI & ML and tracking software, a press release said. “With the progression of the COVID-19 pandemic, the acute shortage of medical infrastructure in the country was brought to the fore. We started developing the smart ventilator and kept on adding features to bring about solutions to emerging problems as the pandemic unfolded, explained Dr. Qureshey. The machine comes with a remote monitoring feature so that a doctor can attend to a patient in case of an emergency even during his break or from home. A tracking software allows contact tracing and monitoring of patients. The product has developed and integrated 10 different functions into the system, he said. The first 100 ventilators are to be donated to remote government healthcare facilities. “It is a robust and affordable innovation. We have already tried it out in our healthcare facility. It should used in government facilities to see the viability,” said Ms. Anjana Sinha.
17 August 2020||BENGALURU,||More arrests in D.J. Halli case||Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths raided a house at Hegde Nagar, north of the violence-hit D.J. Halli, late on Saturday night and arrested eight youngsters, most of whom are allegedly workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The police have also arrested a man named Saleem, who is said to have played a key role in organising the mob that gathered outside the D.J. Halli police station. “He had sent messages on WhatsApp groups calling upon people to gather in front of the police station,” a senior officer said. With these arrests, the total number of detentions and arrests has risen to 309. A total of 52 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence. Of those detained, three have tested positive for COVID-19. The investigation has been able to not only uncover messages on messaging apps and social media platforms used to organise the mob, but also pinpoint those who provided logistical support such as fuel supply to the rioters to indulge in large-scale arson, a senior police officer added. Several women gathered outside D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police stations on Sunday morning, alleging that their sons, husbands and brothers had been wrongfully detained by the police. Many of them were seen breaking down, pleading with the police to let go of their “innocent” male relatives. The women alleged that the police had indiscriminately picked up young men from the areas surrounding the sites of violence. “We have been victimised just because we are staying in this area,” one of them told presspersons. Another woman alleged that the police had picked up her son who was both visually and mentally challenged. “How could he have perpetrated any violence?” she asked. Meanwhile, senior police officers maintained that they weredetaining suspects, interrogating them, and arresting only those against whom they could find credible evidence, either in the form of mobile location, calls, chats, or sighting in video footage. “The rest will be let go,” he said. The post T. Pavan Kumar, father of P. Naveen Kumar, whose derogatory social media post against Islam triggered the riots, has lodged a complaint against unidentified individuals for vandalising and torching his house on the night of August 11. His son, who has been arrested for the derogatory post, has reportedly changed his version of the story multiple times. “Hours after his post triggered unrest, Naveen deleted it and claimed that his Facebook account was hacked. But investigation clearly indicated that the post was indeed made from his phone. He later claimed that he was careless with his phone and one of his acquaintances may have made the post through his account. However, there is no evidence that someone else was in possession of his phone that evening,” a senior officer said.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘IB team to fast-track Naga peace process’||The National Socialist Council of Nagaland-IM (NSCN-IM) said on Sunday that after Naga interlocutor R.N. Ravi created an imbroglio in the peace talk process, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had mandated a team of Intelligence Bureau (IB) officials to fast-track the communication and clear the pending issues. The group also released a copy of the original 2015 framework agreement, which stated that the Centre had agreed on “sharing the sovereign power” and provided for an “enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities”. The contents were released for the first time by the group last week. Mr. Ravi did not respond to requests for a comment. The NSCN-IM, one of the largest Naga groups, signed a framework agreement in the presence of Prime Minister on August 3, 2015 to end the decades-old Naga issue. Mr. Ravi had signed the agreement on behalf of the Centre. After five years, the group is demanding the removal of Mr. Ravi, accusing him of “highhandedness” and tweaking the agreement to mislead the other Naga groups. Mr. Ravi was also appointed as Nagaland Governor last year. ‘Won’t merge’ NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah had said on Friday that the Centre recognised the sovereignty of the Nagas when it signed the 2015 agreement and that the Nagas will co-exist but not merge with India. The NSCN-IM statement on Sunday said, “NSCN has been talking to Ravi as Interlocutor and not as Governor. But since Ravi created imbroglio in the talk process, the PM gave mandate to continue the talk to a team of IB as a Fast Track Channel for communication and clear the pending points in the competency. Once everything is clear the agreement will be at political level of the Prime Minister.” In November 2017, Mr. Ravi included more Naga groups within the fold of the talks and signed a preamble with the seven Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). The NNPGs back Mr. Ravi and demand that the final peace pact be signed soon. NSCN-IM has been fighting for ‘Greater Nagaland’ or Nagalim — it wants to extend Nagaland’s borders by including Naga-dominated areas in neighbouring Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Allegations of graft not per se contempt’||Allegations of corruption cannot be “per se” contempt because truth is a defence to contempt proceedings, civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan has told the Supreme Court. Mr. Bhushan was responding to a contempt case against him for his remarks on “corruption in judiciary” in an interview to the Tehelka magazine in 2009. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to hear the case on merits on Monday. On August 10, the court passed an interim order that it would hear arguments on whether the remarks in the interview against the judiciary amounted to per se contempt. “Allegation of corruption per se cannot be contempt because the same pertains to criticism of a judge for a biased dispensation of justice and would in all cases require further investigation before such allegations are brushed aside at the threshold,” Mr. Bhushan said in his written submissions to the court. He said truth is a defence under Section 13 (b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. “When such truth/defence is invoked, the court to hold the alleged contemnor guilty of contempt will have to necessarily return a finding that (a) such defence is not in public interest; and (b) the request for invoking such defence is not bona-fide,” Mr. Bhushan argued. Mr. Bhushan said he used the word ‘corruption’ in a wider sense to include any act of impropriety other than merely financial corruption. He said the factum of corruption in judiciary had been stated in parliamentary panel reports on prevention of corruption, commented upon by ex-judges and noted in judgments.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Sub-registrar doubles as farmhand||Community outreach during the weekends has earned sub-registrar of Mulugu and Jayashankar Bhupalpally appreciation from tribals in the area. Tasleema Mohammad, 34, takes up farm work, which is the only form of work available in the area. Whatever money she earns through her labour, she uses to spend on the needy. Beneficiaries of her weekend and holiday labour include a 15-year-old girl, who lost her parents in a road accident in 2013. Ms Tasleema is now looking after her. Her service has earned her the moniker ‘Gutti Koyala Peddakka’ (sister of Gutti Koya tribes) in the area. While pushing files and recording transactions are her routine jobs, the qualitative difference that has come in her life by helping the needy is an unmatched feeling, she told The Hindu . Even the locals in the area also approach her for solutions to their civic and social problems. Ms. Tasleema said that she herself was the victim of Naxal violence, as she lost her father when she was just two. She recalled how her mother single-handedly raised her and her five siblings in the face of adversity. Narrating her experience working with farm labourers, the Group II officer said that farmers, especially tribals, were not aware of several schemes aimed at improving their lives, like crop insurance and farm subsidy. She feels that there is an urgent need to educate the tribal farmers about government initiatives. “During weekends and holidays, I work at the farms and interact with them for hours. They pay me Rs. 300-400 per day, which I give to the needy in the village,” she said. A mother of two, Ms. Tasleema said that she always travels by public transport instead of using her official vehicle. “My mother has inspired me in every way. She is my role model.” The officer, who even knows how to drive a tractor, also runs an NGO that provides education and other basic needs to the poor and destitute. She has bagged ‘Best Employee of the year’ award 11 times in 12 years of her service in the department.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||PMO denies RTI plea seeking info on PM-CARES||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has denied a Right to Information (RTI) request related to the PM-CARES Fund on the grounds that providing it would “disproportionately divert the resources of the office”. However, a High Court judgment and multiple orders of the Central Information Commission (CIC) have previously held that, under the RTI Act, this rationale can only be used to change the format of information provided, not deny it altogether. This is a “misuse” of the Act, which should attract penalties under the law, says the country’s first Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah. RTI activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd.) had filed an RTI request asking for the total number of RTI applications and appeals received and disposed of in the PMO since April 2020, and the number of such applications related to PM-CARES and the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. On the eve of Independence Day, the PMO responded, providing the overall data, but denying information specific to the two funds. “The information sought by you is not maintained in this office in compiled form. Its collection and compilation would disproportionately divert the resources of this office from the efficient discharge of its normal functions, thereby attracting the provisions under Section 7(9) of the Act,” said the PMO’s Chief Public Information Officer (CPIO). Section 7(9) of the Act says, “An information shall ordinarily be provided in the form in which it is sought unless it would disproportionately divert the resources of the public authority or would be detrimental to the safety or preservation of the record in question.” “There is no ambiguity. This is a misuse of the clause by CPIOs. It is up to the information commissions to levy penalties as this would amount to misinformation provided under the Act,” said Mr. Habibullah. In a 2010 order, the Kerala High Court had dismissed the possibility of using the clause to deny information.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||Raj Bhavan placed under surveillance: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that Raj Bhavan has been placed under surveillance and said he would do everything to protect its sanctity. The allegation came a day after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and senior officials met Mr. Dhankhar on Independence Day. On Saturday, the Chief Minister had sounded a reconciliatory note when she came for a chat without any appointment, signalling a thaw in the relations between the State government and the Raj Bhavan. However, the Governor’s new allegations have stirred up a new political controversy. “I would like to tell you all that the Raj Bhavan is under surveillance. That should never happen,” Mr. Dhankhar told a group of journalists on Sunday during an event at his official residence. TMC leadership rubbished the allegations. “Why will the State government have surveillance on Raj Bhavan? These are unrealistic allegations,” said Minister Rajib Banerjee.
17 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Mani group to issue whip||Even as suspense persists over the political stance of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani in the Rajya Sabha polls, the party has entrusted Roshy Augustine to issue whip to its legislators in the election. According to the Mani group, Mr. Augustine had been appointed as the party chief whip in a meeting convened by the then party chairman K.M. Mani after the Assembly election in 2016. This was informed to the Speaker by the then parliamentary party secretary Mons Joseph on June 3, 2016. Mr. Augustine still holds the right to issue the whip in the Rajya Sabha election and in case of a no-confidence motion. The move assumed significance as P.J. Joseph, KC(M) working chairman, had asserted his right to issue whip to the party legislators. “The plan to issue whip to its legislators suggest that the party will not be staying independent any more. In that sense, the coming Rajya Sabha election becomes crucial for the regional party as well,” said a KC(M) leader.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||PPE kits worth Rs. 350 cost Rs. 1,500 in private hospitals!||The exclusion of certain items from government-capped prices for COVID-19 treatment has left wide scope for private hospital managements to fleece patients. Many such hospitals have billed as much as Rs. 1,500 for a single personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, three times higher than its actual cost. Suppliers of PPE kits in Hyderabad procure it for just Rs. 350-500! Recently, Health department officials instructed private hospital managements to charge PPE kits and high-end drugs at maximum retail price (MRP), and display the cost at prominent places of their property. Besides, itemised bills have to be provided to patients. A medical consumables supplier from the city who has been providing PPE kits from the time COVID-19 pandemic broke out said that he procures it from Rajasthan at Rs. 350 per kit. “We charge only Rs. 25-50 extra per kit while supplying. Those are made of 90 GSM spun bound non-woven fabric which means it is of good quality. Some wholesalers supply at low rates, but they have been asked by certain hospital managements to put a higher MRP tag on them. Though wholesalers don’t get a cut in the inflated MRP, they have to oblige to the hospitals’ request if they want to remain in business,” said the supplier on condition of anonymity. The kit includes a jump suit with head cover, shoe cover, mask and gloves. Doctors who bought the kits to donate it to others said that though the prices went up to Rs. 1,600 in May, it has now dropped. An entrepreneur in medical consumables, R. Shashank Reddy said that the best quality kits can be purchased at Rs. 800. “The wholesale cost was high during the lockdown. However after relaxations, the prices dropped as transportation costs too have come down. Best quality PPE kits can be purchased for Rs. 800,” Mr Reddy said. One doesn’t even have to approach wholesale suppliers to buy the kits. Orders for it can be placed on e-commerce websites which has multiple options depending on the quality. In fact, people placed orders for use at home while taking care of a COVID-positive family member under home isolation. People have lodged complaints about being overcharged by private hospitals. Vijay Gopal, president of Forum Against Corruption, said that a private hospital charged Rs. 1500 per kit. The cost for 64 kits used over a span of 12 days came up to Rs. 96,000. He has also lodged a complaint against it with the Director of Public Health. Another hospital allegedly charged Rs. 12,000 per day for the PPEs and the bill for kits for 10 days of admission came up to Rs. 1.2 lakh. However, the number of kits provided per day was not mentioned. Some hospitals managements did not even give bill summary to attendants.  The wholesale cost was high during the lockdown. However after relaxations, prices dropped as transportation costs have come down. Best quality PPE kits can be purchased for Rs. 800. R. Shashank Reddy, Entrepreneur in medical consumables
17 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Revised norms explore new treatment options||The State has brought out revised treatment guidelines for the management of COVID-19 in the form of a comprehensive document, drawn from the best of evidence-based practices from across the globe and encompassing the experience of the State’s clinicians in treating those infected till date. The new guidelines bear evidence to the new and better understanding of the disease epidemiology and transmission dynamics of COVID-19 and the newer treatment options, including the use of steroids, antivirals, and plasma therapy. Drop in oxygen level “We have assimilated the best from the national guidelines but have added guidance based on our clinical observations too. One is the note about the atypical manifestations of COVID-19 that clinicians should watch out for. The highlight, however, is the algorithmic approach to treating patients with exertional desaturation (drop in oxygen level), a phenomenon which is well recognised but has not been addressed in other guidelines,” a senior clinician said. “Post-discharge follow-up of patients is very important. Exertional dyspnea (feeling short of breath after some activity) was one of the sequelae of COVID-19 experienced by some of the health-care workers who had recovered. Recognising exertional dyspnea and addressing it at the right time is very important as interstitial pneumonia in some cases can progress to irreversible pulmonary fibrosis,” he added. The new guidelines talk about an exertional desaturation test or the 40 steps test for those patients with normal oxygen saturation (> 94%) at rest in room air and who are clinically stable. If the oxygen levels drop after the walk test, these patients may be started on low-dose steroids after consulting the pulmonary specialist or physician. Pregnant women, kids The other additions in the guidelines include the CT-guided approach to diagnosing a person who tests negative in PCR test but has clinical symptoms of COVID-19, critical care guidelines for adults and paediatric cases, and treatment of pregnant women in serious condition to whom antiviral Remdesivir cannot be administered. ‘HCQ beneficial’ While antivirals like Remdesivir and Favipiravir are new additions, clinicians in the State still swear by hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the early administration of which in mild/asymptomatic patients has been found to be beneficial. “We have not seen any adverse effects in our patients treated on HCQ. Convalescent plasma therapy which used to be indicated as the last resort has been pushed ahead in the course of treatment in the new guidelines. Early administration of antivirals and steroids might be the key to preventing overreaction of the immune system or the cytokine storm syndrome,” doctors at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, said. A uniform pattern Doctors said a crucial factor for the successful clinical management of COVID-19 patients in the State had been the highly centralised and uniform treatment pattern followed by all COVID-19 hospitals here. The State Medical Board (SMB) reviews all serious cases in ICUs in various hospitals daily and all critical decisions are taken by the institutional medical boards in consultation with the SMB.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. govt. under fire after rape, murder of minor||The district police chief, however, said while the body had blood stains near the eye, the victim may have received cut marks from sugarcane leaves. He added that the tongue getting pressed between the teeth was a sign of strangulation. Terming the incident as shameful, BSP chief Mayawati demanded strict action against the guilty. “With such incidents, what difference is there between the SP government and the current BJP government,” she asked in a tweet. ‘At its peak’ Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the oppression of girls and women under the BJP rule in U.P. was at its peak. Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress U.P. president, claimed there was a “jungle raj” in the State.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. FDA nod for rapid, inexpensive saliva test||They found that saliva samples taken from just inside the mouth provided “greater detection sensitivity and consistency throughout the course of an infection than the broadly recommended nasopharyngeal approach,” according to a Yale release. The study also found less variability in results with the self-sample collection of saliva. Open source protocol Dr. Grubaugh and Dr. Wyllie said they are not seeking to commercialise the method and instead want the simplified testing method to help those most in need. The testing protocol has been provided as an “open source”, allowing laboratories in the U.S. to perform the tests. “Thus, SalivaDirect will be free to use by diagnostic labs. NGOs may apply for a licence. While the licence will be free, if you represent a for-profit organisation, we may issue a licence. The licence will be free, but we will want to negotiate how much you charge for the tests. We made this to be inexpensive, and we need those savings to be transferred to your customers,” Yale said. The new test makes sample collection non-invasive and reduces the need for trained healthcare workers to collect the samples, reducing the risk of infection during collection. The collection of a nasopharyngeal sample requires a swab to be inserted into the back of the nostrils, very often causing irritation, leading to sneezing and coughing, thus exposing healthcare workers to the virus. Collecting nasopharyngeal samples can also be uncomfortable, discouraging people from getting tested. The easier saliva test is likely to increase testing compliance. “Saliva samples are a viable alternative to nasopharyngeal swabs and could allow for at-home, self-administered sample collection for accurate large-scale SARS-CoV-2 testing,” Dr. Wyllie said in a release. The saliva sample can be collected in any sterile container. The diagnostic test also does not require the use of preservatives at sample collection, does not require specialised reagents or equipment for nucleic acid extraction. The researchers validated SalivaDirect using several common and available reagents. They claim the test is inexpensive costing between $1.29-4.37 per sample.  (With PTI inputs)
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala farmers warned of unsolicited seed packs||With the Union Agriculture Ministry issuing an alert on the threat posed by unsolicited seed parcels, the Kerala Agriculture Department has advised farmers to promptly inform the nearest Krishi Bhavan if they receive mysterious consignments. In an August 14 advisory, K. Vasuki, Director, Agriculture, directed field-level officers of the department to warn farmers against opening unsolicited seed parcels originating from unknown sources. Farmers should inform the nearest Krishi Bhavan immediately and take steps to destroy the parcels by burning, the advisory said. The recipients have also been asked to properly sanitise their hands after handling the parcels. Further, the Agriculture Department has warned them against procuring seeds from suspicious sources. Seeds should be purchased only through authorised agencies, the department said. Second advisory This is the second advisory issued by the department after the Centre issued a nationwide alert on August 6. On August 12, the department had asked its field offices and department farms/nurseries to keep an eye out for suspicious seed parcels originating from unknown sources.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Airlines fighting to stay airborne||In its forecast, CAPA said all airlines, barring IndiGo, may need Rs. 18,750 crore until the market begins to turnaround, and more during the recovery phase. “Promoters, bankers, private equity, & government are all unwilling to provide support given demand risk & uncertainty,” CAPA India tweeted last week. “CAPA India reiterates that this could have an unprecedented impact on air connectivity, and on economic recovery. The two critical elements for the industry to survive and navigate this crisis are demand [traffic risk] and capital,” industry body added. “We shifted our focus from profitability and growth to managing cash and liquidity amidst the crisis situation — reducing our unit costs even further, making our fleet more efficient, ensuring our capacity is right sized to the market, and experimenting with new network and revenue models,” IndiGo’s CEO Ronojoy Dutta told The Hindu in an e-mail. Fuel efficiency To save on the most crucial expense — fuel costs — the airline has prioritised flying its fuel-efficient NEOs over older CEO-powered A320 planes. Negotiating better prices and favourable credit terms as well as selling and leasing back its older CEO planes are the different ways in which the airline aims to generate liquidity of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 crore. Since the interview, IndiGo’s board has approved raising another Rs. 4,000 crore through issue of equity shares. “We have been renegotiating various contracts with partners, vendors and lessors. We also had to make the difficult decision of temporarily reducing some of our staff cost,” a Vistara spokesperson told this newspaper. Hauling revenue “CarGo line of business has performed extremely well until the lockdown, which was leveraged to carry essential supplies,” Mr. Dutta said on the airline’s goods transport unit. “We have learned valuable lessons about the demand and scope for CarGo during this lockdown, which will serve us well for augmenting our operations in the months ahead. With currently 10 aircraft completely devoted to CarGo, we plan to continue with CarGo operations even once we fully resume our operations,” he said. Airlines like Vistara and SpiceJet have also expedited plans to launch long-haul international routes to destinations like London after noticing a steady stream of passengers through repatriation flights. They are spurred on by bilateral agreements India has signed with select number of countries which allows only airlines of the bilateral partners to ferry passengers, thereby bringing down competition such as from Gulf carriers which would connect passengers to destinations in Europe and U.S. through their hubs in Doha and Dubai. With Jet Airways shutting down, and only Air India serving medium and long haul international destinations, this is an opportunity many would like to cash in on.
17 August 2020||Jammu,||Jammu police file cases over ‘sensitive’ videos||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Sunday filed cases against uploading communally sensitive videos online and beating up of a local resident. “An incident involving a video of communally sensitive nature has gone viral on social media which seems to have been maliciously posted to create communal tension,” said IGP, Jammu, Mukesh Singh. Guftar Ahmed, spokesman of the Gujjar Bakarwal Youth Welfare Conference J&K, said two incidents took place in Jammu’s Reasi. “In one video, a person used derogatory words against the Prophet and in another incident some hate mongers almost lynched Muhammad Asghar,” he said. Locals said Mr. Asghar was attacked by some cow vigilantes while he and his son were heading for a pasture land with their cattle. The police said two FIRs have been lodged — one where Asgar’s son “hurt the sentiments of a community by injuring a cow with a sharp-edged object” and “another in a case where people attacked Asghar”.
17 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||2 killed in village over land dispute||A father and son were killed after violence broke out between two sides in Shiekhupura village of Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh during a Panchayat meeting, police said on Sunday. A physical fight erupted between the families of Chandramani Mishra and Daya Shankar Mishra during a meeting called to resolve a land dispute. Mr. Daya Shankar and his son Anand died of their injuries. One of the accused, Rakesh Mishra, has been arrested.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCC set for big expansion in border areas||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved a proposal of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) for a major expansion scheme in all the border and coastal districts, the Defence Ministry said on Sunday. “A total of one lakh cadets from 173 border and coastal districts will be inducted in the NCC. One-third of the cadets would be girl cadets. More than 1,000 schools and colleges have been identified in border and coastal districts where NCC will be introduced,” the Ministry said in a statement. As part of the expansion plan, a total of 83 NCC units will be upgraded — Army 53, Navy 20, Indian Air Force (IAF) 10 — to impart NCC training to the cadets in the border and coastal areas, it stated. The proposal on NCC expansion was announced by PM Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address on Saturday. The Army will provide training and administrative support to the NCC units located in the border areas, Navy to the units in the coastal areas and IAF to the units close to Air Force stations. The expansion plan would be implemented in partnership with the States.
17 August 2020||Srinagar,||4G Internet restored in 2 J&K districts||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Sunday decided to restore high-speed mobile Internet, 4G, in the twin districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur on “a trial basis”. “The high speed mobile data services in the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur shall be restored forthwith, on a trial basis, while in rest of the districts, the Internet speed shall continue to be restricted to 2G,” an order of the J&K Home Department said. Internet services were snapped in J&K on August 5, 2019, the day its special status was revoked, and was later restored in a phase-wise manner. However, the speed on mobile phones was restricted to 2G. There was a persistent demand from locals, especially traders and students, to lift the ban on the 4G speed, which was affecting their day to day life. It’s for the first time in over a year that the J&K administration has decided to restore 4G services on mobile phones.
17 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Heavy rain in Odisha, 2 die in wall collapse||Heavy rain lashed parts of Odisha affecting normal life, cutting off roads and inundating low-lying areas. Two persons died in Patnagarh block of Balangir district when a wall collapsed on them. Four members of a family had gone to attend a religious event on Saturday evening. They stayed back in a thatched house in the night. Due to heavy rain, a portion of wall collapsed leading to the accident.
17 August 2020||PTI,||45-year-old man dies in Howrah as wife hits on head, chops off genitals||A 45-year-old man died on Sunday in West Bengal’s Howrah district after his wife hit him on the head with a fish-knife and chopped off his genitals over a family fight, police said. The incident happened in Malipukur in Jujarsaha village in Panchla police station area, they said. Police said they have sent the body of Mohsin Mallik for post-mortem and arrested his wife Manira.
17 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Four fishermen go missing near Koderi fishing harbour||Four fishermen who were on their way for fishing in the Arabian Sea went missing in Koderi village of Byndoor taluk, Udupi district, on Sunday afternoon after their boat capsized while entering a rough sea. They were among a batch of about 24 fishermen who ventured out for fishing in two traditional fishing boats from Koderi fishing harbour. The police gave the names of the missing fishermen as Shekhar Kharvi (35), Nagaraj Kharvi (46), Lakshman Kharvi (34) and Manjunath Kharvi (38), all residents of the locality. Fishermen in the two boats were in a joint effort when the incident occurred at the mouth of the breakwater where Yedamavinahole joins the Arabian Sea. One of the two boats capsized while negotiating the rough sea waves on Sunday. There were 12 fishermen in the boat that capsized and eight of them swam to safety. Coastal Security Police from Gangolli Police Station, Byndoor Police, and Revenue officials are camping at the place to trace the missing fishermen. Kundapur Assistant Commissioner K. Raju, Assistant Superintendent of Police Hariram Shankar, Coastal Security Police Inspector Sandeep, Byndoor Police Inspector Suresh Nayak, Tahsildar Basappa Poojari and others are leading the rescue operations. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha visited the spot in the evening.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,||NGT sets fresh deadline for lake rejuvenation||As COVID-19 related restrictions are being eased, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has set new deadlines for rejuvenation of the highly polluted Bellandur, Varthur, and Agara lakes in the city. In a recent order, the NGT has said that leftover work “may be expeditiously completed” and reviewed by the NGT appointed Monitoring Committee to oversee the rejuvenation and protection of the three lakes. “The tenure of the committee ended on March 31, 2020 and this recent order implies that the tenure has been extended,” a member of the committee said. The new order also states that a report on the status of compliance as on December 31, 2020 may be submitted to the NGT by January 15, 2021  by the Monitoring Committee. The NGT has also directed the BWSSB to provide details of the steps taken for removing of biological nutrient from sewage and has directed the BBMP to survey and notify the rajakaluves for purposes of buffer zones of 50, 25, and 15 metres. Earlier, in order issued on December 18, 2019, the NGT had said: “The timeline for execution of projects for setting up of STPs and laying of sewerage network may not be extended beyond September 30, 2020. If the works remain incomplete, Rs. 10 lakh per STP per month will be liable to be paid as compensation, which may be recovered from the erring officers, apart from adverse entries in their service records and other adverse action.” Santosh Hegde, who is heading the Monitoring Committee, said that they would see if the work is in accordance with the directions issued by the NGT “in fact and spirit.” “My committee has to examine the compliance of NGT's order by various agencies, which will be done if the High Court has no objection,” he said. The order also directs the Chief Secretary to “furnish a consolidated report covering the steps taken by all the departments concerned” by January 31, 2021. The committee had submitted a synopsis report to the NGT on March 6, 2020 on implementation of directions by the tribunal by the agencies concerned. Speaking to The Hindu , Jagadish Reddy, member of Bellandur and Varthur Lakes’ Rejuvenation Team, said that the recent order clearly showed that all the agencies concerned had miserably failed to follow the orders of the NGT even after being pulled up time and again. “Looking at the gravity of the situation, the NGT should give executive powers to the Monitoring Committee. Only monitoring power will not suffice to bring all the aspects to track,” he said.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Byju’s biggest online quiz for school students to be held||Ed-tech company Byju’s will soon be organising one of the biggest online quizzes for school students. The Discovery School Super League (DSSL) would see more than one crore students from over 30,000 schools participate through the DSSL app. Top teams from each State would be selected for a television round which would also be conducted remotely. The quiz, open for students in the age group of 8 to 16, would have no entry fee. The winning team would fly to NASA with all expenses paid. Students could participate by downloading the app onelink.to/3fdzvw available on the Android and iOS platforms.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||98-year-old war veteran defeats COVID-19||Sepoy Ramu Laxman Sakpal (Retd.), a 98-year-old war veteran who contracted COVID-19, was discharged from the Navy hospital in Mumbai on August 15 after being fully cured, the Navy said on Sunday. “Sepoy Sakpal, a resident of Nerul, was admitted to Indian Naval Hospital Ship Asvini in a critical state and diagnosed with pneumonia due to COVID-19 a few weeks ago,” the Navy said in a statement. Mr. Sakpal served in the Mahar Regiment of the Army.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||Raj Bhavan under surveillance, says Bengal Governor Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said Raj Bhavan had been placed under surveillance and he would do everything to protect its sanctity. The allegations directed at the Trinamool Congress government came nearly 24 hours after the Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, along with senior officials of the State government, met Mr. Dhankhar on Saturday. The Chief Minister had sounded a reconciliatory note when she arrived at Raj Bhavan and said she had come for a chat without any appointment, signalling a thaw in the relations between the State government and the Governor. However, the latter’s allegations have now stirred a new political controversy. “I would like to tell you all that the Raj Bhavan is under surveillance. That should never happen. How can the office of the constitutional head be under surveillance,” Mr. Dhankhar told journalists who had participated in an event at Raj Bhavan. He also said documents from Raj Bhavan are “being procured by the executive” in the government. “The government is within its rights to seek any information from me.... but as Constitutional head, I will never tolerate any surveillance of whatsoever nature,” Mr. Dhankhar said. He said he has started “a very serious probe” into the matter and will take action accordingly. The Trinamool Congress leadership, however, rubbished the claims. “Why will the State have surveillance on Raj Bhavan. These are unrealistic allegations,” Minister Rajib Banerjee said. MPs Saugata Roy and Mahua Moitra also refuted the allegations. “Uncleji now claims he & WB Raj Bhavan premises (are) under surveillance. Believe me, that’s something your bosses from Gujarat do better than anyone else - any of us would be novices at it :-),” Ms. Moitra tweeted.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No change in Pranab’s health condition||There is no change in the health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and his vital parameters are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital said on Sunday, adding that he continues to be on ventilator support. Last Monday, Mr. Mukherjee underwent an emergency surgery for brain clot. He has also tested positive for COVID-19.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maanja thread slits throat of three persons, 55 arrested||The maanja menace seems to be increasing in the city ever since the lockdown began.  Three motorists, including a woman, were injured after the thread slit their throat on Ennore Expressway on Saturday. Soon after the incident, police swung into action and arrested 55 persons. Madhavan, 33, of Chintadripet was riding on Ennore Expressway when the thread slit his neck . He was rushed to the Stanley Government Hospital. The police said his condition was stable. On Saturday, Ramani, 35, a resident of Ennore, who works in a garment shop on M.C. Road, Washermanpet, was returning home with her friend Revathi on a two-wheeler. When she reached the fire station on Ennore Expressway, the maanja thread slit her neck and the two fell from the two-wheeler. Ms. Ramani was rushed to Stanley Government Hospital for treatment. “Her condition is serious,” said a senior police officer. Purushotaman from Madhavaram was also injured in a similar manner when he was riding through Tiruvottiyur to purchase fish on Saturday evening. “It is said that another man, Pandiarajan, was injured while riding on Ennore Expressway and has been admitted to a private hospital. We are yet to verify the incident,” added the officer. Raids and arrests Following these incidents, the police conducted raids across north and west Chennai. “We conducted raids in North Beach, Muthialpet, New Washermanpet, Thiruvottiyur, Royapuram, Madhavaram, Puzhal, Red Hills, Ennore, Manali and Manali New Town. Fifty-five persons were arrested on Saturday and Sunday. Close to 200 kites and 50 spools of maanja thread were seized,” said the senior police officer. He said that raids would continue. Though the police claim to be cracking down on maanja and kite flying in the city, the menace continues unchecked. Early this month, police personnel Jayakumar and his wife Maheshwari, a head constable with the Central Crime Branch attached to Greater Chennai Police were injured after maanja thread slit Mr. Jayakumar’s neck and the two fell from the bike on Padi flyover. Following this, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal transferred Villivakkam inspector S. Rajeesh Babu to the control room for failing to crack down on maanja menace in his jurisdiction.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,950 fresh infections, 125 deaths||With 5,950 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the number of active cases in the State rose to 54,019. Tamil Nadu’s overall infection tally reached 3,38,055. As many as 6,019 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 2,78,270. The death toll continued to rise as 125 more fatalities were recorded on Sunday. As many as 5,766 persons have died of the infection so far. Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu continued to see a rise in the number of cases. Chennai recorded 1,196 new cases, taking its tally to 1,16,650. A total of 1,009 persons were discharged in the city on Sunday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,02,698. The number of active cases in the city stands at 11,498. Chennai has recorded 2,454 deaths so far, including 22 on Sunday. Tiruvallur recorded 488 new infections, while health officials identified 436 new cases in Chengalpattu. Kancheepuram reported 307 new cases. While Tiruvallur reported eight deaths in the last 24 hours, the other two districts recorded three deaths each. Coimbatore reported 395 fresh infections. Theni accounted for 205 cases and Vellore 264. Of the 125 people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday, 17 had no co-morbidities. Among those who died was a 21-year-old woman from Chengalpattu who was admitted to the government medical college in the district on August 12. She died on Friday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 90-year-old man from Chennai who was admitted to a private hospital on Saturday died within four hours of admission. He was hypertensive and had fever and breathing difficulty for four days. He died due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory disorder. A 94-year-old man from Virudhunagar, who had diabetes, was admitted on August 13 to the government medical college hospital there. He died on Saturday evening of viral pneumonia and respiratory failure.  U.T. count The number of active cases in the Union Territory of Puducherry crossed 3,000 on Sunday with 384 new admissions, even as four more deaths took the toll to 110. Cuddalore recorded 185 cases, while Kallakurichi district reported 72 infections. A total of 84 cases were reported in Villupuram district.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates several new buildings digitally||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated new infrastructure for various government departments across the State through video conference on Friday. Mr. Palaniswami unveiled a wedding hall constructed at a cost of Rs. 20.10 crore on the land belonging to Arulmigu Marundheeswarar temple at Thiruvanmiyur. He inaugurated new buildings in three temples in Cuddalore, Tiruvallur and Virudhunagar district at a total cost of Rs. 1.53 crore.  He also handed over appointment orders for new recruits in the HR&CE department. The Chief Minister opened new buildings for the Labour and Employment Department at various locations across the State, constructed at a total cost of Rs. 15.86 crore. He also launched the distribution of 53 new vehicles for trainers in government ITIs. Mr. Palaniswami handed over appointment orders to persons who got jobs through Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal, operated by the Labour and Employment Department, which has helped at least 238 persons find private jobs, according to an official release. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel, Minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Sevvoor S. Ramachandran, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL points out ‘serious defects’ in some stations, faults contractor||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has told Madras High Court that there are “serious defects” in the work executed by a Mumbai-based firm which constructed underground stations between Shenoy Nagar and Tirumangalam at a cost of Rs. 1,240.30 crore and between Egmore and Washermenpet at a cost of Rs. 1,847.24 crore. Justice N. Sathish Kumar was told that CMRL had paid Rs. 209.31 crore more than the agreed contract price of Rs. 1,030.99 crore for the Shenoy Nagar-Tirumangalam stretch and Rs. 280.43 crore more than the contract price of Rs. 1,566.81 crore for the Egmore-Washermenpet stretch. Yet, the contractor did not complete all required works on time and there were defects. Although CMRL claimed that many works remain incomplete and there were serious defects in the work executed, the contractor told the court that the defects were actually minor in nature. “The seepage pointed out by CMRL are common. Out of 4,500 alignments, seepage was found only in 300 alignments,” its counsel said. The submissions were made during the hearing of two applications, both preferred jointly by Mumbai-based Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. and a joint venture between it and Russian firm Transtonnelstory. The applicants wanted to restrain CMRL from encashing two bank guarantees worth Rs. 25.77 crore and Rs. 117.51 crore respectively. Justice Kumar dismissed both the applications on the ground that the bank guarantee was an independent contract which had to be honoured by the banks irrespective of disputes between CMRL and the contractors with respect to contractual obligations. He pointed out that in the present case, some disputes were subject to arbitral proceedings. The judge recorded the submission of CMRL that it had encashed the bank guarantee of Rs. 25.77 crore even as the present applications were pending adjudication in the court. He directed it to maintain status quo with respect to the other bank guarantee of Rs. 117.51 crore and not encash it till August 21. Accepting a request made by senior counsel G. Masilamani, representing the contractors, to suspend the judgment until it could be taken on appeal before a Division Bench, the judge granted time till Friday and said: “If the appeal is not filed within that time, it is open for the respondent (CMRL) to encash the amount.” Earlier, senior counsel R. Yashod Vardhan and P.H. Arvindh Pandian, representing CMRL, brought it to the notice of the court that it had awarded contract for the Shenoy Nagar-Tirumangalam stretch to the applicants in December 2010 and entered into a formal contract on January 31, 2011 for completing the works by January 7, 2015.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PG diploma course in archaeology revamped||The State Department of Archaeology has restructured the curriculum and syllabus of the Institute of Epigraphy in tune with the University Grants Commission guidelines to offer a two-year full-time course for Post Graduate Diploma in Archaeology. “We have decided to introduce the changes by taking into consideration the recent dynamic changes in the field of archaeology. The institute will be named as Institute of Archaeology,” T. Udhayachandran, Principal Secretary and Commissioner of the Department, told The Hindu . Earlier, it was called the Institute of Epigraphy. Mr. Udhayachandran said considering the urgent need to nurture a multidisciplinary approach to archaeology, the course had been opened to postgraduate students in arts, science and engineering with a minimum of 55% marks. Earlier, postgraduation in Tamil, History, Archaeology was the qualification to join the course. “A botany student has the scope for delving into paleobotany as we come across plants and trees buried in the excavation sites. A zoology student can pay attention to bones and an engineering student on conservation,” Mr. Udhayachandran said. The monthly stipend to the students had been increased from Rs. 4,000 from Rs. 5,000. The annual intake of students has been increased to 20. “Already, we have received over 150 applications. Many students with post-graduation in engineering have applied for the course,” he said. Revised curriculum The present restructured course with four semesters consists of various subjects like Archaeology Principles and Methods, Human Evolution and Prehistoric Archaeology, Indian Epigraphy and Paleography, Indian Numismatics and Museology, Indian Architecture, Indian Iconography, Marine Archaeology, Applications of Sciences in Archaeology, Heritage Management and Conservation – Indian Antiquarian Laws, use of latest technology in archaeological excavations, scientific analysis of antiques and artefact. “All India Heritage tour will be one of the main highlights of the course,” he said. The last date for submitting applications is August 25. Students can apply online through the website of Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology www.tnarch.gov.in.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University releases results of odd semester||Anna University released the results of the odd semester on Saturday. College administrations that received the results say the performance of students has been good. “It is rare for students to get a perfect 10 CGPA. But this time quite a few of our students have got a perfect 10,” a college official said. This semester students’ internal marks and attendance were taken into account since written exams could not be held due to COVID-19. However, many colleges had not received any intimation from the University. However, officials said the results for colleges which did not remit the exam fees were not released. An official from an affiliated college in the suburbs of Chennai, whose results had not been released, said with colleges shutting down due to the lockdown there was no way to contact the students. “For the last four months we have been unable to contact the students. Only 30% of them have paid the fees. Some students, especially those in hilly regions, have no connectivity and are unreachable,” said the faculty of a college. Colleges with a student strength of 750 would remit around Rs. 30-Rs. 35 lakh usually, an official of another college said. The exam fee was collected from students and was forwarded to the university. The university issued a deadline of August 14 for remitting fees. Many colleges maintained that students had not paid despite keeping web portals open and with the government issuing an order that students cannot be forced to pay fees, the colleges remained silent. However, some of the top-rung colleges remitted the exam fees. R.M. Kishore, of the RMK Group of Institutions, and Leo Prakash, of the Sairam Group of Institutions, said they had paid up for the students who were yet to pay. They said they would collect it from students when colleges reopen and normalcy returns. According to them, many colleges had to take a bank loan. On the other hand, a group of people has gone to court seeking relief from having to pay exam fees for a semester exam that was not held. The court has asked Anna University to give an explanation.
17 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. schools to be busy in T.N. as admissions begin today||Government schools across the State will begin admissions for classes 1, 6 and 9 from Monday. Owing to the restrictions in place due to COVID-19 over the last few months, the admissions this year will take place as per the government guidelines. The headmaster of a corporation school in the city said they have earmarked separate rooms for admissions for each class. “Not more than 10 parents and students will be allowed inside at a time and a teacher will be posted outside to direct them towards the classroom they are supposed to go to,” he said. The State government has said that students who are not able to make it to the schools due to quarantine restrictions should also be given admissions. “We have been told that we can speak to them over the phone and even students who do not have all the documents necessary in hand will be given a provisional admission on the spot. Our focus is on ensuring they are all enrolled,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president of the Tamil Nadu Teachers Association, speaking about the admission process in his school. Awareness drives Many government schools in rural areas carry out awareness drives by printing notices about the achievements of the school and students and distributing them before admissions begin. “It has not been possible to do so this year with the restrictions due to COVID-19 in place. Admissions in government schools generally take place when the school is functioning and since schools are shut right now, parents might wait for them to reopen and then come to get their wards enrolled,” said Patric Raymond, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. He said that to ensure students get enrolled in government schools, the government could create more awareness about the admission process and reach out to parents through television campaigns. All schools will also begin the distribution of the Class 10 provisional mark sheets for students from Monday. As a first step, to initiate the admissions under the Right to Education Act 2009, private schools have been asked to submit details regarding their intake capacity to the district-level education committees on Monday. The online application process for RTE admissions for the 2020-21 academic year will begin from August 27 and go on till September 25.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postgraduate doctors put on COVID-19 duty yet to get salary||A majority of the service and non-service postgraduate (PG) doctors who were deputed to Chennai on COVID-19 duty are yet to receive their salaries for two months. In June, the PG doctors were diverted to government hospitals in Chennai amid a surge in cases. They were relieved recently, and have returned to their original stations. P. Saminathan, State secretary, Service Doctors and Post Graduates Association, said nearly 1,000 service PGs were relieved from their parent institutions — government hospitals where they gave virtual joining reports — and were deputed to Chennai in early June. “Once they had joined duty, the respective pay drawing officers of their parent institutions should have started to prepare their pay bills for submission in the treasury. But this did not happen for weeks, resulting in delays in paying them their salaries. In fact, the necessary government orders and instructions from the directorates of medical education and medical and rural health services were issued, but the ministerial staff have not done their work. Less than 30% of the doctors have received their salaries for two months,” he said. One of the service PGs, who was on COVID-19 duty in the city, said on the condition of anonymity, “We are yet to receive our salaries for June and July. It will take 15 minutes to upload and transfer our details. But the ministerial staff who are supposed to do this work have delayed the process.” Switch to new system A section of doctors pointed out that a transition from e-payroll to Integrated Financial and Human Resources Management System for payment of salary was happening in a number of districts. The technical processes involved were also delaying the disbursal of salaries, they said. This was completely a digital process, but profiles were yet to be created for them in order to pay their salaries. “This included updating service records till the day of relieving and sending to the newly posted station (hospital). Attendance certificate should be sent from the COVID-19 hospitals in Chennai to which we were deputed to our newly posted stations. Already, the last pay drawn certificate had been sent by email to the joint directors,” a PG doctor said. Another PG doctor said only around 300 doctors had received their salary. “A number of service PGs are married. Many of them are the sole earning member in their family, and have to take care of household expenses and pay EMI towards loans. Not paying salaries on time has put many in a difficult situation,” he added. A non-service PG said many of them were yet to receive the consolidated pay of Rs. 75,000. An official said there was a delay in disbursal of salaries in a few medical colleges due to updation of the electronic codes. “They will receive their salary within a week,” he said.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB on road to getting better, says Charan||Veteran playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, currently on life support after testing positive for COVID-19, is on the road towards getting better, his son and singer-producer S.P. Charan has said. In a video posted on social media, Mr. Charan said Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was showing some signs of mobility and was breathing a little more comfortably, despite remaining on life support. “His doctors are seeing this as a positive sign. He was able to recognise his doctors, and had even showed them a ‘thumbs up’ sign,” Mr. Charan said. He said the singer had been shifted to an exclusive ICU at MGM Healthcare. “He is not fully sedated now. Though he can’t talk at the moment, we are confident that he will soon be able to. His recovery might not be immediate, but he is definitely going to heal, recover and get back to us as early as possible,” Mr. Charan said, thanking everyone for their prayers.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Iris to keep an eye on distancing violations at two more places||After implementing a pilot project at a wholesale vegetable market in Thirumazhisai, the Tiruvallur police have now deployed Iris, a gadget to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms, at two more points. The second device has been installed at a supermarket in Theradi, which has an average footfall of 600-700 customers a day. Another has been installed at the Indian Bank near Kamarajar Statue, a prime point where a lot people walk in. Studies are on to identify more locations where there is crowding. P. Aravindhan, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur, pointed out that since Iris was installed at the vegetable market, the number of violations had come down significantly, and the duration of a violation was less than a minute now. “There has been a drastic behavioural change amid people,” he said. Clusters or group violations, that used to be 40-plus a day, have come down to just over 10 now. On detecting a violation, the device makes a loud announcement, warning people to maintain distancing. If the violators do not respond or move away to ensure distancing, it starts making a louder and shriller announcement, till the violators correct themselves. Aiding self-correction Sakthi Saravanan, founder and CEO of Secquraise Technologies, and P.R. Rajesh, of Global Thermal Control System Pvt. Ltd., who jointly designed, developed and installed Iris, said the model of intervention at the right time, aids self-correction and does not burden the police, who are already stretched. “The number of violations detected is a key metric tracked and the daily count has come down by 55%, compared to the early days,” said Mr. Rajesh.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vyasarpadi’s ‘two rupees doctor’ passes away||Dr. Thiruvengadam V., popularly known as ‘two rupees doctor’, in Vyasarpadi died on Saturday. He was 70. Born to Veeraraghavan, a farmer, and Radhabai, he went to Thyagaraya School and then joined the Government Stanley Medical College to study medicine. “He used to treat patients for a very nominal fee and help those who could not afford medicines” said Umapathy, a resident of Vyasarpadi. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of Dr. Thiruvengadam. “Dr. Thiruvengadam, who aspired to become a doctor since his childhood to serve the poor, efficiently served the downtrodden for over 40 years,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Share your T. Nagar tales with police||Have a memory or an anecdote to share about T. Nagar? Share it in the form of audio, video or photograph with the Greater Chennai Police and stand a chance to be surprised by the department. In a bid to build a good relationship with the residents, the police have embarked upon this novel initiative. “We want a better interaction with the public. Public can send the entries in any form — write-up, audio (maximum 10 minutes), video (maximum 5 minutes) or digital art. It should resonate the sender’s relationship with T. Nagar. We will share the best ones in our pages and we have a surprise awaiting the top three entries,” said D.N. Harikiran Prasad, Deputy Commissioner of Police, T Nagar. He said anyone can send entries on WhatsApp (ph: 9003084100) or in Google format https: //forms.gle /LfEiZhCxQfoGjtxx5. The last date for the entries is August 25. “Already a lot of residents have started sharing their complaints to my WhatsApp number. In the last few weeks, I have received 20 complaints, including those pertaining to public nuisance. But I need to interact more with the public and understand their problems and rectify them,” he said. It was one of the many initiatives introduced by Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. He said a separate number 6383100100 has been introduced to report any type of cyber crime in T. Nagar.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club donates dialysis machines||The Rotary Club of Chennai Kodambakkam donated five dialysis machines estimated at over Rs. 30 lakh to Shree Jain Medical Relief Society to mark Independence Day. S. Balaguru, president of the Rotary Club of Chennai Kodambakkam, said: “There is an increasing need for dialysis units as a large number of people coming under the economically weaker sections are affected.” T. Maheshraj, chairman of the dialysis project, said: “With this, more than 500 patients can get treatment every month at the society.”
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In their father’s footsteps||Until last month, sisters R. Anamika and R. Anjali were proud that they had pursued electrical engineering from reputed institutions, just like their father and senior IAS officer Ramesh Chand Meena did during his college years. But, when the UPSC declared results a few days ago, they realised that they would soon follow their father in his career choice too. Twenty-nine-year-old Anamika and 26-year old Anjali, who secured all-India rank 116 and 494 respectively, have another thing in common too — both secured admission into the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Ahmedabad. It so happened that both of them left their jobs in private companies for the very same reason. “Both of us realised that there was no social impact on the lives of people through our jobs. We wanted to make the lives of people around us and people in the grassroots better and so we started preparing for the services,” says Ms. Anamika. The sisters went to Delhi in 2017 to undertake coaching classes for clearing the UPSC examination. “Our father cleared his exam in his third attempt and he encouraged us a lot,” recalls Ms. Anjali. During their preparations, the sisters would sit together and correct each others’ papers and their father would clear their doubts. Mr. Meena could not have asked for more, as both his daughters cleared the exams together the same year. Mr. Meena, an alumni of IIT- Delhi is the Member Secretary of Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu. Ms. Anamika completed her B. Tech from National Institute of Technology in Tiruchi and Ms. Anjali completed her M.Tech from IIT-Madras.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. BJP chief offers ‘SUV prize’ to drive party to victory||State BJP president L. Murugan on Sunday announced that a SUV car would be gifted to district presidents who ensure the party candidate’s victory in the 2021 Assembly elections. He made the announcement during a virtual meeting with district presidents and other office-bearers in the State, according to party sources. Speaking to reporters after paying tributes to former leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Murugan said that the current alliance would continue in the upcoming Assembly elections and the party would have more MLAs. “Only those who are backed by the BJP will form the government in the State,” he asserted. To a query on the Innova car prize announcement, Mr. Murugan, however, laughed and walked away without answering. Meanwhile, MLA Ku. Ka. Selvam, who was sacked from DMK, participated at the event to pay tributes to Vajpayee at Kamalalayam, the BJP State headquarters.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raise women’s legal marriage age to 21, says Ramadoss||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Sunday said the marriageable age of women should be raised to 21 as falling in love at a lower age and marriage are obstacles, which have prevented women from achieving their goals in education and other areas. In a statement, he said the Centre must seek the report of the Experts Committee, about which Prime Minister Modi informed in his speech on Independence Day, and take an appropriate decision.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac shops in Chennai to issue coupons||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation’s (Tasmac) 800-odd Chennai outlets — including elite shops outside malls — will re-open on Tuesday. Shops inside malls and bars attached to shops will continue to remain closed, the order has specified. “We will be limiting the sales. Each shop will get 500 coupons per day,” a Tasmac source said. When shops opened in other parts of Tamil Nadu, Tasmac had instructed customers to come in with ID proof. “We will not be asking for any ID proof this time,” the source added. On an average the Chennai market brings in Rs. 12 crore to Rs. 15 crore per day to the State coffers. Tasmac on an average sells liquor worth over Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore per day across Tamil Nadu.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM to look into efficacy of Siddha drugs in combating virus||The SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre will study the efficacy of Siddha drugs and the use of BCG vaccine as preventive medicines for COVID-19. Melvin George, associate professor of clinical pharmacology at the institution, said it was proposed that kabasura kudineer , a siddha formulation, would be studied in collaboration with the National Institute of Siddha. Based on scientific evidence, the institution would document how siddha formulations contributed to the effectiveness of mainline allopathic hospital treatment to cure COVID-19 and prevent its occurrence. Researcher Satyajit Mahopatra and Dr. George said around 150 people had consented to participate in the study. Nearly 40% of the study was completed, the researchers said. Findings about the time taken for cure and the severity of the disease would be published.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TACTV wants unused set top boxes returned||The Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation Limited (TACTV) chairperson Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan on Sunday asked cable TV operators across the State either to activate set top boxes from TACTV at once or return them to the company. Though a total of 35,97,479 set top boxes were distributed to the local cable TV operators across the State by TACTV, as many as 7,60,470 such boxes were still not in use, Mr. Radhakrishnan said in a statement. “It is illegal to receive set top boxes from TACTV and not activating them. The set top boxes distributed for the benefit of subscribers are the government’s property,” he said. “Either those boxes should be activated or returned to the TACTV. If not, legal action will be initiated against them,” he said.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK functionary murdered in Tondiarpet||An unidentified gang hacked to death a Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) functionary in Tondiarpet on Saturday evening. The group also vandalised vehicles before fleeing the spot. Police said Kesavan, a VCK functionary, was attacked by a gang with sharp weapons, when he was going for a walk. He was rushed to the Stanley Government Hospital, where he succumbed to injuries.
17 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cow battling for life after country-made explosive blows off its mouth||A cow belonging to a farmer from Kallar near Coimbatore is battling for life its mouth was blown off when it accidentally chewed a country-made explosive called ‘avittukai’ that poachers usually keep as bait to kill wild boar. The explosion blew up the cow’s jaw, leaving it in extreme trauma for four days. Sources with the Forest Department said that the cow, which belonged to a farmer named Muhammed Jafar Ali from Chengal Padugai near Kallar, was injured in the incident on Wednesday. He told Forest officials on Saturday that the cow that he had left for grazing in a nearby field, around two km away from the forest boundary, did not return for three days. It was found standing in a nearby stream with its mouth blown off on Saturday. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, said that the Forest Department had registered six cases under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act when possession and use of country-made explosives were detected this year. “As the cow had wandered after the explosion, it was not clear where the incident took place. A special team is trying to find the land where the explosive went off,” he said. Another cow had died in a similar incident near Mettupalayam this year. As offences involving the use of the crude explosive is covered under the Explosives Act, the Department had informed the police. “We had taken the menace caused by country-made explosives to the attention of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police when Sujit Kumar was the Superintendent of Police. On Saturday, the Department sent the letter to the present SP Ara Arularasu, seeking the intervention of police on the use of crude explosives in farms adjoining forest areas,” said Mr. Venkatesh. Ailing makna found near Maruthamalai Meanwhile, the Department has started efforts to treat an ailing makna (tuskless male elephant) that was found at Maruthamalai foothills some days ago.  Infected wound Forest Department staff, who monitored the makna, found puss oozing from its mouth, possibly from an infected wound in its mouth. “The makna is closely being monitored. Staff are carrying fruits stuffed with medicines to feed the makna. We suspect that the makna had a fight with a tusker with which it was found a week ago. Two tuskers that suffered deep wound on the upper jaw during fights with other male elephants had died in the forest division this year,” added Mr. Venkatesh.
17 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi coir industries go in for value addition||Coir industries in Pollachi are venturing into value-added products such as mats and geo textiles. S. Mahesh Kumar, president of Coir Pith Exporters’ Association, told The Hindu there were at least three units that now made coir mats for Kerala-based companies. Some units got into geo textiles (used in road works) using coir and there were units that made coir products to help control soil erosion. These products were earlier made mainly in Kerala. Of late, industries in Pollachi had started making these products. “Value-addition has started,” he said. Mr. Mahesh Kumar added that since the pandemic started, the demand was surging for eco-friendly and sustainable products. Hence, the market for coir products was going up. The demand was almost 20 % up compared to last year. Internationally, there was a demand for coir pith. “It is the largest coir product exported now,” he said. The demand was from countries such as the U.S. and Australia and the European countries. Even during the lockdown days, there was a demand for coir products. The units were facing shortage of labour, and that was a challenge to the industries. “Almost 60 % of the workers at the coir units in Pollachi were from other States. Almost all of them have returned home. We are working with local labourers now. If units used to operate two shifts, they are able to run just one shift now,” he said. According to a recent press release from the Ministry of MSMEs, export of coir and coir products in 2019-20 was worth Rs. 2,757.9 crore, which was Rs. 30 crore higher than the previous year. Export of coir pith, tufted mats, geo textiles, coir rugs, and carpets registered growth in terms of value and volume. Products such as coir yarn, handloom mats, rubberised coir, and powerloom matting showed decline in volume, but increase in value.
17 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Licence for temporary firecracker stall||Coimbatore City Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan said that those wishing to obtain licences to set up temporary firecracker stalls for Deepavali can submit their applications from August 17. It will be issued till September 15. In a statement, he said the required documents are an application in Form-4 with court fee stamp of Rs. 2, licence fee remittance challan of Rs. 500 available at the Commissioner’s office, six copies of the sketch/plan of the place of stock and business, property tax receipt of the building and fee remittance receipt for licence from Corporation or local body. In case the building is rented, a consent letter of the building’s owner recorded in a Rs. 20 stamp paper with two witnesses and full address along with the property tax receipt must be submitted. If the building belongs to Corporation or any other government department, a consent letter from the respective authorities should be attached, Mr. Sharan said. The applications along with the required documents can be submitted at the office of Commissioner of Police from 10 a.m to 5 p.m. Licences will be issued only after due verification, said Mr. Sharan, who is also the Additional District Magistrate of Coimbatore City. No permission will be granted for roadside shops as per the directions of Department of Explosives, the statement said.
17 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online guest lecture on August 20||The Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise an online guest lecture on Artificial Intelligence on August 20. Titled ‘Revolutionise Your Firm With AI’, the lecture will cover the basics of AI, its role in improvement of productivity and quality assurance. The lecture will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., a release said. Balaji D. Loganathan and D. Harishankar, Managing Director and AI Tech Head respectively of Spritle Solutions, Chennai, will deliver the lecture. Those interested shall register online using the linkhttps://tinyurl.com/CPC-WEBINARand participate using the Google Meet linkhttps://meet.google.com/qjx-kmft-svy.
17 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Felcitated||Members of the Indian National Congress honoured nonagenarian Ponnusamy Naidu in Perur on Independence Day. J. Hariharan, State convener of Tamil Nadu Youth Congress, and a a team of cadre visited Mr. Naidu, who is a freedom fighter, on Saturday. They presented him with a shawl and an incentive amount.
17 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Video of staff consuming alcohol in T.N. temple premises goes viral||A video of two staff attached to the Sri Kolanjiappar Temple in Tamil Nadu’s Virudhachalam consuming liquor and meat within the premises went viral on Sunday. The video has sent shock waves across the State. Temples under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department have been functioning during the lockdown only with priests and other necessary staff alone. The video shows two staff members, identified as Pulavar Sivarajan and watchman Sivakumar, sitting in the ‘nandhavanam’  (garden) consuming liquor and meat. One of them is heard offering venison . The video was reportedly recorded by two other staff members. When contacted, temple’s Executive Officer Marimuthu said the duo had been suspended and an enquiry ordered into the incident. The temple was in the news recently after nine spotted deer out of a total of 21 maintained by the administration in a separate enclosure on the premises were found dead over a span of three months allegedly due to food poisoning.
17 August 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Killed in accident||Chandran, 50, was killed in an accident, when a municipal water tanker, which was out of control, hit him near Moonjikal in Kodaikanal on Saturday. Sub-Inspector of Police Madhavaraj, who was in the vicinity, helped the accident victim reach a hospital in his vehicle but in vain. Lorry driver Gandhi, 40, was arrested. Liquor bottles seized A total of 980 liquor bottles were seized from K. Bose, 67, in Silaiman, Madurai, on Saturday. He was arrested and Rs. 2,300 was seized from him.
17 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Shopping hub near Kalaimadu statue will be completed within the scheduled time’||Corporation officials are hopeful of completing the construction of a shopping hub near Kalaimadu statue within the scheduled time of 18 months. Under the Smart City Mission, the civic body had decided to establish a shopping complex at a total cost of Rs. 14.94 crore and foundation stone was laid on March 10. However, before the commencement of work to demolish old buildings on the premises for constructing the hub, lockdown was announced after which work did not resume. After the State government permitted resumption of construction works, the contractor demolished the buildings in June. A corporation engineer said that the hub would come up on a land measuring 2,821 sq.m. at a total build-up area of 7,199 sq.m. and will have a ground floor and three floors. A total of 70 shops, hyper markets, adequate space for car and two-wheeler parking, open dining area and other amenities will be in place, he added. “Once completed, the mall would generate income for the civic body”, he added. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that though commencement of work was delayed by four months, the contractor had deployed full strength of workforce, all local workers, and expedited the work. He expressed confidence that work will be completed on time.
17 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Many families do not have basic documents in Bargur hills: survey||A survey in Bargur Hills revealed that 2,300 people are yet to receive their ethnic and community certificates while many families do not have basic documents such as Aadhaar card and electors photo identity card (EPIC). There are 33 hamlets in Bargur Panchayat in Anthiyur block where members of Lingayat and Urali depend on agriculture and collect minor forest produce for their livelihood. Their lands are rain-fed and hence they go for work in plains for six months in a year. In the absence of valid documents, many did not receive government assistance during the COVID-19 lockdown and Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association and Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), an NGO, conducted a survey in the West Bargur Hills covering 15 hamlets, including Onnakarai, Osur, Kovil Natham, Chinna Sengulam, Periya Sengulam, Agnipavi and Kongadai. A total of 886 families comprising 3,500 people in the hamlets were covered during the survey that revealed that 218 families did not have ration cards, 574 without Aadhaar cards, 356 people without tribal welfare board identity card, 532 without EPIC, 576 without bank accounts, 537 without life insurances, 191 elderly persons not receiving old age pensions and 2,323 people without community and ethnic certificates. The survey report was handed over to Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan who assured to take up the issue with the district administration.
17 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Take action against adulterated jaggery producers’||With adulteration in brown sugar and jaggery affecting cane growers and consumers, Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) has urged the State government to take action against the adulterators. In a press release, party’s general secretary E.R. Eswaran said as sugar mills used chemicals to produce white sugar, consumers started using brown sugar and jaggery, despite the increase in their prices. “But the sad part is that many brown sugar producers are mixing white sugar during production,” he said.
17 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against 42 establishments||The Labour Department has registered cases against 42 shops, eateries and commercial establishments for not declaring holiday for their workers on August 15 (Independence Day) and also not providing double wages to them. A release from D. Balathandautham, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) said that 68 establishments were inspected during which 42 were found functioning. These establishments failed to declare holiday and also obtain permission from the department for employing them. Hence, cases were registered against the owners of these establishments as per the act, the release added.
17 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three alms-seekers rescued||Three alms-seekers were rescued and sent to an old age home at Villupuram district. On information, a team led by P. Naveenkumar, founder of Atchayam Trust, an NGO involved in rehabilitating alms-seekers, found a 68-year-old man near GH Roundabout. He was from Kerala and was found to be mentally disturbed. Likewise, the team found Sadasivam (68) at Sampath Nagar, and a 40-year-old man at Kottaimedu Bypass in Kumarapalayam, Namakkal district, and rescued them.
17 August 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 frontline workers felicitated||Felicitation of COVID-19 frontline workers marked the 74th Independence Day celebration at Alagappa University in Karaikudi on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran said educational institutions should not function in isolation, but must collaborate for societal development. Mr. Rajendran also honoured Vanathi Devi, wife of K. Palani, an Army soldier who was killed in a stand-off with the Chinese Army in Galwan Valley. The Vice-Chancellor inaugurated the Vallal Alagappar Memorial Garden developed under the second phase of the RUSA scheme inside Vallal Alagappar Memorial Temple Complex.
17 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two die in elephant attack near Shoolagiri||Two farmers, who were attacked by a wild elephant near Shoolagiri, died on Sunday. According to officials, Muniraj (28) of Puliyarasi and Rajendran (40) of Jogirpalayam were on their way to a farm land near A.Chettipalli when the tusker attacked them during the early hours of Sunday. Muniraj died on the spot and Rajendran died at the Krishnagiri government hospital. Relatives of Muniraj staged a protest on Shoolagiri Road demanding measures to shift the elephant from there. They dispersed after officials pacified them. As an initial relief, forest officials gave Rs. 50,000 each to the families of the deceased. DMK legislator P.Murugan handed over the cheques and urged the officials to chase the elephant away and offer compensation to the farmers affected in elephant attacks here.
17 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes out of reach for many college students||Students of government and private colleges say they are still unable to attend classes online either due to lack of internet facility or poor connectivity in rural areas. R. Danya of Government Law College in Madurai says though students have mobile phones, they either do not have internet facility or connectivity. “Many of my classmates do not have android phones that allow us to watch online classes through video conferencing. For others, living in rural areas, there is problem regarding connectivity,” she says. A student of American College, who is working part-time at a private firm, says he attends classes by connecting to his company’s wifi. “It takes around three hours for a class to be completed. By that time, my mobile data is over. I do not have connectivity through the rest of the day,” he says. Ms. Danya says private service providers charge a minimum of Rs. 600 for three months. “Most cannot afford to pay such money along with the fees. It is not the best time for students,” she says. Plea to government The student from American College wants the government to provide free mobile internet for students during COVID-19 lockdown. K. Priya of Madurai Kamaraj University College says since both teachers and students are yet to figure out how to go completely digital, classes at her college are yet to begin. Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan says students are encouraged to share photocopies of their notes or copy them in a pen drive and give to those who cannot attend daily classes. “We have also asked the government to allow students to attend classes at e-sevai centres. We are hopeful of a positive response soon,” he says. An official from Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College says they are sending audio notes to those who cannot attend live lectures.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Theni records 206 positive cases||A total of 121 persons tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in Madurai district to 12,764. Out of those who tested positive, 120 were indigenous cases and one was imported, according to the State Health Bulletin. With 104 persons having been discharged, the total number of discharged rose to 11,404. Six people succumbed to the disease raising the death toll to 321. The total number of active cases as on date was 1,039. Virudhunagar district reported five more COVID-19 deaths taking the toll to 157. Among the deceased was a 71-year-old woman. The men were in the age group of 50 years to 94 years. The deaths have been reported between August 13 and 15. The district reported 76 new cases that took the total number of positive cases to 11,183. The number of active cases declined to three digits after July 11 when it first crossed 1,000. The total number of active cases stands at 963. Theni district recorded 206 positive cases which took the tally of total positive cases to 9,909. There were 319 discharges from the hospital. There were 2,929 active cases and so far 115 deaths have been recorded. Dindigul recorded 110 positive cases and the total number stands at 4,755. The number of people discharged stands at 201 and so far 3,882 persons have been discharged. The district has recorded 782 active cases and 91 deaths. Ramanathapuram saw 58 new cases and the tally stands at 4,015. The hospitals discharged 51 patients. There were 499 active cases and the virus has claimed 87 lives so far. Sivaganga accounted for 54 fresh cases with which the total number of positive cases moved to 3,374. The number of persons discharged stands at 46. There were 417 active cases and so far 87 people have died. Southern districts Tirunelveli saw 124 new cases with which the tally moved to 7,522. There were 148 discharges. There were 1,447 active cases and so far 122 deaths have been recorded. Thoothukudi saw 95 new cases and the total number of positive cases stands at 9,964. On a single day 195 patients were discharged. There were 1,124 active cases and the number of casualties was 89. Kanniyakumari recorded 133 fresh cases and the tally stands at 7,492, and 178 patients have been discharged. There were 1,459 active cases and 114 deaths so far. Tenkasi had 91 new cases with which the tally moved to 3,905. There were 270 people discharged from hospital. Two persons died due to the viral infection. There are 1,186 active cases and 69 had died so far.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Freight earnings up by 23%||Madurai railway division has recorded the highest growth of 23.04% from goods traffic during the current financial year. Hoisting the tricolour on the divisional office premises here on the occasion of 74th Independence Day, Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin said the division earned Rs. 71.56 crore from goods traffic this fiscal as against Rs. 58.16 crore during the corresponding period last year. “This is the highest ever goods earning of this period,” he said. The division took up continuous freight operations despite the lockdown, loading 0.5802 million tonnes as against the last year’s 0.3660 million tonnes, recording a growth of 58.5%. Similarly, the division unloaded 0.9190 million tonnes against the last year’s 0.8818 million tonnes (+4.2%). As many as 12,661 parcels were booked with a tonnage of 503.94 fetching earnings of Rs. 11.52 lakh during April-July. The sundry and other earnings also increased by 9.29 %. The average speed of goods trains till July this year was 40.9 kmph against 24.4 kmph for 2019-20 showing an improvement of 67.6%, the DRM said. However, passenger revenue in the division was under tremendous stress as passenger train services were cancelled during the lockdown. A total of 1.52 lakh passengers cancelled their bookings and Rs. 6.70 crore had been refunded till July. Apart from Shramik specials, the division ran 174 parcel and 112 special trains. The employees of Madurai division contributed Rs. 95 lakh for PMCARES fund in April. Additional Divisional Railway Managers Lalit Kumar Mansukhani and O.P.Shaw and Divisional Security Commissioner V.J.P. Anbarasu were present.
17 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Disburse ex-gratia to doctors soon’||A delegation of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) met Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan here on Sunday and urged him to give Rs. 2 lakh as ex-gratia to doctors who contracted COVID-19. Earlier, the official inspected the post COVID-19 Wellness Clinic and microbiology lab at the Government Rajaji Hospital. TNGDA president K. Senthil said ex-gratia was yet to reach a single doctor affected in the State. The Centre had promised Rs. 50 lakh to those who succumbed to COVID-19 and the State, Rs. 25 lakh. Yet, the Rs. 50 lakh did not reach anybody. The health secretary said claims from the kin of doctors who died were yet to reach the State government and assured to take action. Dr. Senthil said postgraduate doctors who had completed their tenure and joined duty on June 1 were yet to get their salaries as they have all been deputed in Chennai temporarily on COVID-19 duty. “Their families depend on their salaries. The government must at least make temporary arrangements for a portion of their salaries to be disbursed,” he said. The forum also raised a long-pending demand for time-bound promotions.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Opt for medium, long-term paddy varieties’||With water from Periyar dam expected to be released for irrigating the first crop of the double crop areas between Peranai and Kallandhiri by this month-end, Agricultural department has urged farmers to opt for medium and long duration paddy varieties. Following good rainfall in the catchment areas, the water level in Periyar dam stood at 136.05 feet at 6 a.m. on Sunday. The level in Vaigai dam was 48.26 feet. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,431 mcft. Currently, water is being released for irrigating 14,707 acres in Cumbum valley. An agriculture official said that similar to last year, water for irrigating 45,000 acres of ayacut of double crop areas in Madurai and Dindigul districts is expected to be released only by August-end. “Due to delay in releasing water, we are asking farmers to opt for medium and long duration paddy varieties. This will help them to avoid harvesting during rainy or winter seasons when crop damage or pest attack is usually reported. This will also enable them to harvest the crop by December-end or January,” he said. About 280 tonnes of paddy seeds were available in agricultural extension centres across the district. Also, farmers who undertake agriculture in a larger area are urged to cultivate two or three different varieties of paddy. “Even if one variety of paddy is destroyed in pest attack, the farmer will benefit from the yield in other varieties,” he added. The farmers were also asked to apply for crop insurance and approach cooperative societies with necessary documents to get crop loan.  Water for irrigating 45,000 acres of double crop areas in Madurai and Dindigul districts will be released only by August-end Agriculture official
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||School student sculpts stone nagaswaram||Making the most of the lockdown period, B. Karthik Rajan, a Class 12 student and a resident of Pasumalai here, has sculpted several objects out of stone, including a nagaswaram. His father K. Balamurugan has been making stone sculptures of deities for temples for the past 22 years. The boy says the nagaswaram was sculpted out of a single stone. “Two nagaswaram artists from Tirupparankundram played the stone instrument and said it played well,” he said. Apart from nagaswaram, he has also sculpted sword, kuthuvilakku and chain. Mr. Balamurugan said his son was always interested in making sculptures. “All the objects that he had sculpted during the lockdown period are based on his own ideas. This period has kindled a creative spark in him,” he said.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Post-COVID-19 wellness clinic launched at GH||A post-COVID-19 Wellness Clinic has been started at the Government Rajaji Hospital to monitor the health of those who have recovered from the disease, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Sunday. Addressing mediapersons after inspecting a fever clinic in Mudakkuchalai here, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that it was important to follow up on patients who had recovered from COVID-19, especially those who had severe symptoms. “With COVID-19 affecting the lungs, some persons with lower immunity, compounded by age and co-morbidities, take a long time for full recovery. Continuous surveillance will help in early identification in case a discharged person develops a secondary infection, and treat them at the earliest,” he said. A post-COVID-19 Wellness Clinic will also be started at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai in the coming week, he added. A separate OP with doctors will periodically monitor the discharged persons. If any complaints are raised, the recovered patients will be completely screened and regular blood tests will be taken, he added. On the higher death rate in the State, he said: “Swabs are lifted from all patients treated at the hospitals. According to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research, if a COVID-19 patient dies, even if there were other underlying causes of death, such as heart attack or cancer, it has to be considered a COVID-19 death.” He also said that strict action would be taken against private hospitals charging in excess for treating COVID-19 patients. He said it was a positive sign that for the past six weeks, active cases in the State were less than 55,000. In Madurai, currently, active cases are around 1,057. “But now people need to practice utmost caution,” he said. Intensive screening and testing through fever camps will continue in Madurai, he said. Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present on the occasion.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accidents in Madurai||Two persons were killed and two others, including policeman S. Rajkumar, 26, were injured in two road accidents on Saturday. B. Nishvanth Raja, 36, of Melur and his friend M. Mayakrishnan, 35, of Karungalakudi, who were working in a textile shop in Melur, were going for work on a motorbike. When they neared Melur junction, a car hit their bike around 9 a.m. While Nishvanth Raja was killed on the spot, Mayakrishnan sustained head injuries. The constable, who was standing at the spot was hit. and sustained injuries. Car driver Mathusoothanan of Tirumangalam was booked. In another accident, M. Velraj, 54, of Mangulam, sustained injuries when his bike hit the parapet of a canal near Kallandiri on Friday. He died in GRH on Saturday.
17 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||3 held for killing ganja peddler||Three people have been picked up for the brutal murder of ganja peddler Senthilpandi, 48, near T. Andipatti on Saturday. Melur police said the assailants, a rival gang, had crushed the head of Senthilpandi. A. Udhayakumar alias Udhaya, another ganja seller, had made an attempt on Senthilpandi’s life in 2013, suspecting that he had tipped off police. The rivalry had claimed six lives so far. When Udhaya targeted Senthilpandi’s brother and launched a sudden attack with bombs and lethal arms, he was ambushed by Senthilpandi’s men and it resulted in the death of two persons, one each from both sides, including Udhaya, in 2014. Since then Udhaya’s associates ‘Load’ Murugan and Sonai had been targeting the brothers. Senthilpandi had shifted his operations from Vandiyur to his native village, Tiruvadavur. The gang bumped off Senthilpandi’s uncle Meganathan, 52, at Sourashtrapuram in May 2016 and one Senthilmurugan two months later at Tiruvadavur. In between, two more - Mayakannan and Balamurugan - were killed. Senthilpandi escaped another attempt on his life in 2018. “Even two months back, their hostility was revealed when a special team of police from Sivaganga district seized 25 kg of ganja in Tiruppuvanam,” a police officer said. Few associates of ‘Load’ Murugan, including his wife Kaleeswari, were booked in the case. “During interrogation, they had confessed that they were raising money by selling ganja only to kill Senthilpandi,” he added. Though ‘Load’ Murugan is in jail, the police suspect that he had used his contacts to kill Senthilpandi.
17 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be a power shutdown in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on August 18, Tuesday, as Tangedco plans to undertake maintenance work at its Sholavandan substation: Sholavandan, Thachampathu, Thiruvedagam, Melakkal, Kachirairuppu, Narayanapuram, Oothukuli, Thenkari, Mullipallam, Mannadimangalam, Kadupatti, Alangottaram, Rishapam, Rayapuram and surrounding areas.
17 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||TNFU aligns to Centre’s goal||Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNFU) was in the process of developing low cost technologies, aligning itself to the goal of the Central Government to double income of farmers by 2022 through a thrust for agricultural activities. As a farm university, TNFU was striving for socio-economic uplift of fishermen and fish farmers, A. Srinivasan, Registrar and Acting Vice-Chancellor, said after hoisting the national flag on Saturday. The university would play a role in increasing crop production, marketing of agriculture products, enhancing the income of farmers through farming of fishes and livestock, Prof Srinivasan said.
17 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two die of asphyxiation in Rasipuram||Two construction workers died after inhaling poisonous gas inside a newly constructed water tank at a house near Pattinam in Rasipuram on Sunday. The deceased, Murugeshan (45) and Sanjay (22), along with Davamurugan, Chiranjeevi and Arumugham were involved in the construction work of a house. They had done the concrete work of a water tank more than two weeks ago and left it covered with polythene sheets. Wooden logs and planks were placed inside it. The workers went to the site on Sunday to remove the logs. According to Revenue officials, Murugeshan and Chiranjeevi ventured into the tank to remove the logs and fell unconscious after inhaling the gas. Seeing this, the other three workers entered the tank to help them and they too fell unconscious. Passers-by alerted the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The five were rescued and rushed to Rasipuram government hospital for treatment. Sanjay and Murugeshan died without responding to treatment. The other three were shifted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem, the officials said. Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja, District Collector K. Megraj, and Revenue District Officer Kottai Kumar visited the spot. Dr. Saroja offered a compensation of Rs. 50,000 from her personal funds to the families of the deceased. She said that necessary assistance would be ensured to the families and the State government would offer assistance for Sanjay’s sister Kanshika to continue her studies. Namakkal MP A.K.P.Chinraj offered a solatium of Rs. 25,000 to the families of the deceased. Namagiripet police have registered a case and are investigating.
17 August 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Collector meets IMA representatives||District Collector K. Megraj held a meeting with representatives of Indian Medical Association here on Saturday and discussed measures to contain COVID-19 spread in the district. The Collector advised the members that early detection is essential to prevent deaths due to the disease. Admit persons visiting the hospitals with COVID-19 symptoms and conduct tests, he said.
17 August 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||New Jail Road electric poles go at last||In a major relief to road users, Tangedco has started shifting electric poles that were located on the middle of New Jail Road, opposite Madurai Central Prison. A Tangedco official said there were two rows of 10 electric poles each. “Currently, the row of electric poles that was located in the centre have been shifted to the corner of the road on the pavement. The remaining row of electric poles will be removed and the cables will go underground,” he said. The work began after Madurai Corporation recently paid the Tangedco for shifting the electric poles. It is a long-time demand of vehicle users to shift the electric poles from the middle of the road, as the earlier placement created confusion among vehicle users. “Since New Jail Road being an arterial stretch, there is vehicle movement throughout the day and night. But the odd location of electric poles caused confusion among the road users and caused accidents. The situation was worse at night when people unfamiliar with the road fail to take notice of the electric poles ,” said a police personnel. A Corporation official said a few years back the road was widened. As a result the poles that were on the margin of the road came to the middle. However, around 30 trees were chopped -some of them were partially cut - for shifting the row of electric poles, complained S. Sridhar of Mannin Marangal Pathukappu Iyakkam. “The officials could have just cut a few branches which were hindering the shifting of electric poles. But they chopped the huge trees, with total disregard to the natural ecosystem” he said. The members of the organisation had pasted notices on the chopped trees to criticise the move. “Felling of trees will compound the problem of dust pollution in the city, at a time when several development projects are under way,” he added. The Tangedco official said the trees were needed to be cut off to shift the electric poles.
17 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 2.7 lakh patients cured in T.N. so far’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that as many as 2.78 lakh COVID-19 positive patients in the State had been completely cured of the infection till date through integrated treatment. The highest number of testing for COVID-19 in the country was being done in Tamil Nadu, he further said. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Vijayabaskar said a little over 36.4 lakh persons had been tested so far across the State for COVID-19. The State government had readied 1.29 lakh beds in the State for providing treatment to COVID-19 patients. Seeking the cooperation of the public in adhering to the safety measures announced by the government such as wearing mask and ensuring personal distancing, Mr. Vijayabaskar emphasised that even the mild symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, cough and throat pain should not be ignored. People must subject themselves to testing, he said. The State government had been conducting medical camps at field-level to ascertain if public suffered from fever and other symptoms. Mr. Vijayabaskar said the percentage of deaths due to COVID-19 was less in the State. A separate unit would be created in all government medical college hospitals in the State to monitor those who had been cured of COVID-19 to make sure they were not affected by secondary infection.
17 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||More medical camps on anvil to scale up COVID-19 testing||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that new initiatives had been taken to scale up COVID-19 testing in Pudukottai district. More medical camps would be conducted to check the spread of the viral disease, the Minister said, while chairing a review meeting with officials to discuss measures taken to combat the pandemic. Instructions had been issued to the district administration officials to identify patients with COVID-19 symptoms, including fever and cough, and subject them to testing, Mr. Vijayabaskar said. The review meeting held at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital was attended by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, and officials of health and all government departments. The meeting took stock of the number of COVID-19 cases in the district; the ways the disease were spreading; treatment procedures; details of those completely cured; the existing bed strength in hospitals and information on additional beds; spraying of disinfectants; the number of medical camps and awareness campaigns being organised. The Minister said officials had also been asked to strictly enforce the rules in the COVID-19 containment zones across the district. Mr. Vijayabaskar appealed to the general public to extend their cooperation to the measures taken by the State government to check the spread of COVID-19. The Minister asked the officials to take necessary steps to bring down the positive cases in the district at the earliest.
17 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Karur man cheated of Rs. 6 crore||A 43-year-old man, Madankumar of Vaiyapuri Nagar, Karur, was cheated of Rs. 6 crore by a gang from Ramanathapuram on the promise that investing in sale of iridium which was to be imported from UK would bring him immense profit. District Crime Branch has registered a case of cheating, breach of trust and among others against five persons, Veerabahu, Muniasami, Sugumaran, Ganapathi and Baskaran. Ramanathapuram SP V. Varun Kumar said that Madankumar was introduced to Veerabahu and Muniasami, both belong to Ramanathapuram, in 2014 through a friend. The duo had allegedly lured the complainant to invest in a business which would reap huge profits in a short period. Believing it, Madankumar had given them a sum of Rs. 6 crore through bank transactions. The accused had claimed that they would import iridium from the UK and sell it in the domestic markets. Within about 40 days, they had promised to give a hefty share as returns on the investment made by the complainant. However, after receiving the money in full, as there was no response from the accused. Sugumaran was arrested, but investigation indicated that some suspects may have left the country.
17 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts of farmers, NGO bear fruit as pond fills up in rain||The joint efforts by nature enthusiasts and farmers at the foothills of Kolli Hills has borne fruit as the pond they created started filling up during the recent rain. Almost two years ago, members of Wake Our Lake and farmers from Bellukuruchi started the works to set up a water body as the depleting groundwater level affected the farmers. According to sources, the organisation procured about two acre at the foothills of Kolli Hills in Bellukuruchi and worked with the farmers to create the percolation pond. Saravanan Thiyagarajan, founder of ‘Wake our Lake’ said when the farmers from the region approached them, they procured the land using funds of about Rs. 6 lakh they both pooled in. It was just a wetland and through joint efforts, a pond was created, he said. He added that in the recent rain, the pond filled up and it helped improve groundwater level in the area. Mr. Saravanan said that over 200 farmers in the region would benefit. The water level at borewells and tube wells in the area would also improve.
17 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rescued children’s education left in limbo||It was already not an easy task for government officials to rescue child labourers and integrate them into mainstream education. However, the economic crisis due to COVID-19, coupled with a lack of facilities, has exacerbated their difficulties, hitting the education of several students rescued from workplaces here. Rakesh (name changed), a student of Class 7 at one of the training centres under the National Child Labour Project, has been provided books, but a lack of television and Internet facility has affected his studies. “The television at our home stopped working a few months back and my parents have not been able to repair it with their meagre income. The phone does not have Internet connectivity. My mother works as a domestic help and my father stays home for now due to the lockdown. Our teachers do call and check on us. I am just clueless about what has to be studied. The case is similar with many of my friends,” said Rakesh. One of the teachers said, “The financial condition at the houses of most students is quite bad, so we cannot advise them to get a television. Some students have televisions but do not have the money to pay for set-top boxes. Most children were rescued from brick kilns, silver anklet manufacturing workshops and bidi manufacturing units. If the situation continues, the students might pick up jobs again. Due to the lack of public transportation, we are not able to visit the students regularly either.” An official with the child labour project said there were over 200 students under their care and close to 70 of them were affected now, without any mode to continue learning. Children in distress may call Childline’s toll-free helpline 1098 for assistance.
17 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam water level touches 99 feet||The water level at the Mettur dam touched 99 feet on Sunday morning. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 99.01feet against a total scale of 120feet. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 63,564 mcft. The inflow of water to the dam was 13,905 cusecs and outflow of water was maintained at 13,500 cusecs. The inflow through Biligundalu was 14,000 cusecs on Saturday night and it was on Sunday morning.
17 August 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||12,000 saplings planted on Sivakasi colelge campus||As many as 12,000 saplings were planted using Miyawaki technique to build a dense forest with native tree species on the campus of Mepco Schlenk Engineering College here on the 74th Independence Day on Saturday. The college conducted the drive, conceptualised two years ago, with support from its alumni association. Principal S. Arivazhagan and Correspondent A.Tenzing inaugurated the exercise. The college already has close to 7,000 trees of different species, looked after by a gardening team. Last year the college received the Green Campus award from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The programme was live streamed on YouTube.
17 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Port charts Rs. 7,000-cr. plan||The 46-year-old VOC Port, which was struggling to handle even mid-sized vessels till a decade ago, has spelt out ambitious plans to be executed on an outlay of Rs. 7,000 crore in four phases to transform the seaport into a transhipment hub. After the inner-harbour development was carried out recently to deepen the berths and also the entry and exit points, the port’s depth was increased to 12.80 metres from 10.90 metres and in the second phase, the depth will be increased to 14.50 metres. With the increase in draft, the port is inching towards handling larger vessels to transform itself into a transhipment hub. Informing this during the Independence Day celebration address, chairman of VOC Port T.K. Ramachandran said the Rs. 7,000-crore plan would act as a catalyst to units manufacturing fertilizers, petrochemicals, edible oil, LNG and wind turbine generator blades coming up on 1,689 acres of land near the port. Despite the slowdown, a few had planned to visit the port to explore possibilities of establishing their units here. After releasing COVID-19 manual, the chairman honoured officials for their service during the pandemic.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi road to have user-friendly pavements||Ever since a couple of large textile showrooms sprang up on West Boulevard Road near Main Guard Gate, the stretch has become one of the busiest in Tiruchi. And mushrooming of such commerical outlets has inevitably led to severe traffic congestion on the road. Now, West Boulevard Road has been forced to cater not only to regular public and private vehicles, but also ensure space for a growing number of shoppers and pedestrians. Since there are no dedicated pavements, they no option but to walk on the busy road amid fast moving traffic. What’s more, in the absence of tactile pavements, there have been instances of the visually impaired losing grip and falling down. Any surprise then that road users, shoppers and pedestrians have been clamouring for a solution to their plight. So, Tiruchi Corporation has now come up with the idea of pedestrian pavements along West Boulevard Road that are also user-friendly for the visually impaired. The grievances of all stakeholders — shopkeepers, shoppers, road users, visually challenged — have been factored in by the Corporation before embarking on the project. Interestingly, it is a major component of the Rs. 7.5-crore smart drain project being implemented under Smart Cities Mission. Under the project, a km-long pedestrian pavements have been envisaged on either side of West Boulevard Road starting from Main Guard Gate. Tiles will be laid on a 3,000-sq mt area on the east and west side of the road. The pedestrian path will have a width of 3.1 metre. Sources say laying of pavement blocks has almost been completed to a distance of about 300 metres from Main Guard Gate to R.R. Sabha. Small pillars have been erected along the pavement to prevent parking of auto rickshaws and four-wheelers. An important feature is the tactile paving for the visually impaired running in the middle of the pavements. The yellow-coloured textured surface tiles will prevent prevent them from skidding or falling, a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu .
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp increase in cases, 14 deaths in central region||The central districts on Sunday recorded a sharp spike of 695 COVID-19 cases. A total of 14 deaths — six in Pudukottai, five in Thanjavur and one each in Tiruvarur, Tiruchi and Karur were recorded. In Pudukottai, a 50-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman both died of respiratory failure from COVID pneumonia, while two men aged 62 and 75 and a 60-year-old woman died from acute respiratory distress syndrome and a comorbidity of diabetes. Two men, both aged 58, and three others aged, 75, 63, and 70 years died of COVID pneumonia in Thanjavur, while in Tiruchi, a 72-year-old man died of Covid pneumonia and a complete heart block, and in Tiruvarur, a 68-year-old man died of respiratory failure. Meanwhile, a 53-year-old man from Karur died of Upper gastrointestinal bleeding and COVID pneumonia. Meanwhile, Pudukottai recorded 187 cases, the highest among the central districts. Majority of the cases are primary contacts and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). Some ante-natal mothers and local cases whose contacts are being traced also tested positive. Thanjavur recorded 124 cases including 53 patients with symptoms of ILI, and four travellers from other states. Housewives, students and vendors at some stores also tested positive. In Tiruchi 104 patients tested positive, mostly from containment zones. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Meanwhile, 21 patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 30 patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the infection. Tiruvarur recorded 65 cases, and Karur 30 cases. The cases in Karur included a man residing at the Railway Quarters, and a man and a woman residing at the Police Quarters in Kulithalai. Of the 66 patients to test positive in Nagapattinam were 30 local contacts, travellers from Chennai, Thanjavur, Cuddalore and Tiruvarur. A total of 15 of the patients were those with ILI symptoms. In Ariyalur, 77 new cases were recorded, further increasing the district total to 1792. However, 1279 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. Of the 77 patients, 19 belonged to Jayankondam, and 15 were from rural parts of Ariyalur. Among the rest, 13 were from the municipality limits, nine from Thirumanur, seven from Andimadam, five from Sendhurai and six from T. Palur. A total of 220 new throat swab samples have also been lifted and sent for testing. Perambalur recorded 42 cases on Sunday, including 17 from Perambalur town. A total of 74 samples were lifted and sent for sampling, while six new villages were made containment zones.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four youth sell avocados, help farmers earn a living||A group of youth in the city have come together to purchase and sell avocados directly from farmers in Kodaikanal and Ooty. They claim that the demand for the fruit was growing as it is deemed to have various health benefits. Two friends, Manoj Dharmar and J. Sagayaraj, on a trip to the two hill stations, found that farmers were struggling to sell avocados which they had grown and harvested. On the other hand, there was a rising demand in Tiruchi city, and the fruit was being sold for as high as Rs. 220 per kg at various large stores. “Since the lockdown, many have taken to drinking milkshakes made of the fruit and adding it to their daily meals through salads,” Mr. Manoj said. Hoping to ease the burden of the farmers and to supply fresh fruit to the residents, they decided to purchase it directly from them and supply it. "We initially purchased 350 kg, which was not a large enough order for the farmers" said Mr. Sagayaraj. “They had tonnes of the fruit on hand and were incurring heavy losses. We took a risk and but it did not make a huge difference to them,” he said. They contacted friends who consume the fruit, and also made posters to be posted on WhatsApp and Facebook. “A cost of Rs. 150 per kg was fixed for the fruit. The farmers agreed to deliver the fruit up to Dindigul, from where a friend who lived nearby said he would transport it. Manoj and I personally delivered the fruit for all the orders the first time,” he said. The customers were impressed and orders for a total of 700 kg was received the second time around, Mr. Manoj said. “This time, the farmers were overwhelmed and delivered the fruit to us directly. We decided not to use plastic items for packaging and purchased paper bags to pack the fruit,” he said. Three boys, who used to work as food delivery boys for food aggregators and had lost their jobs amid the lockdown were roped in to make the deliveries. “We made a reasonably profit margin and were able to pay them for the deliveries,” Mr. Sagayaraj said. The youth say that they were glad to help farmers who were unable to sell their produce and were letting it rot. “We pay them directly as they load their fruit onto our vehicles. We do not wait to sell the fruit and pay them afterwards. Selling is our job, not theirs,” he said.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery bridge continues to pose risk for two-wheelers||Though repairs and maintenance works are being undertaken at periodic intervals by the Highways Department, the Cauvery bridge between Mela Chinthamani and Mambalasalai in the city poses risk to motorists particularly two-wheeler riders. The Highways Department has carried out about seven minor and major repair works as part of maintenance works since 2015-16. Strengthening of joints of 14 spans of the bridge was among the works taken up frequently. The gaps on joints of the spans have once again appeared to have widened on a few parts, thereby posing hurdles to motorists particularly two-wheeler riders. Edges at some of the expansion spans have been found to have worn out. There are instances of two-wheeler riders losing their balance and falling down in the recent past. A delivery boy of a leading food delivery company suffered injuries when his motorbike hit the edge of a joint on Saturday. The passers by, who witnessed the accident, rushed to the spot and provided first aid to the victim before admitting him to a hospital. “There are gaps here and there on the bridge. We need to navigate our vehicles carefully on the bridge. Otherwise we will have to end up with accidents,” B. Hemanathan, a resident of Srirangam, who frequently travels on the bridge on his two-wheeler. Mr. Hemanathan says that he has been witnessing repair and maintenance works frequently for the last few years. But, some shortcomings continue to crop up. There is a need to carry out a comprehensive study to find out ways and means to ensure smooth flow of traffic on the bridge, he adds.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers contract infection||Several healthcare workers and those on the frontline have been testing positive for COVID - 19 infection. On Saturday, many frontline workers in Nagapattinam, Karur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi tested positive for the viral infection. In Thanjavur, an assistant engineer of the State Highways department, a doctor at the Our Lady Of Health Hospital, and a driver, a staff nurse, and a doctor all from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, a sanitary worker, an armed reserve policeman, revenue inspector at Kumbakonam municipality tested positive and were admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Nagapattinam, a healthcare worker and a policeman of the Thittachery station tested positive. In Tiruchi, at least eight policemen tested positive for the viral infection while some are in home quarantine. “Frontline workers especially policemen and those in the civic body require protection as they are dealing with patients outside of the hospitals, including some who may be asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Even though they have face shields and protective equipment, they need to have days of rest and isolation so they do not contract the infection and do not spread it,” a senior health official said.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school teachers begin admission process||Government school teachers are getting back to duty from Monday, to attend to admission-related work, after months of inactivity caused by COVID-19 pandemic. The State government had announced last week that the admission of students into classes I, VI and IX will begin from August 17. School heads say they have put in place measures to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms. Teachers of panchayat union primary and upper primary schools, on their part, sounded hopeful of scaling up enrolment due to the setback caused to the economy due to the COVID-19 lockdown. "The pandemic has thrown many in the village out of jobs. The workforce from villages are mainly labourers in agricultural fields or construction sites in urban areas. Since the agricultural activities are yet to pick up and the construction works have come to a near standstill in the towns and cities, the parents of the children are expected to avail the utility of free education in government schools," a senior teacher in a panchayat union school in Tiruverumbur block said. But, the teachers say they have no idea about how the students could be engaged after the admission process. 'It is not about our capability. Having been recruited through the Teachers' Recruitment Board, we have the knowledge and skills to swiftly adapt to the online platform. But, the bare fact is that the students do not have the gadgets to be a part of the online process," another teacher said. According to officials of school education department, the Kalvi television channel run by the government will be relied upon for completing portions.
17 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 99.02 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 14,207 cusecs and the discharge 13,501 cusecs.
17 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Online I-Day fete||Sevalaya and IGL (Insta Gana Live) celebrated 74th Independence Day with an online musical programme of patriotic songs on Sunday . The three-hour session saw 35 singers from across the world, including Ravanasamudram in Tirunelveli district, Eraharam in Thanjavur district, Dubai and California, coming together to sing in different Indian languages or play on the keyboard. The event was conceptualised by Sevalaya's founder V.Muralidharan and IGL’s co-founder Krishna Kumar. The chief guests were Rajkumar Bharathi (great grandson of poet Subramanya Bharathi and a renowned singer and composer) and N.S. Subhashree, Dean, Dr.M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute, Chennai. The programme began with Bharathi’s ‘Achamillai.’ Mr. Rajkumar Bharathi sang a few lines of ‘Enru thaniyum.’
17 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cleaning Coonoor amid pandemic||A group of friends who grew up in Coonoor but subsequently moved to other cities have returned to their native place amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and are working on an ambitious project to clean up their hometown. The group of 10, who were earlier employed in other parts of the country and abroad, have managed to recruit volunteers, team up with local NGOs and remove seven tonnes of waste over the last few weeks. Divya Menon, a yoga instructor, was working in Goa when the pandemic broke out. She had to move back to her hometown, where her parents still reside. “One day, while my friends and I were out for a run, an Indian gaur was blocking our usual route. So we decided to take a detour through a path less travelled, and discovered huge mounds of waste which had been discarded by local residents in forested areas,” she said. After deciding to conduct clean-ups till they are allowed to travel again, the group managed to find volunteers, and have succeeded in cleaning up portions surrounding Tiger Hill, Quail Hill, Brooklands and Yedappalli. On Independence Day alone, four tonnes of waste were collected during a single clean-up. John Rejish, who had been working in Bengaluru and was just about to emigrate when the pandemic hit, said, “I did my schooling in Coonoor, and remember the roads being cleaner. All of my childhood memories are linked to the town. We were saddened to see all the waste that was being dumped, and decided to try and clean up as much of it as we can while we’re still here.” Their efforts have led to a tremendous outpouring of interest from residents, who have volunteered to help. Divya Bharathi, who is pursuing her doctorate in botany in Coimbatore, said she wanted to help make a difference as she is interested in the study and protection of local ecology. “I also wanted to help in protecting the environment and raising awareness among residents,” she added. “They are trying hard to raise awareness about waste management so that there can be a lasting solution to the problem,” said Samantha Iyanna of Clean Coonoor, an NGO.
17 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Coonoor bus stand to feature iconic tribal art||The Coonoor bus stand will feature one of the rarest forms of indigenous art from the Nilgiris, with members of the Alu Kurumba tribal community being invited to help beautify the bus stand. Members of the community have been invited to paint portions of the bus stand with images from their catalog of iconic rock art. The Alu Kurumbas are renowned for their sophisticated artwork, based on the cave paintings found near their hamlets. Only a handful of the members of the community continue to paint the intricate designs that highlight their traditional livelihoods and customs. Over the last few years, the growing popularity of the artwork has allowed artists to earn a livelihood by putting some of the images to canvas and also as decorative murals on walls of residences in the Nilgiris. In order to popularise the art-form among local residents and visitors to the district, the municipality has commissioned the artists from the community to paint the pillars of the Coonoor bus stand. J.R.Mani, a community leader from Sengalputhur near Coonoor, said that there were only eight members of the community who had the expertise to replicate traditional rock art on canvas and on other mediums. “Almost all of them have been trained by two artists from the community,” said Mr. Mani, adding that the artists use forest produce gathered from indigenous trees as well as from rocks found near their habitations to produce the dyes used in the artwork. “Almost all the images which are painted depict some form of traditional life associated with the community, be it harvesting honey or an image depicting our cultural and religious practices,” said Mr. Mani. Coonoor Municipality Commissioner, K. Balu, who has overseen the painting of murals as well as the opening of a heritage gallery in Coonoor showcasing the evolution of the town over the last two centuries, said that it was important that the contributions of the indigenous communities too are acknowledged. “We hope that by having this artwork displayed in such a busy part of town, it will help popularise the work of indigenous artists and artisans, and also help in its survival,” said Mr. Balu. One of the artists, Adhi Balan, is a Class 11 student who is one of the most recently trained artists from the community. “People who were passing through were so interested in the artwork that they commissioned a few projects right away,” added Mr. Balu. The Alu Kurumbas are also extremely pleased to have a chance at showcasing their rich history and connection with the Nilgiris. “When our culture, which dates back thousands of years is showcased to the public, it is of course a source of immense pride to the community, who have a deep connection to the district,” said Mr. Mani.
17 August 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT among top 9 institutions of India||The Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has been ranked 801-900 among world universities in the 2020 Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) by the Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. The ranking was released on August 15. According to a release, VIT has moved up from last year’s 901-1000 ranking. It is also mentioned that VIT is one among the top nine out of 15 institutions from India in ARWU’s list.
17 August 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Armed Reserve constable in Villupuram ends life||A Grade II police constable attached to the Villupuram Armed Reserve died after he allegedly turned his self-loading service rifle on himself at the AR quarters here on Sunday. The deceased was identified as K. Elumalai, 25, of Kandachipuram in Villupuram. Police said Elumalai had been posted at the camp office of the Superintendent of Police in Villupuram. His duty ended after 15 days and he was supposed to report at the AR on Saturday. However, Elumalai did not report for duty. His mobile phone was found to be switched off. The absence of the constable raised suspicion and a police team went to his house in the AR quarters on Sunday morning. When the team went to his house, they found the main door locked and knocked twice. When there was no response, the police broke open the window and found Elumalai lying in a pool of blood. On information, Superintendent of Police S. Radhakrishnan rushed to the spot and conducted enquiries. Elumalai had completed his B.E. Computer Science and was enlisted for service in November 2017. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||846 positive cases in western districts||Coimbatore district witnessed the highest single day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday as 395 more people tested positive for the disease. The total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 8,967.  Health inspector succumbs to disease Kumar, 56, a health inspector attached to Arisipalayam Primary Health Centre of Madukkarai block, who was on the frontline of COVID-19 combat, succumbed to the disease at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday evening. A resident of Neelikonampalayam, he was undergoing treatment at the hospital for 12 days, said a Health Department official. As per the media bulletin issued by the department, 14 patients who were under treatment at various government and private hospitals died of the disease between August 13 and Sunday. Seven persons died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital while ESI Hospital reported two deaths. Five patients succumbed to the disease at private hospitals. On Sunday, 182 persons who recovered from the disease got discharged from various hospitals in the district. The office of the CB-CID in Coimbatore was closed for fumigation late on Saturday after a special sub-inspector tested positive for the disease. CB-CID officials at the office are currently investigating the death of Sri Lankan underworld operative Angoda Lokka. Swab samples of CB-CID sleuths were collected for COVID-19 testing. Tiruppur district reported three deaths as the overall case tally crossed the 1,500-mark with 34 fresh cases. On Saturday, two men aged 54 and 57 who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. A 75-year-old man from the district died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday. A 37-year-old man, who was the Medical Officer of the Primary Health Centre in Vellakoil Block was reported to be COVID-19 positive, according to sources at Health Department. A 37-year-old official from Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and a 39-year-old official from Udumalpet Municipality were also among the fresh cases. A total of 177 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 163 cases were indigenous, including 63 in corporation limits. Six patients have travelled to other districts like Chennai, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Thiruvarur and Thiruvanamalai. Four patients have returned from other States like Kashmir, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. Erode district reported 103 new cases taking the tally to 1,445. A total of 42 persons were discharged while 526 continue to be under treatment. Four men aged 53, 62, 67 and 72 years, who tested positive and were under treatment died at the hospitals. So far, 24 deaths were reported in the district. A total of 51 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Among the patients, 48 were indigenous and three were imported cases. Forty-two cases were reported in Namakkal. The patients include police personnel, Railway Police personnel, a veterinarian and lab technician. Seven patients have travelled to other districts and one patient has returned from Assam. Twenty-four persons tested positive in the Nilgiris. With the latest infections, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 1,057. The district administration said that 933 people have recovered and 121 people are undergoing treatment. Twenty positive cases were reported in Dharmapuri. Health officials said four patients have returned from Karnataka, Ladakh, Rajasthan and West Bengal.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Health Dept. to increase sample size in Coimbatore district||The Health Department has decided to increase the size of swab samples collected for COVID-19 testing in Coimbatore district. The sample size, which was between 3,500 and 4,000 last week, would be increased to anywhere between 4,500 and 5,000 this week, according to health officials here. The department anticipates an increase in the number of cases reported per day, corresponding to the increase in the sample size. Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar said that the district was seeing positive cases at 8.5 % to 8.9 % last week. While the positive rate in urban parts of the district varied between 10% to 12%, rural parts of the district saw positivity rate of 4.5% last week. “Our efforts are focused to bring down the positivity rate. “The increase in the sample size may result in an increase in the number of positive cases in the initial stages,” he said. On Sunday, the district’s positivity rate crossed 9%, according to Health Department officials. While the district witnessed 385 positive cases on Friday and 290 on Saturday, the figure increased to 395 on Sunday - the highest single day figure so far. The department in coordination with the Health Wing of Coimbatore Municipal Corporation plans to increase the sample size in urban areas from where maximum cases were getting reported. “Increasing the sample size will help in finding sources of infection. The initial surge in the number of cases is inevitable. The number of cases are expected to come down at a later stage,” said another official. To accommodate more number of asymptomatic patients, efforts are under way to add 200 more beds to the COVID-19 Care Centre at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex, which already has 670 beds in two halls, said Dr. Kumar.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T to be part of two major national technology missions||The National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, will be part of two major national technology missions — National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) and National Supercomputing Mission — launched by the Centre. The institution will work on modelling and simulation systems with IIT-Indore, and Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, as part of NM-ICPS, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said in her Independence Day address on the campus on Saturday, “Our contributions will be in modelling and simulation in areas of defence, agriculture, cyber security, artificial intelligence, data management, smart manufacturing and biomechanical engineering that benefit mankind. Most of our departments will be involved in the mission,” Ms. Thomas said. According to the National Science and Engineering Research Board website, Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) are a new class of engineered systems that integrate computation and physical processes in a dynamic environment. CPS encompasses technology areas of cybernetics, mechatronics, design and embedded systems, Internet of Things, big data and artificial intelligence and is heralded as the next paradigm shift in technology that can exponentially spur growth and development. To harness the potential of this new wave of technology and make India a leading player in CPS, the Union Cabinet approved the launch of NM-ICPS to be implemented by the Department of Science & Technology at a total outlay of Rs. 3,660 crore over five years. The mission will be implemented through a network of 15 technology innovation hubs , six sectoral application hubs and four technology translation research park. “We are also part of the National Supercomputing mission and a 650 TF supercomputer will be installed at NIT-T soon,” she said. The institute has moved one notch up to the ninth position in engineering category in NIRF India Rankings 2020. NIT-T is also a Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship granting institution, being in the top 25 rank in the Overall NIRF ranking 2020. A National Research Development Corporation- Innovation Facilitation Centre (NRDC-IFC) will soon be set up in the institute. The institute has also been made national coordinator for massive open online courses to develop undergraduate and post graduate engineering courses. It has successfully conducted board and Senate meetings and student council elections online. The Ph.D process is completely online. “We have completed all exams online. With uncertainty about the return of normalcy, the Senate of NIT-T has decided to go online in the forthcoming semester and classes will go live from August 25,” she said. Earlier, Ms. Thomas hoisted the national flag on the campus, a release said.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Children’s Traffic Park inaugurated in Erode||A Children’s Traffic Park aimed at creating awareness on traffic rules and safety on roads for children was inaugurated at Molagoundampalayam on Karur Bypass Road in Ward 60 in corporation limits here recently. MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West) and K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) inaugurated the facility in the presence of Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Superintendents of Police P. Thangadurai (Erode) and S. Sakthi Ganesan (Namakkal) and officials. Established at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh on a sprawling 20,759 sq ft, the park is equipped to give traffic awareness to students as it has traffic signs, LED projectors, traffic simulator, watch tower, mini amphitheatre and a hall to conduct awareness classes. Children will be given instructions on safety norms. Mr. Thangadurai said students from corporation schools will be permitted to visit the park after normalcy is restored.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl sexually assaulted, one held||The Saravanampatty police on Sunday arrested a middle-aged man for alleged sexual assault on a two-and-a-half-year-old girl near Ganapathy on August 13. The police are on the lookout for another accused in the case. The police said that two men were booked for alleged sexual assault on the chilld, daughter of a 26-year-old from Pappanaickenpalayam. According to the police, the woman had separated from her husband. While going for work, she used to hand over her daughter to a woman at Ganapthy for babysitting. The police said that the woman recently went to Thanjavur. Her husband and daughter were staying at the house. On August 13, the girl’s mother dropped her at the house as usual and went for work. The next day she noticed injuries on her daughter’s body and took her to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Doctors opined that she could have been assaulted sexually. The woman lodged a complaint at the Saravanampatti police station, levelling charges of sexual assault against the babysitter woman’s husband and his friend, who used to visit the house. The two were booked under various Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The arrested man was identified as the friend of the woman’s husband.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||College bags award for implementing Unnat Bharat Abhiyan||M.A.M. College of Engineering and Technology has won the Perennial Fund Award of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA), a flagship programme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. It has also emerged as winner in Unnati ki kahani chitro ki jubani (Photostory Competition). The college was among 78 institutions in the country selected for the Rs. 1.75-lakh award on Independence Day. The announcement was made by Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, the National Coordinating Institute. Institutions that participated in gram sabhas, prepared village development reports and made technical interventions for the holistic development of the adopted village were honoured with the award by the Central government. The winners were chosen from among 290 participating institutions. MAMCET had adopted Siruganur, Konalai, Purathakudi, Inam Samayapuram and Vengangudi villages in Manachanallur Block and entrusted a village to a department to work for its development. MAMCET implemented two technology development projects for the holistic development of Vengangudi and Konalai villages, said Susan Christina X, Principal. A solar-powered reverse osmosis system for groundwater purification in Konalai has been completed and creation of an e-commerce platform for sale of food products and handicracts in rural areas is in progress at Vengangudi, she said. MAMCET also bagged the award for photostory competition, which carried Rs. 5,000 prize money. There were five winners from 827 entries from all over India. The photostory submitted by MAMCET featured development activities carried out in Vengangudi village. The photo entries will be displayed in the photo album book, which will be presented to MHRD by UBA, B. Annette, UBA Coordinator, MAMCET, said. The activities in the villages covered eye camps in Purathakudi and Konalai, health awareness camp in Siruganur and energy awareness camp at Konalai. It also featured water utilisation survey at Purathakudi, health and hygiene camp for school children at Vengangudi, energy safety and energy saving camp at Konalai, mask distribution in all five villages for COVID-19, formation of Whatsapp group for communicating with villages during lockdown; holding COVID-19 awareness quiz and circulation of awareness posters.  MAMCET carried out two projects forholistic development ofVengangudi and Konalai villages Susan Christina XPrincipal
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four railway stations to be brought under electronic surveillance||Surveillance and security at four railway stations falling under the limits of Tiruchi Railway Division are set to be strengthened with installation of a closed circuit television unit system. Using Nirbhaya Fund, surveillance cameras have been installed at Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai, Villupuram and Kumbakonam railway stations for round-the-clock monitoring. RailTel Corporation has been entrusted with the task of installing and commissioning the CCTV units. Forty cameras each have been installed at Thanjavur and Villupuram junctions, 41 at Mayiladuthurai and 30 at Kumbakonam, Railway Protection Force authorities have said. Barring Villupuram, the remaining railway stations fall under the mainline section. The exercise of placing monitors at the four railway stations have also been carried out. The cameras have been installed at vantage points based on joint checks conducted by the Railway Protection Force and Signal and Telecommunication Department of Southern Railway and consultation with railway officials of the stations, the authorities further said. The commissioning of the CCTV system will enable enhanced surveillance and security at the stations, a senior RPF officer said. Authorities hope that the CCTV system will be commissioned by next month. Also, there is a proposal to install surveillance cameras at Vriddhachalam, Puducherry, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur stations in the next phase. The plan is to install 40 cameras each at these stations, they say. At present, Tiruchi railway junction has a slew of cameras, installed in 2013 under the Integrated Security Scheme conceived and put in place by the railway administration in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome court order on MD charges||The High Tension power consuming industries here have welcomed the recent High Court order that set aside the orders of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) demanding MD charges and compensation from them during the lockdown period. The court directed Tangedco to issue a revised bill to the petitioners by applying Regulation 6(b) of the Supply Code for the entire period when the establishments were shut down. If it has already recovered the entire dues from the petitioners, the bill should be reworked and the excess amount should be adjusted towards future bills, it said. N. Murugesan, president of the South India Spinners’ Association, which had taken up the issue with the Court, said the industries were shocked when the Tangedco raised electricity bills for April 2020, calculating 90 % of demand charges and had levied penalty charges for the low power factor for all the HT units. The power factor would be below the norms because of the total lockdown. Hence, the HT consumers requested Tangedco to collect only 20 % of demand charges and waive the power factor penalty to safeguard the industries. Since there was no remedy from Tangedco, the association approached the court, he said and welcomed the order passed by the High Court. N. Pradeep, secretary of Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers’ Association (TECA), said the Tangedco was unlawfully collecting 90 % of fixed charges though the regulation permitted it to collect only the minimum of 20 % or recorded demand. The Tangedco was not making any loss as consumers were ready to pay for the used or consumed electricity units. However, it had demanded industries to pay fixed charges as under normal conditions even during the pandemic and the lockdown that was implemented to control the spread of the disease. Tangedco had refused to implement the order of the Tamilnadu Electricity Regulatory Commission too. Hence, the industries had no option but to approach the court, he said. “The order confirms the right of the industries to pay only the electricity charges for their consumption,” he added.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online yoga sessions for prisoners||Isha Yoga Centre has been conducting online yoga sessions for the inmates of six central prisons across the State amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The sessions began on July 28 at the central prisons in Chennai, Vellore, Cuddalore, Tiruchi, Salem and Palayamkottai. Tamil Nadu Prisons Department requested Isha Yoga Centre to conduct online yoga sessions to “improve physical and mental health of inmates,” a release from Isha said. While Isha has been conducting yoga sessions for inmates in prisons for over 20 years, this is the first time the sessions are being conducted online due to the pandemic, the release said.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Give Rs. 50 lakh to kin of deceased doctors: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged the Health Department to come out with details about doctors who had fallen prey to COVID-19 and demanded Rs. 50 lakh be paid to their family, besides granting a government job for one of the family members. “The best way to express gratitude to the doctors is to release the financial assistance and job to their family members,” he said in a statement. Recalling the statistics released by the IMA, Tamil Nadu Branch, that 32 doctors had died, Mr. Stalin said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar had ridiculed the report.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report that an increase is likely in samba, thaladi coverage, in edition dated August 16,2020, the headline wrongly mentions the name of the district as Thanjavur. It should have been Tiruvarur.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission (TNEA) counselling starts on September 10. If the counselling takes place before the medical colleges (NEET) and the Indian Institute of Technology admissions, leading colleges will be chosen by those students. After NEET and JEE results are announced, those who procured sufficient ranks would leave the colleges they chose via TNEA counselling and would join the IITs and medical colleges. This would create a vacancy in the leading colleges after counselling. The other students who had scored good marks in board exams would not get seats in these colleges, as the counselling would have ended and the vacancy might be filled by low graders. So, if the counselling is conducted after the IIT and medical admissions, it would be beneficial for all students.  R. Mohanasundaram,  Madurai   It is laudable that Madurai district administration conducted 2,114 mobile fever camps in rural areas to screen people for COVID-19 symptoms. Ever since the lockdown was announced in March, all educational institutions have been shut to prevent transmission of COVID-19. Students usually donate blood to the blood banks to treat patients undergoing emergency surgeries at major hospitals such as Government Rajaji Hospital. With the suspension of transport service, many students are unable to go to blood banks. The district administration can conduct blood donation camps along with fever camps in urban and rural areas.  Sainithii. M,  Madurai   This is with reference to the news, ‘Residents lack civic sense: High Court,’ (August 14). Though many residents lack civic sense, they are forced to park their vehicles outside commercial complexes because they don’t provide parking facilities. These are buildings constructed after getting permission from the authorities with the blueprint showing parking facilities either in the basement or ground floor. However, but for one or two complexes, most do not utilise these spaces for parking. Instead, these spaces are rented out as shops, leaving the customers with no choice but to park their vehicles on the roadside. There are also quite a lot of ‘used car’ companies with only 100 or 200 square foot space in these buildings. However, these companies park a lot of cars on the roads. I request the High Court to either take this up suo moto or ask the district administration to take action on the erring commercial complexes and to streamline parking in the city.  Mohamed Ismail. N,  Madurai   A four-lane highway runs from Madurai to Paramakudi. Work on Paramakudi - Ramanathapuram - Rameswaram stretch is being carried out at a very slow pace. I urge the authorities to expedite the work. There are also too many speed violations in this sector, resulting in accidents. Speed guns must be installed on both sides of the highway to identify and penalise violators.  Asmabagh Anvardeen,  Ramanathapuram   It was disheartening to read the news that M. K. Kanimozhi, MP, was insulted by a CISF officer who asked her whether she was an Indian. The ‘fault’ with Kanimozhi was that she did not know Hindi. Demanding all Indians to be proficient in Hindi is a dangerous trend. Tamil Nadu has a Governor whose mother tongue is not Tamil. None would ask Governor Banwarilal Prohit whether he is a Tamil because of his different mother tongue. Such behaviour is not part of Tamil culture.  G. Purushothaman, Tirunelveli
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Early recognition of symptoms and early intervention has to be accorded thrust at this juncture for preventing spread of COVID- 19 pandemic. The main symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, tiredness, cough, and shortness of breath. The flu has symptoms similar to novel coronavirus such as fever and body ache, but influenza usually does not cause shortness of breath and loss of smell and taste. Those with respiratory symptoms should therefore get themselves treated at the nearest government hospitals to rule out out COVID-19 infection. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi   Spread of COVID-19 in villages is becoming noticeable. While there are facilities for treatment in towns, scarce availability of hospitals, doctors, ventilator kits and ambulance in rural parts has caused problems for people as they will have to come to the nearest town, risking considerable loss of time for treatment. It is, hence, imperative for the government to ensure availability of all materials with regard to Covid-19 in all government hospitals in taluk headquarters. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   While the spread of COVID- 19 pandemic has led to emergence of online teaching-learning process in elite schools, the case of underprivileged children, who also have the potential to perform well in academics in a situation of equal opportunities, has not been given due attention. Despite the initiatives in place to bring education to the doorstep of the downtrodden, illiteracy among children of daily wagers remains a bane. Children of migrant labourers, in particular, will benefit if a uniform system of education is implemented across the country. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram   Serving and retired employees in Budalur town suffer from incovenience of scarce ATMs. Though the town is also a taluk headquarters, it has become necessary for banks to install adequate number of ATMs. At present, only Indian Overseas Bank has a cash recycler. The crowding of customers brings social distancing to naught. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur   A transformer on the roadside of Thuraiyur-Tiruchi Highway appears to be vulnerable to theft of power. The reachability of transformer switch and dangling of alumnimum wires has caused unsafe conditions. The public have been asking TANGEDCO for long to raise the level of the transformer for prevention of any untoward occurrence. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Dumping of plastic wastes by residents has negated the very purpose behind clearing the sludge in the drainage canal on the First Main Road of South Ramalinga Nagar by the Corporation. The plastic wastes are being littered on the sludge dumped on the sides of the canal, making the heaps breeding spots for mosquitoes. The civic authorities have to act decisively to maintain cleanliness. Kanagaraj Arthur Tiruchi    Loading and unloading of goods during the course of the day by various showrooms along Salai Road on the MG Gate-Sastri Road stretch is adding to the traffic congestion. Such activities must be permitted only after 9 p.m. Making Tiruchi traffic smart will remain a pipe dream if the planners and district authorities budge under external pressures. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam   The work on construction of underground drainage system in Kumbakonam town for the last one year has caused immense inconvenience to motorists. To add to the problem, barricades have been placed in areas of heavy traffic congestion. No doubt, the project is of much importance, but the people expect local authorities to complete the work as early as possible. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram
17 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Panel makes quick exchange of information possible||The committee for coordination and flood management mechanism created by Karnataka and Maharashtra has led to quick exchange of accurate information about rainfall, water release and impounding of water. Officials say that there is real-time information exchange between engineers at the district, regional and State-level. State-level officers are also alerting their counterparts to water release, one day before opening the gates of the various dams. This 24-hour window would help Revenue and Police departments take up rescue and relief operations, they add. Questions remain However, questions remain to be answered about the preparations being made at the district, sub-division and taluk-levels to manage floods, if the region were to face them. In the first week of June when Maharashtra released water into the Krishna, Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation and district in-charge Ramesh Jarkiholi announced that he would convene a meeting of Irrigation, Revenue, Police and other departments concerned from across the Krishna basin districts. He is yet to do so. The Minister had also said that the officials would use last year’s data to set up relief camps and rescue points. Last year, over nine lakh persons were evacuated in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Nearly 80,000 persons were sheltered for nearly 50 days in over 500 relief centres put up in flood-affected villages or areas nearby in the two districts. The district administration officers seem to have taken rescue operations preparedness seriously. Officials inform that in Mumbai Karnataka districts, NDRF teams have been paired with SDRF teams and dispatched to vulnerable villages. In Kalyan Karnataka districts, the NDRF and SDRF teams are camping in district headquarters, ready to be deployed at a moment’s notice. But the same enthusiasm is not seen in planning for relief. The district administration in Belagavi is yet to set up relief camps in vulnerable villages or towns nearby. Only one relief centre, with a capacity to hold around 30 families, has been set up in Nippani. Another problem is that of pending compensation amount for the losses suffered last year. Farmer leaders say that the State government has not released the promised amount of Rs. 5 lakh to any of the families that suffered house collapse. First of all, there has been grave injustice in the categorisation of houses as mild, medium and completely destroyed. Most deserving families were left out. Even families whose houses were completely collapsed have not received the full amount. They have only received around Rs. 10,000 per family, said Jayashree Gurannanavar, farmers leader. She also feels that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s promise to increase crop loss relief has not been kept. In Belagavi district, “we faced very serious floods in 2019. Across the State, 31 lives were lost. The State declared 80 taluks in 17 districts as flood-hit. The Chief Minister called it the biggest calamity in five decades and estimated the loss at Rs. 40,000 crore. But farmers and other families who lost houses and crops were not properly compensated. We are writing a letter to the Prime Minister about this,” she added. Member of Legislative Assembly Mahesh Kumthalli told journalists in Athani on Sunday that the government had released compensation to over 60 % of the affected families. All those who lost houses will soon get the complete compensation in a few days, he added. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that officers in the taluk-level had been instructed to identify villages that could house relief centres. “We are following last year’s pattern to set up these centres. It is true that most of our staff is on COVID-19 duty. But we have taken all steps to face the floods. There is no laxity on our part,” he said.
17 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Incessant rains create fear of floods in some NK districts||Incessant rains in South Maharashtra and some North Karnataka districts have led to an increase in the release of water from reservoirs, creating a flood scare among farmers on the banks of the rivers. The inflow and the outflow in reservoirs in the Krishna basin in Belagavi, Bagalkot, and Yadgir districts have been increasing by the hour. Officials have begun preparations for rescue and relief if the villages will face flooding, officials said. NDRF teams National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have arrived at the district headquarters in Kalyana Karnataka region. In Bombay Karnataka region, they have been paired with State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams and are being sent to villages likely to be affected, officials said. Maharashtra has released around 2 lakh cusecs of water into the Krishna and its tributaries. This includes the 40,000 cusecs released from the Koyna dam on Sunday. The water released on Sunday could arrive at the Kallol barrage at the inter-State border on Tuesday. The inflow and the outflow in the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir on the Krishna in Alamatti was at the rate of 2 lakh cusecs. The dam had around 113 tmcft of water against its gross capacity of 123 tmcft. Over 2.38 lakh cusecs of water was gushing out of the Basavasagar dam in Narayanpur in Yadgir district. Rains in Khanapur increased the inflow to the Malaprabha. This led to an increased outflow from the Navilu Teertha dam near Saundatti. The outflow from Navilu Teertha increased to 11,264 cusecs, which is slightly less than 1 tmcft of standing water. This follows heavy rains in the jungles of Khanapur, where the river takes birth, and the catchment areas of Belagavi taluk, and surrounding areas. Inflow into the Malaprabha increased to 19,900 cusecs by Sunday morning. The dam, which has a gross capacity 37.7 tmcft, now has around 78.3% water now, around 29.08 tmcft. The outflow could go up to 15,000 cusecs if the inflow increased, officers said. The district administration has urged farmers in all low-lying areas to move to safer places. Assistant Commissioner of Bailhongal has asked farmers not to go to their fields on the river banks. Flood-care centre A SDRF team is camping in Chikkodi and Belagavi. A flood-care centre has been opened in Nippani to house around 30 families. More such centres would be opened if the flood situation worsens, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said. Sunday’s release from the dam in Saundatti is also eight times the release of last year. The outflow on August 16, 2019, was just at the rate of 1,514 cusecs, as there was a lull in rainfall. The fact that officers were releasing large amount of water from the Almatti dam was another reason for the low outflow then. The bridge connecting Parishwad and Hire Munawalli villages over the Malaprabha near Khanapur in Belagavi district was submerged on Sunday morning following heavy rains. The outflow from the Ghataprabha was at the rate of around 33,549 cusecs. From the Hiranyakeshi it was 5,250 cusecs, from the Markandeya 3,030 cusecs, from the Balalri Nala 4,890 cusecs, and from the Hidkal reservoir it was around 20,379 cusecs. Emergency alert The Gadag district administration declared an emergency alert in the villages along the banks of the Malaprabha. Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu has asked farmers from low-lying areas to move to safer places. Officials said that 16 villages in Gadag faced the threat of submergence if the outflow from the Malaprabha increased. Heavy rains in Dharwad district also added to the inflow into the Malaprabha.
17 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Body shifted to graveyard on bicycle||Family members of a worker have complained that government officials did not help them shift his body to the graveyard in Mugut Khan Hubballi village in Belagavi district on Sunday. The man was suffering from fever for three days. He was taken to a private clinic in the village where the doctors suspected that he may have COVID-19. They advised his relatives to shift the patient to the district designated hospital. However, he died on Saturday night, before he could be shifted. News spread that he might have died of COVID-19. This kept his relatives and friends away. The man’s children called gram panchayat and health department officers to come to their rescue. But nobody turned up. Finally, by Sunday evening, the man’s two sons took the body on a bicycle from their house in Gandhi Nagar to the graveyard outside the village. One of them told reporters that government officers did not respond in time.
17 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||12 rescued after house collapses partially||Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued Shashikala Surekar, a former member of the Belagavi City Corporation, and 11 others of her family when her neighbour’s house collapsed partially in Gondhalli Galli in the old city here on Saturday night. The old house with mud walls belonging to N.R. Kotur collapsed on Saturday night. The walls had weakened due to continuous rainfall, the police said. A tailoring shop attached to the front wall of the house collapsed. This led to caving in of a door and a window. As many as 12 persons, including two children, who were inside, could not come out. Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel rushed to the spot when a neighbour called the police control room. They broke open another section of the wall and rescued the family. They are all out of danger, Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan said.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||124 deaths, 7,040 new cases reported across Karnataka||As many as 124 new deaths by COVID-19 were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to 3,947. In addition, 7,040 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 2,26,966. Of the 7,040 cases reported on Sunday, as many as 2,131 positive cases were from Bengaluru Urban. Ten other districts reported cases above 200. Out of 81,512 active cases in the State, as many as 692 patients were admitted in intensive care units of different hospitals. Meanwhile, 6,680 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,41,491. As many as 43,626 tests were conducted across Karnataka. In terms of active cases, Kodagu has the lowest figures by accounting for only 321 cases, followed by Chamarajanagar (412 cases). Ramanagaram (634 cases), Chitradurga (641) and Chickballapur (713) districts too have reported lesser number of active cases. Bengaluru Urban accounts for the highest number of active cases at 34,584, followed by Ballari that has 5,817 cases. Belagavi (3,796 cases) and Mysuru (3,756 cases) too are among those with a high number of active cases. Sriramulu discharged Karnataka’s Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, who had tested positive for COVID-19 last week, was discharged from the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute on Sunday evening. He was the first Minister to be admitted to a government-run facility after testing positive for COVID-19. He was admitted on August 9, receiving much appreciation from citizens and the medical fraternity for his decision to get admitted in a government-run facility as other politicians, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, were admitted in private hospitals. However, at the time of discharge, he drew flak for not wearing a mask while being photographed with doctors who were in PPE kits.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Those under home isolation allege harassment||Many who have tested positive for COVID-19 and are under home isolation have alleged that they are being harassed by the Resident Welfare Association (RWA), apartment associations, and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to get themselves hospitalised or stay in COVID Care Centres. People who spoke to The Hindu complained that their apartment associations and RWAs were compelling them to get admitted to hospitals even if they did not have symptoms. “We were in a stressful situation when we learnt that we have tested positive and were in the process of making arrangements to procure groceries and medicines. At the same time, the association members said that we were a threat to the entire community and told that we should vacate. We had not come in contact with a single person from the other flats, yet we received this treatment,” said a resident of North Bengaluru. Health officials of the BBMP have been receiving calls from patients asking them to intervene as their neighbours are harassing them. In some instances, the patients have even complained orally to the jurisdictional police station. It is not just the RWAs or apartment associations. Some patients also have reported that they were being bombarded with calls from BBMP officials asking them to come and get themselves admitted to COVID Care Centres run by the government even if they did not have any symptoms. “I live in an apartment in South Bengaluru and my entire family except my mother tested positive. The official insisted that we should be in a COVID Care Centre so that my mother does not get infected. After many calls, she finally relented after we explained that we had four bedrooms and were isolated from our mother,” said a 46-year-old software employee. N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, BBMP, said that he had heard of such complaints at a recent meeting with the RWAs. “We have categorically told our officials that nobody should force a positive patient who is under home isolation to get admitted. People can only be asked to get admitted if they have severe symptoms or if they do not have the necessary infrastructure in their house to remain under isolation,” he said.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro trial run to Anjanapura to start by end of August||Trial run of the extended metro line (Green Line) on Kanakpura Road (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura) will start by the end of this month. In phase I, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) conducted trial runs using three coach trains. This time, the trail run will be conducted by running six car trains. The BMRCL has already converted the entire fleet into six car trains. “Charging and testing of third rail system (the line that supplies power to the train) is being done station by station. A public notice has already been issued,” said chief PRO of BMRCL Yeshwanth Chavan said. Deadlines extended Recently, BMRCL announced that the deadline to start commercial operations on the Green Line has been extended from August to November. Officials cited the pandemic as the reason for the delay. The six-km extended Green Line has five stations at Konankute Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajrahalli, Thalaghattapura, and Anjanapura. Under phase I, the Namma Metro line has a 24-km Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Nagasandra. The extended Purple Line on Mysuru Road — Mysuru Road station to Kengeri — will be opened early next year. This line was earlier scheduled to open in November. About the estimated increase in ridership once the Yelachenahlli to Anjanapura line opens, Mr. Chavan said: “It is difficult to say anything now. Due to the pandemic, we have to run trains as per the guidelines of the State government.”
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP fact-finding panel blames Congress, SDPI for violence||The ruling BJP and the Congress continued to spar over the D.J. Halli violence, this time through the fact-finding committees that both parties have formed to probe the matter. A day after the Congress committee, led by G. Parameshwara, visited the area, the BJP committee, led by Arvind Limbavali, visited MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house on Sunday, blamed the Congress and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for the violence, and sought to emphasise that Mr. Murthy was a Dalit and the Congress had failed to stand by him. With the BJP trying to build a narrative of Dalits being wronged by the minority community, both the parties, in fact, chose Dalit leaders to lead their fact-finding committees. “The information we have gathered indicates this is an internal strife within the Congress, a section of which colluded with the SDPI to target a Dalit leader. It is sad that while a Dalit MLA has been targeted like this, Congress leaders are yet to condemn the incident in unequivocal terms, because of their minority votebank politics,” Mr. Limbavali said, comparing the violence on Tuesday night to “what is seen in Kashmir Valley”. He further claimed that B.R. Ambedkar had told Dalits not to trust the Congress and it was a party that defeated him as well. All this while, Mr. Murthy sat next to him and made no comments. Congress ‘at a loss’ The Congress hit back at the BJP, questioning the propriety of the ruling party forming a fact-finding committee even as the State government led by the party was carrying out a probe into the incident. “We are at a loss to understand why the BJP, whose government is in power in the State, has formed a fact-finding committee. Is it because the party does not believe in their own government and Home Department? Is it a conspiracy to influence the probe that is under way or is it a “Santhosh” programme to embarrass Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa?” tweeted Congress leader Priyank Kharge, referring to BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh. When quizzed over this, Mr. Limbavali said Mr. Kharge and other leaders must support their own Dalit MLA before questioning them. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D.K. Shivakumar categorically denied the role of any Congress worker in the violence. “None of our workers had any role in the violence. It is our MLA who was attacked. The incident has only shown the failure of the BJP government, be it in intelligence gathering or controlling law and order. To cover this up and divert the attention of the people, the BJP is spreading rumours of an internal rift in the Congress and blaming us for the riots,” he said. When quizzed over former MLA for Pulakeshinagar Prasanna Kumar rejoining the party, Mr. Shivakumar said, “While it is true that Prasanna Kumar has applied to join the Congress, it is without any conditions. I have also spoken to Srinivasa Murthy and he has no issues with it. This is unrelated to the violence that rocked D.J. Halli.” Mr. Kumar had who quit the party after Mr. Murthy joined the Congress from the JD(S) in 2018 and was given Assembly election ticket. Another BJP delegation, led by the BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, is scheduled to visit Mr. Murthy’s house on Monday.
17 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Let a judicial commission or CBI probe the case: MLA||R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, MLA for Pulakeshinagar, has now demanded an impartial probe, either by a judicial commission or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), into the violent riots in D.J. Halli on the night of August 11, when his house was also targeted and burnt down. “I don’t blame anyone, but I feel there is a conspiracy behind this. I want the truth to be brought out and all the culprits to be brought to book. I have sought a CBI probe from the government,” he told reporters on Sunday. At present, the government has ordered a probe by a District Executive Magistrate into the firing as per National Human Rights Commission guidelines, while the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and the local police are probing the alleged conspiracy behind the riots. Meanwhile, Arvind Limbavali, MLA, who led the fact-finding committee of the BJP, said the information emerging from the preliminary probe indicated the role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and that the conspiracy extended beyond the State. “This is a matter of national security and I request the State and Union governments to hand over the probe to the National Investigation Agency,” he said. Responding to Mr. Murthy’s recent statement that the city police were yet to give security to him or his residence, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons that he had instructed the City Police Commissioner to provide adequate security to Mr. Murthy, his family, and his home. Mr. Bommai also said the Home Department was looking into ways to ensure that activity on social media doesn’t spill over into the real world and create unrest. “There are several recent examples of social media posts triggering unrest. Taking action after unrest is a given, but we need to prevent such incidents from happening. We will hold meetings with our cybercrime division and intelligence units. We are also thinking of holding meetings with social media companies,” he said. Meanwhile, alleging that those intolerant towards the the laying of the foundation stone for Ram Mandir at Ayodhya were behind violence in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said the attacks were meant to tarnish the image of the Karnataka government and the Narendra Modi-led Union government. “This violence was preplanned. While the Congress is saying that innocents are being arrested, they are in fact not innocents. The Congress legislator’s house was burnt down in the political conspiracy,” he said.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘State GDP may touch Rs. 35 lakh crore’||The State’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is growing sustainably amidmany challenges, including COVID-19, and it is likely to touch Rs. 35 lakh crore in the next five years, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Sunday. “The State has potential to reach Rs. 35 lakh crore and the government is making all efforts towards this,” he said in his online address at the Feature Karnataka Summit-2020. He said the government had taken various measures to further strengthen agriculture, IT & BT, industry, production, and the service sector, and had proposed to build an industrial corridor on the Bidar-Mysuru highway stretch. He pointed out that labour laws had been simplified, APMC Act amended, land reforms brought in, and a single-window facility introduced, among many other industry-friendly steps.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No shortage of urea in State, says B.C. Patil||Amidst complaints of the unavailability of urea as sowing picks up, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Sunday told the farming community that there is no shortage of urea in the State. His assurance comes in the light of several reports from North Karnataka of the shortage of urea or of farmers being forced to buy other fertilizers along with urea, resulting in inconvenience to them. Participating in an online interaction with farmers, the Minister said that the State has witnessed 25% more sowing this year over the previous year, and that there has been no shortage in the supply of urea in the State. “Urea supply in the State has been increased by 65,000 tonnes of which 37,000 tonnes is being supplied this week.” He also appealed to farmers not to utilise more urea or fertilizers that what is required since excess use of these can lead to a loss of soil fertility. Payments Meanwhile, Mr. Patil said that the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana (PMKSY) payments have started while the insurance amount for the eligible farmers would be transferred from Tuesday. “Since Saturday morning, farmers started receiving their money under the PMKSY. As much as Rs. 1,000 crore is being distributed among 50 lakh farmers directly. I appeal to the farmers to check their bank accounts,” the Agriculture Minister said. Similarly, he said the amount towards crop insurance for 2019-2020 will be transferred from Tuesday, and that the farmers need not be anxious about their payments. “Appointments to Raitha Mitra Kendras will be done as the cadre and recruitment draft rules are ready,” he added.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Common mobility card||To facilitate introduction of the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), BMRCL will install automatic ticket collection (AFC) boxes. The BMRCL has already floated a tender to select a financial institution to introduce the card that can be used to commute in metro, city buses, shopping, and other purposes. The BMRCL officials said that AFC in phase I will also be upgraded to accept common mobility cards.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held on murder charge||A construction labour was allegedly killed by two of his friends over a verbal duel on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Yogesh, 34, a resident of APS Layout, Parappana Agrahara. The police have arrested his friends Mahesh, 32, and Prashanth, 37, both residents of APS Layout. Yogesh had reportedly made an indecent comment about Mahesh’s wife recently after which the duo had a bitter tiff. Prashanth invited Yogesh to a party at a secluded place on Sunday evening, when Mahesh and two others came to the spot and hacked Yogesh with lethal weapons and fled from the scene.
17 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||1,041 hostels being built across the State||Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Govind M. Karjol said that the State government had, amid COVID-19 pandemic, taken up the construction of 1,041 hostels for the benefit of students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “The B.S. Yediyurappa government has sanctioned 47 new residential school buildings in the last one year. We have completed construction and put them for public use. Work on 181 residential school buildings is under way. The government is spending Rs. 2,450 crore for the purpose,” he said. He was addressing a public meeting at Sedam in Kalaburagi district on Sunday after laying foundation stones for various projects being taken up at a cost of Rs. 122 crore. Asserting his government’s commitment to the welfare of deprived communities, Mr. Karjol said that as much as Rs. 26,000 crore had been spent for the development of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State. “We have not stopped development and welfare works even in the time of a health crisis. To help the poor working masses that lived from hand to mouth on their day’s earning but hit hard by lockdown, Mr. Yediyurappa had announced Rs. 2,280 crore package and ensured that the amount was directly deposited in the bank accounts of beneficiaries,” he said. He added that Sedam Sub Division that included Sedam, Chincholi and Chittapur taluks, received Rs. 232 crore from the Social Welfare Department, Rs. 150 crore from the Public Works Department and Rs. 140 crore from District Mineral Fund for the development works. “Construction of 176 school buildings taken up under NABARD Scheme is also under way,” he said. Kalaburagi Lok Sabha member Umesh Jadhav, Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat president Suvarna Hanamantharaya Malaji, Yadgir Zilla Panchayat president Basanagouda, Hyderabad Karnataka Regional Development Board chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor, legislator B.G. Patil, Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George and other dignitaries were present. MLA Sedam Rajkumar Patil Telkur presided over the meeting.
17 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||People cautioned as water is released from Sonna barrage||As much as 40,000 cusecs of water that was released from the Veer dam built across the Nira river in Maharashtra thanks to the increased inflow into the reservoir reached the Sonna barrage built across the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Sunday. Since the water level in the barrage had almost reached the brim already, the same amount of water was released into the river course. The barrage has a capacity of holding 3.16 tmcft of water. Executive Engineer of Bhima Lift Irrigation Scheme Ashok R Kalal, cautioned people along the river course against approaching the river or letting their cattle into it.
17 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||A simple I-Day fete||Secretary of the Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha Basavaraj Deshmukh hoisted the national flag to mark the 74th Independence Day on the Sharanabasaveshwar College Grounds here on Saturday. Unlike in the past, the Independence Day celebration this year was a simple affair without any gala events, march pasts and mass drills by students studying in different schools and colleges run by the Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha and the colleges affiliated to the Sharnbasva University due to COVID-19 regulations. In his brief speech, Mr. Deshmukh said that 2020 had been a disturbing year for the entire world due to the outbreak of the pandemic. “It is a very bad year particularly for India as its development has taken a beating due to the slowing down of the economy. The education sector has been the most affected and educational institutions were not in a position to resume their activities. Students could not attend regular classes and the institutions of the sangha and university had been conducting online classes,” he said and called upon the teaching staff to put in more efforts to overcome all difficulties faced by students.
17 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Plasma Therapy Centre to be set up in Mangaluru||Having seen the effectiveness of plasma therapy in the treatment of COVID-19 patients in critical condition, steps are being taken to set up a plasma therapy centre in Mangaluru, according to Mangaluru City South MLA D.Vedavyas Kamath. In a statement here recently, Mr. Kamath said that plasma therapy is being administered in some places in the State. Plasma of COVID-19 patients who have recovered is being collected and administered to COVID-19 patients who are critical. “The results are encouraging. This therapy plays an important role in the cure of the infection. We need a centre in Mangaluru,” he said. A proposal will be sent and the centre will be set up shortly. He has discussed the issue with Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and other officials and has brought the issue to the notice of the Minister concerned, Mr. Kamath said in his statement. Mr. Rajendra told The Hindu that the Indian Council for Medical Research has given a checklist for the setting up of a plasma therapy centre. There are some risk factors that the organisation running the centre has to bear with. The organisation should give its willingness for administering the therapy. “I have asked District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy to visit some facilities in the city, evaluate their technical competency and obtain their willingness to administer the therapy,” he said. Based on his report, a proposal will be sent to the government, he added. District Surgeon and Superintendent of Government Wenlock Hospital Sadashiva said that plasma therapy will be helpful in increasing antibodies in COVID-19 patients who are in intensive care unit. “Not all patients require this,” he said and added that the proposal for having the centre in the hospital is pending with the State government.
17 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada opens border with Kerala for daily travellers||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has ordered opening of border roads with neighbouring Kerala for daily travellers with immediate effect subject to certain conditions. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate K.V. Rajendra issued the order stating it was being issued in conformity with the State government’s July 30 order and COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Daily travellers between Kerala and Karnataka have to obtain pass from the jurisdictional gram panchayat/municipality or town panchayat. They have to enter details at the border check-posts during their daily travel and undergo health screening every time. Those from Kerala who wish to stay in Dakshina Kannada district have to compulsorily register on the Seva Sindhu web portal, obtain e-pass and enter the district only through the Talapady or Jalsur check-posts, Dr. Rajendra said. They have to abide by the COVID-19 guidelines of the State government, he added.
17 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Public celebrations not allowed during Ganeshotsav this year||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra has said that usual public celebrations are not allowed during of Ganeshotsav this year. People should celebrate the festival in their homes or inside temples. In the guidelines issued on August 15 for the August 22 Ganeshotsav, he said that no one should install Ganesh idols on public grounds, roads and other such places. The idols should not be immersed in rivers and public water sources such as open wells, tanks and kalyanis. The idols installed by individuals should be immersed in houses only. Taking out processions while bringing idols home and also while taking them for immersion have been banned. All temples celebrating Ganesh festival should follow precautionary measures such as use of sanitiser, thermal screening of visitors, maintaining social distancing, use of masks related to COVID-19. No public programmes and cultural programmes related to Ganeshotsav should be organised. Legal action will be taken against those who violate the guidelines, he said.
17 August 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Online application facility||Students seeking admission to first year pre-university courses in colleges in Dakshina Kannada can log on tohttps://apply.dkpucpa.com,the website of Dakshina Kannada Pre-University College Principals’ Association to apply on-line. Clicking on ‘online application’ on the site will show details of colleges which will receive applications on-line and the helpline numbers of such colleges. Students can call them to obtain the application number and security code from the respective colleges. This facility will be enabled on the website from August 17.
17 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL gets two executive directors||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) on Friday appointed two new executive directors. The company appointed M. Elango as executive director (Refinery), and B.H.V. Prasad as executive director (projects). Both were group general managers earlier.
17 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MMCRI evaluating outcome of plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients||Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), whose doctors and nursing staff are in the forefront of COVID-19 treatment here at the designated hospital, is evaluating the outcome of plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients. So far, 10 persons, including COVID-19 warriors, who had recovered from the contagion, had donated their plasma acting on an appeal. Four critically ill patients had undergone the therapy – one in Shivamogga and three in Mysuru – and are said to have shown “improvement” in their condition. “We have been told that the patients are showing signs of recovery after being transfused with plasma of the recovered patients. The degree and extent of recovery may vary from patient to patient and the same is being documented to check its benefit on the patients,” said MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj. Based on the opinions expressed by the medical fraternity on the therapy for patients’ recovery, MMCRI decided to study the results and clinically document every case in accordance with ICMR guidelines. “As of now, we have four cases to study and the same is being done. The patient in Shivamogga is a relative of a doctor who told us that his condition has improved. The three other patients who received plasma from K.R. Hospital Blood Bank were admitted in three different private hospitals. We are keeping a track on the patients’ condition,” the dean explained.
17 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KRS is full; CM to offer ‘bagina’ on August 21||The Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) across the Cauvery in Mandya district is filled to the brim for the first time during the current monsoon. The water level was 124.70 ft as against the full reservoir level of 124.80 ft at 6 p.m. on Sunday. A buffer is maintained to ensure safety of the reservoir during monsoon so as to cope with a sudden surge in inflow due to extreme weather conditions. The inflow into the reservoir was at the rate of 9,404 cusecs on Sunday morning and the outflow was pegged at 5,318 cusecs. Consequent to the dam attaining its maximum level, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will offer the customary bagina at both KRS and the Kabini on August 21, according to Mysuru district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar. The KRS authorities said that depending on the inflow water may be further impounded so as to reach the exact FRL but even in case it is not, the dam is now considered to be full. The water level was hovering around 105 ft in the first week of August but revival of monsoon and heavy rains in the catchment area of the Cauvery and its tributaries helped the reservoir reach the present level. Last year, the dam attained the FRL on August 15. The other three major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin in the State are also full. The Hemavathi has reached its FRL of 2,922 ft, the Kabini attained the FRL of 2,284 ft, and the Harangi was full at 2,859 ft. The cumulative quantum of water available in the four dams is 112.50 thousand million cubic (TMC) ft as against the gross installed storage capacity of 114.57 tmcft. The cumulative outflow from KRS and the Kabini reservoir from June 1 as of date is 70 tmcft.
17 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||High quantum of water released from Basavasagar||Officials of KBJNL increased the quantum of water that was discharged from Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanpur in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district into Krishna on Sunday. According to information, by 5 p.m., water was released at a rate of 2,37,220 cusecs when there was 1.90 lakh cusecs inflow. The water level in the reservoir stands at 491.32 m against the full reservoir level of 492.32 m. Officials opened 22 gates to discharge water. The heavy inflow into reservoir from the Alamatti dam forced the officials to discharge a high quantum of water, sources said. Most bridges, including the key ones at Huvinadagi-Kollur village and Sheelahalli- Hanchinal villages in Raichur and Yadgir districts, respectively, across the Krishna, are expected to submerge. Usually, the Sheelahalli bridge submerges even when 1.75 lakh cusecs water is discharged, while the Huvinadagi bridge submerges if the outflow crosses 2 lakh cusecs. Vehicular movement on these two bridges has been banned and motorists are advised to take diversion to reach Raichur from Kalabuaragi and other villages from Hanchinal village. Meanwhile, farmers, who were expecting a good yield of green gram, a short-term cash crop, are now facing the threat of crop damage as continuous rainfall may possibly destroy crops, Shivareddy Patil, a farmer from Kollur village, said. The district administrations of Raichur and Yadgir have already alerted villagers on the river banks and cautioned them not to go near the river for any reason. They have also kept officers ready to tackle any emerging flood situation. Raichur Assistant Commissioner Santosh Kamagowda and Tahsildar Hampanna visited the Gurjapur bridge and Gugal bridge along with an NDRF team. A 16-member team of NDRF arrived in Raichur recently to help people during the floods.
17 August 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Savadi: Check if power stations are violating environment norms||Deputy Chief Minister and Raichur in-charge Laxman Savadi has directed officials of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to inspect the Raichur Thermal Power Station, the Yermarus Thermal Power Station, and other factories surrounding Raichur and issue notices if they are found to be violating environment norms. The direction came after Basanagowda Daddal, Raichur Rural MLA, brought to Mr. Savadi’s notice, during the quarterly Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting in Raichur recently, that both the power stations and other factories have violated norms and did not plant any trees to ensure the protection of the environment. Bringing another key issue before Mr. Savadi, Mr. Daddal and Shivanagowda Naik, MLA, came down on officials for the delay in implementing projects. Mr. Naik also said that most farmers were deprived of their crop insurance. “There have been many complaints daily from and we have been forwarding them to officials but there has been no action,” he said. Mr. Savadi, in reply, said that such negligence from officials will not be tolerated. “Officials should take elected representatives in confidence and discuss about the projects that have to be taken to protect public interest. Officers have to work on it without any delay,” he said. Directing officials to take flood-related issues seriously, he said, “You should act immediately in response to complaints of the people in distress”.
17 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Six deaths in Yadgir and Raichur districts||As many as 419 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered and six patients died in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Sunday. Of the 419 fresh cases, 236 are from Yadgir and 183 from Raichur. Of the six deaths, the two districts reported three each. With the 236 new cases, the total number of positive cases reached 3,837 in Yadgir. And, with the three new deaths, the toll went up to 23. As many as 1,296 patients are getting treatment and 2,518 patients, including 38 on Sunday, have been discharged in the district. In Raichur district, the total number of positive cases reached 5,089, including the 183 fresh cases. With the three new deaths, the toll went up to 57. As many as 1,901 patients are getting treatment, while 3,131 patients, including 71 on Sunday, have been discharged.
17 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||MLA tests positive||MLA from Yadgir constituency Venkatareddy Mudnal tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Mr. Mudnal left for Bengaluru to get treatment at a private hospital. “I have no symptoms. I have spoken to doctors in Bengaluru who advised me to get treatment for a week,” he told The Hindu . Yadgir district president of the BJP Sharanabhupal Reddy prayed for the speedy recovery of Mr. Mudnal.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fishermen go missing near Koderi harbour||One of the two boats capsized while negotiating the rough sea waves on Sunday. There were 12 fishermen in the boat that capsized and eight of them swam to safety. Coastal Security Police from Gangolli Police Station, Byndoor Police, and Revenue officials are camping at the place to trace the missing fishermen. Kundapur Assistant Commissioner K. Raju, Assistant Superintendent of Police Hariram Shankar, Coastal Security Police Inspector Sandeep, Byndoor Police Inspector Suresh Nayak, Tahsildar Basappa Poojari and others are leading the rescue operations. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha visited the spot in the evening.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP Commissioner visits asphalt mixing plant||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Sunday visited the BBMP’s asphalt mixing plant at Kannur. Speaking after his visit to the plant, Mr. Prasad said that the plant was an attempt to bring more accountability and reduce BBMP’s dependence on contractors for asphalt. “Earlier, asphalt that was provided by the contractors could be of questionable quality. Now it is not the case. Around 50 to 60 trucks of hot mix can be produced per day at this plant and sent to the ward engineers and arterial road engineers to fill the pothole as and when they appear,” Mr. Prasad said. He added that the asphalt plant would save on costs and help maintain quality and produce the right quantity.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rainy Sunday||
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||In the report titled ‘Three decades on and still continuing’, published in these columns on Sunday, the sub-headline should have been ‘Hanging bridge constructed in 1989 continues to build careers of hundreds of people’, and not as published. The error is regretted.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists in Mangaluru were caught off guard when a five-second video clip of their conversation with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai at Mangaluru airport last week became a topic of discussion on social media platforms. The video showed Mr. Bommai telling the activists that any cases filed against them would be closed by the State government. The video clip was posted on Twitter by VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell. As the tweet went viral and netizens started questioning Mr. Bommai for his statement, Mr. Pumpwell quickly replaced it with a photo of him and other activists speaking to the Home Minister.The Home Minister later defended his statement by saying he was only responding to a memorandum submitted. He added that “everything will be done as per the law.”    Hours after a violent mob torched the house of MLA for Pulakeshinagar R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy over a derogatory post against Islam by his nephew, BJP national general secretary B.L. Santhosh took to Twitter to say that the Congress had failed to stand by its Dalit MLA because of its votebank politics. Soon, several BJP leaders, including BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, took the same line and taunted Congress leader Siddaramaiah(in picture)over his tweet condemning both the provocation and the riots. They said he was not being “critical enough” of the rioters. Mr. Siddaramaiah hit back with a series of tweets focussing on the SC/ST sub-plan he had introduced as Chief Minister and mocking the BJP for “trying to water down” the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Many leaders have said that the BJP’s emphasis on the MLA being a Dalit and the Congress not being critical enough of Muslims was aimed at creating fissures in the Muslim and Dalit vote blocks in the constituency.   Soon after a cloth resembling the flag of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was found on the canopy of saint Adi Shankaracharya’s statue in Sringeri, a few political leaders became hyperactive in the temple town. Minister for Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi declared that an “SDPI flag” had been hoisted on the statue by miscreants. Former Minister and district BJP president D.N. Jeevaraj went a step further, declaring it an act by local SDPI workers under the leadership of a Congress member of the town panchayat. However, a day later, the police found that it was an act committed by one Milind, a local youngster who was earlier imprisoned in a theft case. According to the police, he did it under the influence of alcohol.SDPI State president Ilyas Mohammed Thumbe has alleged that it was not the innocuous act of a drunkard that it was made out to be, but a deliberate attempt to frame the organisation and the community. Raghava M. K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj Sathish G.T.
17 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||86 positive cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 86 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. This includes 73 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, eight who came from other States and five from abroad. Of the total contact cases, 16 were reported from Punnapra, another nine from Thumpoly, seven from Kumarapuram and five each from Kallisserry, Pallippuram and Chettikkad. Police personnel at the Aroor police station have been put in quarantine after a woman civil police officer there tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Officials said that police personnel in her contact list were placed in quarantine at the station itself as they wait to take COVID-19 tests. The public have been urged to avoid visiting the station. District Collector A. Alexander issued an order banning fishing and sale of fish at P.B. Junction and Anchalum Kavu following a spike in COVID-19 cases in recent days. Meanwhile, 30 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,375. Containment zones Wards 12 (Valiyamaram) and 39 (Gurumandiram) in Alappuzha municipality, ward 17 in Aryad and ward 2 in Purakkad were declared as containment zones.
17 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Maveli’s Onam message to maintain physical distancing||Pot-bellied men dressed up as Maveli or Mahabali, the erstwhile benevolent king roaming streets and wishing people, is a common sight during the Onam season. On Sunday, in one such instance, ‘Mahabali’ visited Cherthala municipality and nearby grama panchayats with a different message. Mahabali who turned up two weeks before the Onam on the ‘invitation’ of the Cherthala police conveyed awareness messages about COVID-19 and urged the people to celebrate Onam ensuring physical distancing. “We have initiated a number of awareness campaigns in recent weeks in a bid to tackle the spread of COVID-19 in the area. Mahabali was chosen as a theme to get more attention from the public,” said P. Sreekumar, circle inspector, Cherthala. Mahabali accompanied with chendamelam visited the municipal area, Vayalar, Pallipuram, Varanad among other places. As part of the initiative, pamphlets were distributed to the public. Cherthala Dy.SP. K. Subhash, SI M. Laizad Muhammed, and others were part of the initiative.
17 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Wrong map on MLA’s FB page: probe launched||The Aroor police on Sunday launched a probe based on a complaint that Shanimol Usman, MLA, had posted a wrong map of India on Facebook while extending greetings on the occasion of Independence Day. CPI(M) area secretary P.K. Sabu, who filed the complaint, alleged that Ms. Usman had posted a map which depicted Jammu and Kashmir incorrectly. Meanwhile, Vinsu Koothappally, admin of the MLA’s official Facebook page, apologised for posting an ‘incomplete map’ inadvertently. It has since been replaced with a correct map.
17 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two more bodies recovered||Two more bodies were recovered from the landslip site at Pettimudy, near Munnar, on Sunday, bringing the overall toll to 58. As per official estimates, 12 persons are still missing in the landslip. The bodies recovered on Sunday were identified as those of Chinnathai, 62, and Nishanthini, 20. They were recovered from a site nearly 20 metres from the river where the landslip debris had settled.  The search teams led by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are concentrating on the river and vicinity now. Rekha Nambiar, senior commandant, southern battalion, said the search would continue in accordance with the government decision. A meeting attended by people’s representatives, officials and relatives of the victims in Munnar on Saturday, decided to continue the search operation till the last body was recovered. It was decided to ensure that victims’ families were handed over the promised assistance at the earliest. Edamalakkudy isolated District Collector H. Dinesan and S. Rajendran, MLA, visited the site. Meanwhile, the Edamalakkudy panchayat has been isolated after the debris blocked the only road to it. The road would be cleared and essential items made available to the panchayat, said Mr. Dinesan.
17 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Thirty cases in Idukki||Thirty people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. Those infected through local transmission were 19 and the source of one person was not known. Those tested positive were residents of Upputhara, Kattappana, Kumily, Karunapuram, Munnar , Kanchiyar and Nedumkandam.
17 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Green corridor project gets a shot in the arm||The 2.5-km-long European Union (EU)-aided ‘green corridor’ proposed from Ernakulam Town (North) to Ernakulam Junction (South) railway station, and having links with the KSRTC bus station and four metro stations has got an impetus, with its French project consultant readying a feasibility report. The project will be realised using 1 million Euro grant from the EU under Mobilise Your City (MYC) programme. The corridor, which will have space for pedestrians, bicycles, and e-rickshaws, envisages the construction of a new stretch that will run parallel to the railway track linking the two stations. It will thus reduce the distance between the stations by half. The survey and sketches for the corridor, which will have width ranging from 6 metres to 15 metres, are over. The corridor will also have trees and energy-efficient street lights. Most trees already on the stretch will be retained as part of site-responsive design. Railings may be erected in locales where the railway track is close by, said the local project coordinator of the New Delhi-based Urban Mass Transit Company (UMTC). A detailed project report (DPR) will be readied shortly for the unique project that will be executed by French development agency AFD. UMTC will be tasked with coordinating with the Kochi Corporation at the regional level and with other agencies at the national level. The corporation and AFD have already inked an agreement to take the project ahead. The EU chose this project in Kochi, while it will provide grant for similar projects in Nagpur and Ahmedabad as part of initiatives to improve infrastructure in developing countries. The green corridor will prevent the need for commuters, other members of the public, and railway workers to walk through ill-lit and crime-prone rail tracks to commute between the two stations. Land acquisition will be minimal, since land owned by the Railways, KSRTC, and the Kochi Corporation is available, except for a small stretch at Kaloor. Revenue (puramboke) land too is available, official sources confided. The Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED) under the Kochi Corporation will help process documents and other details, while AFD will streamline EU funding. The Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) had given up a similar project that it had conceived over five years ago, citing inadequate funds.
17 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Delay in plan approval puts Kochi Corpn. in a spot||Grants made to the Kochi Corporation under the 15th Finance Commission recommendations are caught in a political tussle that could leave development projects in a limbo. For the current financial year, the Commission had allotted Rs. 59 crore to the corporation and its urban agglomeration. With the Commission having set specific guidelines on what the funds can be spent on, the corporation was to have revised its annual plan projects for the year to incorporate new projects, and submit it to the District Planning Committee (DPC) before August 10. The Opposition did not participate in a council meeting held to discuss the revision of projects last week on the grounds that such meetings violated COVID-19 protocol since several councillors would have to come from containment zones. After the Opposition wrote a letter to the Minister for Local Self-Governments asking for the decisions taken at the meeting to be cancelled, the DPC has not approved the corporation’s revised plan, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. “While almost all other local bodies in the district have got their projects approved by the DPC, the corporation’s are stuck. The first installment from the Finance Commission grant has already arrived, but unless the plan is passed, it cannot be used. About Rs. 30-crore worth of pending bills from last year’s annual plan projects, including Rs. 19 crore due to contractors for road work, would also have to be cleared. If the money is not released before the election is announced, it could keep projects at a standstill for months,” said an official at the corporation. LDF stance “As per the Finance Commission’s guidelines, the amount allotted this year can only be used for specific projects related to sanitation and water supply,” said V.P. Chandran, LDF parliamentary party secretary. “The projects had not gone through the working groups or standing committees before they were placed before the council for approval. In the revised plan, projects like a Rs. 23-crore worth sewage treatment plant at Brahmapuram have been listed, when such a plant is already functioning there and a waste-to-energy plant is also set to come up. A discussion should have been held before such projects were passed,” he said.
17 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gadgil questions State’s ‘silence’||The Kerala government has failed to oppose the dilutions proposed to the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification by the Union government, ecologist Madhav Gadgil has said. Responding to the suggestions put forward by the State to the 2020 draft EIA notification, Mr. Gadgil said Kerala should have asked for strengthening the notification, since the State had been experiencing the adverse impact of climate change. Malayalam version Kerala should have insisted on obtaining the Malayalam translation of the notification, which was essential to reach the people at grassroots, he said. Incidentally, the Supreme Court has asked the Centre to translate the notification in 22 languages of the country. Mr. Gadgil said several villagers in Karnataka and Kerala, who did not know English or Hindi, had sought details of the proposed notifications. The State limited its response to two points regarding the mining operations. The government, it seemed, stood with mining mafia and not with the environment or the people even after the devastating landslips at Puthumala, Kavalappara, and Pettimudy. The government should hand over all quarries in the State to Kudumbashree. Women’s groups will be able to manage quarries efficiently as was demonstrated by another women’s self-help group at Mendha village in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district, he said. Mr. Gadgil was also critical of the State’s demand for reinstating the District Environment Impact Assessment Authority, which involved granting environment clearance for mining projects up to five hectares. The National Green Tribunal was not in favour of the district-level committees, he said. ‘Damage is the same’ The ecologist also questioned the State’s silence on the proposal to avoid environmental clearance for the construction of buildings for educational institutions and hospitals measuring up to 1,50,000 sq metres. “A construction, whether used for educational institution or hospital or shopping complex, causes the same amount of environment damage. How can the State permit such dilutions especially after a government college building at Munnar was destroyed in a landslip,” he asked. The notification, which was pushed through in the midst of the pandemic, was an objectionable attempt at dismantling the country’s apparatus for environmental protection besides weakening the democratic process.
17 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Call for urgent council meet||The Opposition in the Kochi Corporation, the Left Democratic Front (LDF), has demanded an urgent council meeting to resolve issues that have caused work at the corporation to come to a standstill. Despite spending large amounts of money on trying to resolve the city’s recurrent waterlogging problems, the corporation is repeatedly hauled up by the High Court since solutions have not been found to any important issues, said a statement issued by Opposition leader K.J. Antony and LDF parliamentary party secretary V.P. Chandran. An urgent council meeting was required to discuss the issues considering that the current council had only a few months left before its term ends, the LDF said.
17 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||123 cases in Ernakulam||Six workers at healthcare facilities and 26 people from West Kochi were among the 123 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Mattancherry accounted for most of the positive cases from West Kochi, with 15 people testing positive. Over a month after the first COVID-19 case was reported from Chellanam, the area continues to record fresh cases, with six people testing positive on Sunday. While 113 people acquired the infection through local transmission, ten people arrived from outside the State. The district recorded 120 recoveries on Sunday.
17 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Joint coastal patrol begins||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has commenced a joint coastal patrol (JCP) by embarking marine police personnel on board ICG ships to develop synergy and provide sea training to the marine police for enhanced coastal security. The JCP is being instituted to enable the implementation of the Coastal Security Scheme (CSS) through capacity building of the marine police in the overall coastal security construct. The JCP will also enable addressing issues of communication, inter-operability, attaining sea legs, and joint investigation procedures by the marine police. The endeavour includes classroom instructions and training on board ICG ships. The ICG will provide hands-on training to marine police personnel on various aspects of safety, navigation, maintenance, law enforcement, surveillance, and investigation at sea within the territorial waters that fall under the jurisdiction of the respective States. With the implementation of the joint patrol, marine police personnel will consolidate adequate trained staff, enhancing their overall operational efficiency.
17 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||81 new cases in Kollam||A total of 81 persons from the district, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 70 patients contracted the virus through contact, four persons are from abroad and six others had travelled from various Indian States. The health workers, residents of Edamulakkal and Pallimukku, have been working at Ayalamon Primary Health Centre and a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of 72-year-old Vilakkuvattam resident is due to COVID-19. She had died on August 15. Kollam district currently has 7,844 persons under observation and the samples collected is 36,799. While 397 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 8,775 primary and 2,326 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. 55 recoveries The district also reported 55 recoveries and at present five COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFTCs) are functioning in Kollam.
17 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No respite for Kottayam as it crosses 100 mark again||After a brief gap that lasted just a day, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam once again rose to 100 on Sunday. Of these, 91 persons including a female doctor at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in Kottayam contracted the disease through local transmission. Nine cases came from outside the State. Despite the strict containment measures, the number of cases continued to rise in Kottayam and Ettumanur municipalities, which recorded 19 and 18 cases respectively. Vijayapuram Panchayat reported seven cases while Athirampuzha reported six cases. Maravanthuruth, Kanjirappally and Parathodu reported four cases each. Meanwhile, a tyre manufacturing unit at Vadavathoor has been declared as the first COVID-19 institutional cluster in the district. The district administration initiated the step under provisions of the Disaster Management Act considering that more than 2,500 employees from various Indian States are working here. In an order, District Collector M.Anjana also directed the District Medical Officer to initiate urgent steps for cluster containment measures in the factory campus. Directions have been also issued to the district police to provide necessary assistance for the Health Department in containing the virus spread here. Discharged Meanwhile, 61 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from various treatment centres here. The district currently has 623 active cases and 9,871 persons under surveillance, sources said.
17 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode church pays musical tribute to COVID-19 warriors||To honour to the nation’s frontline COVID-19 warriors, the national anthem was played on an antique pipe organ kept at the CSI Cathedral Church in Kozhikode on Saturday. M.P. Bernet, the assistant vicar of the church who is also a trained musician, delivered the performance after the flag-hoisting ceremony on Saturday morning. The CSI authorities said it was the only such functional church organ in Kerala and was used for accompanying religious songs in English on Sundays. They got the instrument, which is often described as the ‘king of instruments’, as a gift from the U.K. in 2004. Four organists in the parish, including the assistant vicar and two women, began using it after getting special training from Ebenezer Edwin, a Chennai-based musician. They were trained in playing five songs during the religious service. “Though we were also skilled in playing the national anthem on this instrument, we thought of doing it with a special purpose this time for saluting the COVID-19 warriors. It was truly a debut in that category,” said the assistant vicar. “We played the recorded video while hosting live online prayers for believers on Saturday night,” said vicar T.I. James, who came up with the novel idea and shot it on camera for online viewers. He said the musical tribute also marked the launch of ‘Morning Breeze’, a programme aimed at instilling positive thinking during the pandemic.
17 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Forensic experts flag lack of biosafety standards in morgues||Forensic experts have flagged the lack of biosafety mechanisms in a majority of hospital mortuaries in the State against the backdrop of a government order to conduct post-mortem examination on COVID-19 suspected persons without waiting for their lab results. The order by Rajan Khobragade, Principal Secretary, Health, on August 6, says that hospital superintendents and doctors should ensure that the bodies are handed over to the relatives “at the earliest”. It says the samples of suspected patients who are brought dead should be taken, pointing out that the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has cleared the release of bodies without waiting for COVID-19 lab results. If there is no need for a post-mortem examination, the body can be handed over to relatives after getting a no-objection certificate from the police. However, if the police officer suggests otherwise, post-mortem examination should be performed without waiting for the lab results “as if the patient is COVID positive” and “by taking all precautions.” In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, functionaries of the Kerala Medico-legal Society, an organisation of police surgeons and medico-legal experts, claim that any autopsy is a time-consuming procedure performed in detail for determining the cause of death and to rule out murders. “Being a highly invasive and aerosol-generating procedure, personal protection equipment will not be sufficient to protect health professionals in the mortuary,” T.S. Hithesh Sankar, secretary of the society, says. Health risks to staff He says doctors, mortuary technicians, and other staff are exposed to potentially high and dangerous health risks. “Also, none of the mortuary theatres here meet the biosafety standards and there is no facility to disinfect the place after performing autopsy,” Dr. Sankar says. The society urged the Chief Minister to freeze the order and hold talks with medico-legal experts before taking further action.
17 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 118 cases||A majority of the COVID-19 local transmission cases out of the 118 new cases reported from Kozhikode district on Sunday was from Kozhikode Corporation (22), Koyilandy Municipality, and Thiruvaloor grama panchayat (15 each). A release from the District Medical Officer said that 96 of the total fresh cases were through local transmission of the infection. Source of infection was not known in 11 cases, and others had returned from abroad or from other States. The total number of active cases stands at 1,394. Meanwhile, the district administration lifted the Sunday lockdown in view of the fall in the number of new clusters of infection.
17 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||No respite for Malappuram as 221 more test positive||Over the past one week, Malappuram district has registered a surge in COVID-19 cases. While 221 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, the number was 362 on Saturday. Malappuram was in total lockdown on Sunday. The virus claimed its 22nd victim in the district, when a woman from Parappanangadi died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, on the day. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, who is in quarantine after having tested positive for the virus, said 186 persons contracted the disease from local contacts. The source of infection in 26 cases, including that of 12 health workers, could not be traced. There were 81 recoveries on Sunday. In Palakkad COVID-19 claimed its first victim in Attappady on Sunday when an elderly woman from the Kallupary hamlet died at a private hospital at Perinthalmanna. Palakkad recorded 29 positive cases on Sunday. While 19 persons contracted the infection through local contacts, two came from abroad and two from other States. The source of infection of six persons could not be traced. There were 102 recoveries on Sunday. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 48 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of them, 38 were infected after coming into contact with COVID-19 patients, four arrived from abroad and six from other States. On Sunday, 203 people were discharged from hospitals. In Kannur In Kannur, 52 tested positive on Sunday. While 36 of them contracted the disease through contact, seven arrived from other States, eight are health workers and one a DSC personnel. In Thrissur As many as 30 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Sunday and 63 people recovered from COVID-19. There are 483 active cases in the district. Eight more cases were reported from the Amala Hospital cluster on Sunday. In Wayanad As many as 49 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Of them, 35 contracted the infection through contact, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. A 73-year-old from Valad died of COVID-19 on Sunday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
17 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||43 fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||The district here on Sunday recorded one more COVID-19 death as a 53-year-old woman from Konni died at the Government Medical College in Kottayam the other day. The victim, who had been in the primary contact list of a patient in Adoor , was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, hours before she died at the hospital late on Saturday. She had been undergoing treatment for kidney-related ailments. Two of her family members too had tested positive for the virus infection earlier. With this, the total number of COVID-19-related death in the district rose to four. Besides the deceased, 43 others including four persons who landed from abroad and 11 others from other States too tested positive during the day.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Highest single-day spike at 519 cases||The district’s COVID-19 caseload reached a new peak with 519 cases — the highest single-day spike yet — being reported on Sunday. While 487 people contracted the infection through local transmission, 23 health workers were also among those affected. With the death of a 60-year-old man who hailed from Parassala being attributed to the disease, the district’s COVID-19 death toll touched 34.  Chirayinkeezhu deaths Meanwhile, two COVID-19 deaths were reported at Chirayinkeezhu in the district after an 85-year-old woman who hailed from Puravoor and a 68-year-old woman who hailed from Padanilam succumbed to the disease.  The Puravoor native had been undergoing treatment for respiratory illness at the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital. After her death on Friday, her body had been handed over to her family after she tested negative in an antigen test, soon after which her cremation was also undertaken. However, her swab samples tested positive in the RT-PCR test, prompting the district authorities to advise all those who participated in the funeral rites to go into quarantine. The deaths are yet to be included in the official COVID-19 death toll.  While the Prison Headquarters will reopen on Monday after being closed for three days, the Hi-Tech Crime Enquiry Cell at the Kerala Police headquarters has been closed after a sub-inspector tested positive a day ago. New containment zones in the Corporation include Mudra Nagar in Kalady ward, Chettiyarmukku in Kuriyathi ward, Cheenikonam in Nettayam ward; Irumpil ward in Neyyattinkara municipality; Manacode ward in Pangode grama panchayat; and Kallippara and Nanniyode wards in Nanniyode grama panchayat. Kurunthali ward in Nanniyode grama panchayat has been removed from the list of containment zones.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New knowledge centres to the aid of farmers||The State Agriculture Department is opening agriculture knowledge centres at the block level to aid the dissemination of farm-related know-how and development of the sector. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the centres via videoconference on Monday (Chingam 1) as part of this year’s Farmer’s Day observance. A joint initiative of the department and the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), the centres are the first of their kind in the country at the block level, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said. The initiative was also meant to strengthen the activities of the ICAR-supported Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) and the Krishi Bhavans that are operational, respectively, at the district and local body levels. In subsequent phases, similar centres would be opened in the corporations and municipalities also. The Agriculture Knowledge Centres had four aims, the Minister said. One, they would assist local self-government institutions to prepare the best practices and projects for crops on the basis of five agro-ecological zones (AEZ) and the 23 agro-economic units (AEU) across the State. Two, the centres would aid the formation of ‘seed villages’ and seed production clusters. Three, they would provide advice and training to farmers on technical aspects of farming, production, processing, value-addition and marketing. The centres would also furnish the technical know-how for projects under the Subhiksha Keralam food security programme. Portal and app A scientist attached to the KAU will act as the nodal officer of knowledge centres. The department is also launching a web portal and a mobile app. Farmers can access the facilities viawww.aims.kerala.gov.in.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to run Onam services to Karnataka||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate inter-State Onam services to Karnataka and back from August 25 to September 9 to clear the extra rush of passengers. The inter-State services, using super class buses, are for the first time since the pandemic-induced lockdown commenced in March. The online reservation to Bengaluru commenced on Saturday on the website (online.keralartc.com). The services will be from Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, Kozhikode and Kasaragod to Bengaluru and back. Passengers would have to pay 10% extra fare and it will be on end-to-end basis (all passengers will have to pay the full fare of the journey), KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said on Saturday. Pass, registration must All the travellers will have to register on COVID-19jagratha.kerala.nic.inand will have to produce the pass to travel to Kerala. Besides wearing masks and downloading the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile, they will have to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol issued by Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments and the directives on the day of journey. Full refund of fares will be provided if the schedule is cancelled due to poor patronage, any other reason or if the travellers fail to adhere to the guidelines issued by the governments.
17 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Onavillu refuses to bow to pandemic||The Vilayil Veedu at Melarannoor, Karamana, is abuzz as Onam approaches. The five families involved in the making of the Pallivillu, popularly known as Onavillu, the ceremonial bows that are unique to the city, are nearly finished with six pairs to be offered to the deity at Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple on Thiruvonam day. There will be no deviation from rituals despite the pandemic, says R. Binukumar Achari, head of the families. COVID-19 safety norms, though, will be observed. The Onavillu comes in standard sizes ranging from 3.5 ft to 4.5 ft in length and 5 ft to 6 ft in width. Six themes are painted on the bows — Ananthasayanam, Dasavatharam, Sree Rama Pattabhishekom, Sastha, Vinayaka, and Krishna Leela. The families also make Onavillu for distribution among devotees who have pre-ordered them. Once the bows are made, they are offered to the family deity and pujas performed before being taken to Padmanabhaswamy temple. Binukumar and his extended family make 100 to 125 Onavillus a month to be distributed among devotees each year. Crafting the Onavillu requires discipline, says Binukumar. The next generation is following in the footsteps of their parents. Binukumar says the pandemic has prevented him from following up on the process for securing GI tag for the Onavillu.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kits for coastal folk||A total contribution of Rs. 10.03 lakh has been received for the Corporation’s Theerathinoru kaithaangu scheme. Food kits worth Rs. 1,000 each will be provided to all families.  Members of the public could send their contributions to the Consumerfed’s account in the Federal Bank, Palayam branch (A/C number 10210200020231, IFSC FDRL0001021) or transfer through the websitewww.donatetmc.in.
17 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Apologise to youth, PSC chief told||Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) chairman M.K. Sakeer should apologise to the youth for betraying and insulting them, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran has said. In a statement here on Sunday, Mr. Ramachandran said the present government had destroyed the dignity of the PSC and the people’s trust in it. Despite finding spots on the rank list, candidates were not being appointed. Mr. Sakeer’s claim that no contract appointments were being made was strange. Nearly 60 PSC tests had been cancelled owing to the pandemic. The Chief Minister had denied the plea to extend the rank lists, Mr. Ramachandran said.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU to hold rescheduled exams||With the lifting of the lockdown in the city, Kerala University has decided to conduct the examinations of the fourth-semester post graduate courses that was postponed earlier. The examinations, which was scheduled to be held in affiliated colleges on July 6, 8 and 10, will now be held on August 21, 24 and 26 respectively.
17 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala temple opens for monthly puja||The Sabarimala temple opened on Sunday evening for the puja for the month of Chingam. The Melshanti opened the sanctum sanctorum and lit the lamp under the supervision of the Tantri. Devotees are not allowed entry into the temple, given the COVID-19 situation in the State. Regular puja will be held from Monday to August 21. The temple will again open for Onam puja from August 29 to September 2.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Onam – The festival of colour, pomp and show||Of all the festivals that Malayalees celebrate, perhaps, Onam is the most colourful and eagerly awaited one by children as well as the elderly alike. The tradition of Onam itself is quite colourful. It has numerous aspects, both customary and ritualistic, that make the festival a joyous one. The celebrations include Vallam Kali (boat races), Pulikali (tiger dances), Pookkalam (flower Rangoli), Onathappan (worship), Onam Kali, Tug of War, Thumbi Thullal (women's dance), Kummattikali (mask dance), Onathallu (martial arts), Onavillu (music), Kazhchakkula (plantain offerings), Onapottan (costumes). The most colourful and cheerful ritual of Onam is the laying of the pookkalam. The pookkalam is the laying of flowers in umpteen patterns in front of the courtyard of Malayalee homes from the day of Atham till Thiruvonam day. During good old days, children in the family used to go out early in the morning to pluck flowers from their neighbourhood. But times having changed, flowers have become scarce and as such the flowers meant for the pookkalam are brought from markets afar. To serve the purpose, numerous makeshift shops selling flowers come up in every nook and corner of the state just like cracker shops sprouting all over the country during Diwali. Since there is huge demand for all kinds of flowers, the prices touch an all time high during this period of the year. Truck loads of fresh flowers arrive from neighboring states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to meet the needs of associations and groups that enthusiastically lay pookkalams, big and small, in street corners, in front of temples etc., and most importantly, to cater to the umpteen number of pookkalam competitions that happen all over the state offering the competing teams- invariably residential associations or office groups- lucrative prizes and booty’s to be won during Onam. In a way, these competitions have helped transform the laying of pookkalam into an art form. From the amateur pookalams that was laid in front of homes and temples by women in olden days, it has now taken a modern dimension with the high techniques and professionalism infused by men and women making the creation of pookkalam a delight to watch. In a sense pookalams have become commerce too. But, even though the lifestyle of an average Malayalee has vastly changed with the hustle and bustle of city life, laying of the floral carpets in the courtyards of their homes or even apartments is a must during every Onam for every Malayali. With the ugly head of Covid-19 threatening normal life, will the Malayali be able to weather the storm and celebrate Onam with the same pomp, fervor and the associated shows is a thing to watch. The ever positive businessmen of Kerala are opening up with grit and determination and are getting ready with their wares as Onam is the season that afforded them the most vibrant commercial opportunity and with the economy booming at its best during Onam. When the auspicious month of Chingam dawns, the quintessential Malayali is ready to welcome and celebrate Onam at his/her best and let’s hope this Onam may not be different too
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Restrictions eased along coastal belt of district||The district administration on Sunday eased curbs that have been in effect along the coastal belt for over a month. While the existing critical containment zone has been relaxed from Sunday midnight, many places in the region have become containment zones with a lesser degree of restrictions. These include the Valiathura, Beemapally, Beemapally East, Manikyavilakam, Puthenpally, Poonthura, Thiruvallam, Vellar, Harbour, Vizhinjam, Kottapuram, and Mullur wards of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Anchuthengu and Karumkulam grama panchayats; Pozhikara, Pulunthuruthi, and Muthalapozhi wards in Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayat; Mariyanad South, Mariyanad North, and Thumba wards in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat; Pulinkudi, Adimalathura, Ampalathumoola, Chowara, Mannottukonam, and Mannakkallu wards in Kottukal grama panchayat; Poovar bund, Poovar town, Poovar, Beach, Varavilathoppu, Erikkaluvila, and TB wards in Poovar grama panchayat; and Uchakada, Perumbazhinji, Pozhiyoor, Poyppallivilakam, Kollamkodu, Mullassery, Paruthiyoor, Pozhikkara beach, Vengadambu, Poozhikunnu, High School, and Ooramvila wards in Kulathoor grama panchayat.  Buffer zone All the remaining wards of all the coastal panchayats will be treated as part of buffer zone where containment efforts will continue. In the containment zones, fishing will be permitted in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued by the District Collector. Shops can function from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||State reports 1,530 cases||On Sunday, the Health Department confirmed 10 more deaths, taking the official toll to 156. Five of the deaths are from Kannur, two in Ernakulam and one each in Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. 92% locally acquired Of the new cases, nearly 92% — 1,404 cases — are locally acquired infections, with 53 cases being that of health-care workers. In 100 cases, the infection could not be traced to any known source of infection. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of 519 new cases, of which 23 are that of health-care workers. All except nine cases are locally acquired infections. In districts The cases reported from other districts are Malappuram 221, Kozhikode 118, Alappuzha 86, Ernakulam 123, Kollam 81, Thrissur 30), Kasaragod 81, Palakkad 29, Kannur 52, Pathanamthitta 44, Wayanad 49, Kottayam 100 and Idukki 30. The State has put over 1.62 lakh people in quarantine, of whom 13,424 with mild symptoms have been isolated in various hospitals. The number of samples tested in the past 24 hours is 30,123. The number of hotspots has risen to 568.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New dawn, new hope||
17 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finding plasma donors made easy||The world’s largest blood donors’ database with free access, Friends2Support.org, has added a new section called ‘COVID-19 Plasma Donor’ on its website, android and iOS apps. All COVID-19 patients, who have recovered from the virus attack and are willing to help other COVID-19 patients in plasma therapy, can voluntarily register themselves as plasma donors after the stipulated waiting period of four weeks from testing negative. A winner of a United Nations award twice since its inception in 2005, friends2support.org founder Shaik Shareef said on Sunday that only a small number of COVID-19 positive persons can be treated with plasma therapy and even for them, searching for a plasma donor from that particular blood group is a difficult process. “To make things easy for patients and relatives of COVID-19 positive persons and the medical fraternity in finding a plasma donor, we have been running this section for the past one week on a trial basis. Without announcing about this provision, many of those who had defeated COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have already registered themselves as voluntary plasma donors on the app and website,” Mr. Shareef said. Currently, there are five lakh normal blood donors voluntarily registered on this website from six countries, with the majority of them hailing from different States in India. He has requested the hospital superintendents, and managers of COVID Care Centres to display the posters at the COVID-19 Hospitals and COVID Care Centres so that those getting discharged can get motivated to donate plasma.
17 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA’s horse ride attracts eyeballs||Drawing everyone’s attention, MLA Kethireddy Venkatarami Reddy rode a horse on Sunday as part of his ‘Good Morning Dharmavaram’ programme. The MLA visits one colony every day in the town to understand the problems of people by interacting with them personally early in the morning. People came out in large numbers to represent to him.
17 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JC Prabhakar quizzed in SC/ST case||Former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, who is lodged in the Kadapa Central Prison in the illegal sale of BS-III vehicles as BS-IV vehicles, and in an SC/ ST Atrocities Act case, was brought to Anantapur on Sunday on a day’s custody . He was questioned for nearly four hours in the SC/ ST atrocities case for allegedly abusing a police inspector. It is learnt the former MLA said he did not abuse any police officer and that he was angry at a person blocking the way of lorries on the Kadapa -Anantapur district border while coming from Kadapa Central Prison to Tadipatri.
17 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water released from TB dam||Water has been released for the first time from Tungabhadra dam at Hospet in Karnataka with the storage reaching 97.78 tmcft and inflows continuing from the Tunga and Bhadra rivers. The engineers said water was released on Sunday at 7 p.m. by lifting three crest gates up to 1 foot. The inflows are likely to continue for the next few days. If the inflows increase, more water would be released into the river and some areas near Mantralayam could be inundated, so people in have been alerted, they said.
17 August 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool, Anantapur see a slight dip in daily tally||The number of COVID-19 positive cases getting registered every day witnessed a downward trend in Anantapur and Kurnool districts during the current week. From above 1,300 cases a day earlier, it came down to 580 in Anantapur and 834 in Kurnool on Sunday. In Kurnool district, nine persons died in the last 24 hours, while Anantapur district reported eight deaths. Also, as many as 978 persons were discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centres in Anantapur district and 20 were discharged from Santhiram General Hospital, in Kurnool district. Collector’s appeal Anantapur District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Sunday made an appeal to the those recovering from coronavirus to donate plasma after the stipulated time of 24 days after testing negative. The administration had been sending SMS to all the persons recovering from the infection seeking their help in plasma donation, the Collector said. While two lakh people recovered in the State as on date, of them, Anantapur saw 23,000 persons recovering and Kurnool 25,000.
17 August 2020||NELLORe,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Indian economy will be out of woods by next Q2’||Indian economy will see a v-shaped recovery by making a strong comeback by the second quarter of next year, according to S. Mahendra Dev, Director and Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Mumbai. Addressing a webinar presided by Vikrama Simhapuri University Vice-Chancellor R. Sudarshan Rao on the impact of COVID-19 on 3Es-economy, education and environment, Prof. Dev, who had headed the Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices between 2008 and 2010, predicted a bumper crop this year due to favourable monsoon and said rural economy would drive the country’s GDP this year. Compared to cities and towns, villages had lesser lockdown restrictions, observed the noted academician. Inaugurating the webinar, Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education Chairman K. Hema Chandra Reddy said the State could overcome the difficult situation through meticulous planning and save the academic year for the students. ‘Technology a boon’ SRM University Vice-Chancellor Sandeep Sancheti said technology had come as a boon during the times of COVID-19.  “'The world is moving from what teacher wants to teach to what learner wants to learn. Now the student has technology at hand enabling her/him to learn what and when s/he wants,” he said and foresaw reduction in the cost of education with adoption of technology in the future. Self learning would become the order of the day, he opined. He underscored the need to move towards online assessment.
17 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No relief in sight as toll rises to 307 in south coastal A.P.||Coronavirus continued to rattle south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 13 more patients succumbed to the pandemic, while over 1,000 persons tested positive, in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. With this, the combined death toll in both districts rose to 307, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Sunday night. Nine persons succumbed to the virus in Nellore district during the period, taking the toll to 146. In Prakasam district, the toll rose to 161 with four more patients dying in the same period. While 614 persons got infected in Praksam district, 423 patients tested positive for the virus in Nellore district in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 29,549 — 17,683 in Nellore district and 11,866 in Prakasam district. The gap between the number of discharges from hospitals and new admissions was only 18 during the period at a time when the hospitals were overflowing with patients. While 827 patients were cured in the last 24 hours in Nellore district, 228 patients were discharged from hospitals on recovery in Prakasam district. There was no let-up in new cases from Ongole where a stringent lockdown has been clamped. The total number of confirmed cases in the city rose to 2,339 as 178 persons contracted the virus. New cases also came from Kandukur (51), Singarayakonda (18), Podili (17), Kanigiri (15),Kothapatnam (13), Chirala (12), Darsi (11) and Markapur (11), according to a daily status report released by the district administration.
17 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers urge Tobacco Board not to reduce crop size this year||Ahead of the Tobacco Board meeting on August 18 to finalise the crop size for 2020-21 cropping season, farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas in Prakasam and Nellore districts on Sunday urged the Board not to cut the crop size for this year. On no account should the crop size be reduced in the Southern Black Soil(SBS) and Southern Light Soil(SLS) regions, farmer leaders from 12 auction platforms said after a meeting. They also pressed for a crop size of 85 million kg for these regions. ‘No market for Bengal gram’ As these are drought areas, the farmers in the two districts have been growing only tobacco for long without any viable economic alternative. Those that did find an alternative in growing Bengal gram were now ruing their fate, unable to sell the produce in view of the depressed market condition in the last four years, the leaders said. While fixing the crop size, the Board should permit 50 quintal per barn as any reduction in the authorised quantity would make curing uneconomical, said a farmer leader from Kandukur T. Ramanaiah. A major part of the pulse crop grown during the period had been confined to the cold storage units, explained another farmer leader V.V. Prasad. The Board should not succumb to pressure from any quarter while fixing the crop size in the traditional tobacco growing areas. They could reduce the crop size in Northern Light Soil region instead, as it is endowed with assured irrigation, felt former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy. Any reduction in crop size should be accompanied by reduction in the number of tobacco barns, said Tobacco Farmers Welfare Association president D.C. Palli Galli Narasappa Naidu.
17 August 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 villages bear the brunt in W. Godavari||About 50 villages in the Agency area and other mandals in West Godavari district have been cut off from the rest of the world due to floods and incessant rains in the catchment of the Godavari and its tributaries. Flood water entered many tribal hamlets in Velerupadu, Polavaram and Kukunur mandals. Some villages in Achanta, Elamanchili and Narsapuram mandals were also affected. Road links have been cut off to several habitations since Saturday night. In Patha Polavaram and Velerupadu mandals, many tribal families shifted to safer places and pitched huts on hillslopes. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), revenue and police officials arranged boats for shifting the families staying in riverside habitations. Police arranged pickets at low-level bridges to caution the public.  Shattering effect Communication has been snapped to many villages, including Koruturu, Gaddapalli, Kondrukota, Vadapalli, Paidipalaka Mamidi, Sirivaka, Cheeduru, Tekuru, Tella Dibbala, Koida, Repakagommu and Rudramkota, in the Agency area. Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Joint Collector K. Venkataramana Reddy, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana and other officials visited the flood-affected villages in Polavaram mandal on Sunday. The Collector, after visiting the river bund at Patha Polavaram, directed the officials to evacuate the people staying in the low-lying areas. Polavaram DSP M. Venkateswara Rao and CI A.N.N. Murthy and Tallapudi SI G. Satish arranged pickets and were monitoring the situation.
17 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagavali, Vamsadhara receiving huge inflows||The Srikakulam and Vizianagaram administrations are in high alert with the rivers — the Nagavali and the Vamsadhara — receiving huge inflows from their catchment areas in Odisha. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and his Vizianagaram counterpart M. Hari Jawaharlal have asked the irrigation officials to monitor the situation as the inflows are likely to increase as heavy rains are expected in the next few days under the influence of the low-pressure in the Bay of Bengal. The officials say that the situation is under control. They are confident of handling any eventuality as the current inflows stand at 5,000 cusecs against 1 lakh cusecs they had handled earlier.
17 August 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Massive evacuation drive launched in Rampa Agency||Nearly 1,800 people from 47 habitations in the 11 mandals in the Chintoor Agency and Devipatnam mandal in the Rampa Agency had been shifted to relief camps by Sunday night after flood water entered their habitations. The Godavari river continued to witness a huge inflow of flood water from its tributaries upstream Sir Aurthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district. A majority of those evacuated are tribals from the Chintoor Agency. According to the flood monitoring report issued by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, a total of 19 habitations were completely inundated in the East Godavari Agency. Motor boats deployed “By Sunday evening, at least 97 houses had been marooned. Sixty motor boats have been deployed to evacuate the stranded people,”said Mr. Muralidhar. In Yetapaka revenue division, 27 boats are in operation and 24 in the Rampa Agency. All flood officershave been maintaining a vigil along the banks of the Godavari to report any breach. “At 8.30 p.m., the discharge of flood water at Sir Aurthur Cotton Barrage (SACB) at Dowleswaram was 15.52 lakh cusecs. The third flood warning is issued at the discharge of 17.75 lakh cusecs at Dowleswaram,” according to the office of the Godavari Flood Conservator . SACB Executive Engineer R. Mohana Rao said the ‘Warning Three’ is the last warning, a signal of dangerous level in which breaches to the river bunds are expected to report. “Everything is set to identify and plug the breaches if, any,” he added.
17 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govinda Dhamam earns plaudits for its services||When on Sunday the body of a COVID victim was pushed into the fire chamber of Govinda Dhamam, Tirupati’s first and only gas-fired crematorium, an entry in the register marked it as 325. Run by an umbrella organisation ‘Mahaprasthana Seva Samithi’, spearheaded by Rotary Club, the crematorium has been preferred by the district administrators to ensure a quick as well as infection-free disposal of bodies. For its services, the club has received applauds from many corners. ‘Not an easy job’ But it was not an easy job for the staff, explains the crematorium’s president T. Damodaram. “As the toll started mounting in the district, our staff had to work for several hours at a stretch to avoid piling up of bodies.” “We have cremated bodies not only from the Hindu community, but also Muslims and Christians as per their traditions, since the infected bodies are not handed over to their families,” adds Rotary Club president Magam Hemachandra. Conducting the final rites of a patient this week MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy expressed anguish over instances of kin staying reluctant to accept bodies, leave alone conduct the last rites. Allaying fears over the infection spreading to others by coming in contact with the dead bodies, he said: “The virus does not stay active after six hours of a person’s death. It is safe to participate in funeral from a distance.”vRecalling the plight when bodies had to be kept in the mortuary for days together, waiting for its cremation schedule, Mr. Gireesha announced to equip the Satya Harischandra burial ground with electric furnace to hasten the process.
17 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No move to reduce liquor prices, says Deputy CM||At a time when rumours are making the rounds that the government might consider a downward revision in the price of liquor in view of the spate of deaths due to consumption of hand sanitiser, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy made it clear that the government has no such plans. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu , Mr. Narayanaswamy, who also holds the portfolio of Prohibition and Excise, dwelt upon several issues pertaining to the government’s policies and performance. While expressing concern over the tendency to consume diluted sanitiser for getting a high, the Minister said the government’s policies would depend on larger issues and not merely on sentiment. “As a person hailing from an impoverished family addicted to alcohol, I know how it impacts social development. Our policy is to make Andhra Pradesh a healthy State,” he said. ‘Bold decision’ The decision to hike liquor prices by an unprecedented 75% should be viewed in the larger interest of society and the results it would yield in the long run on the health of people, Mr. Narayanaswamy said, adding that it was not a revenue-generating measure.  “We knew this even before the elections were held. Many cautioned us that such a promise would have an adverse impact on the State’s exchequer, but our leader (Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy) decided to go ahead with the policy of total prohibition in a phased manner.” The Minister stressed the importance of weaning people away from alcohol, before clamping total prohibition and making liquor available in select locations. “We came to power by treating our election manifesto as a holy book. Controlling alcoholism by increasing prices and reducing the number of outlets is one of our main promises and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stands committed to his word,” he said. “No roll back is my opinion, but if our leader takes a decision, we will abide by it,” he added.
17 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown extended till month-end in Tirupati||The government has announced extension of the lockdown in Tirupati till August 31 in view of an ever-increasing number of COVID-19 cases. Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Gireesha on Sunday announced that the restrictions on public movement would be in force till the said period. However, organisations and business establishments, which are currently required to down their shutters by 2 p.m., can breathe easy as they can remain open till 5 p.m. under the new guidelines. This step was required to minimise movement of the public with a larger aim of ensuring public health, Mr. Gireesha said. Outlets that remain open after 5 p.m. will be seized, their trade licenses cancelled and other punitive measures initiated, he warned. People with COVID-19 symptoms can get themselves checked at any of the nine Urban Health Centres (UHCs) in the city, the Commissioner said. Meanwhile, 187 persons were discharged after fully recovering and testing negative for COVID-19. Sixty-three persons were discharged from SVR Ruia Government General Hospital and another 124 from Srinivasam COVID Care Centre, said in-charge Superintendent Nageswara Rao. Similarly, 28 critically-ill patients admitted from the entire Rayalaseema region were discharged from the State COVID Hospital at SVIMS.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials sound alert in low-lying areas alongside Krishna river||The discharge of floodwater in the Krishna at Prakasam Barrage touched 1.31 lakh cusecs, as of 9 p.m. on Sunday. The Barrage has been witnessing heavy inflows due to continuous rains in upstream catchment areas and outflows from other projects. The discharge stood at 90,000 cusecs in the early hours and gradually increased. As of 8 p.m., the inflows to the Barrage was at 1.56 lakh cusecs. Officials sounded an alert in the low-lying areas alongside the Krishna from Krishnalanka in the city to villages in Avanigadda mandal. Locals shifted to relief centres The residences beyond the second flood retaining wall in Krishnalanka area of the city have been submerged and locals were shifted to relief centres. The first flood warning will be issued when the outflow touches 3.96 lakh cusecs and the second flood warning will be sounded when the outflow touches 5.66 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, the Munneru, a tributary of the Krishna, is also in spate. As of 6 p.m., the inflows and outflows stood at around 1.06 lakh cusecs. Five persons who were stuck in floodwaters in the Munneru at Pallamgiri of Nandigama mandal in the district were rescued by an NDRF rescue team.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has no respect for Constitution, says TDP||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Cabinet colleagues hardly respect the Constitution and its preamble. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said people were deprived of their fundamental rights and false cases were being filed against political opponents. Even the media was not allowed to function freely, he added. ‘Assault on institutions’ He said the Chief Minister has no moral right to talk about ‘grama swaraj' and local self-government considering his party cadres appointed as volunteers running a ‘parallel government’ in rural areas.  Accusing the YSRCP of making the local body polls one-sided, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said Mr. Jagan’s rule so far was marked by ‘non-stop attacks’ on democratic systems and constitutional institutions. Over Rs. 8,000 crore released by the Centre for COVID relief was also diverted by the government, he added. He said the TDP government had spent Rs. 26,411 crore for rural development during 2018-19. In sharp contrast, the YSRCP government allocated just Rs. 10,480 crore in the revised estimates for 2019-2020, while the actual spending was much less. In just one year, the government reduced expenditure on rural development by Rs. 16,000 crore. Even in the 2020-21 budget, just Rs. 15,112 crore was allocated. This was Rs. 10,000 crore less than what the TDP had spent during 2018-19. Mr. Jagan totally ignored the development of villages and aspirations of rural people, he added.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Evacuate low-lying areas: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday asked the officials to evacuate the residents living in the low-lying areas facing inundation threat owing to the flood situation in the twin Godavari districts. Reviewing the flood in the Godavari river with the officials, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy insisted that the victims be provided with all basic amenities. The officials informed the Chief Minister that people living in the flood-hit areas had been shifted to safer destinations and other measures were also being taken keeping in view the torrential rain that were likely to continue for the next few days. They said that the administrations of the East and West Godavari districts had also been instructed to be on high alert. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted the officials to focus on the impact of flood on the low-lying areas and launch measures on a war footing to prevent any loss of life. “The rescue measures should be effectively followed up by the rehabilitation of victims at the centres equipped with all the required facilities,” he said.  Disaster response force The Chief Minister also asked the officials to coordinate with the disaster response force in carrying out the rescue and rehabilitation operations and directed them to keep him informed about the situation time to time. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also enquired about the situation arising out of the torrential rains in Krishna district and reiterated the need for the officials to remain alert round the clock to meet any eventuality.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire: TDP alleges double standards in probe||TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah has accused the government of adopting ‘double standards’ regarding the probe into the fire at Swarna Palace, a hotel-turned-COVID care facility, which claimed 10 lives. ‘Authorities to blame’ Addressing the media on Sunday, the TDP leader sought to know how P. Ramesh Babu, managing director of Ramesh Hospitals , could be held solely responsible, claiming that the Krishna district officials ran a quarantine centre for foreign returnees out of the same hotel earlier. “Rather, the government is to blame if the hotel is running for years without obtaining the mandatory clearances. The district officials, Fire Services Department and even the police should face action for allowing the hotel in this regard,” Mr. Ramaiah pointed out. “It is out of vengeance against a particular caste that the government has ordered to arrest Dr. Ramesh Babu,” he alleged. Mr. Ramaiah further asserted that there was proof of the government having run a quarantine facility at the hotel. “For this, the officials signed a pact with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for allowing more than 15 hotels including Swarna PalaceDr. Ramesh Babu took the hotel on lease and obtained all the necessary permissions. When the government did not find any violations of safety norms at the hotel before opening a quarantine centre there, it would be untenable to blame Dr. Ramesh Babu for opening a COVID care centre there,” he added.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police raid sanitiser-making units||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police and the Excise personnel conducted a special drive against misuse of sanitisers and inspected medical shops and manufacturing units to prevent unauthorised sales. The teams led by DGP Gautam Sawang and SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal and the Superintendents of Police of various districts conducted raids on Sunday. SEB ASPs, Dy. SPs and CIs visited the sanitiser manufacturing units and drugstores. They checked the licenses, quality, stock position of raw material in the factories, dispatch and stock registers and the list of customers in the units. “As many as 1,039 vulnerable places (where there is possibility of consumption of hand sanitisers) were identified and 597 addicted people were traced. Legal action has been taken in 664 cases and counselling was given to 4,163 habitual offenders,” the SEB Commissioner said.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI demands govt. to pressure Centre for SCS||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) to ask their MPs to tender resignations and mount pressure on the Central Government to accord Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that he was not able to understand the logic behind Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s remarks that the State could not achieve SCS as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was strong at the Centre. “The BJP, when in Opposition at the time of State bifurcation, had demanded that the residuary State should be given SCS for 10 years against then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s promise of five years. But soon after coming to power, the BJP was denying SCS. It was not correct on the part of Mr. Jagan to search for excuses,” he said.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A bad precedent, says lawyers’ union||All India Lawyers’ Union (AILU) national vice-president S. Rajendra Prasad and secretary N. Srinivasa Rao have expressed concern over the Supreme Court holding senior advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt. “It has created a bad precedent, hampering free speech and fair criticism of the apex court ,” they said in a release. “The best way to sustain the dignity of and respect for the office of a judge is to deserve it (respect) from the public at large by fearlessness and objectivity of approach to the issues coming for decision, quality of judgment, restraint, dignity and decorum (of the judge) observed in judicial conduct off and on the Bench and rectitude,” the AILU office-bearers stated.
17 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader suspended from party||BJP leader Gudivaka Ramanjaneyuluwas suspended from the party for allegedly indulging in illegal activities. Party State president Somu Veerraju placed Mr. Ramajaneyulu under suspension following police action against him for illegally transporting liquor. “Such activities are not acceptable to the party as it amounts to breach of discipline,” a letter said.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven more persons succumb to coronavirus; toll increases to 175||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district crossed the 25,000-mark in Visakhapatnam district after 512 new cases were reported in the district on Sunday. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases stands at 25,212 in the district. Seven more persons died due to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 175. As many as 742 persons recovered from the virus on Sunday. They include a number of people being treated in home isolation apart from COVID-19 Care Centres and hospitals in the district. According to the COVID-19 district bulletin, the number of active cases in the district stands at 4,767 while the number of discharged is 20,278. Out of the total cases, the cases reported in August are 14,043. As many as 84 persons succumbed to the virus in the first 16 days of this month. However the recovery rate is also high. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district as on Friday is 736. Among them, very active clusters are 149 and the active and dormant clusters are 74 and 513 respectively. Already 171 clusters have been denotified.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain-battered roads a nightmare for motorists||Incessant rains for the last two days have deteriorated several roads in the city inconveniencing citizens. The ongoing underground cable works at various places has added to their woes, especially to the motorists. A number of people have taken to social media posting pictures of the rain-battered roads and urged the officials concerned to take up repairs at the earliest. Residents from many areas, especially those living on the outskirts, have been facing acute problem. Locals from interior areas of Sujatha Nagar, Chinamushidiwada, Kurmannapalem, Sriharipuram, Pendurthy, Gopalapatnam, Gajuwaka and a few others complained about pathetic state of roads. “Not just for the motorists, it is very tough to even walk on roads. After rain, the roads become slushy and slippery. This has been the condition for many months,” said P. Vasu, a resident of Sujatha Nagar.  Self-help In a few areas, the locals and the youth repaired the damaged roads by filling gravel or crushed stone powder to make sure no one gets hurts by skidding. Citizens also point out that potholes and ongoing UG cabling works, which have been causing much trouble. Motorists faced issues at the areas of Daba Gardens, Gnanapuram, One Town, Allipuram and a few others as their vehicles, including four-wheelers, were stuck in the roads, which dug up for various development works, on Friday. “After digging roads, the gravel is left on the side. During rains, the mix of mud and gravel makes the road dangerous and two-wheelers skid on such roads. Motorists need to be very careful. Do not know for how many more years, the officials will dig up the roads for the UGC works,” said L. Bangarraju, a motorist at Daba Gardens.  ‘Prompt action’ According to a senior official from the GVMC, most of the complaints related to roads, overflowing of drains, electric poles, which are being report are being attended to immediately. “Roads in some interior areas were not completed due to lack of labour during the COVID-19 situation for the past couple of months,” he said.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMTZ ties up with U.K. to promote medtech startups||In an attempt to fill the gap between the demand and supply of ventilators and essential medical equipment in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone (AMTZ) has inked a pact with the U.K. government. Manufacturing support As per the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed on July 31 under the UK-India Tech Partnership programme, innovative Indian medtech startups are invited to apply by August 31 to be a part of the new Rs. 5.6 million manufacturing support programme. The selected startups will be hosted at the AMTZ’s MediValley incubation centre and they will receive financial, technical and infrastructure support necessary to make their equipment market-ready. The pact aims at boost the medtech collaboration between the two countries by creating direct research and development linkages between the U.K. companies and AMTZ’s manufacturing and testing facilities, and to the healthcare market in India. “The fight against coronavirus needs a global response. New partnerships born at this juncture of adversity can make a difference. The collaboration with the AMTZ facility Visakhapatnam is exciting. This project will help the promising startups accelerate the process of getting their innovative designs market ready through a combination of financial, technical and infrastructure support,” says Andrew Fleming, British Deputy High Commissioner to AP. and Telangana. AMTZ CEO and Managing Director Jitendar Sharma says the pact will encourage innovations in the manufacturing of medical devices, especially those necessary for fight against the pandemic.  Eligibility criteria “The British High Commission and AMTZ aims at encouraging innovators by providing them with technical, technological, financial, entrepreneurial and strategic handholding. It will enable them to leapfrog from idea to innovation and from a startup to an established enterprise,” he says. Indian startups, MSMEs and innovators are elligibble to apply for the project. This includes those at prototype, development, pilot, validation, early traction, and scaling stages. Further details are available on the AMTZ website and British High Commission’s social media pages. The deadline for submitting application is August 31. As part of the programme, selected startups will have access to the state-of-the art infrastructure support, technical guidance from experienced mentors, domestic and international sourcing support, manufacturing scale-up support, collaboration opportunities with the the U.K. and Indian medtech firms. The AMTZ is an enterprise under the Government of Andhra Pradesh dedicated to medical device manufacturing. It has reserved 1,00,000 sft rent-free space for startups to facilitate quick commercialisation of successful solutions. It has been contracted by the Government of India for manufacturing ventilators and other essential medical equipment such as masks, PPE, testing kits and etc.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA’s plea to CM on sports facility’s land||Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to reconsider the decision to use the land acquired for construction of a sports facility at Aganampudi, for other purposes. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Sunday, Mr. Naidu, who is also vice president of the Volleyball Federation of India and president of Volleyball Association of A.P., recalled that the Gachibowli stadium, developed in Hyderabad, had attracted several international and national sports events. Some of the events like the Volleyball World Championship '05, Asian Championship '03 and a series of national and international events were hosted in Visakhapatnam also. Post bifurcation of the State, the lack of large-scale sports infrastructure in the State, prompted the sports fraternities across the State to invest in infrastructure. A 150-acre multipurpose sports facility was envisioned to cater to international regulations and to host national and international sports events. ‘80 acres allocated’ After consultation with the sports bodies, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) and the government, the project was finalised at Aganampudi in Visakhapatnam. Mr. Naidu recalled that during his previous tenure as MLA, 80 acres of land was allocated and alienated to the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose. While the sports fraternity was eagerly awaiting the handing over of the remaining 70 acres and the project to kick-start, it was being said that the allotment was cancelled and the government was planning to use the land for other purposes. Mr. Naidu appealed to the Chief Minister to reconsider the decision and ensure that the sports project saw the light.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more arrested in child trafficking case||Police arrested six more persons for their alleged role in a child trafficking case at Universal Srushti Hospital in the city. The police also found that the hospital management exchanged several newborns and cheated officials of Childline and Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The accused have been identified as G. Jhansi (37), agent of Dr. Namratha, MD of Universal Srushti Hospital, V. Indhu Padma Bindhu (40), who works as a counsellor at the hospital, Ch. Kalyani (35), head nurse of the hospital, K. Venkata Ramana (47), supervisor, and K. Sujatha (36) and M Vasantha Kumari (46), both agents of Dr. Namratha. The prime accused, Dr. Namratha, and the other accused A. Tirumala (33), duty doctor and L. Chandra Mohan (42), former PRO of Dr. Namratha, were already arrested. Addressing the media on Sunday, DCP (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi said a woman Vanitha (24), name changed) of Madhurawada became pregnant in August 2019. Her husband was jailed in a case and she was in a deep financial crisis. Taking advantage of the situation, Jhansi allegedly assured her of getting her delivery done free of cost at Srushti Hospital. Believing her, Vanitha underwent a C-section and gave birth to a boy. Police said Dr. Namratha allegedly sold her son without Jhansi’s consent. Police found that the accused admitted the baby to another hospital through Venkata Ramana. Some days later, a woman from V. Madugula, whose baby was sold to a couple based in Kolkata, complained to Childline officials against the hospital. Dr. Namratha handed over Vanitha’s baby to her on March 20. Mr. Rastogi said the police are yet to examine other technical data to prove the guilt of anesthaetists, paediatricians and embryologists and DNA tests yet to be conducted, with the permission of court, to identify the biological mothers. In all, the police have arrested 14 persons pertaining to the child trafficking case.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Human skull found in house, youth held||A human skull, reportedly found in a house, sent the residents of Relli Veedhi into a state of panic, in the One Town area here on Sunday. According to the locals, some residents found bad odour emanating from the house of 21-year-old R. Raju, and raised an alarm. The residents informed the police about the incident and the latter went to the spot and took up investigation. According to Inspector of One Town Police Station, Chandrasekhar, preliminary inquiries revealed that Raju was living alone in the house. “He might have brought the skull from the Anatomy Lab of King George Hospital (KGH) or from some burial ground. We are yet to ascertain the facts,” he said. The police dismissed speculations that the youth was eating the skull or that he is a ganja seller. The youth was taken into police custody.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders pay tributes to Vajpayee||The death anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee was observed at the BJP office at Lawson’s Bay Colony here on Sunday. The party leaders garlanded a portrait of Vajpaee and paid tributes to him. Former MP K. Haribabu said that Vajpayee was born in a middle class Brahmin family in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh on December 25, 1924. It was during his tenure as Prime Minister that the National Highways in the country were widened. It was his vision for the economic development of the nation reducing wastage of fuel. He said that India had conducted the nuclear test under in 1974. The next nuclear test was conducted 24 years later during the tenure of Prime Minister Vajpayee in 1998. Party leader P.V.N. Madhav recalled that Vajpayee was one among the large number of Opposition leaders, who were imprisoned during the Emergency promulgated by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. In the 1996 elections, BJP emerged as the single largest party and Vajpayee became the 10th Prime Minister of Indian in May 1998. The nuclear tests were done under the supervision of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, he said.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-year-old baby dies of snakebite||A one-year old baby died allegedly after being bitten by a snake at V. Kodapalle village in G Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district, in the early hours of Sunday. According to sources, the boy was sleeping with his parents, V. Ram Babu and Govindamma, when the incident occurred. It was learnt that locals chased and killed the snake. The G. Madugula police have not received any information regarding the incident.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V launches certificate course for scientists||The Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIMV) launched a certificate programme in Research and Development (R&D) Management for the scientists of Naval Science & Technological Laboratory (NSTL) / Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Saturday. It is being offered by IIMV jointly with Institute of Technology Management (ITM), DRDO. This is a unique programme and first of its kind offered by IIMV for DRDO, said K.S. Varaprasad, Distinguished Scientist & DG – HR of DRDO.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cleanliness drive concludes||The week-long cleanliness drive, organised by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(ECoR), concluded on Sunday. A large number of officers and staff took part in cleanliness activities in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Rayagada, Koraput, Jagdalpur and stations, workplaces and railway colonies over the division. Leaflets were distributed to create awareness among the travelling public and banners displayed at the stations. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava stressed on the importance of the drive.
17 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga trainer programme from August 20||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University, is conducting a six-week yoga trainer programme from August 20 under the supervision of head of the department K. Ramesh Babu. According to the officials, practical classes will be held in the Department campus (Yoga village) and theory classes will be conducted online. Minimum qualification is 10+2. For details, contact: 0891-2566640 / 8008486999.
17 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vangapandu’s works will inspire one and all, says Minister||A group of Ministers paid rich tributes to noted Telugu balladeer Vangapandu Prasada Raoat his residence at Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district on Sunay. Deputy Chief Ministers Pamula Pushpa Srivani and Dharmana Krishnadas, Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao garlanded a portrait of the balladeer and consoled his family members including wife Vijayalakshmi, daughter Usha and son Dushyant. “Vangapandu Prasada Rao always captivated the audience with his thought provoking songs and speeches. His literary works will continue to inspire one and all,” said Ms. Srivani. In the evening, the Ministers visited the house of YSRCP veteran and former Minister Penumatsa Sambasiva Raju, who died recently, and consoled the bereaved family members.
17 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha’s mother passes away||B. Eswaramma, mother of Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana died of prolonged illness in a private hospital in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Sunday. She was 87. Eswaramma had been undergoing treatment in the hospital for the last one month. She is survived by four daughters and seven sons. The Minister is the eldest son of the family, while his brother Botcha Appalanarasayya is an MLA from Gajapathinagaram in Vizianagaram district. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao among other political leaders condoled the demise of Eswaramma.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drop plan to shift tribal varsity to Parvathipuram’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has demanded that the government drop the plan to shift the Central Tribal University (CTU) from a site close to Bhogapuram to Kottakki, a remote village in the Parvathipuram division in Vizianagaram district. “The Telugu Desam Party (TDP), during its tenure, had allotted 500 acres near Bhogapuram for the university. However, the YSRCP government is seeking to shift it to a location that is far off from the airport proposed at Bhogapuram on the pretext that the institution should be set up in a tribal area,” a statement quoted Mr. Veerraju as saying on Sunday. He said the university would offer not only the courses related to tribal life but also many others. It should be located at a place convenient for the students as well as the teaching and other staff. The village where CTU has been planned to be moved to is close to Koraput in Odisha. “The State government should, therefore, withdraw its plan to shift the tribal university from its proposed location,” said Mr. Veerraju, adding that the BJP leadership would present its views before a committee for the establishment of the institution.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Life goes on||
17 August 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,TELANGANA||Rains fill medium projects, tanks||Heavy rains across the State for the last three days have improved the water storage in several medium irrigation projects and minor irrigation tanks considerably, with a majority of them reaching surplus stage already, although several major irrigation projects which depend on flood from upstream States are yet to get water in excess of their capacity. The variation of rainfall recorded district-wise so far this monsoon season, however, has been very high ranging between 142% large excess rainfall and 27% deficient rainfall, with 12 of the 33 districts getting large excess rainfall, another 12 witnessing excess rains, 8 districts recording normal rainfall and one district (Nirmal) deficient rainfall. According to the officials, distribution of rainfall mandal-wise has been somewhat different with 38 of the 589 mandals remaining deficient, another 50 having near deficient although they are among the 181 mandals with normal rainfall technically, 204 mandals recording excess (20% to 60%) rain and the remaining 166 mandals getting large excess (over 60%) rainfall than normal. Nirmal district has 14 out of 15 mandals, Jagtial has 7 out of 18 mandals and Adilabad has 6 out of 18 mandals with deficit rains. Officials of the Irrigation Department explained that 18 out of 36 medium irrigation projects in the Krishna and Godavari basins have already reached surplus position and releasing excess flood as it is coming and another half-a-dozen projects are approaching the surplus position. The projects releasing excessing flood include Nallavagu, NTR Sagar, PP Rao Project, Nilwai, Ralivagu, Gundlavagu, Lakhnavaram lake, Ramappa lake, Palemvagu, Peddavagu, Taliperu, Kinnerasani, Kotipallyvagu, Pakhal lake, Wyra and Bayyaram tank. The medium irrigation projects have an ayacut of over 4.48 lakh acres and water allocation of over 104 tmc ft. Against their combined capacity of over 62 tmc ft they have about 51 tmc ft water stored them including in the projects releasing the surplus flood. Among the minor irrigation tanks, 12,214 out of 20,111 in Godavari basin have already started releasing excess inflows and another 2,400 tanks are approaching the surplus stage and nearly 2,000 tanks have received water beyond 50% of their capacity. Besides, about 1,700 tanks have received water between over 25% and below 50% of their capacity and the remaining have water below 25% of their storage.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana making strides in IT and life sciences sector: Vinod||Telangana State Planning Board Vice Chairman B.Vinod Kumar said that Telangana has made tremendous progress in IT and Life Sciences sector despite COVID-19 crisis. Addressing a webinar, he said that IT exports have grown at an extraordinary rate of nearly 18% plus in the fiscal year 2019-2020 under the guidance of IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao. “This is twice the national average. Close to six lakh people are employed by the IT and ITeS firms in Telangana,” he said. “Significant chunk of India’s production capacity of vaccines is located in Hyderabad. “Hyderabad can produce anywhere from 20 to 30% of vaccines. So, when the vaccine arrives – whether it be here in India, and even Hyderabad, or abroad – you can be sure Hyderabad and Telangana will be playing a critical and key role in enabling the world to come out of this dark COVID-19 situation,” he said. He said Hyderabad is now the life sciences capital of India with over 800 life sciences companies, and 30% of India’s pharmaceutical production takes place in Telangana with over 50% of India’s bulk drug production taking place here. “We will be able to achieve the Vision 2030 target of production worth $100 billion and employ over four lakh people in this sector,” he said. Mr. Vinod Kumar said Telangana has identified a number of key thrust areas in addition to IT and Life Sciences sectors, including aerospace and defence, food processing, MSME, FMCG, electronics, logistics, textiles, renewable energy, automobiles, gems and jewellery, plastics and polymers and green tech. He said the State is at the forefront of implementing innovative single window clearance system, and its “Deemed Approval” policies, supported by legislation, are implemented through the highly acclaimed TS-iPASS. It also has a “Meet and Beat” policy in place whereby it offers to match the benefits extended by any other place, across the world, for companies that are interested in relocating to Telangana.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB getting into next level of COVID testing||While CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s revolutionary proposal of testing dry swabs collected from COVID-19 patients as a faster, cheaper alternative to RT-qPCR test awaits Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval, it has been focusing on four more exciting technologies, said director Rakesh Mishra. Of those, Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)-based diagnostics is currently being standardised in Telangana and Karnataka which can handle 20,000-50,000 samples in one go. “It can be used effectively for high surveillance where 1,000 samples each can be collected, tagged and pooled into a tube. Similar number of samples can be collected from 20-50 different collection centres and brought to the NGS centres. These can be processed and barcoded before sequencing in one run. When done at such a large scale, it will not cost more than Rs. 200 per test and each NGS centre can test up to 1 lakh samples in 48 hours,” he said. Second project is about anti-body detection in blood through a traditional scientific method called ‘biolayer interferometry’ used in labs for protein testing and this is being tried out for COVID sero-surveillance with a target cost of Rs. 50 per test and up to 200 samples done in one hour by one technician. “We are validating the process and trying to scale up”, he said. Rapid antigen tests Third project is with the Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad (IIT-H) where rapid antigen testing can be done for a large number of samples within half hour using nanotechnology for a price of about Rs. 250-350 with zero chance of cross-contamination. The research institute is also collaborating with neighbour and sister organisation of Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) for an ‘Effluent-based epidemiological study’ to estimate the level of infection from the sewage read out by undertaking a study of samples from the Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs). “We know how many people live under each ETP and from this we can calculate the infection rate,” he said. Dr. Mishra attested that young researchers and scientists are behind these novel ideas while the startups involved are trying to bring them into the market. He disclosed that when the pandemic broke out and there was a discussion about scaling up research activities for testing, training, validating newer technologies, screening of drugs, vaccines, sequencing the virus and understanding the genome, the most “enthusiastic group” was that of a group of 150-odd student volunteers. “These youngsters changed the lab set-up, started to grow the virus, pooling of samples, putting standard operating protocols in place and helped us in training a lot of manpower who are now manning various testing centres across the city and State. It has been very encouraging and supporting for me as new ideas have emerged,” he said. Cost-effective testing The director has also been eagerly waiting for ICMR permission to take up dry swab testing of RT-qPCR tests. It can be done in 50% less time — faster by five hours, 40% less cost and requires less manpower. “If your lab is doing 200 tests a day, it can do 600-800 tests a day through this method. We can save up to Rs. 100 crore a day and test 10 lakh people from the 2-3 lakh being done currently enabling mass screening across the country,” he pointed out.  Young researchers and scientists are behind these novel ideas, and startups involved are trying to bring them into the market. Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR writes to Rajnath over closure of Cantonment roads||IT and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has complained to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that the local authorities of the Secunderabad Cantonment had shut down four important roads — Allahabad Gate, Gough Road, Wellington Road and Ordinance Road — in July without following the standard protocol in accordance with the provisions of the Cantonment Act 2006, duly factoring in the “emergent security needs” of the Army. He said the roads were closed citing surge in COVID cases that caused hardship to lakhs of commuters from Yapral, Kowkur, Bollarum, and Trimulgherry. In a letter to Mr. Singh, the Minister requested him to intervene and instruct the local military authorities not to close these roads without following the standard procedures and necessary authorisation from the authorities concerned. The Minister argued that it was illogical to try to stop the spread of the pandemic by closing public roads. “Residents had been forced to take long detours at a time when public transport is not available. One can also imagine the tremendous tragedies that can occur during medical emergencies if such road blockades are allowed.” He also stated that the local military authorities resort to regulate traffic at their will on certain roads, which are otherwise the ‘lifeline’ to these parts. There are about 25 public roads in Secunderabad Cantonment Area prone to such arbitrary closures for traffic. Mr. Rao also listed out the concerns about closure of these roads and said all these roads were admittedly open to public since their inception, some of which are of more than 100 years of existence. Most of these roads lie in a narrow strip of land that extends approximately 10-km in the north-south direction along the arterial Rajiv Rahadari Highway. Closure of these roads would cut-off north eastern areas of the city from this artery, which is their main access to the rest the city. Over 10 lakh citizens are affected on a daily basis. Historically these roads were used by farmers from villages in the eastern areas of Nagaram and Kapra to access markets located on the western side of the Cantonment, and all these areas are “Streets” as defined in Sec 2 (zza) of Cantonment Act 2006 and thus access to them is everybody’s prerogative, the Minister said in the letter. He also reminded that there is an elected council in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and necessary protocols in accordance with the Cantonment Act 2006 should be followed whenever such closures are envisaged. Further, the elected SCB Council, as contemplated under Section 258 of Cantonment Act 2006, may also be consulted and taken into confidence for closure of a public street, he said.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It’s ‘rain’ing woes in city||The city continued to witness heavy rains on Sunday, with several areas reporting inundation, uprooting of trees and a few cases of wall collapse. Given the rain forecast issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the State government, those on bikes were prepared even as many of them wore raincoats and rode cautiously on slippery streets. Many areas in the twin cities were flooded with non-stop rains and the IMD had predicted that the situation was likely to continue for three more days. Over 600 buildings were declared vulnerable in the GHMC limits and the disaster response and monsoon rescue teams had been kept on high alert to meet any eventuality. According to data on the TS Development Planning Society website, the highest rainfall was seen in Asifnagar area in GHMC’s Circle - 12 with 17.3 mm being recorded till 8.30 p.m. This was followed by Madhapur recording 14.5 mm, Srinagar Colony recording 13.8 mm and Charminar recording 13.3 mm rainfall. GHMC officials and traffic police attended to reports of water inundation, uprooting of trees and branches giving way and blocking of carriageways. Earlier in the day, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar tweeted, “Due to continuous rains, trees are felling regularly on various roads in the city. All Govt agencies are taking immediate action to clear them. There is forecast of rain in next few days also. Citizens are requested to note and drive carefully. Venture out only if necessary.(sic)” The GHMC received as many as 61 rain-related grievances till 5 p.m. on Sunday. As many as 16 tree falls and six fallen branches were reported, and at least nine instances of waterlogging and five more instances of wall collapse came to light.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cases drop as testing slows down over weekend||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 91,361 with just 1,102 testing positive on Saturday as compared to the previous day’s tally of 1,863. While usually, around 20,000 tests were being conducted on other days, only 12,120 tests were done on Saturday. There is a pattern emerging here. The number of tests to detect coronavirus and COVID-19 cases in a day have been dropping every weekend, only to rise from Mondays. This is being observed from July last week. On July 26, August 2, 9 and 15 (all weekends), only 9,000 to 12,500 tests were conducted. On other days, however, the testing rate is higher, sometimes even breaching the 20,000-mark. Of the 1,102 cases recorded on August 15, as many as 234 cases are from GHMC, 101 from Karimnagar and 81 from Rangareddy. Test results of 1,046 more swab samples are awaited. The death toll reached 693 as nine more patients died as against 10 the previous day. Of the total 91361 cases reported in Telangana so far, 22,542 are active. So far, 68,126 COVID patients have been discharged.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After losing his father to coronavirus, youth donates plasma to save lives||For 26-year-old Srikar Aditya, who had tested positive along with his parents, and recently recovered, donating plasma was at the top of his priority list. Having gone through an intense struggle — from trying to find treatment for his family while being infected, to the difficulty in finding a bed to get his father admitted in a hospital, and dealing with his demise — donation was of paramount importance. “It was on June 24 that I developed symptoms – fever, chills and body aches. After this I called my doctor and took medical advice. However, for around 10 days I was unwell and had high temperature. My wife tested negative and stayed put in the hall, while I had quarantined myself in the bedroom. Though I live a short distance from my parents, they too tested positive. It was when I was in self-isolation that I decided to donate plasma once I recovered,” Mr Aditya, son of noted child rights activist P. Achyuta Rao who passed away due to COVID-19, says. “My father had happy hypoxemia, so the drop in oxygen levels was there,” he adds. The young professional says it was on August 14 that his family doctor apprised him of a person in need of plasma for his father being treated at a private hospital in Secunderabad. “It was testing time for the entire family. Despite being able to afford treatment and knowing people of influence, we found it difficult to get medicines like Remdesivir, oxygen cylinders and finally a bed in a hospital for my father. On August 14, when I was told about the need for plasma, I went to the hospital. Once they cleared me as a donor, the process took about 30 minutes,” Mr Aditya says. Demand-supply gap He opines that there still is a ‘demand and supply gap’ between those who are in need of convalescent plasma donors and the number of donors themselves. “I have seen that some people who have recovered from COVID-19 are in two minds about donating plasma. Some are not coming for ward because of doubts over whether it will work or not. There is nothing to lose if one donates plasma. After all, it is about saving another life,” he says.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam preps Cong. for GHMC polls||Preparing the party for the upcoming GHMC elections, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the State Election Commission (SEC) undertake delimitation of wards as “there was a huge variation of voters in the wards favouring some political parties”. He also asked the cadre to start working on electoral rolls by helping people in enrolment of names and corrections. He was speaking to the media after chairing a meeting with senior leaders including CLP leader Bhatti Vikaramarka, working president A. Revanth Reddy, Mohammed Ali Shabbir, Zafar Jaweed, Shaik Abdullah Sohail, and Feroz Khan, among others. Asking the party cadre to enlighten people about the development brought by the previous Congress regimes in Hyderabad, he asked them to tell people about how the party had created infrastructure of Hyderabad such as Outer Ring Road, Inner Ring Road, Metro Rail, PVNR Expressway, the new international airport, flyovers, modern roads and drinking water facilities. Mr. Reddy said that the TRS government collected lakhs of applications for double bedroom houses before the last GHMC elections but not even 1% of applicants were given 2-BHK units. The Basti Dawakhanas being set up were being done with an eye on GHMC elections, he alleged. Agreeing to a suggestion of Mr. Revanth Reddy that the demolition of temple and mosques in the Secretariat be raked up in the next Parliament sessions, he said the issue would be raised in Parliament and the party would also approach the court. Mr. Revanth Reddy suggested that the party should gear up for the GHMC elections working at the ground level rather than confining to meetings.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MJ Market roof leaks, walls soggy 3 days post reopening||Three days after Moazzam Jahi Market was thrown open to the public after a Rs. 15 crore renovation effort, viral images of leaking roof, soggy walls, and flooded flooring began doing the rounds in the city. “What is the point of the renovation effort if the ceiling is leaking within two days and there is stagnant water everywhere? Due to the moisture, some of the gaps in joints in the wall are also visible,” said a heritage activist, who shared the images from the spot. Responding to these angry criticisms by the citizens on social media, MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar blamed rain for the leakages. “There have been non-stop incessant rains for the last few days… and I guess curing for some of the parts is still not 100%. Will take it up with the team to ensure these are attended to immediately once there’s a dry spell (sic),” Mr. Kumar tweeted at 5.40 p.m. on Sunday. The renovation work was carried out by Mumbai-based Laxmi Hericon headed by Shrinivas Sulge. “Lime mortar requires two weeks for curing so that there are no leakages and about two years for gaining strength. If the slopes are taken care of, there will be no leakages. The photographs show seepage between the stones which is very dangerous,” said a conservation architect, who did not want to be named. The tenants of the market complex had used tar felt sheets to prevent leakages. During the renovation work, that stretched beyond two years, this sheeting was stripped away. “We could spot pools of water. The tar sheets were affixed to the sides of the roof. Though they were removed, the spots were not plastered with lime mortar,” said the heritage activist who gave the info.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Srisailam to get heavy flood over the next couple of days||With heavy to very heavy rains continue to lash the catchment areas of river Krishna and several of its tributaries, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast heavy discharge of flood from Almatti to Narayanapur, over 11 tmc ft in the 24-hour period up to 8 am on Monday. As a precaution, the authorities of Narayanpur dam in the downstream of Almatti, has increased the flood discharge to over 2.37 lakh cusecs although it was getting about 1.8 lakh cusecs, the same measure as being released downstream from Almatti, on Sunday evening. The inflows into Almatti were about 1.17 lakh cusecs in the evening and they were forecast to go up to 1.29 lakh cusecs with the trend of further increase. Officials stated that Mahabaleshwar, the major catchment area of Krishna, recorded 20.3 cm rain and the catchment areas of its tributaries Koyna (18.2 cm) and Warana (7.8 cm) also received heavy to very heavy rain during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 am on Sunday. As a result, inflows into Almatti and Ujjani dams are on the rise although the latter has a flood cushion of about 20 tmc ft. Accordingly, Jurala project is expected to receive a flood of about 6.5 tmc ft in the 24-hour period up to 8 am on Monday. The inflows into the Krishna river’s gateway project in Telangana-Andhra Pradesh have already crossed one-lakh cusecs on Sunday evening and the flood monitoring officials have indicated that the flood would increase gradually in proportion to the flood discharge at Narayanpur. It would take about 24 hours for the water released at Narayanpur to reach Jurala in the measure it was being discharged. Tungabhadra dam, on the other hand, is expected to reach surplus position at least by Monday night and the discharge of flood from there is likely commence by that time. On Sunday evening, the storage crossed 98.6 tmc ft against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft and the project was getting a flood of over 33,000 cusecs with nearly 12,000 cusecs being released to canals. In the downstream, storage of water in Srisailam has crossed 145 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.81 tmc ft as on Sunday night (9 pm) with inflows of over 1.31 lakh cusecs. It is forecast to get over 10.5 tmc ft water in the 24-hour period till 8 am on Monday. Similarly, the storage in Nagarjunasagar crossed 250 tmc ft against its capacity of 312 tmc ft with inflows (supplementation) of over 42,000 cusecs from Srisailam. In the Godavari basin, water storage in Sriramsagar crossed 45 tmc ft against its capacity of 90.31 tmc ft as inflows into the project increased to over 46,000 cusecs and Lower Manair Dam was getting over 28,000 cusecs flood with storage crossing 16 tmc ft against its capacity of 24 tmc ft. Flood at Laxmi (Medigadda) Barrage across Godavari is forecast to cross 7 lakh cusecs and that at Polavaram to cross 14 lakh cusecs. The flood level in Godavari at Bhadrachalam has crossed 53 feet.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rains to continue in Telangana for two more days||The incessant rains lashing different parts of the State, north and east Telangana in particular, are likely to continue for two more days even as the Meteorological department has indicated the scope for formation of another low pressure area in north Bay of Bengal on August 19. Thanks to the heavy rains, the State registered 13 per cent higher rainfall above normal during the current season, according to the Met department. Wanaparthy district received 124 per cent rains followed by Gadwal (111), Warangal Urban (108). Nirmal district, however, recorded 23 per cent lesser rains compared to the previous year. The situation in the erstwhile united Warangal district, which is among the worst affected, is likely to continue for few more days. The official machinery had been geared up to evacuate people from the vulnerable areas when necessary. Roof collapse Though no casualties had been officially announced so far, a woman and her daughter reportedly died due to roof collapse in Mulugu district while three youths who got washed away in the Musi canal at K.T. Annaram were rescued by the locals. Houses in the low-lying areas of several districts in north Telangana and Bhadradri Kothagudem were inundated and residents were moved to relief camps for safety. In Bhadrachalam for instance, third warning signal had been issued for Godavari when it crossed 53 feet. With more rains forecast in Warangal, the government deployed three teams of National Disaster Response Force to the district. Officials said districts like Mulugu, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally and Bhadradri Kothagudem received highest rainfall since the past more than a decade with heavy to very heavy rainfall reported in the last two days. Venkatapuram in Mulugu district received close to 24 cm of rain in the past 24 hours, according to officials. High alert was sounded in several areas of the State with officials and Ministers including E. Dayakar Rao and Puvvada Ajay Kumar personally supervising the rescue and relief operations at the field level in their respective districts.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘RTI Act misused by MP, followers to mint realty money’||The Right to Information (RTI) Act, an instrument to ferret out information not in public domain, has been allegedly misused by a senior politician and his ‘followers’ in real estate to settle scores over property rights. The Anti Corruption Bureau officials, who are probing the seizure of Rs. 1.10 crore from Keesara Tahsildar Erva Balaraju Nagaraju, were stunned at the quantum of RTI petitions, filed by the real estate broker K. Anji Reddy who tried to bribe the former and had close ties with a Member of Parliament. A few RTI petitions are in the possession of The Hindu.  “We have unearthed dozens of RTI petitions filed by the said MP and Anji Reddy and surprisingly all the petitions sought information on lands in litigation,” a senior ACB official told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. The modus operandi of the accused was to identify a disputed land with the help of Revenue and Land Registration staff. “Upon receiving the information, the MP and his henchmen resorted to arm-twisting tactics to force the land owners to part with their lands,” he said. Most of the land pursued by the accused were in and around Hyderabad city, which had seen several fold appreciation in their values. “The said MP has been filing the RTI petitions since he was legislator of a different constituency. He has a team of retired MROs, who will help the politician in identifying the disputed land with their sources in the Revenue Department and file an RTI application,” the officer associated with the investigation of the case, said. “After getting the information and photocopies of the documents, the team blackmails the wealthy owners and extort money. In case, if the landowner is not from a well-off background, they promise to buy the disputed land and settle the issue,” he said, adding that with the help of the Revenue and Registration Department officials, the team would clear all the litigations and further sell the land at a very high price or convert them into residential plots for sale. The ACB officials are surprised that Anji Reddy, a class ten fail realtor, has filed dozens of RTI petitions. “We have seized all the documents, including documents pertaining to MPLADS funds, to investigate the case in all possible angles,” he said, adding that Anji Reddy is one of many followers of the MP who were involved in such practices. He said that Balaraju Nagaraju joined the department as stenographer/typist and rose to the rank of Tahsildar. In 2011, a disproportionate assets case was booked against him by the ACB, however, further action was stopped after he filed appeals in the court. “Now, we will file another disproportionate assets case against him, as he is in possession of several immovable properties disproportionate to the known source of income,” the officer added.  The MP and his henchmen resorted to arm-twisting tactics to force land owners to part with their lands. ACB official
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC deputes team for Warangal relief work||GHMC has deputed three disaster response vehicles and 40 personnel to Warangal to enable the civic authorities there to deal with the heavy rains and urban flooding in most parts of the city. The teams were slated to reach the place on Sunday evening and have been carrying along with a boat, gas cutters, motor pumps and other devices to deal with the floods. Meanwhile, Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana has directed all the municipal commissioners to be on high alert because of the ongoing rainfall and floods in many urban areas across Telangana. With the forecast suggesting more downpour, he wanted the senior officials to stay put in the headquarters, monitor the weather bulletins, remove garbage, keep adequate stocks of disinfectants for usage and make provision of drinking water, etc. Municipal officials should keep a vigil on low lying areas and identified dilapidated old buildings. First aid kits and machinery to pump out water, etc., should be kept ready. The state level monitoring committee should be informed about any development and all necessary measures should be taken to ensure there is no loss of lives or property, he added.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||6 suspects picked up for history-sheeter’s murder||The 32-year-old history-sheeter was playing mobile games at a tea shop in Rein Bazaar when his rivals stabbed him to death on Saturday night. Hyderabad police have picked up six suspects in connection with the murder to interrogate them. Victim ‘Kanda’ Ayazuddin went to meet his friend Ismail at a tea shop in Chandranagar. After Ismail left, he was sitting there and playing games. “Around 8.30 p.m., six bike-borne persons entered the tea shop with knives and stabbed him multiple times to death,” a senior police officer said. He said that the history-sheeter was accused in two murder cases at Moghulpura and Mirchowk police station in 2019 and 2014 respectively. Police said that the family members of Ameer Pathan, who was murdered by the victim last year, killed Ayazuddin to take revenge. PD Act was invoked against Ayazuddin after he killed Ameer, which he got cancelled and came out on bail. Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) D.S. Chauhan said that accused will be arrested very soon.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lungs flown in from Pune for transplant||Lungs collected from a young brain-dead patient in Pune was flown down to Hyderabad in a chartered flight for transplantation on Sunday. A patient at KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant Institute, Hyderabad, suffering from terminal lung disease was in need of lung transplant and registered his name to receive the organ through Jeevandan, the government’s organ donation programme. On Sunday, a youth was declared brain dead at a private hospital in Pune and tested negative for COVID-19. His family decided to donate his organs. Jeevandan officials here coordinated with Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre in Pune. The lungs were brought in a chartered flight. Traffic police of both cities arranged a green corridor and Airports Authority of India too extended help, stated a press release.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Platform to boost plasma donation||Friends2Support.org, a blood donors’ platform, has added a new section ‘COVID-19 Plasma Donor’ on its website, Android and IOS Apps. COVID-positive patients, who have recovered and are willing to help other patients through plasma therapy, can voluntarily register as donors post the stipulated waiting period of 4 weeks after testing negative.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks judicial probe into land deals||The six-year rule of KCR government has only taken corruption in revenue, municipal, excise, police and irrigation departments to the “saturation point” as was evident in the recent ACB cases on tahsildars and revenue staff in Keesara, Kothakota, Kesampeta, Shaikpet, Abdullapurmet and other areas, said vice-president of State committee of BJP. Addressing a virtual press conference, Mr. Prabhakar who is a former MLA of Uppal stated that while the ACB has been filing cases against the officers, the Chief Minister’s Office denies permissions to prosecute the officers thereby exposing the duplicity. Demanding a judicial commission probe into the land deals in recent times, the BJP leader said the root cause of the problem was long pending land disputes and ruling party leaders getting involved in ‘settlements’.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Silver Jubilee of Dhruva||Dhruva College of Management celebrated its silver jubilee online that witnessed an overwhelming participation of luminaries from the industry and academia, alumni and students residing in India, Ghana, UK and Germany. The participants felt nostalgic and proud of their association with Dhruva as they witnessed a video encapsulating the 25 years of Dhruva's journey, said Prof. S Pratap Reddy, Chairman, Dhruva College. He thanked BVR Mohan Reddy, Executive Chairman, Cyient Technologies, Honorary member of the Advisory Board of Dhruva who shared a recorded video message and so did M. Mahender Reddy, DGP. Prof. Pratap Reddy acknowledged the presence of alumni right from the first batch (PGDM 1995-1997) students.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man died after falling from building||A 25-year-old youth died after he accidentally slipped off the first floor of a residential building at Shamshabad on Sunday. Srikanth Reddy, a vegetable vendor from Kapugadda in the area, was standing in the balcony and watching the rain around 4.30 p.m. when he slipped and fell on the ground. He suffered severe head injury and died on the spot, RGI Airport police said. Police registered a case and shifted the body to OGH for an autopsy.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCR’s ‘Swacchata Saptah’ concludes||South Central Railway’s (SCR) week long special cleanliness drive ‘Swachhata Saptah’ to mark the 74th Independence Day celebrations concluded on Sunday. Extensive cleaning and disinfection activities at station premises, trains, water vending points, toilets, and drains were taken up in all the six divisions. At Hyderabad Railway Station, Lions Club International members joined hands with railway officials and staff in taking up a cleanliness drive and a tree plantation programme. GM Gajanan Mallya advised the staff and volunteers to follow norms on safety protocols such as wearing masks.
17 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||MGU conducts PECET sans physical education dept.||Mahatma Gandhi University, established in 2007 in Nalgonda, still waits a physical education department for itself. However, it continues to be the nodal agency to conduct the State PECET – physical education common entrance test, for the fourth year. According to figures, more than 6,000 candidates, including about 30% women, have applied for the two-year diploma and bachelor’s programmes till now, and the application process is still open. The applicants would all come to Nalgonda from various parts of the State for the physical efficiency tests, but officials say aspirants from Nalgonda district would be very few. As per the 2020 curricula, MGU has six faculties, but there is no department for physical education. And among its affiliated institutes in undivided Nalgonda, four private centres offer the diploma and bachelor courses. The university although has a 200-plus acre campus, of which 25 acres are developed for sports, the grounds are seldom filled with activity except for the annual physical efficiency tests and collegiate competitions. Officials confirm that the reason the State Council for Higher Education assigned the admission process to MGU from Kakatiya University, was for availability of grounds and running tracks, and also to avoid local influence during admission tests. According to a senior executive in the Department, “Despite several operational issues, MGU manages to complete the process. But the biggest one is not being able to tap the local human resources for their benefit, a failure of any university.” Officials at MGU said the State government has already prescribed physical education courses for the university, but the courses and the department can be approved only after inspection by a national council. The inspection procedure demands all infrastructure to be in place – indoor stadium, sports laboratories, equipment, student hostels and other amenities – most of which are under construction now, and would be ready only by next year.
17 August 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||Godavari river continues to flow above danger mark||The swollen Godavari river continued to flow above the danger mark after breaching the third warning level of 53 feet at Bhadrachalam on Sunday, triggering the threat of flooding in the riverside areas of Bhadrachalam Agency. Incidentally, the water level in the Godavari recorded its highest ever level of 75.6 feet at Bhadrachalam on August 16 in 1986. The last time when the river crossed the danger mark of 53 feet was on September 8, 2014, when the water level shot up to 56.1 feet. At 7 p.m. on Sunday, the Godavari flowed at 55.20 feet carrying 14.52 lakh cusecs of floodwaters downstream at Bhadrachalam, sources said. The river is expected to rise by another three to four feet tonight, official sources said, quoting CWC forecast and the copious inflows from Medigadda and other barrages in the upstream. Road connectivity between Bhadrachalam-Dummugudem-Charla, Charla-Venkatapuram and various important routes along the inter-State borders with Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh was disrupted as the floodwaters surged through the low-level road points at Turubaka, Kudunuru, Alubaka and various other agency areas. As the river turned perilous, the authorities started evacuating people living in the flood prone areas to safer places and ramped up emergency response measures to meet any flood exigency. The backwaters of the Godavari entered into Kotha Colony and AMC colony besides the areas surrounding the flood bank (Karakatta) in Bhadrachalam. This has prompted the authorities to shift as many as 24 families to a temporary flood relief camp set up at a private school in the temple town. The swirling waters of the Godavari inundated the bathing ghats completely and the kalyana katta on the banks of the river partially. Rain water gushed into the main street leading to the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple encircling a shopping complex and Nitya Annadhana Satram near the temple complex. Devotees faced severe ordeal in traversing through the waterlogged streets, sources said. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar along with Collector M V Reddy visited the Karakatta abutting the Godavari river banks in Bhadrachalam late on Sunday afternoon. The minister reviewed the arrangements to evacuate people living in flood prone areas to the relief camps and provision of food, groceries, medicines and torch lights at the temporary camps. The personnel of the NDRF, the police and the rescue team staff of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) have been kept on high alert for deployment for flood emergency response services. In Khammam district, the swollen Munneru river disrupted the inter-State road link between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as floodwaters flowed across a portion of the Khammam-Bonakal main road on the periphery of the district headquarters town. Flood relief camps have been set up at the Nayabazar Government school and the Government women’s degree college in Khammam.
17 August 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||Need for flood bank along Munneru||The long-felt need for construction of a flood bank (karakatta) along the Munneru floodplains here to find a lasting solution to the recurring problem of inundation of the low-lying areas in the town has come under the spotlight in the wake of the looming threat of flooding posed by the swollen Munneru. The water level in the Munneru shot up to 24.3 feet in the town on Sunday due to the incessant heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of the river mainly spread in old undivided Warangal district over the last few days. After a gap of nearly 15 years, the Munneru flowed at a record level carrying around 2.25 lakh cusecs of floodwaters. This has led to water logging in several low-lying areas of Mothinagar, Jalagamnagar, Bokkalagadda, Danavaigudem and other localities under the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits. Those living in the flood-prone areas were shifted to three relief camps set up in the town on Sunday. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan and Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanti inspected the low-lying areas along the Munneru banks on Sunday. Talking to newsmen, Mr Ajay said a proposal would be sent to the government for construction of two flood banks on either sides of the Munneru river.
17 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Complete Collectorate works: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed the officials to complete pending works of Collectorate and Commissionerate. Speaking to officials after examining the ongoing works along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and Commissioner Joyal Davis on the outskirts of Duddeda on Sunday, Mr. Rao expressed displeasure over delay in works. He said that once completed, the offices will be inaugurated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||No Independence Day speech by Chief Minister this time||For the first time in six years, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao skipped reading the progress card of the State and the government at the Independence Day celebrations. This was for obvious reasons because the event was organised at his camp office in the presence of a limited gathering due to COVID-19 restrictions. Mr. Rao was credited with shifting the celebrations from Parade Grounds to Golconda Fort after formation of Telangana State. The reason was to pad up the event with the rich cultural heritage of the State and it was decided that the fort will provide the right ambience. The previous six celebrations at the fort had a colourful mix of cultural artistes demonstrating the heritage of the truly plural society of Telangana. School children dressed in tricolour were an added attraction. After the traditional address by Mr. Rao, when he read out the achievements of the government, he used to distribute awards to a large number of recipients in different disciplines. But, all that was missed this time.   The long wait of about three years to get the postings is proving to be baptism by fire for the 257 out of 259 probationary Deputy (Naib) Tahsildars who reported to duties during the last week of July. As their month-long field training period concludes by the month-end, many of them have already experienced what it takes to deal with the emergency situations. As part of undergoing the last leg of training, the capabilities of probationary Tahsiladars in disaster management – dealing with the emergency situations arising out of heavy rains and floods, epidemics, lightning – are being put to test with most of the 32 rural districts witnessing heavy rains and floods. Asked about his experience in the ongoing training, a probationer stated that it has been hectic learning experience and the last few days in particular have been testing their abilities as the emerging situations have been demanding instant reaction and swift response. The Deputy Tahsildars have already undergone training in all relevant subjects.     The State government has initiated the process of recruitment of senior professionals in the Health department. Bypassing the regular pattern, it has invited qualified professionals with relevant experience to appear for walk-in interviews on Monday. The exercise is to fill posts of assistant professors in general medicine, anaesthesia and other specialisations in Gandhi and TIMS. The recruitment will be on contractual basis for one year and extendable as per the needs. There is no criticism/opposition to the government's decision, but a section of the medical fraternity feels that the process should have started long ago so that there is adequate working strength either regular or on contract basis to tackle emergencies like COVID-19. N.Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU executive council writes to political parties over salary dues||Members of the executive council of DU on Saturday wrote to the State units of AAP, BJP and Congress, raising concerns over non-payment of salaries to staffers of about 12 colleges funded by the Delhi government. Thousands of teachers and employees have not received salaries for more than three-and-a-half months as funds to these colleges had not been released, the letter said. It requested meetings to be held with party members along with EC members and office-bearers of the DU Teachers’ Association. Education Minister Manish Sisodia, however, recently hit out at the complaints of non-release of funds alleging corruption in the use of funds at these colleges. He argued that over the last five years, funds to these institutions had increase by about 70%. DU, in a recent statement, however, said it took strong exception to “sweeping allegations”. Dean of Colleges, Balaram Pani, said that accounts of the colleges were reviewed by three audits under internal and external agencies of the university, Delhi government and the Centre. Regarding increase in funds, Mr. Pani listed out various expenses under the salary head, such as implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission, increase in wages paid by contractual staff as directed by the Delhi government, salaries of ad hoc teachers, annual increment and others, leading to an increase of about 80% to 100%. Apart from this, he said, an increase of about 300%-400% in expenditure came from various non-salary-related heads. Mr. Pani called upon the government to release the funds due to these colleges, arguing that the release was not tied to the formation of the governing bodies of these institutions.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||Four held for robbing man of cancer injections||Four men have been arrested for allegedly robbing a pharmacy employee of injections used in the treatment of cancer patients, worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, the police said on Sunday. Aman Sharma (26), Vikas Swami (30), Sakib Khan (28) executed the robbery on the pretext of purchasing the injections and Prabhu Jha (32) bought those from them. The incident was reported on August 13. The complainant said that a man, later identified as Mr. Khan, introduced himself as Sudhir Dixit and placed an order for six injections used for treating cancer patients. The person then asked him to hand over those to him near Red Fort. When Mohd. Anas, the pharmacy employee, reached with the injections near Red Fort, the person asked him to go with him on his scooty to Okhla to receive the payment. Their scooty was later overtaken by two bike-borne men who slapped Mr. Anas, robbed the injections and fled. A case was filed and the accused were subsequently arrested. The accused said they were facing financial crunch due to the lockdown and planned the robbery to earn quick money. They sold the injections to one Dhruv Jha and Prabhu Jha at Rs. 1.10 lakh, the DCP said. Mr. Dhruv is absconding, the police said.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for faking robbery||A 44-year-old man was arrested for faking a robbery to avenge an incident where his employer had allegedly slapped him, the police said on Sunday. He was also upset as the employer was not increasing his salary. Vijay Pratap Dixit is a resident of Haryana’s Faridabad. On August 13, the police received a call from him regarding a robbery. Mr. Dixit told the police that he had collected Rs. 2 lakh cash and a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh from his employer, Nitin. He said he handed over the cash to Ramesh Bhatia, the company’s manager and the the cheque to one Mahesh at Model Townand collected Rs. 10 lakh cash from him. When Mr. Dixit reached Sarai Kale Khan, a man allegedly came from behind, threatened him with a blunt object and sat behind his two-wheeler. Two other men on another motorcycle followed him, he said. When they reached near Barapulla Flyover, the men allegedly robbed him of the cash. A case was registered.  Later, when Mr. Dixit was taken to the spot he started changing his statements. During cross questioning, he finally confessed that he had faked the robbery.  The money was recovered from his house.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||Hit-and-run case: security guard killed in south Delhi||A 33-year-old security guard, who was on his way to work on a bicycle, died after being hit allegedly by a car in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas, the police said on Sunday. The accident took place on August 14 evening near Jija Bai College when Farooq Ahmed was going to his office in Hauz Khas for covering a night shift, the police said. He was rushed to AIIMS where he died during treatment on August 15 evening, Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (South), said. The police were informed around 9.40 p.m on August 14. A case was filed under IPC Section 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life) at Hauz Khas police station and later Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was added, the DCP said.  Manudeem, who lives in Tughlakabad Extension, said he received a call about his brother-in-law’s accident on August 14. “He had sustained severe head injuries and was on ventilator. His family arrived here from their village in Uttarakhand the next morning,” he said.  “CCTV footage are being scanned to trace the offending car,” the DCP said.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||They are back||The Anand Vihar bus terminal — where thousands of migrant workers had assembled four months back in a desperate bid to return to their home towns after a nationwide lockdown was announced — is again abuzz with labourers, but this time they are desperate to return to the city. With the lockdown virtually shutting down the economy, labourers said they were “forced” to return to their villages in March; and are now coming back in the “hope” of finding work again. Sitting behind a tea stall after reaching the Capital from Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal district, Prem Singh and 32-year-old Nausheen said that lack of income in the last four months had taken a toll on their family. “There is absolutely nothing to do in the village. No source of income whatsoever for me. I have a family to look after. I have been staying in Delhi for the last 10-15 years and have sustained my family in whatever way I could. But with the lockdown, everything went for a toss. How long can we stay away from work? We have to restart our lives somehow,” said 37-year-old Mr. Singh, a rickshaw puller in Shahdara. Having just reached the city from U.P.’s Sultanpur district and waiting for a ride to Gurugram, 42-year-old Shashi said: “I was lucky to have left the city a day before the lockdown started. I at least reached home safe. But with not much work there it was becoming difficult to sustain ourselves.” “We were scared of the virus at that time so went back. But now income is also important. So what option do we have but to risk our lives again and make the journey back,” said Mr. Shashi, who reached the city with his wife and two children. For Sanjay Sharma, from Bihar’s Gorakhpur district, coming to Delhi was a “way out” of months of distress in the family, . “This is my first time in the city and I have come here with my older brother. The last few months were particularly difficult as my brother returned to the village due to lack of jobs. He was the sole earner of the family. But now that buses have started plying again and people are saying that things are returning to normal, we thought of coming to the city in search of work. I have accompanied him as an extra pair of hands is always helpful for the family,” said the 19 year old. While a steady stream of daily wagers are returning in search of livelihood, the ones who “survived” lockdown in the Capital are not too hopeful of the current scenario. Near Okhla Mandi, Yusuf and Anil, both from U.P.’s Bahraich district, said: “We survived the lockdown somehow by lending a hand to vegetable sellers on. But now there is no work whatsoever. There are times when we get work once in five days and earn anything between Rs. 100-Rs. 200. Rest of the day, we are forced to while away time.” Among the ones who stayed back in the city are those living on the banks of the Yamuna near Kashmere Gate. While the Delhi government had initially shifted them to government shelters, the labourers said they were “dropped back” at the Yamuna Pushta in June, adding that “social distancing” had proved to be an issue at the shelters. With work not picking up, the daily wagers also pointed out that the return of migrant workers from U.P. and Bihar had led to employers reducing wages. Manav, 45, said: “With people from U.P. and Bihar beginning to come back, employers have also started bargaining. Sometimes they are paying us half the amount that we received earlier for a day’s work. Recently, for some construction work which we did, we got around Rs. 200 instead of the Rs. 500 which we used to get earlier.” Manoj Singh, from Darjeeling, said: “There is hardly any work here these days. We are involved in the hotel and wedding industries. With everything shut and no weddings taking place, our work, which ranged from setting up tents to other related stuff, has become redundant. All we can do is sit and hope for a better tomorrow.”  There is absolutely nothing to do in the village. No source of income whatsoever. I have a family to look after. How long can we stay away from work? We have to restart our lives somehow Prem Singh From U.P.’s Sambhal district
17 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||1,120 new cases take Gujarat’s COVID-19 tally to 78,783||Gujarat recorded 1,120 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 78,783. The State also recorded 20 more deaths, pushing its toll to 2,787. Ahmedabad district crossed the 29,000-mark, with 164 new cases raising its cumulative case load to 29,004. With four more fatalities, the district’s death toll rose to 1,659. Health department authorities said the number of recoveries in the district rose to 23,882, with 174 more patients being discharged. Of the latest cases, 149 were reported from Ahmedabad city and the remaining from rural areas. There are 14,500 active cases in State, of which 82 patients are critical. A total of 959 patients were discharged in the State on Sunday, taking the total tally of recoveries to 61,496. Surat reported 228 new cases and eight deaths. Two fatalities each were recorded in Bhavnagar and Morbi, and one each in Gir Somnath, Kutch, Patan, and Vadodara. Among other districts, Rajkot reported 99 new cases, Jamnagar 58, Panchmahal 45, Bhavnagar 38, Junagadh 34, Kutch 31, Bharuch 30, Gandhinagar 29, Dahod 26, Amreli 25, Mehsana 22, Banaskantha 19, Devbhumi Dwarka and Gir Somnath 16 each. A total of 50,560 samples were tested in the State in the last 24 hours.
17 August 2020||Bhuj,||Kutch: BSF nabs Pak. fisherman, seizes 4 boats||Four Pakistani boats were seized by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday from Harami Nallah creek along the India-Pakistan border in Kutch district. A fisherman, identified as Alla Bachao Siddique (25) from Sindh province of Pakistan, was apprehended, while the others managed to escape. A patrolling team of the BSF’s Bhuj unit observed movement of four to five Pakistani men on boats near the creek around 6 a.m. The Pakistani fishermen were attempting to enter into Indian territory by taking advantage of the rough sea. The alert patrol party intercepted the Pakistani intruders the moment they tried to enter into Indian territory. The intruders then saw the patrol party and jumped into the water. The patrol team chased them and apprehended one Pakistani fisherman. The rest of the fishermen managed to escape by taking advantage of the slushy and marshy terrain. All four seized boats were searched and nothing suspicious was recovered from them. “The BSF launched a thorough search operation of the area, which was under way in the evening as well, and nothing suspicious was recovered,” an official said.
17 August 2020||Jammu,||Jammu police file cases over ‘sensitive’ videos||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday filed cases against uploading communally sensitive videos online and beating up of a local resident allegedly by cow vigilantes. “An incident involving a video of communally sensitive nature has gone viral on social media which seems to have been maliciously posted to create communal tension,” said IGP, Jammu, Mukesh Singh. Guftar Ahmed, spokesman of the Gujjar Bakarwal Youth Welfare Conference J&K, said two incidents took place in Jammu’s Reasi. “In one video, a person used derogatory words against the Prophet and in another incident some hate mongers almost lynched Muhammad Asghar,” he said. Locals said Asghar was attacked by some cow vigilantes while he and his son were heading for a pasture land with their cattle. “Will the government please come out with a response,” Peoples Democratic Party leader and ex-Minister Naeem Akhtar said. The police said two FIRs have been lodged — one where Asghar’s son “hurt the sentiments of a community by injuring a cow with a sharp-edged object” and “another in a case where people attacked Asghar”. Reasi Deputy Commissioner tweeted, “I will not allow anyone to disturb peace of my district. Anyone forwarding this video on social media shall be booked as well.”
17 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Two killed in U.P. village violence over land dispute||A father and son were killed after violence broke out between two sides during a village panchayat meeting called to resolve a land dispute in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh, the police said on Sunday. A physical fight erupted between the families of Chandramani Mishra and Daya Shankar Mishra (said to be related) during the meeting. The meeting was being held in Shiekhupura village in the Raniganj area of Pratapgarh. Two lawyers, Vimal Tiwari and Suresh Chandra Tripathi, were acting as mediators However, even as talks were on, the two sides got engaged in a physical fight and used lathis on each other, said Pratapgarh Superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh. Mr. Daya Shankar and his son Anand died of their injuries, while Mr. Chandramani Mishra and three others were injured, said the police. An eyewitness told local media that the other side attacked them with an axe. While the police have arrested one accused Rakesh Mishra, son of Mr. Chandramani Mishra, four teams have been formed to nab the others. Mr. Singh said that after the violence, the two sides took their injured to hospital but did not inform the police about the incident. A sub-inspector and two constables were suspended for keeping a watch on the dispute and failing to get the case disposed of, the police said.
17 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Don’t allow accused in Dr. Tadvi case to resume postgraduate studies’||A coalition of anti-caste discrimination and tribal organisations have appealed to the Maharashtra government to seek a direction from the Supreme Court to prevent the accused doctors who have been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of Dr. Payal Tadvi from resuming their postgraduate studies at any medical college in the State. Dr. Tadvi, a second-year postgraduate medical student at Nair hospital in Mumbai, was found dead on May 22 last year. “One cannot be given admission to another college after being accused of a crime in one college. Going by the charge sheet filed in the sessions court, this is a case of casteist mental torture in higher educational institutions,” said Dr. Sanjay Dabhade, convener of Jati Anta Sangharsh Samiti, a collective of anti-caste discrimination organisations in Maharashtra. Dr. Dabhade said this is an important case as for the first time an incident of ‘casteist abuse’ in higher educational institutes is being discussed in the apex court and the State government is expected to take a strong position on the matter. He said all Ambedkarite and tribal organisations are united in not allowing the accused gain admission to medical colleges in the State as they have been charged with serious crimes like casteism, abetment to suicide, tampering with evidence. Dr. Dabhade said it would set a bad precedent. On August 9 last year, the Bombay High Court prohibited the accused from entering the premises of Topiwala National Medical College to ensure that they do not influence witnesses in the case. The court also turned down their plea to grant permission to continue their medical education at another college. The accused then filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the High Court’s decision. The apex court then asked the Medical Council of India (MCI) to give its opinion on the matter. On August 11, the MCI, in its reply, cited two instances where medical students were permitted to migrate to another college to resume their postgraduate education: a student from Jhajjar in Haryana after a college shut down and students of ESI Postgraduate Medical College in Andheri, where a fire broke out. The Supreme Court has asked the Maharashtra government to give its opinion on allowing the accused to complete their education at any other college run by the State or the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in its next hearing on August 31. “There will be protests across the State if the government allows them to migrate to another college,” Dr. Dabhade said.
17 August 2020||Pune,||Pune waste pickers seek life insurance cover, pending dues||Around 3,500 workers who are part of SWaCH, a cooperative of self-employed waste collectors in Pune, have launched a symbolic week-long agitation against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) delay in providing them with benefits such as life insurance cover and dues for working during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The workers, who started wearing white ‘Freedom from Exploitation’ bands from Friday, said they would observe physical distancing and protest peacefully, without hampering waste collection or inconveniencing citizens. They will be staging a ‘thali bajao andolan’ outside the PMC’s main gate on Monday and Tuesday. Harshad Barde, director, SWaCH, said, “Waste pickers have worked throughout the lockdown at less than half their usual income. They deserve the dignity and protection of fair income. It is high time that they are given life insurance cover, which has been accorded to all frontline workers.” ‘Serving private interests’ Mr. Barde said the PMC was involving private profit-making organisations in waste collection and undermining SWaCH’s transparent and sustainable system. He said SWaCH workers recycle 200 tonnes of waste each day, saving the PMC over Rs. 100 crore each year. He said, “The direct user fee system established by SWaCH along with the PMC has benefited the city. It has won laurels and safeguarded the city’s environment. That this system operated uninterrupted through the lockdown is proof of its effectiveness and sustainability.” Mr. Barde said at a time when 10%-15% of government staff were being called to work, SWaCH workers were out on the streets at 95% attendance. Poornima Chikarmane, co-founder, Kagad Kach Kachra Panchayat (KKKP), said waste pickers living in slums were badly affected by the lockdown. She said, “Despite being classified as essential workers, waste pickers continue to be deprived of their dues. They have suffered every possible loss, ranging from income deprivation and illness to even death, with at least five waste pickers succumbing to the virus.” ‘Give monthly subsidy’ The KKKP has demanded the PMC to clear dues of over Rs. 5 crore and pay a monthly subsidy of Rs. 30 per household in a slum cluster since start of the lockdown, and Rs. 10 per non-slum household for the last six months owing to loss of user fees. The KKKP has sought a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh for all waste pickers and an insurance cover as per government rules to those who have succumbed to the virus. SWaCH said despite repeated appeals, the PMC’s standing committee has taken no concrete action.  Despite being classified as essential workers, waste pickers continue to be deprived of their dues Poornima Chikarmane Co-founder, Kagad Kach Kachra Panchayat
17 August 2020||Srinagar,||Jamia Masjid, Vaishno Devi shrine to reopen||Prayers at the historic Jamia Masjid in the Kashmir Valley and pilgrimage to the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu will resume after a closure of five months because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “After consultations and suggestions, the historic Jamia Masjid in Srinagar will be reopened for prayers from August 18th,” said a spokesman of the Anjuman Auqaf Jama Masjid, a caretaker body of the mosque. The body has appealed worshippers to adhere to health regulations and standard operating procedure. The Vaishno Devi Shrine Board threw open the shrine for devotees on Sunday morning. Only 2,000 pilgrims can visit the shrine per day.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden, Harris address Indian Americans||Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has said if elected, he will stand with India as it faced challenges in the region and also have “honest conversations” with the country. Speaking at a virtual campaign event to commemorate the Independence Day, Mr. Biden said, as President, he would advocate “standing with India and confronting the threats it faces in its own region and along its borders; expanding greater two-way trade that opens markets and grows the middle class in both our countries; taking on big global challenges together like climate change and global health security and strengthening our democracies where diversity is our mutual strength. And where we have an honest conversation about all issues as close friends do”. Members of the U.S. Congress, especially Democrats, have repeatedly raised the issue of restrictions in Kashmir since the dilution of Article 370 a little over a year ago, the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) last year by Parliament. Indian Americans mostly vote Democrat, as per the available data. Nevertheless, the Democrats are apparently not taking any chances. Democratic National Committee (DNC) chairman Tom Perez, speaking at a campaign event a few weeks ago, had urged Indian Americans to vote. Even small numbers are in a position to make a difference in battleground States (where there are 1.3 million Indian Americans, as per Democrat estimates). Role in nuclear deal At Saturday’s event, Mr. Biden highlighted his role in “leading the efforts to approve” the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Deal. Mr. Biden was presumably referring to being a ranking member (in 2005, when U.S. President George W. Bush announced the deal), and then the chair (2007-2009) of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee as the legislation was making its way through the U.S. Congress. Mr. Biden offered his sympathies to Indians who had been the victims of hate crimes and those impacted by U.S. President Donald Trump’s temporary suspension of H-1B visas, which he called “sudden and harmful”. “While it sometimes may not feel like the America of your dreams, we will overcome and build back better than ever,” he said. Part of the Biden campaign platform is to reform the temporary work visa programme so that wages are not undermined before expanding the number of high-skilled worker visas. Mr. Biden’s recently selected running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, has also been a supporter of reform for legal migrants. In 2019, she sponsored a Bill that would increase the country-caps for green cards for countries like India and China that had backlogs.   Love of goodidlis During her recorded message at Saturday’s event, she spoke of her mother taking her and her sister, Maya, to India as children. “Because she wanted us to understand where she had come from and where we had ancestry. And of course, she always wanted to instil in us, a love of good idli ,” Ms. Harris joked. Ms. Harris said she would take walks in Chennai with her grandfather P.V. Gopalan, a former civil servant, and he would tell her about the ‘heroes’ of freedom struggle and that it was “on us to pick up where they left off”. “Those lessons are a big reason why I am who I am today,” she said. “The reason there is a kinship between everyone who is a product of the South Asian diaspora, no matter how diverse our backgrounds may be is because we also share a set of values. Values forged by overcoming colonial pasts, not only in one nation, but in two. Values like tolerance, pluralism and diversity.” “Biden believes there can be no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia — cross-border or otherwise. A Biden Administration will also work with India to support a rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region in which no country, including China, is able to threaten its neighbors with impunity,” an email sent at the weekend by the campaign said. A Biden administration would place a high priority on continuing to strengthen the India-U.S. relationship, the campaign said.
17 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Chinese Minister makes rare visit to Tibet border||China’s Foreign Minister and State Councillor Wang Yi has made a rare visit to inspect “border infrastructure” in Tibet, which Chinese media has linked to the recent tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India. Mr. Wang on Friday met with the top Communist Party official in Tibet, Wu Yingjie, as well as the chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) government, Qizhala, and called for efforts “to safeguard national security”. Mr. Wang was quoted as saying “the diplomatic front will work with people in Tibet to safeguard national security and support Tibet’s opening-up” and that “the security and stability of the region is important to the overall development of China”, said a report in the Party-run Global Times citing the official Tibet Daily newspaper. The Global Times said the “trip came against the backdrop of China-India border clash in the Galwan Valley in June”. Construction of villages Mr. Wang “also visited the border area to learn about the situation of poverty alleviation, infrastructure building and the construction of villages,” the report said. State broadcaster China Global Television Network (CGTN) reported that Mr. Wang “held a symposium briefing local officials on the current international situation and the main schemes of the diplomatic work.” He referred to challenges brought by the COVID-19 pandemic and “the dramatically evolving international situation”, and said the Foreign Ministry “will be working with local officials to thoroughly implement the plan of the Communist Party of China in governing Tibet.”  Without specifically referring to the border tensions with India, the report quoted the Foreign Minister as mentioning “the current international situation and China’s diplomatic work” and said “Tibet has made great achievements regarding economic development, stabilizing and developing border areas, joining external cooperation and participating in projects under the Belt and Road Initiative.” Among the BRI projects under way in Tibet is a cross-border economic corridor to Nepal, called the Trans-Himalayan Multi-dimensional Connectivity Network project, which also envisages a railway link connecting China and Nepal. The Global Times noted that Mr. Wang “conducts special research trips to several Chinese regions every year” and had visited the China-Myanmar border in 2019.  On Friday, India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri held talks with China’s top military body, the Central Military Commission (CMC), in Beijing, amid an acknowledgement from New Delhi that completing the stalled disengagement process along the LAC would require “reciprocal actions” from both sides. India’s calls rebuffed The Chinese side has so far rebuffed India’s demand for a return to the status quo ante prior to this summer’s tensions that saw multiple transgressions and the Chinese military establishing positions on India’s side of the LAC. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) remains present on India’s side of the LAC on the north bank of Pangong Lake, has continued to obstruct India’s patrols in the Depsang plains, and has not diluted its build-up in several other areas, according to officials. Five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks have been held so far, while the situation in Depsang was discussed at Major General-level talks on August 8. The Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday that India “expect[s] that the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas”, which was “also necessary and essential in the context of overall development of our bilateral relationship.”
17 August 2020||Dubai,||UAE, Israel establish direct phone service after deal||The Israeli and UAE Foreign Ministers inaugurated on Sunday direct phone services between the two countries in their first announced call after an agreement to normalise relations, said an Emirati official. The UAE’s Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan and Israel’s Gabi Ashkenazi “inaugurated a phone link between the United Arab Emirates and the state of Israel, and exchanged greetings following the historic Peace Accord signed by the two countries,” tweeted Hend al-Otaiba, director of strategic communications at the UAE’s Foreign Ministry. Shortly after, Mr. Ashkenazi tweeted that the two “decided together on the establishment of a direct communication channel ahead of the signing of the normalisation agreement between the two countries and... to meet soon”. Phone links for the public were also functioning between the two countries. The Israel-UAE deal, announced by U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday, is only the third such accord Israel has struck with an Arab country, and raises the prospect of similar deals with other pro-Western Gulf states. Mr. Trump said leaders from the two countries would sign the agreement at the White House in around three weeks. Under the deal, Israel pledged to suspend its planned annexation of West Bank territories, a concession welcomed by European and some pro-Western Arab governments as a boost for hopes of peace.
17 August 2020||Washington,||Influenza vaccine firms make record number of doses||Global influenza vaccine makers have produced a record number of doses for the coming flu season, as authorities try to ease the burden on hospitals ahead of an expected COVID-19 resurgence. In the U.S., pharmaceutical companies plan to make around 196 million doses to serve the population of 330 million, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). That is up from 175 million last year, an 11% increase. Major pharmacy chain CVS, which administers flu vaccines without prescription, is ordering 18 million doses, double the amount in 2019. Vaccine maker Seqirus plans to increase production by roughly 15% in the U.S. — from 52 million to 60 million doses, as does Sanofi — from 70 to 80 million. “There’s been a huge demand from our customers from the healthcare system,” said Sanofi’s Michael Greenberg, regional medical head for vaccines in North America. Sanofi, Seqirus and GSK are the three biggest companies in the market. Sanofi shipped its first batches on July 22, three weeks earlier than in 2019. The CDC estimates flu killed between 24,000 and 62,000 last year. Widespread flu vaccination could thus help free up hospital beds, a vital public health measure to cushion the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
17 August 2020||Port Louis,||Leaking bulk carrier ship in Mauritius splits into two||A ship that has leaked more than 1,000 tonnes of oil in pristine waters off the coast of Mauritius has split in two. The bulk carrier MV Wakashio ran aground on a coral reef off the southeastern coast of Mauritius on July 25 and began oozing oil more than a week later, threatening a protected marine park boasting mangrove forests and endangered species. Mauritius declared an environmental emergency and salvage crews raced against the clock to pump the remaining 3,000 tonnes of oil off the stricken vessel. “It was confirmed on August 15 that the vessel has broken into two,” the ship’s operator Mitsui OSK Lines said in a statement on Sunday, noting that the information came from the vessel’s owner, Nagashiki Shipping. The split was caused by a crack in a cargo hold on its stern side, Mitsui said. Officials had been preparing for the development for days, and images taken on Saturday indicated it was inevitable, with the two pieces only partially attached. Nearly all the remaining 3,000 tonnes of oil had been pumped off the ship by that time, though there were still 90 tonnes on board, much of it residue from the leakage. Mitsui noted Sunday that “an amount of unrecovered oil is believed to have leaked out of the vessel”, without providing details. Now that the ship has split, the salvage team intends to pull the front two-thirds out to sea using two tugboats to avoid further damage to the Mauritian coastline, said a police official in the capital Port Louis.
17 August 2020||Toronto,||Thousands of Canadian govt. accounts hacked||Tens of thousands of user accounts for online government services in Canada were recently hacked during cyberattacks, authorities said on Saturday. The attacks targeted the GCKey service, used by some 30 federal departments and Canada Revenue Agency accounts, the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat explained in a press release. The passwords and usernames of 9,041 GCKey account holders “were acquired fraudulently and used to try and access government services,” the authorities said. About 5,500 Canada Revenue Agency accounts were targeted in this and another attack, the authorities said, adding that access to these accounts has been suspended to protect taxpayer information. Probe launched An investigation was launched by the government and the federal police to determine whether there were any breaches of privacy and whether information was obtained from these accounts, the authorities said. According to the CBC, a number of Canadians have reported since the beginning of August that their banking information associated with their Canada Revenue Agency accounts has been altered. Payments related to the Canadian Emergency Benefit have also been issued in their names without their request.
17 August 2020||Dhaka,||Bangladesh: 3 beaten to death at juvenile centre||Five men have been arrested after three children were beaten to death at a juvenile detention centre in Bangladesh, police said on Sunday, the latest case to shed light on the treatment of minors in such institutions. Eighteen boys allegedly had their mouths stuffed with towels and beaten with steel pipes, sticks and cricket stumps after attacking and breaking the hand of a guard at the facility, said a police spokesman. “Eighteen children were beaten for an hour around noon by the officials and several other children,” police inspector Mohammad Rokibuzzaman said on Thursday. “The injured were initially given first aid. But when one of them was brought dead to a hospital at 6.30 p.m., the hospital alerted us. Then two more... died,” he said. The bodies of the three boys showed signs of torture and beatings, Mr. Rokibuzzaman said. Two others remained in a critical condition, he said. Their ages were not released. The five — the centre’s head, two teachers and a counsellor — were detained late on Saturday amid an ongoing investigation, police said. Eight children were also being held for taking part in the beatings. About 280 boys are institutionalised at the Children Development Centre in the western city of Jessore. They were either convicted or awaiting prosecution for crimes.
17 August 2020||Hong Kong,||Carrie Lam returns fellowship||Hong Kong’s leader says she has “returned” her honorary fellowship to a Cambridge college after a row over whether the city’s academic freedoms are being suppressed. Chief Executive Carrie Lam said she was cutting ties with Cambridge’s Wolfson College after it began looking into the state of academic liberty in Hong Kong. Ms. Lam said she was “deeply disappointed by the college smearing a person on the basis of hearsay instead of facts”. “Therefore I can hardly convince myself to maintain any relation with Wolfson College,” she wrote on Facebook late on Saturday alongside a photo of herself in leafy Cambridge.
17 August 2020||Minsk,||Minsk, Aug 16, 2020 (AFP) -||Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko on Sunday spoke in front of a crowd of supporters at a rally in central Minsk asking them to defend the country and its independence. As mass protests continued against his rule, he told supporters: “I called you here not to defend me... but for the first time in a quarter-century, to defend your country and its independence.”AFP
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Adversity has mellowed the leader||It was a becomingly chastened Narendra Modi who stood at the nation’s grandest pulpit at the Red Fort last Saturday. Last Independence Day he was glowing with a newly furnished electoral mandate and had the “370” trophy neatly tucked under his belt. This year the Prime Minister could not be oblivious to the realities of an uneasy land; and, the country has slipped up badly under his watch during these last 12 months. Much trauma The India that Narendra Modi faced this August 15 was in desperate need of an assurance that the nation’s affairs were in safe, competent hands. A nation stands jolted out of its comfort zone as a foreign power has made ingress into our territory and there seems very little that our leadership or generals can do to restore the status quo ante. The nation has been forced to breathe the pre-2014 air of helplessness. The India this Independence Day is a land also devastated by an unseen enemy, a deadly virus that refuses to fade away. In March the Prime Minister had invoked the Mahabharata imagery to promise a decisive victory in 21 days; that has turned out to be just one more empty promise. Instead, India today has the dubious distinction of having the world’s third largest coronavirus caseload, behind only the United States and Brazil. Thanks to an unappeasable virus, India today is a land devastated by economic dislocation, disruption and destitution, a kind of suffering not seen in a long, long time, even if no one is talking — or wants to talk — of the millions of fellow Indians who were forced to migrate back to the comfort of their homes in rural India. And, then, just a little over 10 days ago, the Prime Minister had made it a point of participating in an elaborate religious ceremony of a shilanyas in Ayodhya. That participation by the Prime Minister had caused apprehensions, especially among the country’s 200 million Muslim citizens, whether India was finally de-weaning itself from its secular commitments and promise. It was this troubled context that invested the Prime Minister’s Independence Day performance with extra significance, because he had barricaded himself away from any obligation of democratic accountability, all in the name of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The Prime Minister had a choice: he could choose to aggravate the nation’s fault-lines, take the low road, crank up sectarian passions of his base, or, try to undertake some kind of course correction. He must have known that much was at stake this Independence Day; serious doubts had arisen about the reputation of his government for competence and whether his own leadership has exhausted its inspirational touch. In particular, the nation needed to hear from him whether he was capable of changing leadership gear. Strategy of rhetoric In the end he did what he does best: dig deep into his rhetorical armoury to shore up the spirits of a deeply dispirited nation. But even by his standards, it was, at best, a belaboured effort, an over-the-top invocation of curative and creative potential of the “will” and the “dreams” of over a billion people. He had to necessarily give hope to a traumatised nation, and even promised that as many as three anti-coronavirus vaccines were on the anvil. Otherwise, Mr. Modi devoted much of his time at the Red Fort pulpit in an extended exposition of his government’s initiatives and policies — the kind of spirited account Prime Ministers ordinarily give at the end of the debate on the President’s Address to the two Houses of Parliament. There was a sobering tone to this cataloguing of ‘achievements’ — an acknowledgement that slogans do not produce governance and that the un-glamorous task of brick-by-brick grinding chores still have to be performed. These six years have seen an excessive preoccupation with headline management but governance is certainly much more than the sum total of spectacularly manufactured events. Sober and muted  All this beating the drums of self-congratulations was predictable; but equally significant was the note the Prime Minister did not strike. To begin with, there was no Hindutva triumphalism. Many of his admirers must be dismayed that he did not pronounce the death of the Nehruvian republic; nor did he announce the birth of a Hindu political community. May be the Prime Minister is keeping his powder dry for the next electoral battle, but for now the minorities have not been made to feel spurned or unwanted. The republic has been spared needless trauma. Then, there was no mention of China or Pakistan. These last six years the nation has been encouraged to feast on xenophobia and a virulent nationalism, which has paid rich electoral dividends, but there must now be a sobering realisation that the Chinese have truly settled the Prime Minister’s hash. The Narendra Modi who stood at the Red Fort this year must have understood that his over-investment in personal summit diplomacy with China’s President Xi Jinping only helped the Chinese size him up — and, the country has to suffer the humiliation of a military kind. The bravado was definitely muted. Notwithstanding the periodic invocation of ‘national pride’ and the regular serenading of the valour of our brave soldiers, the Narendra Modi regime appears for now, determined not to let the hotheads in television studios ramp up conflict with China. The “LoC to LAC” formulation may not satisfy the belligerent Modi constituency, but the test of prime ministerial leadership would be to stay the new course of moderation and realism. To the middle classes A third significant course correction was an attempt to repair the relationship with the middle classes at home. There was this extended ode to the middle classes. Implicit in this wooing was a concession that too much of this mandir business and too much of an encouragement to the Yogi Adityanath-type of rough governance and rough justice can only cause deep disquiet among the Hindu professional middle classes — the very old, original Manmohan Singh constituency, whose defection away from the Congress had brought respectability to the Narendra Modi Prime Ministerial project. Beyond electoral calculations, the Narendra Modi regime should know that the grand vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ cannot be achieved without the requisite global skills and talent, which could only come from the middle class ranks. This serenading of the middle classes is a vital course correction, because so far the Hindutva cheerleaders have taken considerable pride in dismantling institutions and innovations of higher learning and research. The falsity of the ‘Harvard versus the hard-work’ binary seems to have finally dawned on the Narendra Modi crowd. Without a mobilisation of the middle class’s imagination, the ‘new India’ would remain just an over-worked cliché. Narendra Modi practises with considerable finesse the demagogue’s familiar trick of imposing his slogans and prejudices as emerging out of a national imagination. But after six years in office, he has run out of enemies who needed to be tamed and vanquished. He can no longer avail himself of the excuse of the acts of omission and commission of past governments. The onus is on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the country extricate itself out of a quasi-civil war and a sinking economy. After six years the nation is entitled to ask him to grow out of his deeply ingrained truculence and become much more than the leader of a political faction. He did hold out a hint. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The centrality of devolution in development||The outcome of Sri Lanka’s August 5 general election had few surprises. The Rajapaksa family is decisively at the country’s helm for the next five years. The fragmented political opposition is struggling to come to terms with their decimated parties and in some cases, sealed fate. In the north, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), which almost solely represented Tamils living in the north and east for a decade since the country’s civil war ended, is swallowing a bitter pill. Its presence in the 225-member Parliament, where the Rajapaksas have just garnered a formidable two-thirds majority, has diminished from 16 to 10 seats. Tamil voters in the north not only chose three candidates from hard-line Tamil nationalist groups critical of the TNA, but also elected four candidates from parties aligned to the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front) of the Rajapaksas. In fact, they gave Angajan Ramanathan of the SLPP-aligned Sri Lanka Freedom Party the highest share of votes in Jaffna. While the TNA has ceded ground to rivals on either side, political observers have read the outcome as an unmistakable shift. Voters, they note, have moved away from their chief political concerns — which the TNA sought to foreground — to their growing economic distress that the TNA is accused of ignoring. Letting down its own people It is not hard to appreciate this reading, given that the TNA-led Northern Provincial Council squandered its first, big opportunity to govern the province in 2013. The irony of then Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran, who spearheaded its failure and subsequently broke away from the party, contesting separately and winning a seat in this poll is another matter. But it doesn’t change the fact that the TNA, as an influential Alliance and a collective of legislators, was mostly apathetic to its people’s everyday misery. It was neither able to envision a revived economy to help families cope with the war’s cruel aftermath, nor willing to course-correct after the Northern Provincial Council’s wasted term ended in 2018. In the four years of the Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe government, the TNA privileged a political solution by way of constitutional reform over everything else, including war-time accountability that the southern polity is reluctant to honestly or fully confront. Its leaders’ efforts towards a new Constitution cannot be rubbished in retrospect, for the TNA, like many others, believed that the prospects for such reform were greater under an unprecedented ‘national unity’ government that Sri Lanka’s two main national parties cohabited. They gave the former government a real chance. Except that the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government badly let down the TNA, on whose support it managed to survive its term. In turn, by ambitiously putting all its eggs in one basket, the TNA let down its own people. The youth were jobless, while their parents’ livelihoods rapidly dwindled. Farmers were hit by alternating droughts and floods, while fisherfolk, faced with conflicts big and small, struggled to stay afloat. Scores of women in the north and east, sole breadwinners in their families, suffocated in predatory debt and some tragically ended their lives. In 2016, Sri Lanka’s poverty headcount was highest in the Northern and Eastern provinces, according to the latest Household Income and Expenditure Survey. An unhelpful separation The grave economic conditions of Tamils living in the north and east, and the apparent shift in their voting pattern in this poll, might lead analysts to frame their mandate as one merely for urgent economic relief. It is true that the TNA, controlled largely by Tamil elites, is paying a huge price for separating the political and economic realities of its electorate, focusing narrowly on one while neglecting the other. But to construe the vote against the TNA in some constituencies in favour of candidates aligned to the Rajapaksa administration as a shift away from long-pending political demands is at best reductive and at worst dangerous. Those averse to the Tamil community’s historic demand for greater political autonomy may readily embrace this economic logic to dilute or even disregard their persisting call for political rights. Prominent supporters of the Rajapaksa regime have already sought abolition of the provincial council system and the 13th Amendment. An outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987, the Amendment remains the only legislative assurance till date for devolving powers to the provinces. It is part of the few incremental, but crucial, gains made from the 1980s, against the tide of Sinhala-Buddhist majoritarianism that swept the island since Independence. The Tamil leadership, including the TNA, may deem the 13th Amendment insufficient but none would disagree that it is necessary. After all, at the heart of the Tamils’ long-pending demand is the legitimate desire for greater control of their lives. To be able to actively shape their political and economic destinies is first and foremost a democratic right, but also a vital check against a majoritarian state deriving power and legitimacy from its core ethno-nationalist base. Moreover, political empowerment is not reducible to economic progress, but economic development — which the Rajapaksa brothers have promised to now expedite — will prove futile unless citizens have the political agency to inform the process. For development to speak to the needs of the people, devolution of power is central, not incidental. Devolved political power alone can ensure citizens are able to build, strengthen and access local administrative structures, institutions and expertise that are crucial to thoughtful development and its sustenance. It is over a decade since the TNA unequivocally abandoned past calls, including from the LTTE, for separatism. The Tamil people have no appetite for another armed struggle and the southern leadership knows this well. The Tamil people’s quest for justice post-war is different, as they navigate their realities with resilience and pragmatism. To them, justice is not merely a set of issues on a checklist or a United Nations resolution to be addressed sequentially. It is about dealing with the destruction and trauma of the past, the livelihood distress and lingering militarisation of the present, and the challenge of a just and dignified future. The Tamil voters’ message to both national leaders and their own elected representatives has been unambiguous in every crucial election post-war, about their political and socioeconomic priorities — be it the 2013 northern provincial election, the 2015 presidential and parliamentary polls, the 2018 local government polls, the 2019 presidential election and the recent parliamentary election. Are the leaders willing to listen? meera.srinivasan@thehindu.co.in
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Freedom and identity, the right to be||Tulsidas, who wrote one of the several influential versions of the Ramayana, described Ram Rajya as a place where everyone felt free to do what they were supposed to do and where there was no fear, sorrow or disease. Mahatma Gandhi recognised the values of Ram Rajya as a shared universal consciousness. Underlying the articulation of both these exponents of Ram Rajya was the conception of a citizen as a free being. Bound by laws The final quest of all of life is freedom. This means that life as we know it is not free. We are all struggling from bondage to freedom. What binds us? We are bound by one law or the other. What is a law? Any event or phenomenon that repeats itself is a law. For example, an apple seed will always produce an apple. This seed will keep on producing apples — perhaps one million apples will come from that one seed. An apple seed will not produce bananas because an apple seed is bound by its own law — it is programmed to produce apples. All of nature is nothing but an expression of laws — the repeated occurrence of form and phenomena. By this law a fish learns to swim and an eagle learns to soar in the sky. By this very law our hearts beat 72 times a minute and our body temperature is maintained at 98.6° Fahrenheit. So to break a law is to go against nature and risk one’s life. Finding freedom Can we, therefore, ever be free? We can, provided we learn to look beyond nature’s law-bound forms toward something deeper that is always free. This is slightly difficult to explain, but one can try. Take a long rope and tie it into a knot in the middle. As you tighten the knot it takes a definite shape. The knot is bound by its own nature. If the knot were alive, it would imagine itself to be a knot that is limited within the shape of the knot. But someone who has tied the knot will know that all that it requires for the knot to be free is to pull at the right place — the knot breaks free and straightens into a rope again. So what is required to find freedom is just this knowledge that you are not a knot. Just this awareness that if you look beyond your physical form to your original state, which is formless and free, you indeed become free. What is that formless state? Classical Indian wisdom calls this state adhyātma . The compound word adhyātma is a combination of two words, adhi + atma which means awareness of self. The human body-mind complex is animated and powered by this spiritual dimension called atma that can be described as soul or self. The body is the hardware, the mind is the software and atma is the UPS (uninterruptible and independent power source). That which sets a human being free is the knowledge of the self — that spontaneous animating principle which runs the body-mind complex. Living in the light of atma or self is the true meaning of Swarajya. Etymologically, Swarajya means, swena rajate or self-luminous existence. Take the case of a person who burns his lips while sipping a cup of hot tea. He may think that the tea has burnt him. It is not the tea but the invisible heat that permeates the tea that has burnt him. Heat is not a property of the tea but it can pervade the tea and make it appear to be hot. Likewise, it is the atma that permeated the body mind that is responsible for our experience of the world. On choices Many people confuse freedom with multiplication of choices. Multiplication of television channels, political outfits, or shampoo brands tend to confuse us rather than help us choose better. Fewer good options would have been a better way to weed out undesirable options. At its core, freedom is not about choices; it is rather about identity. Do I get identified with a compulsive and conditioned mind-body or do I identify myself with a liberated self that refuses to be labelled by the market, polity or society as belonging to a pre-deterministic category? The free being that is our self, expresses itself not through an algorithm but awareness. In the Mahabharata, in a deep dialogue, Yakhsa asks Yudhishthira this question, What is the strangest thing in this world? Yudhishthira responds: The most startling thing is, though humans have a mortal body, everybody goes about their life as if they are going to live in their body forever. The awareness of atma , inherent in pure being, sets us free from the illusion that we are nothing more than our bodies and our minds. The knot of illusion that we are this body-mind complex unravels itself as realisation of our being dawns on us. We become aware as the rishis of the Upanishads did, of that Anindavatam svadhaya tadekam , one ultimate being in us that exists freely by itself. How does one access the freedom of pure, uninterrupted power of being? In the stillness of being, not in the quest for being this and that or the other, we find the doorway to our own freedom. Not being co-opted From Ram Rajya to Swarajya is a continuum — the journey from the temporal to the transcendental; from the civic to the sacred. The Preamble of the Indian Constitution promises the delivery of aspirational values of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity for its citizens. They make sense only when the average Indian realises the freedom to be and not be co-opted by the politics of identity, machinations of the market or the dictatorship of the digital world. Swarajya in thought and education that liberates the free being, sa vidya ya vimuktaye , can only rescue India from a myopia of the post-colonial leadership. Until then, Ram Rajya will remain an enchanting utopia. Debashis Chatterjee, the author of ‘Timeless Leadership’, is the Director of IIM Kozhikode
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The uncertainties over COVID-19 numbers||On August 10, The Hindu carried an op-ed, “COVID-19 deaths may be higher than reported”, by two community physicians, Hemant Deepak Shewade and Giridara Gopal Parameswaran. They argued that the COVID-19 death figures for India may have to be adjusted for low coverage of medical certification of cause of death (MCCD). They were criticised for estimating COVID-19 deaths by relying on the fact that only 22% of deaths are medically certified in India. This exercise amounted to fudging of data, some said. Flagging issues surrounding data I would like to give the piece some context before I evaluate the complaints against it. The Hindu has been flagging issues of data suppression and data manipulation since the Central Statistics Office started re-basing GDP estimates. Economist R. Nagaraj has explained in more than one lead article why there is distrust in the GDP figures. Writers have spoken of how the integrity of numbers should be restored. In this column, I wrote about the disastrous effects of data manipulation by quoting Nobel Prize-winning economist Ronald Coase: “If you torture the data long enough, it will confess to anything.” With reference to COVID-19 numbers, there are many speculative reports from government bodies themselves. For instance, in June, a PTI report quoted scientists associated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) saying that the pandemic in India would peak around November 2020. When The Hindu carried the report, the ICMR issued a clarification on Twitter: “The news reports attributing this study to ICMR are misleading. This refers to a non-peer reviewed modelling, not carried out by ICMR and does not reflect the official position of ICMR.” Another report by PTI, “Facing criticism for ‘under reporting’ of COVID-19 deaths, Delhi issues SOP for hospitals” (May 10), flagged the issue of under-reporting. Since the break of the pandemic, this newspaper has carried analytical articles as well as ground reports. The ‘Ground Zero’, “Telangana’s COVID trials and tribulations” (July 18), was about lack of transparency of data and inadequate testing. It is in this context that one has to read the recent op-ed on under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths. Giridhara R. Babu, Professor of Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, in his lead article, “The challenges in counting the dead” (August 14), explained the complexities involved in calculating COVID-19 deaths. He wrote: “To obtain unbiased, reliable estimates, nationally representative verbal autopsy surveys such as the Million Death Study can be helpful. In the meantime, India has to adopt a strategy of transparency in data flow and reporting, with increased investments in innovations for improving data collection and reporting.” A fair assumption The August 10 article flagged major lacunae in the Indian system of collecting data relating to death. Critics pointed out that the analysis was based on the MCCD report for 2017 when the report for 2018 had been released a few weeks prior to the publication of the article. I agree that the writers should have revised their article based on the latest report; their arguments would have stood ground even with the 2018 report. The article’s assumption was that COVID-19 death reporting is similar to non-COVID-19 death reporting in the absence of specific data from the Indian government pertaining to COVID-19. This seems to be a fair assumption; they were not fuelling conspiracy theories. We have reached a situation where efforts to make sense of numbers, in the absence of rigorous methods from government institutions, are characterised as partisan readings. In a May 20 report, “Is India undercounting its COVID-19 deaths?, The Hindu had raised the same question based on available data. If that report is read along with “Coronavirus deaths increasing significantly in several States” (June 16), it is clear that the problem with the data conundrum lies with the government and not with researchers who are trying to make sense of numbers by stitching together pieces of available information. One can differ with the writers’ methodology and their estimate, which is based on a raw factor of multiplication and could have been refined with other variables that could affect the count, but that does not diminish their plea for a robust health data system. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The cost of stifling voices||Ethical explorations often begin with emotional injury. Something simply feels wrong, and you ask yourself whether you are missing an important bit of information or the right perspective. This happened when I read the Supreme Court judgment pronouncing senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two “scurrilous” tweets. I have known the Bhushan family for over three decades, a family of lawyers defined by their commitment to preserving and strengthening the judicial system and using it in the public interest. How could Mr. Bhushan be accused of malice against the system? How did we get here? I searched for the tweets, and the discussion around them. The court took a position on an important ethical question: Do we strengthen or weaken institutions by criticising some of the actions of those holding public office? The judgment sets a worrying precedent and affects all of us who raise our voices within public institutions and hope to improve them. Exit and Voice Students who are interested in economics often ask me what they should read. The little book on the top of my list is always Albert O. Hirschman’s Exit, Voice, and Loyalty . Each time I look through it, I come away with something new. I opened it again now, searching for a peg for my thoughts. Hirschman contrasts Exit and Voice as two alternative mechanisms for the repair of societal institutions. When consumers switch from one firm to another, an employee moves to a job with better working conditions or a family moves across neighbourhoods, they are all exercising exit. When a partner in a marriage complains of abuse, or workers protest against management action, it is voice. Exit and voice work together. Without any possibility of exit, voices would remain unheard, and if exit were too easy, very few would invest in voice. Public health and education work best in countries where they are inclusive. When the wealthy and most educated exit to private providers, public systems are often starved of resources and ideas. In politics, exit is used at the time of elections, while voice makes incumbents accountable. The relative importance of the exit and voice mechanisms varies across organisation types, but, as Hirschman points out, “In a whole gamut of human institutions, from the state to the family, voice, however ‘cumbrous’, is all their members normally have to work with.” Judicial initiative, often in response to public interest litigation, has led to many progressive decisions over the last two decades. These include the Supreme Court’s order that free meals should be provided for all schoolchildren in public primary schools. Scrutinising the behaviour of the legislative and executive arms of government did not lower the dignity associated with those offices or undermine democracy. On the contrary, it improved their functioning. Moreover, such scrutiny relied on critical voices from the field. Social activists pointed to growing grain stocks with the Food Corporation of India which could be used to eliminate child hunger. Strengthening institutions Courts exist to promote justice by adjudicating on disagreements. The judiciary relies on listening to testimonies and deciphering them to extract evidence. The many voices they hear are rarely non-partisan. They are muffled, broken, acrimonious, vengeful, disingenuous, arrogant, self-righteous and many other things. Yet judges know, better than anyone else, that good jurisprudence relies on listening to all of these and separating the wheat from the chaff. If they were to restrict themselves to the cool and candid, the result would often be silence. Most of us do not speak when we are calm, we enjoy the feeling while it lasts. Voice has the potential to strengthen institutions and help them adapt to a changing environment. Deliberation and debate are needed if we are to pool information, negotiate our differences, and make better collective decisions. In stifling voice, we risk the disengagement of those who are most invested in preserving our democratic institutions. Rohini Somanathan is Professor, Delhi School of Economics
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Lapsing into contempt||The Supreme Court’s order finding advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court reflects poorly on the institution’s tolerance of criticism. The judgment of a three-judge Bench on the suo motu contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan hardly adds to the dignity and majesty of the Court that it ostensibly sets out to uphold. It is unfortunate that two tweets, and not any set of scandalous or scurrilous allegations, have occasioned this heavy-handed treatment. In the 108-page opinion that largely draws upon past judgments delineating the circumstances in which the Court will act in aid of its institutional reputation and authority, there is little more than a perfunctory analysis leading to the finding that the tweets amount to criminal contempt. The first tweet, in which an image of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde in an informal setting has been used to make a critical remark that he was denying citizens recourse to justice for fundamental rights violations, may be an exaggerated or even unwarranted view on the absence of physical hearings now. However, it is quite a stretch to say that it undermines the Court’s dignity, lowers its authority or interferes with the administration of justice. At best, it touches partially on the CJI’s personal conduct and partially on his administrative decision-making. Neither part brings with it any exceptional malice or scurrility warranting action for criminal contempt. It is precisely this sort of criticism that the judiciary ought to be able to shrug off. The second tweet, in which Mr. Bhushan has blamed the Court, more particularly, the last four CJIs, for “the destruction of democracy” in the last six years, “even without a formal Emergency”, requires no defence. It is clearly in the nature of a political opinion, be it with reference to the working of the institution or the four personages who headed the judiciary during the period. It is difficult to agree that the mere voicing of an opinion that successive CJIs have destroyed democracy would undermine public trust in the judiciary; especially in the backdrop of some former judges, too, holding sharply critical opinion of the conduct of some of them. In its nature, intent and sweep, Mr. Bhushan’s abrasive animadversion of judicial conduct is no more discordant than a former CJI being accused by his colleagues of being under executive influence, or misusing his powers as master of the roster with a view to obtaining favourable outcomes. There is some inadvertent irony in the Court’s claim that allowing Mr. Bhushan’s remarks to go unpunished would lower the country’s image in the comity of nations. The highest court built its stalwart fame on stellar judgments and record of fearless independence. If at all it falls in the estimation of the world now, it may only be because of a growing perception of judicial evasion, self-imposed reticence and quiet acquiescence in the face of executive power.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Big goals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on the 74th Independence Day — his seventh consecutive one — on Saturday sought to reassure the nation on the twin challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic and external aggression. He has always used his oratorical skills to foreground concerns that have traditionally not been considered worthy of a Prime Minister’s personal attention. The very fact that he mentioned menstrual hygiene will encourage health workers to be more attentive to the issue and create more awareness. Sanitation and access to drinking water have been issues dear to Mr. Modi’s heart, and the speech reflected that. The Jal Jeevan Mission that seeks to provide piped drinking water to every home, along with the expanding networks of electricity, the Internet, banking and cooking gas, will equip India to rise higher. Slogans such as self-reliance, “vocal for local”, “make in India to make for the world” are just old rhetoric for a new occasion, but their reiteration could spur the state apparatus into action, besides galvanising opinion. Mr. Modi has been an exceptional user of the I-Day pulpit to outline priorities, and deserves credit for it. While celebrating the nation’s milestones, the massive challenges of governance and development must not be glossed over. Announcing new schemes that do not resolve, but camouflage, these challenges are of little help. The PM promised to bring a revolution, as the National Digital Health Mission, which will give every Indian a digital health ID that links up all her medical records. But the real issue is the abject lack of primary health facilities in much of India. Digitalisation is welcome but is no substitute for inadequate human resources and infrastructure in the health sector. Mr. Modi also reiterated his vision for India in relation to the world, a tightrope walk of promoting import substitution on the one hand and seeking global partnerships on the other. The challenges in managing such an approach were apparent when he mentioned India’s successes in attracting FDI and talked about self-reliance in manufacturing PPEs in the same breath. He did mention ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ — the world is one family — as India’s guiding principle, but his characterisation of its centuries-old interactions with other populations and cultures appeared more in line with his Hindutva politics than with the spirit of the freedom struggle. The construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya now has the support of most political parties and is on the basis of a Supreme Court judgment, but its mention did not address concerns regarding what it portends for India’s future. Ambitious collective goals can inspire a community, which must be increasingly inclusive as it progresses. Triumphs that are not equally shared are no triumphs at all.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-supporting education (From an editorial)||The various defects in our existing educational system have induced great reformers and idealists in India to set up independent institutions, each emphasising an important principle in the training of youth. Captain J.W. Petaval’s scheme of self-supporting education, worked out in Maharajah of Kassimbazar’s Polytechnic Institute, Calcutta, aims at revolutionising the method of education by combining earning with learning on a basis of co-operative production in schools and colleges. It will be readily admitted that the present-day system is extremely deficient even in regard to the conventional educational ideals of character-training, intellectual equipment and physical development. The existing institutions, in their equipment and atmosphere, are far behind the advanced establishments in the West. The tyranny of examinations, the top-heavy arrangements in the curricula of studies, the absence of vocational training, the lack of proper guidance and personal touch between the teacher and pupil and the almost absolute indifference shown to the student’s health by our educational authorities are all notorious features of our educational system which cause much misery to the country’s youth and involve enormous wastage of national energy.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||12 Amarnath pilgrims die in storm||Twelve pilgrims died yesterday when a 15,000 strong pilgrims’ procession to the Amarnath cave shrine was caught in a rain and snow storm atop Sheshnag mountain, 13,000 ft. above sea level, according to official reports. The authorities have advised the pilgrims to abandon the pilgrimage. The decision to abandon the pilgrimage was taken at an emergency meeting this morning presided over by the State Tourism Minister, Mr. Noor Mohammad. The meeting was held in Pahalgam, the base camp of the pilgrimage. The Minister is there to personally supervise rescue and relief operations. An official spokesperson said contigents of police and teams of medical personnel in addition to those accompanying the pilgrims have been rushed to Seshnag and other advanced posts to help needy pilgrims. Over 200 police personnel and a team of doctors left with the pilgrims for the holy cave. Wireless contact is constantly being maintained with the pilgrim party - PTI reports
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A multiple-asset strategy can help drive higher returns||The importance of allocation of investments to multiple asset categories such as equity, debt and others continue to be discussed, but it tends to get missed out in implementation. A case in point, over the last one year, the two asset classes that have given highest returns are international equity and gold. Returns have been 48% from gold over last one year, including the rupee depreciation. U.S. equities, over the last one year, have given 20% returns. Investors have been underallocated to these two assets. Overall allocation in the Mutual Fund industry i.e. assets under management may be taken as an indicator. What we see is in the industry AUM of Rs. 25.5 lakh crore as on June 2020, the AUM of Gold ETFs is Rs. 10.4 thousand crore and that of feeder funds investing overseas is Rs. 3.8 thousand crore. That is, exposure to Gold ETFs and overseas funds, the ones that have run up this year, at Rs. 14.2 thousand crore is about 0.5% of the overall AUM. This is not an absolute indicator as there are other avenues for investment than Mutual Funds, but this gives us a perspective. The point is not to predict how much return would come from one asset class, but to follow a discipline in allocation of funds.  Why is allocation important? It has been proven by empirical research that more than 90% of volatility is explained by asset allocation and not chasing one asset class such as equity or debt. The importance of allocation was highlighted in 1986 when three researchers called Brinson, Hood, and Beebower (acronym BHB) explained the impact. Research by BHB found that asset allocation is the primary factor for a portfolio’s return variability, as much as 93.6%. Active portfolio management i.e. security selection and market timing are minor factors. What is the best way to follow this principle of allocation? Investors can define the allocation i.e. percentage to equity, debt, international equity and gold and invest accordingly. We can understand this concept from a simple perspective that there is wide fluctuation in returns every year in various asset categories such as domestic equity, international equity, gold, and to a lesser extent in debt. In certain years, equity gives phenomenal returns and in other years it is negative. Same is the case with gold. The only way to smoothen out the impact of the volatility in these various investments is to allocate, and still earn optimum returns, as shown by the research mentioned above. Your returns will be optimum over a long holding of period as the asset classes will perform as per market movement and the volatility also would be lower.  How would you do the allocation? While direct investment in assets such as equity, bonds or gold is possible, it is advisable to invest via mutual funds as there is a team of experts (fund managers) and other professionals working for you. Within mutual funds, there are various categories of funds like equity, debt, hybrid (mix of equity and debt), etc. and you can invest in those. The other way to execute multi-asset investments in MFs is to invest in one fund that offers all asset classes i.e. equity, debt, commodities, etc. If you do the allocation through one fund, then the AMC is doing the allocation as per the mandate of the scheme and you are holding units in it. Examples follow: ICICI Prudential Multi-Asset Fund has a corpus size of more than Rs. 10,000 crore. The first version of this fund was floated in 2002 and repositioned as a Multi-Asset Fund in 2018 when SEBI norms for fund categorisation took effect. Tata Multi Asset Opportunities Fund was launched in March 2020. The corpus size is a little under Rs. 400 crore. Axis Triple Advantage Fund, with a corpus size of Rs. 350 crore, is an older fund, launched in 2010. Most do not have a fixed allocation of international equity and more importantly, allocation is decided by the AMC within the defined range, with higher weightage to domestic equity and some allocation to gold. There is a new fund offer (NFO) coming in August, Nippon India Multi Asset Fund. The mandate of this fund is to invest 50% in domestic equity, 20% in overseas equity (i.e. in U.S., Europe, etc.), commodities 15% (including 10% in gold) and 15% in debt. This will give exposure to the multiple assets in one fund, in a disciplined manner.  What is the mode of investment of these funds? Exposure to equity and debt is obvious and is similar to other funds. Investment in gold happens via gold ETFs of the same AMC. In May 2019, SEBI issued a circular allowing Mutual Funds to participate in Exchange Traded Commodity Derivatives (ETCDs). Hence if the Scheme Information Document (SID) allows, apart from gold, the fund can invest in other commodities such as crude oil, silver and the like. Do consult your financial adviser as to how you could improve asset allocation of your portfolio but please do it; it is a critical wealth creation building block. Returns will be the weighted average of the performance of the assets invested in. In the short term, fund performance can be volatile, as per movement of the underlying asset classes. In the long run, you will get optimum returns i.e. comparable to the best-performing asset. As an example, over 10 years, if equity gives X% returns, higher than debt or gold, a multi-asset fund would give somewhere around X%, but with lower volatility over these 10 years.  (The writer is founder, wiseinvestor.in)   Performance of the fund can be volatile in the short term. In the long run, however, you will get optimum returns
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Where the agent acts as friend and guide||We saw in the previous instalment of this column that there are many insurance distribution channels through which you can buy a policy, such as through agents, insurance brokers, marketing firms, corporate agents and web-aggregators. You can also buy directly from the insurance company, usually on their website. To recap, the best channel depends on the kind of policy you need and to know that, you have to do a bit of serious research. This is because insurance is definitely a product where one size does not fit all, and the same could be said of the sales channel you choose to buy insurance from. Let us take a look at various intermediaries starting with agents. Agents are the ubiquitous insurance sales partners. They are the simplest intermediary to deal with, being individuals like us, and we all know one or more agents frequently, across generations in our families. Agents are the sheet anchor of insurance distribution in India, especially life and non-life personal insurance such as health and motor. Their legal status is they represent one (and only one) insurance company and are authorised to sell its products, service the sales and maintenance of the policy as well as assist in claims. In India, insurance companies can sell only one category of insurance — either life or non-life policies. Some are set up to sell only one type of non-life policy such as health insurance. So, a person can have the agency of one life insurance company, one non-life insurance company and one standalone health insurance company without conflict. We do find individuals who are able to offer you products of more than one company through agencies in the names of family members. The agent is selected, licensed and trained by the insurer according to norms laid out by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) from time to time. At the basic level, they would be trained about insurance concepts, products of the specific insurance company and sales techniques. But, a good agent would be able to carry out an intelligent need analysis and suggest suitable products and can even be a trusted financial adviser for the family — across generations, as mentioned earlier. Code of conduct The agent is bound by the code of conduct of his profession that specifies, among other things, that he has to recommend products according to the needs of the prospective buyer and has strict norms to prevent mis-selling or selling of policies through misinformation or misrepresentation of facts. Having said that, his actions are binding on the company according to even a simple reading of the laws relating to agency. So, the customer is protected. When it comes to claims, agents still play an end-to-end role in life insurance claims. Documentation, which can be mystifying and highly specific, requires handholding; especially at a time of family grief, agents and companies are geared up to deal with it. Motor claims, too, are aided by agents, but when it comes to health insurance, an entity called Third Party Administrators — health services (TPAs) have been in the picture for over a couple of decades, and they are the claims-settling partner of the insurance company where you have your health policy.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance and corporate history)
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am 22. Once my father retires from the State electricity board he will get pension, a lump sum amount and other benefits. How can he invest to gain financial autonomy? Praveen D.S. A.In the following suggestions where mutual fund is mentioned, use them sparingly and only if your father’s pension, by itself, entirely covers his monthly expenses. Else, stick to the other options elaborated. Create an emergency corpus of 3-6 months’ expenses. These must be partly in bank savings account and the rest in short-term FDs of six months to one year so that you can break them any time. Then, explore the following: Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme (SCSS) and the government’s pension scheme PM Vaya Vandana Yojana (PM VVY through LIC), will be the top options. He can invest a maximum of Rs. 15 lakh in each. Note PMVVY’s rate will change post March 2021 but that is ok. Rates will still be better than that on FDs. The third option is RBI Floating Rate Bonds with a lock-in of 7 years, with interest payout. There is no maximum limit in this. All these options will generate regular income for your father and importantly, provide full capital safety. The income from all of them will be taxable at his slab rate. Beyond this, two optional investments he could consider are quality corporate deposits from top non-banking financial companies such as the HDFC or the Sundaram Group. At present, the rates are not attractive but if they do get better in a year’s time, you could consider them. The final option, which should account for a small chunk and that too only if your father understands them (and has adequate income), is debt mutual funds (MFs). Look at a minimum three-year period to invest in corporate bonds or banking and PSU debt funds. These will have quality papers, with marginally higher returns than FDs, and tax efficiency (if he is in the 20-30% tax slab). The returns are not fixed or guaranteed. So, there is definitely some risk here. Use the first three options well and keep corporate deposits and MFs as the last option for small diversification if the corpus is large. Q.I am a 23-year-old mechanical engineer with a monthly salary of Rs. 25,000. My dad is retired and gets a monthly pension of about Rs. 30,000. At present, our total monthly investments are — Rs. 5,000 in equity mutual fund, Rs. 5,000 in RD with 6% interest and Rs. 10,000 in gold chit funds. How can I diversify my portfolio and improve returns? Jagadeesan M . A.It is good to know you are saving early. Just to maintain your father’s financial independence, try and keep both your savings distinct so that the risk-taking ability for both is demarked and he need not depend on his children in future. For your father, if he has any lump sum invested in FDs, he could shift some to avenues such as Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme (available in post office/SBI and other PSU banks) and also consider RBI Floating Rate Bonds. These will provide the much-needed safety of capital and regular income to augment his pension income, if he needs more in future. As for you, equity funds and RDs are good, provided you don’t lock into long periods in FD in this current low-interest scenario. You can keep it short (one year) and renew it. Your overall portfolio has 50% in gold, which is a considerably high exposure and that too, through less regulated or unregulated avenues. Reduce gold to 15-20% and raise your equity component to 50-60%. Financial savings in gold through gold funds or bonds are better options than gold chit funds that are risky and have hidden costs. For equity, have a time frame of not less than 7 years. In the years in between, be prepared for low returns or even negative returns.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dhoni one of the all-time greats: Laxman||“It has been a truly remarkable cricketing career. He has shown all the abilities of a cricketer with such consistency at the highest level,” was VVS Laxman reaction as M.S. Dhoni announced quitting all forms of international cricket on Saturday. “What I really admired about him is that he was not only one of the all-time greats of world cricket but also a proven match-winner,” Laxman said in a chat with The Hindu . “The other great aspect of Dhoni is that he led India with equanimity and distinction. That is the rich legacy he should be leaving ,” the stylish batsman of yesteryears said. “One of the reasons why India is on top of the cricketing world right now is he facilitated a smooth transition with his amazing leadership qualities,” Laxman said. “He is a truly remarkable cricketer who played a lead role in the growth of Indian cricket and the 2007 T-20 World Cup and the 2011 ICC World Cup title-triumphs along with the 2013 Champions Trophy win should rank as some of the great moments of not just his career but for Indian cricket also,” the elegant Hyderabadi said. “Personally, I have had some great memories with him in the dressing room because we had great respect for each other. “It was a memorable partnership with him. I always cherish some of the great memories with him,” Laxman concluded.
17 August 2020||Chennai,||A different setting, but typically Dhoni||Nobody knew. And the press conference room was packed when Mahendra Singh Dhoni sauntered into the hall after the Melbourne Test of 2014. He had made a battling unbeaten 24 to ensure India drew the third Test - the Boxing Day match. And then he answered questions from the media; some laced with humour, a few that betrayed a hint of irritation, and a couple of typically long-winding replies. His focus, it appeared, was firmly on the fourth Test at SCG. Only he knew what was to come on that dramatic evening of December 30. The bombshell Soon, the journalists were hammering away at their laptops when the bombshell arrived. It was in the form of a press release from the BCCI. And it said Dhoni had retired from Test cricket with immediate effect. Virat Kohli would be the Indian captain for the final Test. Nobody knew the reason. There was mayhem in the press box. It was a massive decision and Dhoni had left everyone, even his team-mates, shell-shocked. Wasn’t he, when appointed captain for the series, expected to lead in all the Tests? The other argument There was another line of argument. With India losing the first two Tests at Adelaide and Brisbane — close matches both — and the Melbourne Test drawn, the side had already lost the series and a new captain could be groomed in Sydney. In the event, Dhoni, had from the BCCI, sought permission to retire after the press conference, and the Board had given its consent. It must have been a hugely emotional decision but his face, just minutes earlier, had given little away. Test cricket was leaving physical scars on Dhoni, with his demanding workload, and he wanted to preserve himself for the shorter formats. That was the logical explanation. Surprise again  And when this explosive batsman with safe gloves announced his retirement from all international cricket on Saturday, ending speculation, nobody had a clue. The Twenty20 World Cup being postponed to 2021 would surely have played a role in his decision. He had returned devastated after Martin Guptill’s direct hit ended his dreams - the devastating Dhoni was poised for the final onslaught - in that pulsating ODI World Cup semifinal against the Kiwis last year. With the announcement coming on August 15, Dhoni underlined his respect for the Indian army. And it arrived in Chennai, which he considers his second home. The Chennai-Dhoni bond is indeed deep.
17 August 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni bids adieu; leaves behind lasting legacy||It was Indian cricket’s million-dollar question. But it wasn’t hinting at prosperity, it was one that had pathos as its overwhelming base. The query was - will M.S. Dhoni do a low-profile exit from international cricket, like the one he did with Tests? Saturday evening, twilight to be precise, Dhoni did what he does best – spring surprises even if it means either rival bowlers are gob-smacked or cricket writers almost become like William Shakespeare’s Hamlet and wonder ‘did he’ or ‘didn’t he?’ Through an Instagram post, the former India captain announced his retirement from international cricket. The emphatic message was that the legend from Ranchi, will no longer turn out for India in limited overs cricket. Having retired from Tests in 2014, a move that had all the shock-and-awe of his quicksilver stumpings and helicopter-sixes, Dhoni continued to be India’s hope-dispenser in ODIs and Twenty20s until Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma stepped into that rarefied zone. And now with his usual ‘let-me-vanish-without-the-drumbeats’ quitting, an era has ended in Indian cricket. Though an international retirement was on the cards – Dhoni turned 39 last month – his exit will take a while to sink in. Such was his impact! Much-loved cricketer Over the last two decades, after Sachin Tendulkar, Dhoni became India’s much-loved cricketer. There was an air of mystique and a sense of nonchalance like the ones you saw in Clint Eastwood’s old Westerns. Above all, he lent hope and only legends have this intangible quality of throwing a lifeline while the fires raged. An inflationary asking rate of 10 and above was laughed at as long as Dhoni was there. Nothing fazed him, be it the rival bowler or the soul-numbing pressure of expectations. Every generation has its own eternal sunshine moment. For those with their adolescence in the 1980s, it was all about Kapil Dev holding aloft the 1983 World Cup at Lord’s. Much later, came another vignette burnt into our collective memories, the six off Nuwan Kulasekara at a raucous Wankhede Stadium on an April night in 2011 as Dhoni seized the World Cup while delirium spread from Mumbai to the rest of India. Game awareness Dhoni, the wicket-keeper was ever agile, the skipper was always aware of the game-situation, and as a batsman, he had this belief that he would always prevail. The last trait was one you previously associated with the great Vivian Richards. With 10773 ODI runs, a T20 international yield of 1617, a combined tally of 378 catches and 157 stumpings, leading India to titles in the 2007 ICC World T20, 2011 World Cup and 2013 ICC Champions Trophy, Dhoni’s phenomenal legacy is set in stone. His last international joust, in which he scored a valiant 50 in a losing World Cup semifinal against New Zealand at Manchester last year, turned out to be his heart-wrenching full-stop. But there is the Indian Premier League still for his fans to savour while he helms Chennai Super Kings, a squad with which he trained at Chennai’s M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday night after leaving the sporting community in tumult with a social-media post. Truly, he is one of a kind.
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Dhoni a comprehensive captain’||Former India fast bowler Javagal Srinath heaped praise on M.S. Dhoni, who retired from international cricket on Saturday, describing him as a ‘comprehensive captain’ and a ‘brilliant finisher’. “Dhoni is one of the most successful captains India has ever produced. The one quality that stands out about Dhoni is his self-belief. Winning three trophies (2007 T20 World Cup, 2011 ICC ODI WC, and 2013 ICC Champions Trophy) is a great achievement. “That’s the first thing to consider when you talk of his legacy. The unstoppable train of confidence that you see in the Indian team now was started by Dhoni. I want to thank Dhoni for his contribution to Indian cricket,” Srinath told The Hindu on Sunday. Awestruck  Srinath recalled being awestruck by Dhoni’s powerful batting early in his career, in a triangular tournament involving India ‘A’, Pakistan ‘A’ and Kenya in 2004. Dhoni turned on the heat with scores of 70, 119 n.o. and 120. A few months after his exploits in Nairobi, Dhoni made his India debut, in an ODI against Sri Lanka. “I was in Nairobi as a commentator. It was the first time I saw Dhoni in action. He had immense potential, which he later realised in full. He was a cut above the rest in that tournament. He scored runs at will; winning matches single-handedly,” Srinath said. Plan for each bowler Srinath stated Dhoni read the game well — a key aspect of captaincy. “He had a plan for each bowler, and the bowler knew what was expected of him. This makes life so much easier for bowlers. “Dhoni was the best reader of the game. He could sense what the batsman was going to do. Accordingly, he would decide the field setting and whom to bowl. He was a comprehensive captain. With the bat, he controlled the game like a regulator. He was a brilliant finisher. In his era, Dhoni was the man you could count on to finish a game,” Srinath said.
17 August 2020||BARCELONA,||No stopping Hamilton||Lewis Hamilton claimed his 88th Formula One career victory and, with it, an outright record 156th podium finish on Sunday when he drove his Mercedes to a masterful victory in the Spanish Grand Prix. It was the World championship leader and six-time champion’s fifth win in Spain, and his fourth in consecutive years, extending his record run of finishes in the points to 39. Hamilton came home 24 seconds ahead of nearest rival Max Verstappen of Red Bull who finished 20 seconds ahead of Valtteri Bottas in the second Mercedes. Hamilton, who had shared a record 155 podium finishes with Michael Schumacher, increased his lead in the drivers’ title race to 37 points ahead of Verstappen. Sergio Perez, back in his Racing Point car after missing two races with coronavirus, was fourth ahead of teammate Lance Stroll and Carlos Sainz of McLaren. “Wow, I was in another zone then,” said Hamilton. “I didn’t even know it was the fastest lap. I was in a daze. Fantastic effort by the team.” “We didn’t have the speed of Lewis and it was important to get past Valtteri at the start,” said Verstappen.  The results:   1. Hamilton (Mercedes) 1h, 31m, 45.279s, 2. Verstappen (Red Bull) +24.177s, 3. Bottas (Mercedes) 44.752.   + 1 Lap: 4. Stroll (Racing Point), 5. Perez (Racing Point), 6. Sainz Jr. (McLaren), 7. Vettel (Ferrari), 8. Albon (Red Bull), 9. Gasly (AlphaTauri), 10. Norris (McLaren), 11. Ricciardo (Renault), 12. Kvyat (AlphaTauri), 13. Ocon (Renault), 14. Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo), 15. Magnussen (Haas), 16. Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), 17. George Russell (Williams).   +2 laps: 18. Latifi (Williams), 19. Grosjean (Haas); Retired: Leclerc (Ferrari).   Standings: Drivers: 1. Hamilton 132, 2. Verstappen 95, 3. Bottas 89, 4. Leclerc 45,, 5. Stroll 40.   Constructors: 1. Mercedes 221, Red Bull 135, 3. Racing Point 63, 4. McLaren 62, 5. Ferrari 61 .
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Dhoni timed it to perfection||Cricket is a game of timing and Dhoni has mastered it. He has taught us what timing is all about: be it in his unorthodox shot-making, on-field decision-making or retirement. Fantastic! I consider myself extremely lucky to have seen him from close quarters at various stages. Be it as coach (of India-A during the tour to Zimbabwe and Kenya in 2004), as director at the National Cricket Academy (from 2009 to 2012) and as chief national selector (from 2012 to 2016), we were always connected. I may not have contributed anything to what he has achieved but he will forever remain my darling. He has tremendous self-belief. He has his own ideas. Many great cricketers have outstanding ideas but to convert them into reality during a game is the real challenge. He had that knack. A majority of his decisions on the field during crisis times have clicked, but you have to be bold enough to take that chance. Most of us tend to leave something for later, for the next over, but by then things end up getting out of hand. He faced a lot of criticism for this but all the coaches, and we as selectors, stood by him. He was very cool during the selection meetings and knew exactly what he wanted. We, as selectors, gave him a free hand and we had tremendous faith in his decision-making, be it in picking the 15 or 11. That kind of helped the team transition smoothly when some of the greats retired. Role model Besides his prowess on the field, I have seen him evolve as the perfect role model for on- and off-field behaviour. I wish the younger generation takes a cue. I had always maintained he would not let his retirement decision to the selectors. I am glad he has done it in his own unique way.  (As told to Amol Karhadkar)
17 August 2020||LISBON,||Lyon ends City’s aspirations||Substitute Moussa Dembele struck twice as Olympique Lyonnais (Lyon) stunned Manchester City 3-1 on Saturday to move into the semifinals of the Champions League where it will face Bayern Munich. Superb finish Lyon took the lead in the 24th minute with a fine finish from Maxwel Cornet, who spotted Ederson off his line and beat him with a low drive from the edge of the box City drew level through a Kevin De Bruyne side-foot finish in the 69th minute and pushed forward in search of winner but was caught out on the break. Dembele broke free and Ederson’s outstretched leg couldn’t keep his shot out as Lyon went 2-1 up in the 79th. City had a golden chance to draw level but Raheem Sterling somehow blasted over from close range with the goal at his mercy. Lyon responded to that let-off by taking advantage of chaos in the City defence with Ederson pushing out a low shot from Houssem Aouar and Dembele pouncing for his second to wrap up a famous win.  Semifinals schedule: Aug. 18: RB Leipzig v Paris Saint-Germain; Aug. 19: Lyon v Bayern Munich.   The result: Lyon 3 (Cornet 24, Dembele 79, 87) bt Manchester City 1 (De Bruyne 69) .
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former India opener Chauhan passes away||Gutsy Test opener Chetan Chauhan, who scripted many memorable cricketing tales with his illustrious partner Sunil Gavaskar, breathed his last at Gurugram on Sunday. Chauhan was diagnosed with COVID-19 last month in Lucknow and was transferred to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital. His condition took a turn for the worse following kidney failure and was on life support since Saturday morning. He was 73. Trusted partner Known for his gentle ways, Chauhan remained Gavaskar’s most trusted partner and the two formed one of India’s most durable opening pairs. For long a man with most Test runs without a century, Chauhan came close to scoring centuries, he so richly deserved, on several occasions. He had seven 80-plus scores with 97 as his highest. Privately, he regretted the missed opportunities, including twice on 93, but the smile would return when one mentioned his treatment of Dennis Lillie on the 1981 Tour of Australia. By this time, the helmets with optional visors, were used by a growing number of cricketers, Chauhan, like Madan Lal, gained the most from the use of helmets and duly added years to the international career. In his own words, talking about the infamous walkout of Gavaskar during the Melbourne Test, Chauhan once said, “Sunny wanted me to walk out with him (after he angrily questioned the leg-before decision), realised if we both crossed the boundary line, it would amount to forfeiture of the game. Soon our manager made me stay on the ground. Closest to a ton “The situation was saved and, of course, we went on to win that Test after Vishy (G.R. Viswanath) scored a memorable 114. “It was in the Adelaide Test that I told myself that I was going to play my shots. I remember, Lillee was in the middle of a fiery spell. I decided to free my arms and hit him for four boundaries in a row past point. Each time the ball crossed the boundary, Lillee looked at me and said things that I did not understand. But that innings ended at 97, the closest I was destined to get to the century. “But never mind, God has been very kind!”  A wonderful cricketer and a diligent political leader PM Narendra Modi
17 August 2020||Chennai,||Raina, the bold force, retires too||Vibrant, electric and match-winning he was, on his day. Now the mercurial Suresh Raina too has decided to bid adieu to international cricket along with his friend and mentor, M.S. Dhoni. In his Instagram post he wrote, “It was nothing but lovely playing with you, @mahi7781 . With my heart full of pride, I choose to join you in this journey. Thank you India. Jai Hind!.” The 33-year-old dasher from the dusty lanes of Ghaziabad was among India’s finest in the shorter versions with his dare, flair and a penchant for opening up the field. Amazing strike-rate The left-hander, with his bat-speed and footwork, made 5615 runs in 226 ODIs at a stunning strike-rate of 93.50. And Raina played his role in India’s triumphant World Cup campaign in 2011 with a delightful cameo against Australia in the quarterfinals at Ahmedabad. Soon, he led India in the shorter formats on the tour of the Caribbean in 2011. Those were his glory days. And in Twenty20 cricket, he was a formidable force; Raina’s exceptional fielding and steady off-spin added to his immense value. In 78 T20Is, Raina notched up 1605 runs at a sizzling strike-rate of 134.87. Among former Indian coach Greg Chappell’s favourites, he could change gears with ease. Raina began his Test career with a fighting 120 against Sri Lanka in 2010 in Colombo. He had a secure defence and a flurry of shots. However, a technical flaw against short-pitched bowling saw his Test career being limited to 768 runs from 18 Tests at 26.48. When it came to shorter formats, Raina was a bold Indian force.
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dhoni a true warrior of Indian cricket: M.S.K. Prasad||“What timing he chose — August 15, India’s Independence Day — to announce his retirement. He is a true warrior of Indian cricket. He will remain as the best-ever captain in cricketing history having achieved almost everything as the leader of the Indian team,” said M.S.K. Prasad, former BCCI chairman of the selection committee on M.S. Dhoni’s retirement from all forms of cricket. May have been pushed Prasad told The Hindu on Saturday that Dhoni might have been pushed to take the decision because of the postponement of the T20 World Cup which was scheduled this October in Australia. “I always believed that from day one he had tremendous clarity of thought. That’s why his instinctive decisions were always spot on. He read the game much better than many of his contemporaries,” Prasad said. “For me the greatest moment I had watched was when he wore the weightlifter’s belt, because of acute back pain, and played against Pakistan in a crucial match in the 2016 Asia Cup T20 championship in Bangladesh. “That was an unforgettable sight for me as he took great pride in playing for India,” Prasad said. “Frankly, I never had any uneasy moments with him. he was very frank, open hearted and never minced words,” Prasad said.  I always believed that from day one he had tremendous clarity of thought. He read the game much better than many of his contemporaries M.S.K. Prasad
17 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dhoni had a wonderful sense of planning: Raju||M.S. Dhoni was not only one of the greatest cricketers and finishers the game has seen but also someone who had a wonderful sense of planning to take Indian cricket to new highs, said former India spinner S.L. Venkatapathi Raju, a member of the BCCI selection committee which made Dhoni the captain of the Indian team. “MS was very particular that members of the 2011 ICC World Cup squad should have played at least 75 to 100 ODIs. He felt the team needed that kind of experience to handle many factors, including playing in front of massive crowds. He was vindicated as he led the team to victory,” Raju told The Hindu on Sunday. “When I went to the 2007 T20 World Cup in South Africa, it was refreshing to see the way he made every player comfortable. He came up with so many innovative moves that were largely responsible for the team winning the Cup,” said Raju. Leading by example “When it came to handling pressure, MS led by example. He believed that pressure would bring the best out of any cricketer and that’s why you could see so many gifted players who were soon capable of winning games on their own. He was a truly inspirational leader. Made his presence felt “Even when he was not leading the side, MS made his presence felt by giving invaluable tips. His door was always open for any of the teammates to share his thoughts on the game. His chemistry with the players — both seniors and juniors — is some kind of a history now. “MS, despite his towering stature, had great respect for all the selectors and his behaviour was exemplary as he put his views in a very straightforward and humble manner,” Raju concluded.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||When Chauhan turned saviour||Not many are aware that Chetan Chauhan came to the rescue of a young Navjot Singh Sidhu, Yograj Singh and Rajinder Singh Ghai in the days following the assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984. The incident took place when the North Zone team was returning by train from Pune after the Duleep Trophy semifinal against Central Zone. The final had been cancelled in view of the tense situation that prevailed in the country after the assassination. Recalling the incident, former Haryana off-spinner, Sarkar Talwar says, “We were travelling from Pune to Delhi and the journey took four days. The train made several unscheduled stops and on several occasions, mobs entered the compartment looking for people from a certain community. “Chetan Ji, being the senior-most member of the team and a known face, realised the gravity of the situation. Truly, he led from the front and faced the trouble-makers head on. Once the crowd recognised him, they would show their respect and move away. “I remember Navjot was very scared. Chetan Ji ensured Yograj and Ghai were safe and were not spotted by the mob. He showed tremendous guts in a situation that left most of us nervous. “He was a gutsy cricketer. I recall a Delhi-Haryana Ranji Trophy match at Rai (October 1976). He came to the crease with a broken jaw and scored an unbeaten 158 against us. He scored two more centuries in the next two matches (200 against Punjab) and 147 against Karnataka). He took Ranji Trophy matches as seriously as Test matches. I don't think we'll see another human being and a cricketer of such calibre again,” concluded Talwar.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||He never flinched: Bedi||Bishan Singh Bedi: He would stand up to the opposition. He never flinched and made such an enormous impact on cricket in the North. He did not mind playing second fiddle to Gavaskar. In fact, he played in the shadow of Gavaskar but had his own identity.  Kapil Dev: He was like my big brother. So composed, so organised. What a gentleman, what a lovely human being! I never saw him raise his voice, never saw him lose his temper. I was actually surprised how a man of his temperament joined politics. True to his character, he did well there too.  Madan Lal: I’m shattered. I spoke to him a few days ago. I just can’t take it. He was gutsy and hard-working. And the most trustworthy colleague.
17 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Manisha at home in new weight class||After recovering from an elbow injury and settling down in the 57kg weight category, boxer Manisha Moun is keen to secure an Olympic quota place. Manisha, who earned the reputation of a ‘giant killer’ by upsetting Worlds medallist Christina Cruz and World champion Dina Zholaman to make it to the 54kg quarterfinals of the 2018 World women’s boxing championships in Delhi, claimed an Asian championships bronze medal in 2019 to prove her worth. Switching category However, she suffered a jolt when she accidentally hurt her right elbow during a sparring session. “I did not stop training during my rehab, but not being 100% affected performance. I switched to 57kg to try for the Olympics. Getting used to the new weight [category] took time. [But] now I feel more comfortable,” Manisha told The Hindu . The 22-year-old from Haryana wants to add power to her punches. “When you fight in a new weight, the punches you receive feel heavier. I am focusing on strength training and my diet. With more strength, I can tackle the opponents better and can land more powerful punches. I will get better with time and I can win the trial.” Manisha, an India Open silver medallist in 57kg, trained under coach Ron Simms at Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS) before joining the National camp in Patiala. “I spent some time at home and taught my parents a few things about boxing during the lockdown. Then, I worked on my fitness and movement during my training with Ron. Now, the National camp has resumed and the training will pick up once Raffaele Bergamasco (foreign coach) returns.”
17 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Dhoni backed players to the fullest’||All-rounder Vinay Kumar termed M.S. Dhoni as the dream captain, especially for youngsters taking their first steps in international cricket. Vinay recalled how Dhoni made him feel comfortable when he made his India debut, in a 2010 ICC World T20 match against Sri Lanka. “Dhoni told me to bowl like it was another IPL game. He gave me the freedom to bowl the way I felt was right. If a captain gives freedom to youngsters, they will give the team their very best in return. “Dhoni knew how to get the best out of newcomers. He built a culture where a player was never intimidated by the captain. His hotel room door was always open. He would hang out with newcomers for long hours,” Vinay told The Hindu , a day after Dhoni retired from international cricket.  Vinay stated that he picked Dhoni’s brain on the nuances of captaincy and put these inputs to good use in domestic cricket, leading Karnataka to historic back-to-back treble-winning seasons (2014 and 2015). “I wanted to know how to get the best out of players. The big takeaway from my conversations with Dhoni was to back players to the fullest. When a player is not performing, it is easy to drop him. But if you know that the player has ability and is putting in effort, it is the duty of the captain to back him,” Vinay said. Another aspect of Dhoni’s leadership which impressed Vinay was his clever man-management. “Dhoni fully understood each player’s capability. If Dhoni knows that a bowler is capable of executing a plan, he will force the bowler to execute it. If the bowler is not quite capable of executing a plan, then he will merely suggest the plan. There’s no point in forcing a person to do something outside his capabilities,” Vinay said.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||May your soul have everlasting peace, partner||Aaja, aaja, gale mil (come, come, give me a hug), after all we are in the mandatory overs of life” was the usual greeting of my opening partner Chetan Chauhan whenever we met over the last two or three years. I would say to him that “no, no, we must have another century partnership” and he would laugh and then say “ arre baba (oh boy!), you are the century-maker, not me”. Never in my wildest nightmares could I believe that his words about being in the mandatory overs of life would come true so soon. It's so hard to believe that his laughter and cheerful banter won't be there the next time I go to Delhi. Chetan always said that if we are asked what was our best contribution to Indian cricket we should say that it was getting the exemptions for the cricketing fraternity. His desire to help others manifested in him joining politics and right till the end he was a giver, not a taker. He had a good sense of humour too. His favourite song as we walked out to face some of the most hostile bowlers in the game was “ muskura ladle muskura (smile, darling, smile)”. That was his way of easing the nerves while confronting challenges. May your soul have everlasting peace, partner.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen leads in Set three||Riding on the confidence gained by winning the second set, Magnus Carlsen claimed the opening game of the third set to lead 1.5-0.5 midway through the best-of-four rapid games in the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Sunday. Carlsen nailed Nakamura with black pieces to start the third set.   The results: Final: Set Three: Game One: Hikaru Nakamura (USA) lost to Magnus Carlsen; Game Two: Carlsen drew with Nakamura.   Set Two: Carlsen bt Nakamura 3.5-2.5.   After two sets, Carlsen level with Nakamura 1-1.
17 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||More rain, less play||Pakistan’s Shaheen Afridi needed just four balls to remove England’s Rory Burns for a duck before bad weather again interrupted the second Test on Sunday. England was seven for one in reply to Pakistan’s 236 when rain ended play on the fourth day. Earlier, Mohammad Rizwan top-scored with 72 as Pakistan added 13 to its overnight total of 223 for nine. Broad finished with four for 56 in 27.2 overs.  The scores: Pakistan 236 in 91.2 overs (Abid Ali 60, Babar Azam 47, Mohd. Rizwan 72, Stuart Broad four for 56, James Anderson three for 60) vs England seven for one in five overs .
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen wins third set opener||Riding on the confidence gained by winning the second set, Magnus Carlsen claimed the opening game of the third set to lead 1.5-0.5 midway through the best-of-four rapid games in the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Sunday. Carlsen, who bounced back to win the second set 3.5-0.5 after emerging victorious in the second blitz game, nailed Nakamura with black pieces to start the third set. The second game ended in just 17 moves. The first player to win four sets will claim the title and $140,000. On Saturday, Carlsen bounced back after the loss of the first game. Between two 14-move drawn encounters, in Game Two and Four, the World champion was lucky to win the third and catch up with Nakamura.  The results: Final: Set Three, Game One: Hikaru Nakamura (USA) lost to Magnus Carlsen; Game Two: Carlsen drew with Nakamura.   Set Two: Carlsen bt Nakamura 3.5-2.5.   After two sets: Carlsen level with Nakamura 1-1 .
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘ISL to be held in three venues in Goa’||All matches of the seventh edition of Indian Super League will be held in three venues in Goa, likely in November, amid strict health and safety measures to deal with the COVID-19 threat, the organisers said on Sunday. In order to minimise travelling by players and officals, the ISL organisers had wanted to host the league this time in just one State. Kerala was also in the reckoning to host the ISL but the organisers finally zeroed in on Goa.
17 August 2020||Hyderabad,||HFC ties up with Dortmund||German football giant Borussia Dortmund (BVB) and the Hyderabad FC, which will be playing for the second time in the coming edition of the Indian Super League, have announced a two-year partnership with an option to extend it. The tie-up will be formally launched during Dortmund’s virtual Asia tour on Aug. 20.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Vishnu’s qualities||Among Vishnu’s avataras, Rama and Krishna avataras are considered poorna avataras. Balarama avatara is considered an amsa avatara, and Parasurama avatara is an avesha avatara. Rama and Krishna were born in this world and lived for many years. The Vishnu Sahasranama, which extols the Lord, speaks of His various qualities as seen in His avataras. Parasara Bhatta wrote a commentary for the Vishnu Sahasranama titled Bhagavat Guna Darpana. While the entire Vishnu Sahasranama may be said to be about Krishna, Parasara Bhatta gives 32 names as referring to Rama, and 90 names as referring to Krishna, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. In the Rama and Krishna avataras the qualities of sauseelya and saulabhya, respectively, are highlighted. As Rama, He was simple, despite being of royal birth. He befriended those lower in status, like Guha, for example. Even a monkey was accepted as a friend. Rama was prepared to get down to the level of those who were not His equals. But Krishna went further. He was prepared to lower Himself, and place Himself on a lower footing than those whose status was less than His. He became a messenger of the Pandavas. Parasara Bhatta had a partiality for the Rama avatara. Once he was asked why Rama did not act as anyone’s messenger, whereas Krishna did. Parasara Bhatta replied that no one dared to ask Rama for such help, because Rama was a king. But Rama had an urge to be a messenger. That is why He decided that in His next avatara He would not be born as the son of an Emperor. Making oneself lower than others who do not enjoy a high status, is saulabhya, and this quality stood out in the Krishna avatara.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 09:51 IST,||Sudoku - August 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The golden rule of ‘yes, and...’||Actors wait with bated breath for their scene. This time, they are not backstage. At home, they face laptops propped on boxes, books, even ironing tables. Dialogue flows, scenes shift and an audience, ranging from a 100 to 2,000, from around the world, watches. In a COVID-19 world, where performances have been forced to migrate online to survive, live theatre has found creative ways to adapt. That said, the democratisation of theatre is perhaps the only consolation: all virtual theatre poses many novel challenges, starting with denying performers the ability to connect with the energy of a live audience. A full-fledged live play online is a result of weeks of hours-long rehearsals and the determination to “crack the tech.” A play is not a play without its fair share of blocking, physicality, improvisation and stage (in this case, screen) presence. As theatre outfits across the world shift from stage to screen, many opt for the more tech-friendly live reading or monologue options while others go the extra mile to present an entire play with a solid cast through virtual platforms. Either way, with virtual theatre, you are always “at the mercy of the Internet Gods,” as director and co-founder of Mumbai-based QTP, Quasar Thakore Padamsee aka Q, puts it. Groping in the dark Chennai-based performing arts company, Evam, is more than 10 plays into this journey. Ask co-founder Sunil Vishnu what this shift means, and he says it is nothing less than a “revolution” for theatre. “In March, around Women’s Day, we had about 50 performances lined up. We managed to present 25 of them. As COVID-19 hit, the rest vanished. It was a shock,” he says. April and May were spent trying to crack the new medium. “Around that time, people also started working online which means people are already online for six to seven hours a day,” continues Sunil. “What could one create that would give them a different experience?” From matching the backgrounds and eyelines to keeping up with the lag on a virtual platform, the process is ever-evolving, especially when multiple actors log in from across the country. There have been instances where actors sent each other matching bedsheets via Dunzo to create the same backdrops. The direction, then, would would cater to the screen: for instance, if multiple screens are involved on a window, actors’ positions and body language need to align with co-actors. They cannot always see their co-actors on screen. Careful, scene-by-scene choreography then, is necessary. This is called ‘blocking’ in the online space. In Q’s opinion, the actors should be given all the credit for being able to execute these intricacies. His Every Brilliant Thing , an intimate theatre piece on mental health that requires audience participation, recently went online. Performed by Vivek Madan, the play followed the format of a free-flowing informal conversation, in a bid to adapt. The audience at the Zoom session were asked to unmute themselves and join in whenever they felt like it. “In the first couple of rehearsals, Vivek found it liberating because he didn’t have to be aware of the audience. But, as we started getting to the crux, we realised it is tough. In the theatre, we take a line, get a response and then build on it. Here, there is no response.” Vivek adds, “It is acting to a camera,, and you are alone. You are performing as well as checking whether you are on frame. And pulling back where you normally would let go. Sometimes, it is not necessary to give as much because you are too close to camera and the dishonesty of the moment surfaces.” It is not surprising to notice the shift in language, when it comes to screenplay. Sunil agrees, “If we are doing an existing script, we work with that. But, when a new script emerges we will be cognizant of the medium. One needs to think like they are writing for the camera or an OTT platform.” For instance, actors are given marking spots (like, while shooting movies) for a Zoom performance. Actors also need to have a presentable room, for background. Chennai-based Dramact recently presented Neil Simon’s comedy, The Odd Couple . Over two-and-a-half hours long, it was performed live on Zoom and streamed simultaneously on YouTube and Facebook. The response was overwhelming, with 2,000-odd people watching it from across the globe, says director Nilu, suggesting that audiences too are warming up to this format. “There is also the joy of the fact that there are hundreds of people who would want to watch it later, and now they actually can. There is so much potential.” Does this format have an expiry date? Many artistes don’t think so: they see it existing parallel to live performances, maybe even as an independent genre. Nilu adds, “The reach is phenomenal and I see it as a great possibility. It is in fact, giving theatre much larger opportunities.”  When in Rome... The Tovstonogov Bolshoi Drama Theater in St Petersburg staged a brief version of Anton Checkov’s Cherry Orchard , within the popular online game Minecraft in June. Ninety players were able to watch the performance from within the Minecraft version of the Bolshoi Drama Theater. While others had to join the YouTube live stream The Gorch Brothers, an up-and-coming troupe in Tokyo, stages contained performances on the back of trucks, that can be driven around the country Conquest Theatre, in Canmore, Canada put up two one-act plays in a forest — in founder Marjorie Sutton-Bridge’s acreage — with the woods as the backdrop, with social distancing in place
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for a change||Higher education in India is regulated through autonomous bodies such as the University Grants Commission (UGC), the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), the Medical Council of India (MCI), and the Bar Council of India (BCI) among others. This allows for a professional outlook and facilitation of research at the macro level. However, one area that needs a regulatory authority in the form of a national council is Social Work Education. While addressing current social issues, it also needs to consider emerging realities and focus on being application-oriented and generation of skills.  The issues  A mechanism to monitor the methodology and evaluation of Social Work Education is required, as there seems to be no coherence in terms of syllabus, teaching practices, field work and evaluation at various levels. This issue has come to the forefront now, as it is being offered as a job-oriented course. However, adequate infrastructural facilities are lacking and there is no adherence to the requisite norms. The approach to social work education also needs to change. The charity-based approach should be replaced by a socio-economic and developmental approach. The syllabus has to be overhauled by removing outdated concepts and incorporating current and future needs like the emerging rise of civil societies and the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that makes corporates take on the role of service providers in the social sector. With the Human Development Index (HDI) being the benchmark for progress today, the standard of social work education is important to address the different needs of various communities. The inclusion of disability along with modern rehabilitative systems is essential. Social Work Education should also encompass working with special groups such as adolescents, victims of natural calamities, the elderly, self-help groups, and others. Social legislations have to be reviewed and newer acts must be included, as must topics like human rights, community health, social networking, NGO management, fund raising and communication strategies. The involvement of practising professionals in designing the course, teaching and evaluation will also add value. Most important is the blend of classroom teaching and practical field work training. The latter aspect is imperative to expose students to varied systems and structures pertaining to the developmental sector. Statutory provisions ‘The National Council for Professional Social Work Bill, 1993’, which sought to get a national status for the profession, did not see the light of day. More recently, ‘The National Council of Professional Social Work Practitioners Bill, 2018’ sought to establish a national council of professional social work practitioners to coordinate, develop and regulate professional practice of social work in India. Statutory provisions can exercise a professional authority on the management and implementation of Social Work Education. The council can not only offer recommendations on various social policies adopted by local, state and central governments, but can also offer consultancy services to private, corporate and government agencies when required. It can also facilitate interaction and networking between professional social work and other allied disciplines like Rural Development, Science and Technology, Welfare and Social Justice, Health and Rehabilitation, Human Resource Development, and Research and Training Councils among others. While such a council may initially seem to take away the autonomy and freedom of individual institutions, it will be in the larger interest of enhancing the professional status of social work and its relevance for the future. The writer has been a senior-level functionary in Developmental Social Work and is on the board of studies in Social Work in many colleges. Email: nicholasmdu@gmail.com  Disclaimer: The views expressed are personal.   The charity-based approach to social work should be replaced by a socio-economic and developmental approach
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Focus on the future||About 15 years ago, higher education institutions in Tamil Nadu, particularly in professional courses such as engineering and medicine, saw frequent delays in classes commencing due to reasons like court cases on certain special reservations. This year, this is happening nationally, as a consequence of COVID-19. With the class XII results being much delayed, the admission process for NEET and JEE will also be postponed. The Education Minister’s statements seem to indicate that higher education institutions can reopen only during or after September. Consequently, students and parents will have to face many academic and non-academic problems this year. It may be worth considering a few issues along with possible remedial measures. Reduced working days First, the number of working days of the institution will be fewer. The usual 90-day duration of a semester in engineering colleges cannot be maintained. Providing for the usual theory, practical and special classes, freshers’ orientation, tutorial classes, association activities, periodical tests, assignments and assessments, semester exams... cannot be held as usual. One obvious answer is to work for more days including on Saturdays and other holidays. Study holidays can be shortened or totally avoided. Another option is to reduce the first semester syllabus. Exam load The odd-semester exam can either be postponed or held in conjunction with the next even-semester exam only this time. This will also allow additional working days in the current semester. This has been done before in the Directorate of Technical Education colleges before their affiliation to Anna University. Reduced choices Many students join a regular degree course if they fail to get a seat in professional courses. To facilitate this, admissions in arts/science colleges may be initiated about a week after the admission process in professional colleges just this once. Failure in the first semester Many students fail subjects in the first semester. In engineering, for instance, ‘engineering mathematics’ and ‘engineering mechanics’ are the problem areas. This is partly because topics like calculus for engineering are not taught in high school. The gap between finishing school and entering college also plays a part. Therefore, students must prepare by brushing up on important topics. A sound body Students must also have ‘a sound mind in a sound body’. They should use the current free time to equip themselves physically and mentally for the upcoming academic year. The writer is a former professor and director of entrance exams and admission, Anna University, Chennai
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A story of resurgence||While the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact have disrupted the urban economy, the effect on rural India has been much worse. With millions of migrant workers returning to their villages, the massive reverse migration has also created a need to create new growth pathways in rural India However, it is possible that the rural economy may drive India’s economic rebound, since much of it is driven by the consumer necessities. Therefore, when the pandemic and the lockdown dent the secondary and tertiary industries, primary industry and other stakeholders of the rural economy — agriculture, horticulture, handicrafts, fisheries, poultry, and dairy — may overcome the crisis. What is Rural Management? Rural Management education is the study of managing and optimising agricultural resources effectively. It also includes planning and executing rural development programmes, promoting rural livelihoods, and engineering diverse livelihood opportunities outside of agriculture for the rural population. The impact of COVID-19 will have long-term implications on the rural economy. This is why the Rural Management curriculum and syllabus will become crucial to deal with this transformative phase of the rural economy. The field is diverse; hence open to people from different educational backgrounds, skill sets and work experience. Any student who has completed his/her graduation from science, arts, commerce, agriculture, dairy science, veterinary science, arts, engineering, allied health sciences and similar disciplines with minimum 50% marks aggregate can apply. However, individual institutions may have specific requirements. Students will need to produce scores of CAT/ XAT/ NMAT/ MAT/ CMAT/ ATMA/ GMAT or take the admission test conducted by the specific institute. Junior-level executives can also enroll for the course to boost their career. Career prospects An estimated 30 lakh NGOs operate in rural India. New entrepreneurs have moved from big cities to set up agri-tech start-ups in tier II and III towns. Multinationals outsourcing their processes to smaller towns are already reshaping the job landscape. Of a staggering 6.3 crore MSMEs manufacturing over 6,000 products, more than 50% operate in rural India. Add to this, the massive government machinery that works in rural India. With governments (both central and state), and other organisations conducting feasibility and impact studies of schemes in these areas, there will be a need for rural development and management professionals. An MBA in Rural Management can bring employment in rural development agencies and flagship development programmes relating to livelihoods, education, health, water and sanitation, agriculture, handicrafts, cooperatives and producer organisations, non-government development organisations, public foundations, banking and finance institutions, consultancies, agribusiness organisations, information and communication technology (ICTs) firms, national and international donors engaged in promoting rural development, and corporate social responsibility (CSR) and philanthropy divisions of organisations. A student with right skill set may also choose to become an entrepreneur. The average starting salary ranges from Rs. 3 lakhs to Rs. 12 lakhs per annum for positions as varied as Sales/Business Development Manager, Rural Development Officer, Research Officer, Rural Executives, Rural Manager, Senior Program Officer, Trainer, Researcher, Consultant, Project Co-ordinator/ Project, Purchase/Vendor Development Manager, Business Development Executive, Sales Officer, and National Sales Development Manager. If you interested in contributing to India’s on-going transformation, this might be the right career choice for you. The writer is the Dean, School of Development Studies, IIHMR University, Jaipur.
17 August 2020||August 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The great gap year||“Never let a good crisis go to waste,” said Winston Churchill during World War II. While entrepreneurs, business leaders, teachers and financial wizards manage to make the crisis work for them, many students are headed towards a “gap year”. However, this is a double-edged sword. It can either add to your profile and your CV or a void that you attempt to gloss over. Seven suggestions  Brush up tech skills: If you are tech-averse, now is the time to build some basic skills. Remember, the pandemic has pushed the world on the path of artificial intelligence, big data, smart gadgets and robotics. Tech skills are like literacy today. There are many beginner’s modules on Python, app development, game development or basic data analysis skills. Design Thinking is another option, as are actual design skills like working with Adobe Illustrator or Photoshop. Learning a new language needs a lot more than a few online courses, though DuoLingo is good. Working with an institute that prepares you for certification exams is much better.  Online jobs and internships: Many companies have moved their entry-level jobs and internships online but projects are certainly available — mainly in data analytics, digital marketing, content creation and even in sales. These can last between three weeks and six months.  Fund raising or Social awareness: We need to support each other more now than ever before. Artisans, sari manufacturers, street performers, tailors, construction workers, restaurants and caterers, tour and trekking guides and other groups are struggling under the pandemic-led economic shutdown. Find a group for whom you can raise money and awareness. Work with community leaders to build alternative sources of incomes and leverage their skills and resources.  Mental and physical fitness: This is an excellent opportunity to recoup and recover your emotional balance and strength and address chronic anxiety or depression. Read the accounts of others as well — and join a course in meditation or reach out to a therapist. Whether it is yoga, mixed martial arts, tennis, strength training, running, now is the time to aim for the lifestyle, health and body you desire. The gap year demands structure, energy and purpose. And there is nothing like a fitness regime to create that for you.  Become an amateur at something: Einstein played the piano and violin, Sheryl Sandberg writes books, Mark Zuckerberg is an avid runner, Taylor Swift makes snow globes, Johnny Depp collects Barbie dolls (I’m not judging), Amitabh Bachchan is a blogger and Rajinikanth reads books (no, really). Find the thing that gets you off the couch and going!  Entrepreneurship: If you dream of  being the next big disruptor, put those entrepreneurship muscles to some use now. Set up something you always wanted to — a blog, a rating app, an online show, a channel, a contest, an online event…. Make things happen and don’t count the money you’ll make, as of now. It’s just a gap year after all! The writer is Founder and CEO, Inomi Learning, a Gurugram-based career and college guidance firm. Email: info@inomi.in  This is an excellent opportunity to recoup and recover your emotional balance and strength
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital witnesses 652 new cases, fewer tests||The Capital reported 652 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1,52,580, according to the health bulletin released by the government. Eight deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 4,196. The government also said that 1,310 patients have recovered and the total number of recoveries stood at 1,37,561. There are 10,823 active cases in the city. The number of fresh cases recorded on Sunday was the lowest after July 27, when Delhi registered 613 cases. The Capital had recorded 1,276 cases on Saturday. The government said 3,024 RT-PCRand 7,685 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. However, the number of tests conducted on Sunday was far lower than Saturday. The bulletin stated that 5,667 RT-PCR 12,604 rapid-antigen tests were conducted on Saturday. A total of 13,02,120 tests have been conducted till date. Due to the pandemic, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order prohibiting setting up of pandals during Ganesh Chaturthi. No religious procession It also said there would be no religious procession on any occasion, including Moharram. DDMA Chief Secretary, Vijay Dev, said: “During Ganesh Chaturthi, no idol of Ganesha shall be set up in the tent/pandal/ public place, nor any kind of permission shall be granted for procession. Similarly, no permission shall be granted for procession/tajiya during Moharram.” The order stated that the public will be encouraged/ advised to celebrate festivals at home and not in public. It added that sufficient police force will be deployed in all communally sensitive areas and containment zones across the city. Mr. Dev asked District Magistrates and District DCPs to ensure compliance and convene meetings with religious/community leaders to get their cooperation.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘RRTS is going to be the backbone of passenger transport in NCR’||As lockdown restrictions ease, infrastructure projects that had hit a roadblock are picking up pace once again. Vinay Kumar Singh , managing director, National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), talks about its priority projects, their progress and how they will make travel smoother in the city. Excerpts:    The lockdown has impacted several infrastructural projects between March and June. How did it impact the NCRTC Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) projects?   The COVID-19 crisis is indeed an unprecedented situation for every sector. However, such situations also present an opportunity for each sector in a unique way. We saw this as an opportunity to upscale the deployment of technologies. In 2016, I had conceived NCRTC as a technology-driven organisation with extensive use of digital tools in project management and execution of RRTS projects. We have been using electronic platforms and IT tools in our day-to-day functioning such as internal approvals, procurement, designing etc. Thus, during the lockdown, we were able to sustain the momentum fairly well. While the construction activities came to a halt during lockdown 1.0, we diverted our efforts and focused on other activities. Tender processes were expedited; for the first time pre-bid meetings were held through videoconferencing. Further, activities related to finalisation of detailed design and drawings of civil structures, stations etc. were accelerated.Once the relaxations were announced, we resumed the civil construction with strict adherence to standard operating procedures and guidelines issued by the governments. In about sixteen months from the sanction of the project, we recently launched the first segmental span on Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor between Guldhar and Duhai, which demonstrates NCRTC’s meticulous planning and collaborative approach with stakeholders to deliver the project on time.  The Delhi-Meerut RRTS project must have been impacted by labour issues. Is it expected to begin operations by 2023?   The return of labourers to their hometowns has been an issue across sectors. However, it is equally true that proactive pro-labour initiatives by us and some other employers during the lockdown have helped many projects to retain labourers. The RRTS is the first of its kind project in the country. With no local benchmarks, it is certainly a challenging task to complete the 17-km priority section between Sahibabad to Duhai within a target time of four years from the sanction of project. We have resumed and expedited all construction activities after the relaxations were announced. After completion of foundations and substructures, we have started launching superstructures in various stretches of the priority section. The lockdown did pause the construction activities for a while but NCRTC is making all-out efforts to commission the project on time.   What is the level of progress of the RRTS station at Sarai Kale Khan, where it is supposed to serve as the backbone for multimodal connectivity with existing modes of public transportation?   Sarai Kale Khan will be seamlessly integrated with the Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, Delhi Metro Pink Line’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station and the Sarai Kale Khan ISBT. As far as progress is concerned, detailed designing of the station has been completed. Multimodal integration scheme of the station has been finalised after deliberations and discussions with the stakeholders and approvals have been obtained. The station architecture has been designed with an aim to transform the entire area in a way that will facilitate ease of pedestrian movement from one mode to another. The same has been verified by doing a simulation of commuter movement in the station and surrounding areas. Subsequent to GNCTD’s (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi)  approval, pre-construction works have been initiated. Soil investigation is complete and pile load test and diversion of utilities such as 11 KV, 33 KV (BSES & DTL) lines are in progress. The construction of the station is expected to start after monsoon.  How will the NCRTC manage crowds? Will the station be overground or underground? Have these questions been discussed with the Delhi government?   The RRTS is going to be the backbone of passenger transport in NCR. It will be an elevated station, which is the most efficient and economical option, and will facilitate simultaneous development of ISBT. The decision to make this station overground was taken after convincing all the stakeholders, including the Delhi government. To efficiently plan the design of the Sarai Kale Khan station, we have done the simulation of passenger movement in and around the station by a design team consisting of national and international experts as well as experts from DIMTS (Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System), DTIDC (Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation) and Transport Department, GNCTD.  What’s the progress on the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor?     The sanction of the project by the government of India was communicated on March 7, 2019. On March 8, the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of India’s first regional rail between Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut. Within three months of sanction, NCRTC started civil construction on the priority section of this 82 km-long corridor. This is a rare feat. Currently, the civil construction work is in progress on a stretch of 50 km length i.e. from Sahibabad to Shatabdi Nagar in Meerut. Construction of all four stations of the priority section – Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar and Duhai – is in progress. Launching of precast segments is under way in the priority section. State-of-the-art casting yards at Vasundhara and Shatabdi Nagar are functional. Tenders for civil construction in Delhi and Meerut have already been invited and are under evaluation. The corridor construction is expected to start in the next few months.  What’s the status of the second priority corridor, Delhi- Gurugram-SNB (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror Urban Complex) ?   The 107 km-long rail corridor will immensely benefit industrial towns beyond Gurugram, including Manesar, Panchgaon, Dharuhera and Bawal. It will connect the industrial and corporate hub of Haryana to the rest of the NCR. This corridor has almost 35 km of alignment underground, which makes the project complex and challenging. Soil testing, topographical survey, utility diversion and road widening are now being carried out. Detailed Design Consultant (DDC) for the design of the elevated viaduct and elevated stations between IDPL complex, Gurugram and Rajiv Chowk has been appointed and the work is in full swing. The detailed project report has been approved by the State governments and is in consideration of the Government of India for sanction. Funding is in advanced stages of being tied up with Japan International Cooperation Agency and the World Bank. A team of officers is posted and a project site office has been commissioned at Gurugram for efficient execution of the project.  Pre-construction work of the RRTS station at Sarai Kale Khan has been initiated...The construction is expected to start after monsoon Vinay Kumar Singh Managing director, NCRTC
17 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab govt. failed to curb sand mafia: Congress MPs||After the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the alleged existence and operation of illegal checkpoints near sand mining sites in Punjab’s Ropar, two Congress MPs have hit out at the ruling Congress government in the State for its failure in curbing the ‘sand mafia’. The two Rajya Sabha MPs, Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, have alleged that it was evident that the State’s Department of Mines and Geology and the Home Department have completely failed in their responsibility in curbing ‘illegal mining’ and the ‘sand mafia’ in Punjab. The High Court earlier this week, after taking on record a report by CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Ropar — that established the existence and operation of illegal checkpoints near some mining sites — had ordered a preliminary enquiry by the CBI. On February 19 this year, the High Court had asked the CJM to prepare a report on the matter after the State government had informed the court that there were no illegal checkpoints near the mining sites in Ropar.  ‘Expand probe ambit’ Both MPs have requested the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to not confine the preliminary enquiry by the CBI to just Ropar district, but to take suo motu cognisance and expand the ambit of the investigation to the entire State. “To prevent further damage to the environment and erosion of public trust with the institutions that govern the State, an independent and fair inquiry must be ordered into the operations of the sand mafia in Punjab. We seek an end to this menace and hope that the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court is a wake up call for the government of Punjab,” they said in a statement. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said that reckless illegal mining activities were rampant across the State and “goonda (goons) tax” was being collected at the behest of leaders of the ruling party.
17 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC begins work on bridge over Yamuna||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said that it had begun work on building the fifth metro bridge over the Yamuna on the Majlis Park – Maujpur Metro corridor of its Phase IV. The 560-metre-long bridge will connect the Soorghat Metro Station and Sonia Vihar Metro Station and will be the first ever metro bridge over Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction (CLC) method, the DMRC said. This bridge crosses river Yamuna at about 385 metre downward of Old Wazirabad Bridge and 213 metre upstream of existing Signature Bridge. “Employment of this construction method will make the bridge look aesthetically better. A cantilever is a rigid structural element which extends horizontally and is supported at only one end. Cantilever construction allows overhanging structures without additional support,” the DMRC said. 3D model It added that the design of the bridge was finalised using the ‘Building Information Modeling’ (BIM) technology that allowed DMRC’s engineers to work on a 3D model of the bridge with intricate details of the proposed structure even during the days of the pandemic when physical meetings weren’t possible. To utilise the available time during this monsoon, a cofferdam has been constructed, away from the active course of the Yamuna by raising the level of the ground by filling of earth and sand with protection of its slope through bamboo, jute netting and sand bags, the DMRC said. The level of the cofferdam has been kept same as that of the adjacent road to ensure supply of requisite construction material like steel reinforcement, metal liner, ready mix concrete etc., the DMRC said. Environment friendly A DMRC official said all the construction activities are being carried out with minimum effect on the floodplains. Also, the restoration of the floodplain that may be impacted by the construction of bridge alignment in the Yamuna floodplain/pillars will be carried out. The official added that the muck/debris generated would be disposed off scientifically and no dumping shall be allowed. “All mandatory approvals from the agencies concerned have been obtained. The DMRC is committed to fulfil the conditions given by Principal Committee on Yamuna for construction of the bridge,” the DMRC statement added.
17 August 2020||Kolkata,||Virus effect: Kolkata, Darjeeling zoos go online||Animal lovers in West Bengal will now be able to watch animals and birds from the comfort of their homes with the West Bengal Forest Department starting live streaming of animals from Alipore Zoological Garden, Kolkata, and Padmja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling. The live steaming facilities were inaugurated by State’s Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Sunday at Alipore Zoological Garden. “This is a unique initiative. Every year about 35 lakh people visit Alipore zoo. Many of these visitors are regulars and they make it a point to visit the zoo at least once a year. We do not want to deprive these people, including children, anymore,” Mr. Banerjee said. The Minister said that live streaming will be available for an hour each in the morning and the afternoon from social media handles of the respective zoos. Ashis Kumar Samanta, Director of Alipore Zoological Garden, said closed-circuit cameras have been installed in different enclosures of the animals.  ‘Zoo on mobile phones’ Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) Director Dharamdeo Rai said that visitors can now enjoy a visit to the high-altitude zoo on their mobile phones. “PNHZP will be live on social media every day from 9 to 10 a.m. and 3 to 4 p.m. with a tour of the zoo. Visitors can enjoy the visit to the zoo and the scenic beauty of Darjeeling on their mobiles” Mr. Rai said. Both the zoological gardens were closed in March due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Opened in 1876, Alipore Zoological Garden houses around 1,100 wild animals, along with an aviary and a snake enclosure. Set up in 1958, the PNHZP is one of the high-altitude zoos in the country which houses species like snow leopard and red panda.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reconsider benchmark for out-of-turn promotion’||The Delhi High Court has asked the police to reconsider the benchmark of recovering 50 missing children for Constables and Head-Constables, to be considered for an out-of-turn promotion (OTP), noting it was “not practically achievable”. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said the criteria for OTP may “not serve as an incentive”. The court’s direction came after the police said the OTP and ‘Asadharan Karya Puruskar’ is being considered as part of an incentive to encourage its personnel to trace missing children. The police said any Constable or Head-Constable who recovers 50 or more missing children below the age of 14 years (15 children out of them of the age group less than 8 years) within a period of 12 months, would be considered for grant of OTP, subject to the availability of vacancies under OTP quota in the year concerned. Delhi Police’s Standing Counsel Rahul Mehra suggested that the number could be reduced to 10 childrento begin with as that would be a more realistic target, which the officers may be able to meet. “The Commissioner of Police may look into this aspect and issue necessary orders in that regard,” the court ordered taking note of Mr. Mehra’s suggestion. The court’s direction came during the course of hearing on a habeas corpus petition filed by a father seeking to trace his minor daughter who went missing on July 08, 2020. The father said he was forced to approach the court as even after an FIR was registered, there was no action taken on his complaint. “Unfortunately, time and time again, we have come across the same situation in any number of cases that we have dealt with over the years,” the Bench had said. “We have found that often, either the case is not registered — when a complaint of a child going missing is made to the police station or even if a case is registered —no substantial and concrete steps for investigation are undertaken on the ground, till a petition is filed before this court and advance copy thereof is served,” it had stated. Observing “this situation is completely unacceptable”, the court has ordered the Commissioner of Police to get a performance audit conducted of all the districts under the Delhi Police in relation to compliance of the provisions of standing order, which enlists the duties of the police station staff in cases of missing children.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells police to submit status report on petition filed by Pinjra Tod activist||The High Court has asked the police to submit its status report in connection with a plea filed by Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, seeking bail on a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait ordered the police to also serve a copy of the status report to the counsel for Ms. Kalita beforehand while posting the bail hearing for August 21. “Status report is stated to have been filed, however, the same is not on record. Counsel for the State shall ensure that the status report to be placed on record before the next date of hearing with advance copy to the other side,” the court’s order reads. Ms. Kalita has challenged a trial court’s order, which had dismissed her bail application. The plea was rejected on June 14 on the ground that there was no merit in the application and that it was amply clear from the chargesheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also. The trial court further said considering the investigation so far and the nature of the offence and the role being ascribed to the accused, there were no reasons at all to grant bail. Ms. Kalita is currently facing four different FIRs connected with the anti-CAA protests in Jaffrabad, north-east Delhi riots and violence in Daryaganj during a protest against the new citizenship law last year Ms. Kalita was first arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Natasha Narwal in relation with an FIR registered on February 24 over the sit-in protest at Jaffrabad metro station against the CAA. The police also invoked sections of the stringent anti-terror law — Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — in a separate case related to the communal violence against Ms. Kalita.
17 August 2020||New Delhi,||Survey state of animals in circuses: HC||The Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to conduct physical survey of all circuses in the country to verify the condition of animals being kept there. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said the survey report shall include the photographs and videos of animals, the surroundings they are kept in, their health condition as well as the quality of food being provided to them. The court gave the order after AWBI stated that in compliance of the court’s July 21 order, it had issued letters to all the circuses stranded and unable to perform due to the pandemic, to give details of animals kept by them along with the information whether they would be able to maintain them. AWBI had asked the circuses if they were inclined to surrender their animals for rehabilitation. The board said out of 19 circuses registered under Performing Animal Rules 2001 seven have submitted their reports.
17 August 2020||Gurugram,||Biodiversity park to come up in Aravalli||A biodiversity park will be developed on around 100 acres in Kasan in the Aravalli mountain range. The village panchayat has adopted a resolution to pledge land for this park. Forests, Education and Tourism Minister Kanwar Pal visited the village and the area, where the proposed park will be developed. Mr. Pal, during his visit to Gurugram, said the State had the target to increase its reserve forest cover from 3% to 20%. For this, 125 million saplings will be planted in the State this year and 1,100 villages of the State have been selected for this plantation. He was interacting with the mediapersons after his visit to Kasan. Earlier, the Minister planted saplings at the proposed biodiversity park area in Kasan and interacted with the Sarpanches of the villages over increasing greenery. He appreciated the initiative taken by Kasan village and said others too should come forward for the same.
17 August 2020||guwahati,||‘Voting’ on reopening of Assam schools||The outcome of an analysis of suggestions from people will decide whether or not schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Assam would be reopened, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said. Educational institutions have remained closed since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government had a fortnight ago proposed some guidelines for reopening schools and colleges from September 1 besides seeking feedback from the stakeholders. “We have been receiving suggestions from the people. We will take a call after analysing them on August 25,” he said on Sunday. The government would also weigh the recommendations of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
