17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||20 Indian soldiers killed in face-off at Galwan||Twenty Indian personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops on Monday along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, in what is possibly the worst incident between the two countries in decades. The clashes came amid a “de-escalation” process in the Galwan area that was started last week, after a month long stand-off between troops at several points along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim. “Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of June 15/16. Seventeen Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand-off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20,” the Army said in a late-night statement. Casualties on both sides The violent face-off took place during the de-escalation process under way in the Galwan Valley and resulted in “casualties on both sides”, the Army stated. The Indian Army is firmly committed to protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation, it added. However, Army sources said there was no firing during the face-off. Three of the personnel killed have been identified as Colonel B. Santosh Babu from Telangana, Havildar Palani from Tamil Nadu and Sepoy K.K. Ojha from Jharkhand. During the day, talks were held at the Major General-level in the Galwan area at Patrolling Point 14 to defuse the tensions. As news of the brutal clash, which, according to sources, included the use of iron clubs and rocks by the Chinese troops, emerged, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the operational situation in eastern Ladakh along with the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) and the three service Chiefs, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. In a statement, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) accused India “of going back on its word” and “violating commitments” reached by both sides at the Corps Commander-level talks on June 6. The Indian Army “violated its commitment and crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) again, illegally and deliberately launched provocative attacks, triggered fierce physical confrontation between the two sides, resulting in casualties,” said PLA Western Theatre Command spokesperson Zhang Shuili, making the claim that “the sovereignty of the Galwan Valley region has always belonged to [China]”, something India has always contested. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) spokesman Zhao Lijian said China has “lodged strong protest and representation with the Indian side”. It is understood this was conveyed in meetings on Tuesday held between Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri and Chinese Vice-Foreign Minister Luo Zhaohui. Neither the PLA nor the MFA gave details of casualties on the Chinese side. Pressure on govt. The casualties in combat action have increased pressure on the government to make a full statement on the month-long stand-off, as demanded by Opposition parties. Last Saturday, in the first acknowledgement of the ongoing stand-offs, the Chief of the Army Staff, Gen. Manoj Naravane, had stated that troops of India and China were “disengaging” in a phased manner from the stand-off areas along the border following a series of ground talks. He said a “lot of disengagement” had happened in the Galwan river area. Neither the Army nor the External Affairs Ministry gave further details of the clash on Monday night in the Galwan valley. Sources said an Indian Army patrol had set out to check on positions of the Chinese troops to ensure they had retreated. The troops were attacked by a much larger group of Chinese soldiers, said the sources, who did not wish to be identified. The stand-off had begun with a scuffle in the Pangong Tso area on the intervening night of May 5 and 6, resulting in serious injuries on both sides. Around 76 Indian personnel were injured including a Commanding Officer, who had to be airlifted to Delhi. There was a second scuffle on May 9 at Naku La in North Sikkim. While faceoffs and standoffs keep occurring on the LAC and even stone throwing and fist-fights between troops due to differences in perception on the alignment, there has been no instance of firing on the 3,488 km long LAC since 1975. The last incident of firing and fatalities on the border with China occurred in October 20, 1975 when a patrol team of the Assam Rifles was ambushed by the Chinese troops at Tulung La in Arunachal Pradesh resulting in the death of four personnel.  Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of June 15/16 The Army’s statement
17 June 2020||G.V.R. Subba Rao,||Government presents Rs. 2.24 lakh-cr. budget, outlay cut by 1.4%||The State government on Tuesday presented the annual budget for the financial year 2020-21 with a total outlay of Rs. 2.24 lakh crore, which is 1.40% less than last year’s total outlay of Rs. 2.27 lakh crore. The government has estimated revenue receipts at Rs. 1.61 lakh crore as against last fiscal’s revised estimate of (2019-20) Rs. 1.10 lakh crore. The revenue expenditure is estimated at Rs. 1.80 lakh crore for the current fiscal (2020-21) compared with Rs. 1.37 lakh crore in the financial year 2019-20. Presenting the budget in the Assembly, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said revenue expenditure is estimated at Rs. 1,80,392.65 crore. The capital expenditure, including loan repayments and other disbursements, is estimated at Rs. 44,396.54 crore. “I would urge this House to revisit our definition of capital expenditure. Consider the fact that every single paisa spent on enhancing the capacity of our citizenry to improve their opportunities in life, is a spending on human capital — the central theme of this budget and the core philosophy of the manifesto,” he said. The Minister said that the 2020-21 budget estimates entail on overall decrease of 1.4% over the 2019-20 budget estimates on account of major economic slowdown during the COVID-19 pandemic. The revenue deficit would be around Rs. 18,434 crore while the fiscal deficit would be around Rs. 48,295 crore. The decline in the transfer of Central taxes in 2019-20 and 2020-21, the reduced share in the divisible pool for the year 2020-21 and the precipitous decline of revenue realisation on account of the lockdown, further added to the financial distress, he said. Stating that the government has the responsibility of integrating fiscal reform priorities with development, Mr. Rajendranath said it was implementing various schemes, including Jagananna Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, Jagananna Vasathi Deevena, Manabadi Nadu-Nedu, Gorumudda, YSR Aaarogya Aasara, Kanti Velugu, Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan, interest-free loans, , YSR Matsyakara Bharosa, Pedalandariki Illu, YSR Sampurna Poshana, and YSR pensions, etc.
17 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Congress chief gets bail in buses case||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu in a case against him for allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the State government to ply migrant workers home. Justice Attau Rahman Masoodi ordered Mr. Lallu’s release on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties. The Congress leader has been in jail since May 21. While passing the order, the court reminded the government and the Opposition that both were bound by “duty to deliver more solutions to public grievances than conflicts”. The court said it was “disturbing” that the government and a political party having some representation in the State (Congress) “are at loggerheads on an issue which has no legal sanctity”. The court cautioned that the COVID-19 outbreak called for a unified effort by all to curb the sufferings of people instead of raking up issues to serve none.  Arrested on May 20 Mr. Lallu, two-time MLA from Tamkuhi Raj, was arrested on May 20 in Agra for protesting against the district administration’s refusal to allow buses arranged by the Congress from Rajasthan to ply into U.P. to transport stranded migrants home. Though he was granted interim bail by an Agra court, he was arrested again by the Lucknow police on charges of allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the U.P. government and alleged forgery of documents. Opposing his bail in the High Court, Additional Advocate General Anurag Verma had argued that the investigation in the case was at a nascent stage.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No let-up in cases as 79 more test positive||Kerala reported 79 new COVID-19 cases and 60 recoveries on Tuesday, keeping the active number of cases at 1,366. All except six of the new cases are imported cases of infection, diagnosed in people who either came in to the State from abroad or other parts of the country. Of the six cases of local transmission, one is a health-care worker in Pathanamthitta through contact with a known or unknown source of infection. A total of 2,622 persons have so far tested positive and 1,234 persons have recovered from the disease till date since the outbreak began in Kerala. The State has put 1,22,143 persons under surveillance in various districts, of whom, except 1,986 isolated in hospitals with mild symptoms, the rest are in home or institutional quarantine. On Tuesday alone, 210 persons were admitted to hospitals. An official release said that in the last 24 hours, 4,003 samples had been tested. Till date, samples of 1,18,893 persons have been tested. The number of hotspots in the State now is 110.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Four more succumb to COVID in Telangana||More than 200 cases was reported in Telangana for the fourth consecutive day as 213 swab samples tested positive for COVID on Tuesday. Four more succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 191. It is for the sixth time this month that more than 200 cases were recorded in a day. The State government which has come under heavy criticism for not sharing data on number of tests conducted, mentioned the data in the medical bulletin issued on Tuesday. It may be noted that this was done after the State government started to conduct 50,000 COVID tests in 30 Assembly constituencies. A total of 44,431 tests were conducted including the 1,251 tests on Tuesday. The 213 new cases comprises 165 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 16 from Rangareddy and 13 from Medak. A total of 5,406 cases were recorded till June 16. Of them, 2,188 are active cases, 3,027 were discharged, and 191 died. Five people in a village in Armoor mandal in Nizamabad district tested COVID positive and were home-quarantined on Tuesday, said district Collector C. Narayan Reddy. A fertilizer shop owner in Jangaon town tested positive for COVID on Tuesday. He was shifted to Government Area Hospital. Ten persons working with him at the fertilizer shop were identified and advised to remain under home quarantine. According to sources, a JSK Agri Mall shop owner tested positive and the shop is popular in the district headquarters and surrounding villages. With the onset of monsoon, farmers have been visiting the fertilizer shop and the Health officials have identified the people who visited the shop from CCTV footage.(With inputs from Nizamabad and Warangal correspondents)
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,||DVAC closes complaint against CM||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) had earlier this month submitted separate “closure reports” for want of “substance” in two complaints of corruption, including one against Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The other complaint related to alleged corruption in the Rs. 1,950 crore BharatNet project. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan on Tuesday informed Justice N. Sathish Kumar of the Madras High Court that the closure reports were filed as the DVAC found no substance in the allegations levelled by DMK MP R.S. Bharathi. The DMK leader had alleged corruption in a Rs. 1,165-crore tender for a road maintenance project. The SPP said the petitioner had levelled unfounded allegations against the CM, who held the Highways portfolio. On “factual verification”, the DVAC did not find any substance and submitted a closure report to the government on June 1. The complaint in the BharatNet project was closed on June 2 as the petitioner had levelled charges before the tender document was opened. During the hearing on the first case, petitioner’s senior counsel R. Shanmugusundaram sought time to get instructions. Hence, the judge adjourned the case to Thursday. The second case was also adjourned.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||State adds 862 deaths to Mumbai’s COVID-19 toll||The Maharashtra government has added 862 deaths to Mumbai’s COVID-19 toll following a data reconciliation drive on Tuesday. The move is likely to add fuel  to the Opposition’s allegations of data jugglery. Senior government officials have attributed the data gap to staff shortage. Of the over 1,300 deaths scrutinised during the exercise announced by Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta recently, 862 were found to be related to COVID-19, but not part of the city’s official death toll of 2,250 reported till June 15. The final toll is now 3,167. Another 466 deaths have been added to the State’s toll, taking the total to 5,537. The fatalities in the financial capital were scrutinised by the civic body’s Death Audit Committee and there was no attempt to suppress the numbers, officials said. The scrutiny of over 1,300 deaths was done as per the universally-approved ICD-10-CM (coding and reporting) guidelines of U.S.-based Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the National Center for Health Statistics. Change in testing protocol Yet again, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has changed its testing protocols, prohibiting laboratories from sharing COVID-19 positive reports directly with patients. Reports will now have to be shared with the BMC, which in turn will notify patients. However, a COVID-19 negative report can be shared with the patient. “The objective is to prevent panic, as people immediately start looking for a hospital bed, even if they may not need one. In this case, our staff will notify the person and at the same time, guide them as to whether they need to be admitted to a facility or be home quarantined,” said a civic official.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||7 new deaths in Karnataka||The State reported seven COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday. With this, the toll touched 94. Five of the deaths were in Bengaluru Urban, while one each was reported from Bidar and Ramanagaram. The day also saw 317 new cases. With this, the total number of cases touched 7,530. The highest number of cases — 79 — were from Dakshina Kannada.
17 June 2020||Pune,||Backlog effect: State COVID-19 death toll crosses 5,500||While Maharashtra reported 81 more COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, the State Health Department’s data reconciliation exercise saw 1,328 ‘backlog’ fatalities being added to its toll, taking its toll to 5,537. The State also recorded 2,701 new cases, taking its tally to 1,13,445, of which 50,044 are active ones. As many as 1,802 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the tally of recoveries to 57,851. With 935 new cases, Mumbai’s case load touched 60,228, of which 26,012 are active. With 55 more deaths being reported, and 862 deaths recorded as backlog fatalities, the city’s toll has climbed to 3,167. Of the 1,328 backlog deaths, 466 other deaths, excluding Mumbai’s fatalities, were recorded across the State. These include 55 deaths in Thane, 35 in Navi Mumbai and 19 in Kalyan-Dombivli: all three areas are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The backlog deaths also include 85 from Pune district, including Pimpri-Chinchwad, and 45 from Solapur. Pune’s death toll has surged to 588, while Solapur’s death count has risen to 184. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 50.99% and the case fatality has increased to 4.8%.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai sees a dip, records 919 cases||For the first time since June 3, Chennai saw its daily tally of fresh COVID-19 cases fall below the 1,000-mark. The city reported 919 of the 1,515 cases on Tuesday. While the State’s overall caseload went up to 48,019*, another 1,438 persons were discharged. The deaths of 49 persons took the State’s toll to 528. Chennai now accounts for a total of 34,245 COVID-19 cases, of which 18,565 persons have been discharged. A total of 422 deaths have been reported in the city till now. As on date, a total of 26,782 persons have been discharged after treatment across the State. The number of active cases stands at 20,706. While the State’s recovery rate is around 55%, its case mortality rate has been increasing over the past two weeks, reaching 1.1%. Of the 49 deaths, 35 occurred in government hospitals. Among them was a 22-year-old woman with Down’s Syndrome. A resident of Chennai, she had diabetes, acute encephalopathy, C3-C4 myelopathy, paraparesis and bilateral basal ganglia hyperdense lesion and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 26. She tested positive for COVID-19 on May 29, and died on Monday due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure, the medical bulletin said. A 65-year-old woman with systemic hypertension was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 14. She tested positive for COVID-19 and died on the same day due to bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. The government also reported deaths of two residents of Chennai in private hospitals in Kancheepuram on June 9. The day also marked the highest number of samples to be tested on a single day. A total of 19,242 samples were tested, taking the overall number of samples tested till now to 7,48,244. Chengalpattu reported 88 new cases, taking its tally to 3,108. The district accounts for 30 deaths. Tiruvannamalai, which has also been witnessing an increasing number of cases, reported 64 new cases. There were 60 cases in Ranipet, 52 in Tiruvallur, 46 in Kancheepuram, 38 in Nagapattinam and 20 cases in Madurai. Villupuram, Vellore, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul reported more than 10 cases each. Of the fresh cases, 61 persons had returned from abroad and other States. This included 25 persons from Maharashtra and 10 from Rajasthan. Till date, a total of 2,221 persons who returned from other countries and States have tested positive for COVID-19. Overall, a total of 2,444 children aged 0 to 12 and 5,664 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan inspected RGGGH on Tuesday. They discussed improving COVID-19 infrastructure including the number of beds at the hospital with RGGGH authorities. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Three lakh samples to be tested daily||India has ramped up capacity to test up to three lakh samples per day for novel coronavirus infection, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The total number of samples tested so far is 59,21,069 with 1,54,935 samples tested in the last 24 hours. “A network of 907 labs has been created in the country as on date,” noted a Ministry release.page 10
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Our borders will remain intact: BJP||The borders of India “will remain intact” and “are intact” under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president J.P. Nadda said. “During the deescalation process in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, A violent face-off took place with the Chinese Army. The Indian Army gave a befitting reply. I pay my humble tributes to the Army. We now have the political will to give a befitting reply,” he said.page 9
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICSE students in two minds over exam||Many Class 10 and 12 students feel the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has given them a tough choice. The Council has asked students to decide whether they want to write their pending Board exams in July or be graded based on the internal assessment and pre-Board exams.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cheap drug shows results in COVID patients: study||Indian doctors have said the reported success of dexamethasone — an inexpensive steroid that retails for less than Rs. 10 for 10 ml and is made by several Indian manufacturers — in saving the lives of COVID-19 patients on ventilators is good news for the country. Scientists administering the WHO-administered RECOVERY trial, the largest global clinical trial that is checking the ability of several repurposed drugs to treat COVID-19, reported on Tuesday that dexamethasone reduced deaths by one-third in ventilated patients and by one-fifth in other patients receiving oxygen only. There was no benefit among those patients who did not require respiratory support. “If the claims bear out in the published study, then this is great news,” Able Lawrence, Professor of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, told The Hindu . “It is a cheaper option than tocilizumab.” Based on these results, one death would be prevented by treatment of around eight ventilated patients or around 25 patients requiring oxygen alone, scientists said. A scientific study with details on how the study was conducted and evaluations made isn’t yet available and the preliminary results were communicated via a press statement. D
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Tell us what is happening: Opposition||The Opposition has asked the Narendra Modi government to tell the nation what the “actual situation” along the LAC was and how it proposed to meet the challenging situation. Describing the death of soldiers as “deeply shocking and horrifying”, the Congress questioned the Centre’s silence.page 9
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||China trying to change status quo: MEA||Accusing the Chinese troops of “attempting to unilaterally change the status quo ” , the Ministry of External Aﬀairs said the casualties “could have been avoided” had agreements made by military commanders over the past week been followed by the Chinese side.page 9
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Top priority to welfare, social justice: Governor||Decentralisation of administration is the key principle based on which a legislation is in process to have three capitals, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said. Addressing the State Legislature via a video link from Raj Bhavan to formally mark the beginning of the Budget session of the Assembly on Tuesday, the Governor said under the three-capital concept, Amaravati would be the Legislative capital, Visakhapatnam the Executive capital and Kurnool the Judicial capital. Stating that the government had done exceptionally well in ensuring social justice, he said an impeccable delivery mechanism of welfare schemes was put in place in the form of village and ward secretariats, and that 90% of the promises made in the election manifesto, Navaratnalu, had been fulfilled in the first year itself.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. adds 437 deaths to COVID-19 toll||The Capital recorded 93 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours but the death toll was revised from 1,400 to 1,837 on Tuesday. Also, 1,859 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the city, taking the total to 44,688.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Fast-track courts for cow slaughter trials’||Haryana CM Manohar Lal on Tuesday said his government has decided to hold trials in cow slaughter cases in fast-track courts. The State government has also decided that the Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will be passed to stop forced conversions.
17 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan BJP shifts MLAs to Jaipur hotel||After the ruling Congress in Rajasthan shifted its MLAs to a hotel here with allegations of attempts at poaching, the Opposition BJP sent all its legislators to another luxury hotel near Sanganer, on the outskirts of Jaipur on Tuesday, three days ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea against deduction for PM CARES||Only a ‘stone-hearted person’ would challenge an organisation’s decision to deduct one-day salary for a pandemic, the Delhi High Court said on Tuesday while dismissing an appeal by a DU professor against deduction of his salary for contributing to the PM CARES fund.
17 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Bidar reports seventh COVID-19 death||Bidar reported its seventh COVID-19 death on Tuesday. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a 49-year-old man (P-7,524) who was diagnosed of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) was admitted to a designated hospital in Bidar on June 14. He died the next day. The bulletin said that the patient had hypertension and diabetes mellitus.
17 June 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Probe into illegalities by documentary makers’||Samaj Parivartana Samudaya, Jan Sangram Parishat and other organisations have sought an independent inquiry into what they termed large-scale irregularities and illegalities by makers of a documentary, Wild Karnataka, and senior forest officials, which had consequently caused huge loss to the State Exchequer. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Tuesday, samudaya founder-president S.R. Hiremath said that there was enough documentary evidence to show that the documentary makers, Sarath Champati, Kalyan Varma and Amogavarsha, along with the former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Vinay Luthra and IFS officer Vijay Mohan Raj, had indulged in irregularities to cause loss to the Exchequer and they had also availed of government benefits during the making of the documentary. He said that the documentary makers had violated conditions as per a Memorandum of Understanding of November 3, 2014, and had entered into agreement with a private firm for commercial exploitation of the documentary.
17 June 2020||Chennai,||Photo of body lying next to patient goes viral||After the photograph of a body, wrapped in plastic sheets, lying next to a patient in the COVID-19 ward of Stanley Government Hospital here went viral, the Health Department ordered a probe on Tuesday. The team, which conducted the investigation, said the photo was taken before the body, wrapped as per protocol, was removed for burial.
17 June 2020||Chennai,||T.N. eases curbs on inter-State movement||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday decided to allow inter-State movement of workers and executives engaged in industrial and other economic activities in neighbouring States, without insisting on COVID-19 test and quarantine, if they returned within 48 hours.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Borders of India will remain intact: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the borders of India “will remain intact” and “are intact” under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi. He was addressing a virtual rally for party workers in Kerala on Tuesday while making this reference to the India-China face-off in eastern Ladakh which saw casualties for the first time in over four decades. “During the deescalation process that was under way in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, a violent face-off took place with the Chinese Army. The Indian Army gave a befitting reply. I pay my humble tributes to them. We now have the political will to give a befitting reply,” he said. ‘Unprecedented’ Other leaders of the party described the face-off as unprecedented but noted that the “picture on the Chinese side” was yet to emerge. Party general secretary in charge of organisation B.L. Santhosh tweeted, “The Indian forces have engaged in an unprecedented face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso in Leh region. Indian efforts at building infrastructure in a never before scale increased Chinese worries. Our forces are resolute in forcing Chinese troops to retreat. In the process yesterday, we have lost brave deshbhakts [patriots]. Veer Sadgati to the departed souls. The picture on the Chinese side is yet to emerge. It is still more huge.” He added that “now the efforts are on to diffuse the situation holding onto our stand and continuing our road building efforts. As a country its time to stand with our forces and government. Rest everything can wait.” Other party leaders, like Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrashekhar, too tweeted that it was time to stand with the armed forces in such a crisis.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India ramps up testing capacity for virus||India has ramped up capacity to test up to three lakh samples per day for the novel coronavirus infection, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The total number of samples tested so far is 59,21,069 with 1,54,935 samples tested in the last 24 hours, according to data released by the Ministry. “A network of 907 labs has been created in the country as on date. This includes 659 labs in the government sector and 248 in the private sector,” noted a Ministry release. Advisory issued The Health Ministry also explained that to make COVID-19 testing more affordable and increase the volume of testing without losing reliability, sensitivity and specificity, the Indian Council of Medical Research has issued an advisory on point-of-care Rapid Antigen Detection Test. “The Rapid Antigen test may be used in containment zones and hospital settings under strict medical supervision. The Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit takes 15 minutes to show results and therefore, will help in early detection of the disease. The antigen test can be conducted at the site of sample collection in the healthcare setting within one hour of sample collection. Domestic manufacturing capacity of antigen test kits in the country currently is around 10 million in a month,” the Ministry said. To help States easily procure the Rapid Antigen test kits, the Centre is ensuring that the domestic manufacturers are onboarded to the Government E-Marketplace (GEM) portal, the Ministry said. It added that in order to enhance the testing capacity in Delhi, each of the 11 districts shall now have assigned labs for exclusively testing the samples from the respective districts. “The samples from each district are being sent to these labs to ensure timely testing and getting the results without any delay. Currently, there are 42 labs in Delhi with per day testing capacity of approx. 17,000,” the Ministry said. For frontline workers It said that the ELISA and CLIA antibody tests can be used for asymptomatic frontline workers, doctors, paramedics etc., and for those working in COVID-19 care to boost their confidence Meanwhile, the Ministry in its release said Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have already started engaging with private healthcare providers to facilitate enhanced bed availability and critical care health facilities to ensure fair and transparent charges for services provided.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal curbs on foreign channels||Foreign news channels, including those from India, may not receive permission to air in Nepal if they fail to produce advertisement-free content. This is part of the “clean feed” policy for foreign TV networks that the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli began to activate on Monday. The policy stems from the Advertisement (Regulation) Act-2019 endorsed by the Nepalese Parliament last winter and an official order was issued by the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology of Nepal. Foreign TV channels will have to air content without commercial advertisements or promotional materials and campaigns. The law aims at generating more advertisements for the local channels and help domestic media and advertisement industry. Violations will attract tough penalty. International broadcasters that refuse to produce “clean feed” content are likely to lose viewers. It is understood that the policy, which will make telecasting of foreign channels more expensive, is aimed at giving greater control over them, especially those from India that are in Kathmandu’s focus because of the coverage of the Kalapani territorial dispute. ‘Not aimed at India’ Sources in Kathmandu insisted that the policy is not a reaction to the coverage by Indian TV channels as Nepal has been deliberating it since 2016 but the recent acrimonious exchanges on air between Nepalese and Indian commentators is also likely to have played a role in tightening the government’s control over foreign channels. Indian channels that are at present allowed to telecast into Nepal without interference will be asked to go “advertisement free” which is likely to expose them to a financial setback. Nepalese viewers often prefer foreign news channels because of the better content, but in recent years there has been a spurt in media enterprise in the Himalayan country and the government of Mr. Oli feels that this policy will give them access to the much-needed advertisement revenue and talent.
17 June 2020||Chennai,||Chennai sees dip, TN records 1,515 cases, 49 deaths||In Kerala, 79 new COVID-19 cases and 60 recoveries were reported, keeping the active number of cases at 1,366. All except six of the new ones were imported cases of infection, diagnosed in people who came from abroad or other parts of the country. Six cases of local transmission were reported, one of them a health care worker in Pathanamthitta district. A total of 2,622 persons had tested positive and 1,234 had recovered till date. The State had 1,22,143 persons under surveillance in various districts, of whom, except 1,986 isolated in hospitals with mild symptoms, the rest were on home or institutional quarantine. On Tuesday, 210 persons were admitted in hospitals. An official release said 4,003 samples were taken in a 24-hour period until Tuesday. Samples of 1,18,893 persons were tested in all. This was in addition to 32,534 samples tested from high risk or priority groups in the community. One region in Thiruvananthapuram district newly entered the hotspot list on Tuesday, while 16 got dropped . Andhra Pradesh recorded two deaths and 264 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The daily bulletin here said that of 264 new cases, 193 were local residents and 44 were migrant workers or people from other States and 27 were foreign returnees. The State tally rose to 6,720 and 3,513 had recovered, including 128 on Tuesday. There were 3,119 active cases under treatment. The two new deaths occurred in Chittoor and Prakasam districts. The worst-hit districts of Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur continued to report a large number of new local cases. Kurnool had 56 cases while Krishna reported 34, Guntur 29. Anantapur 28, East Godavari 12, Nellore 11, West Godavari 10, Kadapa five, Chittoor four, Visakhapatnam three and Vizianagaram one case. Prakasam and Srikakulam reported no new cases.  The overall death rate in the State was 1.31% and the recovery rate fell to 52.28%. The tests per million population ratio went up to 10,923 and the positivity rate was 1.15%.  T.N. records 49 deaths For the first time since June 3, Chennai on Tuesday saw its daily COVID-19 positive numbers fall below the 1,000 mark. The city reported 919 of the 1,515 new coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu. While the State’s overall tally went up to 48,019, another 1,438 persons were discharged from hospitals. However, the deaths of 49 persons were registered on Tuesday raising the State’s toll to 528. Chennai now accounts for a total of 34,245 COVID-19 cases of which 18,565 were discharged. A total of 422 deaths were reported in Chennai. As of Tuesday, 26,782 persons were discharged after treatment. Recoveries exceeded active cases, which stood at 20,706. While the State’s recovery rate was around 55%, its case mortality rate has been increasing over the past two weeks, reaching 1.1% with a total of 528 fatalities. Of the 49 deaths, 35 occurred in government hospitals. Among them was a 22-year-old woman with Down Syndrome. A resident of Chennai, she had diabetes, acute encephalopathy, and other neurological conditions and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 26. She tested positive for COVID-19 on May 29, and died on Monday due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure, the medical bulletin said.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition calls for clarity on crisis||Opposition parties on Tuesday asked the Narendra Modi government to tell the nation what the “actual situation” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was, and how it proposed to meet the challenging situation after Indian soldiers were killed on Tuesday in a violent face-off with Chinese troops on the Ladakh border. Describing the incident as “deeply shocking, horrifying and unacceptable”, the Congress questioned the government’s silence. The Left parties said the government must explain what had happened on the border, even as it advocated talks and de-escalation of the conflict. “The nation is waiting for an official statement from the Ministry of Defence or Army HQ. Will it come tonight? The PM has maintained a worrying silence since May 5. Can you imagine any other Head of Government not saying a word for 7 weeks since the intrusion of foreign troops into a country?” asked former Union Minister P. Chidambaram in a series of tweets. In a statement, Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh should break their silence on the issue. “In the last five decades, not a single casualty or martyrdom of our soldiers has occurred or happened on Indo-China Border, that is the LAC...Will the PM and Raksha Mantri take the Nation into confidence as to how could our officer and soldiers be killed as the Chinese were reportedly withdrawing from our territory in the Galwan Valley?” Mr. Surjewala asked. “Will the Prime Minister tell the Nation as to how the government proposes to meet this challenging situation which has serious ramifications for India’s ‘National Security and Territorial Integrity’?” Mr. Surjewala added. Former Jammu & Kashmir Chief Minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah wondered that if such deaths took place during a de-escalation process, how escalated the situation must be in the first place. “This is what happens when the media propagates the government line that asking questions is anti-national,” Mr. Abdullah tweeted. ‘Talks imperative’ “The Government of India should come out with an authoritative statement as to what actually happened. It is imperative that both the Governments immediately initiate high-level talks to defuse the situation and advance the process of disengagement...” the Communist Party of India-Marxist Politburo said. Communist Party of India general secretary D. Raja said any military confrontation between the two major Asian countries not only impacted the cooperation and friendship between the two countries but could also jeopardise peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. “We feel that both the sides have to intensify their efforts keeping in mind their core interest in achieving a mutually acceptable solution to the India-China boundary question as soon as possible,” Mr. Raja said. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Twitter said that his father and former Defence Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had on many occasions warned the government of the “dangers and challenges from the Chinese side but it was met with indifference”. “When will the government respond to this [Ladakh incident]?” he asked.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India says Chinese troops tried to change status quo||Accusing the Chinese troops of “attempting to unilaterally change the status quo ” in the Galwan valley, the Ministry of External Affairs said the casualties “could have been avoided” had agreements made by military commanders over the past week been followed by the Chinese side. In a statement on Tuesday night, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the violence that claimed Indian soldiers’ lives in the Galwan valley, including that of a Commanding Officer of Colonel rank, had come despite a series of ground-level discussions on de-escalation of the month-long standoff between the two armies. According to the statement, the talks on June 6, had been “productive” and meetings had been held “to implement the consensus reached at a higher level” on de-escalation and de-induction of troops. Five points At least five points in Ladakh including the Galwan Valley patrolling points, Hostprings area and Pangong Tso (lake) have been identified as flashpoints, and India’s demands had included a return to status quo ante , and the retreat of Chinese troops occupying Indian patrol areas, along with tents, vehicles and equipment. “While it was our expectation that this would unfold smoothly, the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley,” the MEA said. “On the late evening and night of 15th June 2020 a violent face-off happened as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there. Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” it added. The MEW also said that all Indian activities were on its side of the LAC, and it expected “the same of China.” While talks were held at the area of the Galwan valley clash to defuse tensions on Tuesday, it is unclear if further diplomatic talks are planned in the aftermath of the violent incident, where the casualty figures are expected to rise. While External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is due to attend a meeting of Foreign Ministers of Russia, India and China (RIC grouping) on Monday, MEA officials would not confirm if the meeting will go ahead. Speaking about talks, the MEA said India remains “firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue.” “At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the Ministry added.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||78 terrorists killed in J&K this year||Belying the Union government’s claims that abrogating Articles 370 and 35-A will help end terrorism in the freshly minted Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the number of terrorists killed in the first five months of 2019 and 2020 has shown only a small dip. Seventy-eight terrorists were killed in January-May this year, against 101 in the same period last year. The number of terror incidents, however, dropped from 223 to 78 in the same period. Two counter-insurgency experts have expressed concern over the spurt in killings and the continued recruitment of locals in terrorist ranks. Another official said a coherent strategy was required post Article 370. The euphoria over the number of terrorists killed would not win over the people of Kashmir, he noted. Low recruitment J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh, however, said that the number of new recruits joining terrorist ranks had been at a record low this year and the police were engaging with families and communities to wean them away from militancy. The officer said the recent increase in encounters and operations by security forces was not unusual and should not be seen in isolation as the focus was on stopping boys from joining the terrorist ranks. “So far this year we have been successful in stopping 20 boys who could have joined terrorist groups. Pakistan is leaving no stone unturned by pushing fake propaganda and old messages to recruit them. Just a few days ago, three Awantipora boys, who had almost joined the terrorists, were persuaded to return as we involved their family members and counselled them,” he added. Vappala Balachandran, former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, said, “The J&K police is pathetically trying to connect the alarmingly high number of militants killed this year with their elevated operational efficiency to justify Union Home Ministry’s claim that Article 370 abrogation had brought peace. However, the serious increase in insurgency despite the heaviest deployment of security forces...would be evident with the killing of 89 militants, mostly local, this year compared to 29 during the second half of 2019”. ‘Anger against govt.’ Avinash Mohananey, a former Director General of Police who has also worked in Kashmir, said the most significant part of continued terrorism was the ongoing local recruitment. “It does not matter if you have killed a certain number of terrorists...the conditions for local recruitment are still there...” he observed. Officials said that Pakistan continued to push terrorists and weapons from across the border. Mr. Singh said around 40 terror associates and 240 overground workers had been arrested this year.  Post August 5, around 400 cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were registered and around 300 people booked under the Public Safety Act. The number of small arms recovered from terrorists in the first five months stood at 77, while the recovery in the entire 2019 was 71. Already 50 AK-47 rifles have been recovered this year, compared to 101 such sophisticated weapons recovered in the whole of 2019.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gujarat model exposed: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday targeted the BJP government in Gujarat over the high COVID-19 mortality rate in the State and said that the “Gujarat model has been exposed”. “Covid-19 mortality rate: Gujarat: 6.25 per cent, Maharashtra: 3.73 per cent, Rajasthan: 2.32 per cent, Punjab: 2.17 per cent, Puducherry: 1.98 per cent, Jharkhand: 0.5 per cent, Chhattisgarh: 0.35 per cent. Gujarat Model exposed,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, comparing the mortality rate of Gujarat with Congress-ruled States or States where the party is part of the ruling alliance. The Congress also tagged a news report that analysed the high death rate in Gujarat. With 24,055 positive COVID-19 case and 1,505 deaths until June 15, the State now has the fourth highest rate of infections in the country. Mr. Gandhi has been attacking the BJP over the handling of the COVID pandemic and quoted renowned physicist Albert Einstein to say that “the only thing more dangerous than ignorance is arrogance”. He also shared a graph that showed how the four phases of lockdown have flattened the curve of the economy instead of COVID-19 deaths. Separately, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel accused the Gujarat government of “drastically reducing” its healthcare expenditure over the years. “In 20 years, Gujarat is one of the handful of States where immunisation coverage has declined. Before 2000, Gujarat was spending 4.3 per cent of its expenditure on healthcare, in 2018 it was roughly 0.72 per cent. The entire State is paying a price for a flawed model,” Mr. Patel tweeted with data published in a leading think tank. The data claims that Gujarat ranks 33rd out of total 36 States and UTs in achieving full immunisation. Earlier, Mr. Patel had questioned the higher COVID-19 testing charges of private laboratories in Ahmedabad compared with Mumbai.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India expects to sail through UN Security Council vote||India expects to sail through as the 193-member United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) votes on Wednesday for contenders to five non-permanent seats at the UN Security Council for 2021-22. India is standing unopposed as the nominee for the Asia-Pacific seat and needs two-thirds of UNGA members, or 129 votes, to be confirmed. Mexico is also unopposed in its bid for the Latin American and Caribbean seat, while there is a straight contest between Kenya and late entrant Djibouti for the African seat. All eyes are, however on the contest between Canada, Ireland and Norway, who are vying for the two seats allotted to the Western European and Others Group (WEOG), with each making a pitch for India’s vote. ‘Not complacent’ On Friday, Norwegian Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide held a videoconference with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Eliciting votes for the UNSC was “one of the topics discussed” said Norwegian Ambassador Hans Jacob Frydenlund. “We count on support from a number of friendly countries. We are confident, but not complacent of securing the seat at the UNSC,” he told The Hindu when asked if India had assured Norway its support. Irish Ambassador to India Brendan Ward would not comment on whether India had specifically offered support. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his Irish counterpart Leo Varadkar on April 22, and had also met him on the sidelines of the UNGA in New York last September. “Both Ireland and India have the advantage that neither is a member of a military alliance,” Mr. Ward told The Hindu . “India has led the Non Aligned Movement (NAM), while Ireland has a unique position as a member of the European Union that is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) alliance,” he added, also alluding to the other “common bond” that Mr. Varadkar is of Indian origin. Canada in fray While Ireland announced its candidature in 2005, and Norway in 2007, Canada has been a relatively new entrant in the fray, with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announcing its bid for the UNSC in 2016, shortly after being elected to power. Mr. Trudeau has pitched Canada’s campaign as a push for multilateralism in the post COVID-19 global recovery, and has reached out personally to many countries, including in a call with Mr. Modi on April 29, to win the vote. In its own campaign brochure, India had highlighted its commitment to multilateralism, demand for transparency in mandates for UN peacekeeping missions, push for the Indian-led Comprehensive Convention for International Terrorism (CCIT) and joint efforts for UN reform and the expansion of the UNSC. As a result, some have suggested that Canada’s membership of the “United for Consensus” grouping that includes Pakistan, who oppose the expansion of the permanent members of the UNSC and push for more non permanent or “elected seats”, could hamper its chances of securing India’s votes. However, former UN envoy Asoke Mukerji says that the decision for India and other countries will be made by balancing “favours” each country does for others within the UN system, and not as much on ideological differences.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||District-wise data of COVID hospitals to be put online||How many COVID-19 hospitals are there in the country? Where are they located, what facilities do they have, and how can they be contacted? At a time when many patients have reported running from pillar to post to find a hospital which will treat and admit them, the Health Ministry has finally appointed a nodal officer to collect district-wise details and make it available online. This comes in response to a Central Information Commission (CIC) order dated June 5, after the Ministry failed to provide the information to a Right to Information applicant. Health Ministry Deputy Secretary Saranga Dhar Nayak has been appointed as the nodal officer to “compile, collate and consolidate” the information sought and make it available online within 15 days of the receipt of the CIC order, according to an order issued by the Ministry’s RTI Cell on June 15. There have been multiple reports of COVID-19 patients being turned away from hospital after hospital, while patients suffering from other health emergencies have been refused treatment at COVID-19 centres. “Officers from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Directorate General of Health Services and the Indian Council of Medical Research who ought to be the concerned Public Authorities having the consolidated data appeared totally clueless and tossed the responsibility of record keeping in the present instance from one Public Authority to another,” observed Chief Information Commissioner Bimal Julka in his order. RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak had requested district-wise details of the hospitals and healthcare facilities designated as COVID-19 treatment centres, including addresses and phone numbers, suggesting that the data could be mapped onto Google Maps to make it more user-friendly, similar to the initiative taken for COVID-19 testing centres. He also asked what was the criteria for designating them as COVID-19 treatment centres and details about the hospitals whose status as treatment centres had been withdrawn. Ministers’ statements Mr. Nayak pointed out that Central Ministers have regularly been making statements and issuing press releases on the total number of treatment centres and beds available. “If the aggregate figures are available, then where did they come from,” he asked. “During the hearing, it transpired that the representatives of public authorities had no information about the source of this data that Ministers were presenting to the public and in their discussions with state governments”. “It was observed by the Commission that important decisions are being made by the Governments involving huge interventions in the healthcare and daily lives of billions of people as they seek to secure social, economic and cultural well-being of its population and uphold the rule of law,” said the CIC order. “It is essential that the decisions themselves and the senior decision makers involved are thoroughly documented in order for the Governments to remain accountable both during and after the crisis for future generations to be able to learn from these actions”.
17 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Shortage of banking facilities crippling Odisha’s rural areas||The video of a 60-year-old woman in Odisha dragging her bedridden centenarian mother on a cot, which went viral on Sunday, highlights the problem that villagers face in accessing banks. It has also touched upon another issue — the reluctance of many banks to open branches in rural areas and inadequate staff in the existing ones to handle rising banking demands of the villagers. “The commercial banks are mostly urban oriented. Except the SBI, UCO Bank, Union Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank and Bank of India, other banks do not have sizeable presence in the rural areas,” says the State Focus Paper 2020-21 of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The Regional Rural Banks, which have a good number of branches, are not in robust financial health. There were two Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) with a network of 987 branches (786 rural, 156 semi-urban and 45 urban branches.) “During 2018-19, both incurred losses. Their net loss increased from Rs. 216.12 crore as on March 31, 2018 to Rs. 596.82 crore,” says the focus paper.  According to the NABARD’s annual assessment report, while NPA (non-performing assets) as percentage of loans and advances increased from 25.60% as on March 31, 2018 to 27.17% as on March 31, 2019, recoveries as a percentage of demand decreased from 67.81% in 2017-18 to 58.16%. Due to poor financial health, banks are often found to be understaffed.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No rise in domestic violence cases, says NCW chairperson||Chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW) Rekha Sharma denied on Tuesday that there was a spurt in domestic violence in the country. Ms. Sharma said that there was only a rise in reporting of such crimes. Her response was to a report in The Hindu on a 2.5 times increase in domestic violence complaints registered by the NCW between March 25 and May 31. ‘No new cases’ “The increase in domestic violence complaints shows a spike in reporting, not necessarily a rise in such incidents or crimes. We started a new WhatsApp helpline number during the lockdown to help women to report, which led to an increase in the number of complaints,” Ms. Sharma told The Hindu . She emphasised that 99% of the complaints received by the NCW were “not new cases”. “Many survivors who have approached us say they have been experiencing violence at home for past several years. These are not new cases.” 1,477 complaints Between March 25 and May 31, the NCW received 1,477 complaints of domestic violence. Nearly 727 of them were received on its WhatsApp helpline (+917217735372 ) set up in April to ensure women, who couldn’t access emails or send complaints by post, could receive help The total complaints during the 68-day period were 2.5 times of the 607 of complaints received between March and May last year.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Climate report predicts hotter, rainier days||India’s first ever national forecast on the impact of global warming on the subcontinent in the coming century, expects annual rainfall to increase, along with more severe cyclones and — paradoxically — more droughts. These projections, based on a climate forecasting model developed at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, will be part of the next report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), expected to be ready in 2022. From 1986-2015, the hottest day and coldest night have warmed 0.63°C and 0.4°C, respectively. By the end of the 21st century, the report says, these temperatures are projected to rise by approximately 4.7°C and 5.5°C, respectively, relative to the corresponding temperatures in 1976-2005. This under a hypothetical scenario where no steps are taken to curb global greenhouse gas emissions or the RCP8.5 as it is called. Currently countries have signed an agreement to reduce emissions to restrict global temperature rise by the end of the century to less than 2°C. The frequencies of future warm days and warm nights are projected to increase by 55% and 70%, respectively, relative to the reference period of 1976-2005. Summer heat waves over India are projected to be three to four times higher by the end of the 21st century. The projected rapid changes in India’s climate will place increasing stress on the country’s natural ecosystems, agricultural output, and fresh water resources, the report says. Roxy Mathew Koll, Scientist at the IITM and associated with IPCC scientific report, said in a statement that an observed change of 0.7°C in average temperatures over India, had already registered a spike in extreme weather events over the region.
17 June 2020||SURYAPET,||Col. Santosh Babu’s martyrdom hailed||Messages of martyrdom, salutes and flower bouquets flooded social media platforms, as news of Army officer Col. Santosh Babu’s death, and that he hailed from Suryapet town, spread quickly on Tuesday afternoon onwards. Family sources confirmed that the Defence Ministry has communicated about the tragedy to the officer’s wife Santoshi on Monday night in Delhi, and the information was conveyed to his parents here on Tuesday noon. Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of the 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment, according to reports, was killed in the stand-off with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley, Ladakh on Monday night. The officer had been living with his wife and nine-year-old daughter Abhigna and four-year-old son Anil, in Delhi. Only son of retired bank manager B. Upender and homemaker Manjula, residents of Vidyanagar in the town, he was due for transfer to Hyderabad in September, they said. “He was a meritorious student right from school. He was focused on serving in the Army and joined Korukonda Sainik School, and then the National Defence Academy and the Indian Military Academy. My son won medals and fought for the country at the border, but died too young,” Mr. Upender said, expressing pride. “I am grieving as a mother, but am also proud and happy that he sacrificed his life for the country. His martyrdom will not go in vain,” Ms. Manjula wept. State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy spoke to the parents over phone, offering words of comfort, local legislator and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and others called on the family. Police officials said the Army was coordinating with the family to bring the officer’s body to Suryapet soon, and local arrangements were being done for the final journey on Wednesday.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Will request PM for more relaxations: Karnataka CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday said that the State government has no plans to reimpose the COVID-19 lockdown. He said he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more relaxations in Karnataka during their meeting on Wednesday. “Lockdown is not necessary for Karnataka. We will request for more relaxations,” he said in his reply to a question on videoconferencing with Mr. Modi. While some service activities have now opened up, several others, including metro rail, gyms, swimming pools, and cinemas, have remained shut since the lockdown was introduced on March 25. The owners of these service providers have been demanding that they be granted permission to resume activities as their businesses were hit severely during the past three months. “I will request him [Mr. Modi] to make way for people to lead a normal life and for improvements in the economic situation,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. In the first round of meetings on Tuesday, Mr. Modi interacted with Chief Ministers of States and Union Territories that have had relatively few COVID-19 cases. In the second round of meetings on Wednesday, Mr. Modi will speak to Chief Ministers of States with higher number of cases. Mr. Yediyurappa insisted that the maximum number of cases in the State were because of people coming from other States and their primary contacts. He was speaking to the media after taking part in a special puja organised at Shankar Mutt in Bengaluru with a couple of his Cabinet colleagues. He said the government has been making all efforts to control spread of the disease by monitoring people travelling to the State. “We are taking strong measures and all of us should fight this together,” he said. He said despite financial difficulties, the State government had released Rs. 1,000 crore on Monday for providing compensation to 50 lakh farmers in the State. The Centre has been providing Rs. 2,000 each to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi and the State government has decided to release an additional Rs. 4,000, bringing the total to Rs. 6,000, the Chief Minister said.
17 June 2020||JAIPUR,||BJP shifts MLAs to Jaipur hotel||After the ruling Congress in Rajasthan shifted its MLAs to a hotel here with allegations of attempts at poaching, the Opposition BJP sent all its legislators to another luxury hotel near Sanganer, on the outskirts of Jaipur on Tuesday, three days ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. The BJP MLAs gathered at the party’s State headquarters here for a legislature party meeting, after which they were taken in buses to the hotel on Tonk Road for attending a “training programme” on voting and legislative issues. ‘Planned move’ BJP State president Satish Poonia, however, said the schedule for the legislature party meeting and stay at the hotel had been decided much in advance. “All of us will be staying in the hotel for two days to understand the legislative subjects related to Rajya Sabha. Our stay will involve training and monitoring of progress”. The three MLAs of the BJP’s alliance partner, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, will also join the camp, while former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje is likely to reach Jaipur a day before the Rajya Sabha polls. A rehearsal on the voting pattern will held at the training programme. Mr. Poonia alleged that the Congress had forcibly kept Independent legislators at its camp and was putting pressure on them to vote for its candidates.
17 June 2020||Kozhikode,||Additional flights to operate from the U.S.||The Vande Bharat Mission launched in May to repatriate Indians stranded abroad following the COVID-19-induced air travel restrictions will be intensified in the coming days even as some States, especially Kerala, have raised concerns over the number of positive cases among returnees. Sources say Air India will operate over 70 flights to various destinations in the ongoing third phase of the mission that began on June 11. It will go on till June 30. The third phase will be crucial as the mission plans to evacuate 38,000 Indians on 337 flights from 31 countries. Now the focus is on the U.S. and Canada. Air India plans to operate 10 additional flights to the U.S. from June 20 to July 3. Bookings are open only on the Air India website. About 4 lakh Indians have registered with diplomatic missions across the globe for repatriation under the mission. Around 500 flights have brought back nearly 1 lakh people from 52 countries till now since May 7. Also, more than 24,000 people have flown out on outbound flights. Sources said the Ministry of Civil Aviation will ramp up the evacuation operation from GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) nations, Africa, Singapore and Malaysia. As of now, Indians stranded abroad have been repatriated via flights, ships, and also on buses from neighbouring countries of Nepal and Bangladesh.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lives and livelihoods our priority, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said saving lives and reviving livelihoods should go together in India’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, a pointer that opening up the economy would continue apace after weeks of the lockdown. In the first part of his two-part videoconference with Chief Ministers (he had an interaction with 21 Chief Ministers and Lt. Governors on Tuesday), he emphasised that while green shoots were visible in the weeks since “Unlock 1.0” kicked in, strict adherence to the discipline of fighting COVID-19 by wearing masks, observing social distancing, frequent hand-washing and maintaining hygiene was important and couldn’t be allowed to flag “even for a minute”. “Every life is important to us and we mourn all whom we have lost to the disease. The world has, however, also taken note of the fact that India, despite its size and complexity, has managed to keep its casualties low,” he said. In the two weeks that ‘Unlock 1.0’ was on, certain green shoots in the economy had emerged, including increased power consumption, June figures of exports being nearly pre-COVID-19 levels, fertilizer sales being up, and a 12-13% hike in the areas sown under kharif crops. “In many States, where the share of horticulture, agriculture and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) is high as per their economy, there have been several decisions taken under the Aatmanirbharta [self-reliance] campaign to boost such sectors. I would ask the State government to come up with policies to handhold small enterprises and also to work with banks so that credit, available under the Aatmanirbharta campaign is available to entrepreneurs and industry,” he said. Pinarayi Vijayan’s plea Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Indian embassies should facilitate COVID-19 tests for those returning to India, and that the Centre should make test kits available for NRIs. The second set of meetings will happen on Wednesday.
17 June 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 patient’s death to be probed||The Bhopal district administration has launched an inquiry into the death of an eight-month pregnant woman of COVID-19 after she was allegedly refused treatment and admission by two government-run hospitals, “denied oxygen support” by another and “misdiagnosed” by a private hospital. After Amreen, 23, complained of chest pain and breathlessness on May 26, her family first took her to a private hospital, which referred her to a government hospital, apparently misdiagnosing her unease for a heart ailment. The J.P. Hospital, a COVID-19 hospital, refused her admission and treatment, as did the Indira Gandhi Mahila Evam Bal Chikitsalaya, a hospital for Bhopal gas tragedy women survivors, where her pregnancy was being monitored as a registered patient, said her husband, a hairdresser, requesting anonymity. When the family approached the Sultania Zanana Hospital, Amreen had to allegedly sit outside for three hours without oxygen support before being briefly admitted. The family was then asked to take her to the Hamidia Hospital, a COVID-19 facility. The woman finally got ventilator support at the Hamidia Hospital, and hours later tested positive for COVID-19. “However, the relief was short-lived, as the foetus was declared dead in the womb in the evening,” said the husband.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||ICSE students in two minds over exam||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) conducts the ICSE and ISC exams. Students have been asked to communicate their decision to schools by June 22, according to a statement issued on Monday. An ongoing case in the Bombay High Court will have its next hearing on Wednesday. About 2.8 lakh students are writing the Class 10 and 12 examinations. First option Students at several ICSE schools across the country said they were being coerced to choose the first option. They shared screenshots with The Hindu ,  showing messages from schools in Lucknow, Allahabad, Jamshedpur, Kanpur and Kolkata directing them to sign letters with specific phrasing, giving their consent to write the board examinations. The Council’s chief executive, Gerry Arathoon, did not respond to The Hindu’ s request for comment on the actions of these schools. Mumbai-based advocate Arvind Tiwari, father of a boy in Class 10, had filed a public interest litigation petition, asking for the examinations be cancelled due to the rising number of COVID cases, and suggested that the 20% of board exam marks that come from internal assessment be used to grade students instead. In its response on Monday, the Council offered another solution. Stating that its paramount interest was to “protect the safety, wellbeing and academic endeavours of students,” and contending that its safety protocol would adequately protect students and staff participating in the examination process, the CISCE gave students two choices. If they did not wish to write the exams in July, they would have to abide by a grading methodology to be determined by the Council based on internal assessment, pre-board scores and performance in the already concluded board papers. If the exams could not be held in July for any reason, the Council reserved the right to cancel them and invoke its methodology instead, it added. Students cannot make a subject-wise choice. A number of parents have filed interventions in the case, slamming the Council. “While on the outset it appears to be pragmatic and an act of benevolence, the said proposal is nothing more than an act of coercion,” said the intervention filed by Raju Tanwani, who has a son in Class 10. “The proposal of having the remaining exams being held in July especially when the rate of cases are increasing on a daily basis or having to compute examination results based on preliminary examinations is akin to making the already stressed students choose between the devil and the deep sea.” “Majority of students don’t want to give exams nor do they want to be judged for remaining papers on basis of preboards as they are tougher than boards. Many don’t take it seriously and work their heart out for boards,” said Umang Goswami, a student whose email to the court is being treated as an intervention. “Also, preboards level of difficulty and checking varies from school to school, so it’s non-uniform for all students. So in fear of losing marks, many students have to risk their life unwillingly.” Risk of infection Ten parents jointly filed an intervention saying that even if all precautions were taken at the examination centre, many students and invigilators would travel by public transport to the Centre, increasing the risk of infection. They also pointed out that many families had senior citizens with co-morbidities at home, who would be vulnerable to any infection contracted by the children. “In mid-March, when the number of cases were relatively low and we were willing to send our children to write the exams, the Council insisted on putting everything on hold. At that time, they said health and well-being of the child was most important,” said Mr. Tiwari, pointing out that cases had exponentially increased since then. “This is my question to them: is that not important anymore?”
17 June 2020||Palghar,||Two held for killing man over property dispute||Two people were arrested for allegedly strangling a man over a property dispute at a village in Palghar, police said on Tuesday. On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, Jaideep Thackeray (18) was strangled and his body was dumped outside is brother’s home in Gangangaon village, inspector Ajay Vasave, Talasari police station, said. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s brother, the police on Tuesday arrested Sunil Thackeray (38) and Ankush Dalvi (22), while the third accused, a minor, was yet to be detained, the official said. Investigations have revealed that Mr. Thackeray was the victim’s cousin and was engaged in a property dispute with him. The accused have been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.
17 June 2020||Srinagar,||3 militants slain in Shopian||Three militants were killed in an operation by security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian on Tuesday. An official said the three were encircled during an early morning search operation in Turkwangam area of Shopian. “The militants opened fire on the search party. In the gunfight, the militants were killed. The area is being searched for bodies,” a police official said. The identity and the affiliation of the militants could not be ascertained immediately. The joint operation is being carried out by the police, the Army's 44RR and the CRPF. An Army spokeman said two AK-47 and one INSAS rifles were recovered from the operation site.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre profiteering from low oil prices, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing the Centre of profiteering from low international oil prices and urging him to pass on the benefits to people by rolling back the additional taxes on petroleum products. “Your government is seeking to earn an additional revenue of nearly Rs. 2,60,000 crores by these ill-advised hikes in excise duty and increases in the petrol of diesel. As it is, people across the board are facing unimaginable hardships ... ” she wrote. “I see no logic in why the Government would even consider such a price increase at a time when the economic impact of COVID-19 is depriving millions of jobs and livelihood...” she said. “Given that the international price of crude oil has fallen by approximate 9% over the last week...the government is doing nothing short of profiteering off its people – when they are down and out,” she observed.
17 June 2020||NEW Delhi,||Lt. Gen. Vohra, 1971 war hero, passes away||Lt. Gen. (Retd.) Raj Mohan Vohra, who was a 1971 war hero and a Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) awardee, has died due to COVID-19, senior officials said on Tuesday. He was 88. “He was admitted initially to a private hospital for a stent procedure,” a senior official said. His cremation was held on Sunday, the officials said. Then a Lieutenant Colonel, Vohra commanded the elite Hodson’s Horse in the Shakargarh Sector during the Indo-Pak. War of 1971 and was awarded the MVC for his conspicuous bravery and leadership. During the Battle of Basantar, the regiment came under heavy fire from the enemy and faced huge resistance, but 27 enemy tanks were destroyed under his able command, the officials said. The MVC, which Vohra received in 1972, is the country’s second highest gallantry award. In his long and illustrious career, he tenanted many prestigious appointments, including GOC-in-C Eastern Command and GOC 31 Armoured Division, the officials said. Born in 1932 in Shimla, the veteran officer was from the pioneer course of the National Defence Academy, and was commissioned into the 14 Horse in December 1952. An alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, the officer fought in the Punjab sector during the Indo-Pak War of 1965, the officials said.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Test NoRKs in Vande Bharat Mission flights’||The Kerala government has requested the Central government that COVID-19 tests should be conducted on non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) travelling back home in Vande Bharat Mission flights as well as in chartered flights, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said. He said this was to ensure that the rest of the passengers did not get affected, as the positive passengers could be arranged to return in a separate flight. The Minister was speaking after releasing the Bamboo Corporation’s environment-friendly office stationery products.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||Youth lynched in Mumbai on suspicion of theft||A 24-year-old youth was allegedly tied up and lynched on the suspicion of being a thief in Saki Naka on Monday morning. The police have arrested three people in connection with the crime and are looking for one more person. The incident occurred at a construction site in Mohili village of Chandivali. According to the police, the four accused are construction workers, who have been staying at the site since the lockdown started. “Early on Monday, the four woke up to find the victim, later identified as Satish Rajbhar (24), entering a tin shed at the construction site. They pounced on him and tied him up with a rope, accusing him of being a thief. Then they began to beat him up with plastic pipes and their bare hands,” senior police inspector Kishore Sawant, Saki Naka police station, said. When they realised Rajbhar was dead, all the four left him and fled the scene. Three of them made their way to Andheri railway station, hoping to catch the first available train to their home towns in Bihar. However, by this time, some other residents of the area, who had heard the commotion, went over to investigate. They found Rajbhar lying lifeless and called Saki Naka police station. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead before admission. “We started investigations and found out the details of the accused with the help of local informants. Simultaneously, we sent teams to nearby railway stations and one of our teams picked up the three accused from Andheri,” Mr. Sawant said.The trio were taken to the police station and, after preliminary inquiries, arrested and charged with murder under the Indian Penal Code. The police are trying to apprehend the fourth accused. Inquires are under way with all his known friends and associates, and railway police stations have also been instructed to keep an eye out for him. Meanwhile, inquiries in the area have established that Rajbhar, a local resident, was a drug addict. The police suspect that he wandered into the construction site while under the influence of narcotics, and was taken for a thief by the accused.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala Tourism plans to promote short-haul tours||Kerala Tourism is set to launch an aggressive campaign to promote short-haul tours among domestic tourists of tier-II cities in the south as part of reviving the virus-hit tourism sector. The campaign to reboot the tourism economy will be through websites of leading media houses, social media platforms, over-the-top media, FM radio, music streaming channels, and bloggers.It will project domestic travel as the best bet to break the lockdown fatigue among citizens. With restrictions on travelling in the domestic and international sector continuing in view of the pandemic, Kerala Tourism has come to the conclusion that revival of the tourism sector is possible only through affordable short-haul tours. “The target is to rope in those from tier-II cities in the south. Those from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Coimbatore and Madurai, and natives are the focus. They will be lured to tourist places for two to three days,” official sources told The Hindu . The working group on tourism chaired by Secretary, Tourism, Rani George on Tuesday cleared the campaign. Officials of Kerala Tourism and the stakeholders of the industry are of the view that the situation is ‘pathetic’ and that the claims of tourist inflow are not correct. Some hotels that had closed due to the lockdown have opened and are being used for quarantining those coming from outside the State.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Cheap drug shows results in COVID patients||“Dexamethasone is the first drug to be shown to improve survival in COVID-19. This is an extremely welcome result. The survival benefit is clear and large in those patients who are sick enough to require oxygen treatment, so dexamethasone should now become standard of care in these patients. Dexamethasone is inexpensive, on the shelf, and can be used immediately to save lives worldwide,” Peter Horby, Professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases in the Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, and one of the Chief Investigators for the trial, said in a statement. Tocilizumab is also being tested as part of the RECOVERY trial and is an injectible. Dexamethasone and tocilizumab are not anti-virals but work to modulate the immune response of the body when confronted by a viral infection such as COVID-19. Revised protocol Last week, the Indian Council for Medical Research revised the protocol for clinical management of COVID-19 and allowed the use of remdesivir, tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) on certain groups of patients. Remdesivir, a patented drug by U.S.-based Gilead Life Sciences, reduced hospital stays for very sick COVID patients but has not been shown to improve recovery itself. Physician and epidemiologist, Dr. Giridhar Babu, told The Hindu that dexamethasone's ostensible benefit is “positive news” for those with severe disease. “This is cheap and widely available; however being a steroid, its abuse can lead to several adverse reactions.”
17 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||108 new virus cases reported in Odisha||As many as 108 more COVID-19 positive cases were detected in last 24 hours in Odisha, pushing the State’s total to 4,163 on Tuesday, officials said. A total of 120 patients were also discharged from different hospitals taking the total recoveries to 2,974.
17 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Congress chief gets bail in buses case||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu in connection with a case against him for allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the State government to ply migrant workers home. Justice Attau Rahman Masoodi granted bail to Mr. Lallu on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties. He has been in jail since May 21. While passing the order, the court reminded the government and the Opposition that both were bound by “duty to deliver more solutions to the public grievances than conflicts”. The court said it was “disturbing” that the government and a political party having some representation in the State (Congress) “are at loggerheads on an issue which has no legal sanctity”. “The court would simply caution that the outbreak of COVID-19 calls for a unified efforts by all to curb the sufferings of people instead of ragging up issues to serve none,” Justice Masoodi said. Mr. Lallu was arrested on May 20 in Agra for protesting against the local administration’s refusal to allow buses arranged by the Congress from Rajasthan to ply into U.P. to transport stranded migrant workers home. Though he was granted interim bail by an Agra court, he was soon arrested again by the Lucknow police on charges of allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the U.P. government and alleged forgery of documents.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda slams BJP for rallies in Haryana||Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the State BJP is busy celebrating the NDA government’s “so called” accomplishments on the completion of one year in office while leaving people to fend for themselves.
17 June 2020||Kathmandu,||India pledges support to Nepal temple||India has pledged to construct a Rs. 2.33 crore sanitation facility at the Pashupatinath temple complex here to improve the infrastructure in the holy shrine for pilgrims, according to an official statement. The project would be constructed under the Nepal-Bharat Maitri: Development Partnership as a high impact community development scheme by India. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on Monday between the Indian Embassy, Nepal’s Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration and the Kathmandu Metropolitan City for the construction of the facility at the Pashupatinath temple, which is a UNESCO World Heritage site.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rythu Bandhu for fresh pattadars||The State government has decided to extend benefits under the Rythu Bandhu, the farmers’ investment support scheme, to farmers as per the digitally signed data obtained from the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) in the month of January. The data would be obtained from the CCLA only once for the financial year and it would be frozen for that year, the government said. In the guidelines issued for the implementation of the Rythu Bandhu for the current year, the government said enrolment of fresh pattadars would be considered from the next financial year. The government made clear that data would be taken prior to the season only to set aside sold out/mutation cases and extents to ensure that assistance is not extended to the sold out/mutated lands. “Only pattadar exclusions can happen and no provision for inclusions for the financial year,” Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy said in the guidelines issued for the implementation of the Rythu Bandhu for vaanakalam and yasangi crops. The total extent owned by the individual farmers across the State would be ascertained/pooled by Aadhaar de-duplication to ensure that farmers owning lesser extents in total should get assistance on priority. Accordingly, directions had been issued that bills would be submitted in ascending order to Treasury from lower acreage to higher acreage owning farmers in case funds were to be released in phases by the Finance department. Meanwhile, the government took steps to keep ready financial resources to ensure that no eligible farmer is left out while extending the benefit. In spite of the constraints faced on financial side, the government had already credited Rs. 5,500 crore into the account of Agriculture Commissioner towards Rythu Bandhu payments. With the quantum of funds required likely to be around Rs. 7,000 crore for the current crop season, the government had mobilized another Rs. 2,500 crore from the Reserve Bank of India last week. The amount, raised as State development loan, entails 6.99% cut off yield and it has a tenure of eight years. Given the priority accorded to extending investment assistance to farmers, the government has constituted a State level monitoring headed by Agriculture Secretary as chairman and Agriculture Commissioner as convener. Finance department special secretary, SLBC convener and State Information Officer of the National Informatics Centre had been made the members of the State level committee and the government directed the officials to constitute similar panels at the district level to monitor scheme implementation.
17 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Ph.D, M. Phil submissions at UoH go online||Amid the lockdown to contain COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) completed more than 20 PhD viva-voce examinations online through video conferencing. To cut short the time required for evaluation and more importantly to make the whole process paperless, University of Hyderabad has decided to process M.Phil and Ph.D. dissertations and theses only in the online mode from June 1. Research scholars can upload soft copies online through e-governance portal (developed by startup Neoscript Technologies) of the university, from their own login ID, along with the copy of Course Completion certificate and Plagiarism Report. After that the external examiners appointed by the Vice-Chancellor evaluates it based on which the viva-voce is conducted online. The viva-voce recommendations are approved by the Vice-Chancellor online and then the results are published. The whole paperless process is similar to the ways in which the best research journals handle the manuscripts submitted for publication. UoH also moved one step further and allowed pre-submission seminars for M.Phil and Ph.D. students online. “From submission to award of the degree it used to take on an average of six months which we would like to bring down to three months by putting this process in place to benefit our Mphil and PhD students”, said Prof. Appa Rao.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Time to stand up to Chinese incursions’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday called for a strong response from the Union government to the repeated violations of Indian territory by the Chinese. “Our soldiers are not fair game that every few days officers and men should be be killed or injured defending our borders ... It is time now for India to stand up to these repeated incursions that are a blatant violation of our territorial rights,” he said. The Chinese actions were in violation of the treaties signed between the two countries and a brazen assault on Indian integrity, he said, urging the government to take suitable steps to send out a strong message.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Fast-track courts for cow slaughter trials’||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday said that the State government has decided to hold the trials against accused in cow slaughter cases in fast-track courts. The State government has also decided that the Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will be passed to stop forced conversions. Besides this, a Dharmada Board would also be constituted to look after the religious estates in the Hindu minority areas, he said, addressing a press conference at Nuh. The Chief Minister said to curb the incidents of cow slaughter in the State and to take strict and prompt action against the accused, hearings of all such cases would be held in fast-track courts. “If needed amendments would also be made in the Haryana Gau Sanrakshan and Gau Samvardhan Act, 2015, to ensure protection of cows,” he said. Speaking on forced conversions, the Chief Minister said that in some areas of the State cases have been reported, and taking a strong cognisance of all such unlawful conversions, the Right to Freedom of Religion Bill would be passed and as per the provisions of the Bill, strict action would be taken against those involved. Earlier, the Chief Minister also held a meeting of the district administration and representatives of various social and religious organisations. He appealed to the people that they should continue to maintain social harmony by strengthening the spirit of brotherhood.
17 June 2020||Benagaluru,||State to up randomised tests||With the number of tests conducted per day reducing after the new testing protocol was issued 10 days ago, the State government has decided to conduct randomised testing on a large scale across the State. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that they will initiate this within a week. “People who are considered to have a high risk of contracting the virus due to high mobility will be tested. Those who will be tested will include delivery boys, autorickshaw drivers, pourakarmikas, fruit and vegetable vendors, railway staff, KSRTC and BMTC staff, among others,” he said. According to Dr. Manjunath, the Chief Minister is keen on increasing the number of tests. “Our target is to ensure that at least 50,000 random tests are done in three weeks,” he added. K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister, said that 15,000 to 25,000 tests should be done every day. “It needs to be done on a random basis to check for community transmission. There is a need to ensure that people in old containment zones are also tested,” he said. Testing dips For now, however, the testing rate remains low. The number of tests conducted on Monday were 5,362 — the lowest since May 15 when the number of tests stood at 5,351. The highest number of tests conducted were on May 30 (15,728). There has been a dip in testing after the revised testing criteria was issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on June 8. However, officials attribute the drop to a reduction in the number of migrants returning from other States over the last few days. As per data from districts compiled by the State war room as on June 15, in the last 10 days, Bengaluru Urban saw the maximum number of testing with 19,291 tests per million. Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts remained in the second and third positions, respectively. The least number of tests per million was conducted in Bengaluru Rural. Experts pointed out that this was because Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi and Yadgir continue to have a high number of inter-State returnees who were being tested. Some districts, however, are being proactive and testing outside of the protocol mandated. Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharath said that the district administration was testing high-risk primary contacts of those who had completed the quarantine period after returning from Maharashtra. “This is one of the reasons why the number of tests remain high as we wanted to prevent community transmission,” he said. The new testing criteria also states that if the inter-State returnees are asymptomatic, they need not be tested.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC notice on insurance cover for mental illness||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to respond to a plea challenging the exclusion of mental illness from insurance coverage. A Bench led by Justice R.F. Nariman issued notice to the Centre and the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) on a petition by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who argued that the exclusion violated the fundamental right to equality and non-discrimination.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,||No masking the mounting waste problem||They are now a necessity by situation and law. But the disposable variety of masks are adding to a mounting problem of waste that authorities are grappling about, prompting the government to urge citizens to make the switch to a more sustainable variety. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, on Monday, tweeted about the increasing COVID-19 related waste being generated. He said masks, PPE kits and gloves make up for around 3,000 kg of waste every day and urged people to start using reusable masks, even if home made, to reduce the burden on solid waste infrastructure. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), over 4,000 kg of biomedical waste is being generated from the city’s quarantine centres. “The general public though is primarily using the reusable variety — be it masks or some form of it. Probably 10% to 15% is using disposable ones. It does not make economic sense to use them. So a majority of the biomedical waste is from the quarantine centres. We have authorised agencies to collect them. The PPE kits are coming in from containment zones,” explained BBMP Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan. He also said pourakarmikas have been instructed not to touch masks in case they come across them without wearing safety gear. They are handed over to the biomedical waste handling agency and incinerated, he added. Cloth mask makers have urged citizens to choose reusable masks, convincing them that they are easy to wash and use, and much more economical in the long run while also being eco-friendly. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the COVID situation, the number of people switching to reusable masks is on a steady increase, say those who have started making cloth masks. Playback singer Divya Raghavan and her mother Gita Ramaswami started making cloth masks on request from relatives and friends, who knew about the latter’s sewing prowess. “By word of mouth, we ended up catering to demand for 1,000 masks since May 1. As we make these out of cotton, people find them much more comfortable. We are making them in three sizes - kids, teenagers and adults, and we have been getting bulk orders from apartments as well,” she said.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC to refer complaints of false affidavits to probe agencies||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday decided that it would take cognisance of complaints of false affidavits submitted by candidates and refer them to probe agencies concerned on a case-to-case basis.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Commission, comprising Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, two Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, and other senior officials.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) holds nationwide protest||The CPI (M) held a nationwide protest on Tuesday, raising four demands — immediate cash transfer, free distribution of food, enhanced scope of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and a halt to dilution of labour laws. “We can’t have hunger deaths and a self-reliant India at the same time,” said party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, adding that over 15 crore people had lost their jobs during the extended lockdown.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC issues notice to Goa Assembly Speaker on MLA disqualification proceedings||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Goa Assembly Speaker to respond to a plea filed by the opposition Congress party to decide on the disqualification proceedings against 10 legislators who joined the ruling BJP in July last year. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde issued a formal notice to the Speaker’s office and the ten MLAs and asked them to reply in four weeks.
17 June 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider NEET centres in Bahrain, Kuwait’||A. Brindha from Bahrain, whose family originally hails from Tirunelveli, has been preparing for NEET for over a year. But with the COVID-19 pandemic and limited international flights, she is apprehensive of making it to this year’s NEET scheduled for July 26. “I have been preparing hard for the examination. But I am losing focus and it is stressful as I am not sure if I can reach India on time. One must go through the mandatory 14-day quarantine period on arrival and there is a possibility of me missing out on the examination,” she says. Brindha who has opted for Madurai centre says international flight operations are yet to resume fully and the Vande Bharat flights are prioritising emergency cases. It will be better for the National Testing Agency to consider having examination centres in Bahrain for the benefit of NRI candidates. Like Brindha other NRI medical course aspirants based in Bahrain have also urged the Central government to consider having NEET centres in Bahrain, as it was not advisable to travel to India in the view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Postponing NEET was another option, they say. Agreeing with her were Bhavana Jain, M. Mahalakshmi and V. Arundathi Dipika, all based in Bahrain and preparing for the examination. In view of the emergency, the possibility of operating special flights for the benefit of the candidates can also be considered, they say. The parents express their apprehension of having to travel. “What if they get affected by COVID-19. The Centre and the respective State governments must consider their plight. It would be better if examination centres are established in Bahrain”, says K. Arumugasamy, father of Brindha. The situation is no different in Kuwait, says K. Bhavani (name changed on request). She wants a centre in the country in the absence of prospects of travel.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Just 6 zones, but with 72% of city’s cases||The facts are clear: six zones in the city — Tondiarpet (zone 4), Royapuram (5), Thiru Vi Ka Nagar (6), Anna Nagar (8), Teynampet (9) and Kodambakkam (10) — are contributing the bulk of COVID-19 cases. Of the 31,896 positive cases, 23,011 are just these six zones, constituting, as on June 14, a whopping 72% of cases in the city. On that day, the number of cases in these six zones was 51.5% of the 44,661 cases recorded across Tamil Nadu. Of the six zones, Royapuram tops with the maximum number of cases — nearly 5,300. Geographically, these zones form a cluster in the city — zones 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 are closely packed. The areas are also contiguous and a containment or lockdown could well have been implemented successfully in a circle that emcompassed these areas alone. In fact, it is learnt that it was also among the proposals placed before the government, which decided in favour of a stricter lockdown for the entire city. Experiences in the past have shown that while cases do go down during a lockdown, they go straight back up after restrictions are lifted. Many countries, including China and South Korea, have seen a fresh round of cases, not long after lockdowns are lifted. A boon? Some epidemiologists think that concentration of the bulk of cases in a contiguous geographical area is a boon — in terms of the ability to address issues effectively. A more expansive spread of over half the number of cases in the State would actually make the task of the government even more difficult than it currently is, one expert said. Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology, an Indian Council for Medical Research unit, said a focus on the big-burden ones is necessary. “We need street-level micro-planning now. We need testing for all those who are symptomatic, including those going to the private sector.” There are about 7,000 streets that are technically under the radar of the Corporation and Health department. Distributing resources to achieve the above goals in these areas would have to be done efficiently.   Former Corporation City Health Officer P. Kuganantham said that infections are bound to increase. “Let’s not be so worried about rising infections at this stage, rather with how we treat the infection in our hospitals. Is there good care for COVID-19 patients? Is the triage being done properly? Government hospitals, tertiary care centres, should be reserved for patients with symptoms and those who are critically ill. The others can go to COVID care centres, or be quarantined at home, with remote monitoring,” he added. He also recommended setting up hospital-level expert committees to study the latest in triage, treatment and laboratory practices in order to keep up with the latest trends. Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that the idea behind the lockdown for the entire city was to prevent cases from these zones spilling over to nearby areas and causing clusters of infection there. “There are people who are related or who work in North Chennai going back home, to say Tiruvallur, and transmitting the infection there. We need to control this.”
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More checkpoints will help police enforce lockdown||The city police is planning to enforce lockdown norms effectively from June 19 by enhancing security arrangements and installing more checkpoints to restrict movement of vehicles on roads. Commissioner of Police A.K.Viswanathan held a meeting with additional commissioners, joint commissioners and deputy commissioners on Tuesday. They had an elaborate discussion on the measures required to enforce the lockdown from June 19, announced by the State government. On Monday, the State government decided to implement a 12-day ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and adjoining parts from June 19 to 30 to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. 400 checkpoints A senior police officer said, “As per the order of the government, public intending to buy essentials should avoid travelling by vehicles and buy from nearby shops, within two-kilometre distance from their residence. We will set up more checkpoints, in over 400 places to restrict the movement of vehicles. Only essential services vehicles and pass holders will be allowed.” Stringent action will be initiated against those violating the restrictions, the police official said. Barricades will be placed at inter junctions on Anna Salai, EVR Salai, Kamarajar Salai, Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai, GST and GNT roads. Special passes Besides, the police also requested the managements of government and private hospitals to issue special passes to staff and doctors, who use private vehicles. Sources added that the Chief Secretary K.Shanmugam will be holding a meeting with top police officials including Police Commissioner Mr. Viswanathan on Wednesday.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Multiple factors will determine success of shutdown’||The effectiveness of the 12-day ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and its surrounding districts in combating the spread of COVID-19 will depend on multiple factors, public health experts and epidemiologists have said. From surveillance and testing to simple measures like handwashing and wearing of masks and the cocooning of the elderly and other vulnerable sections of the population, there are several factors at play. “Basically, what we need is aggressive surveillance of symptomatic persons in the most-affected wards of Chennai,” an epidemiologist said. “All wards do not have the same number of cases. There are streets within these wards where cases have spread widely, and hence we cannot rely on contacts. Anyone who develops symptoms of fever, sore throat and breathlessness should be tested immediately,” the epidemiologist added. It takes 24 to 48 hours for the COVID-19 test result to arrive, and during that period, the individual concerned should remain under home quarantine, the expert said. “The areas are congested, and when people roam around, they pass on the infection to others. This is how cases have spread in Chennai. We have failed to quarantine people at the time of testing. If the test result returns positive and if the individuals concerned are residents of a congested area, they should be shifted to a COVID-19 care centre, while middle-income groups can be advised to remain in home isolation,” the epidemiologist said. Noting that the lockdown had no effect in slums, the expert said, “We need to reduce the amount of time an infected person is out there in the community. We need to detect symptomatic persons, quarantine them while they are being tested, and isolate them if they test positive. Only then will the lockdown be effective. Otherwise, it will be a failure.” Listing a few ways in which the lockdown could be effective, former city health officer P. Kuganantham said, “It will help in preventing the unbridled movement of people in thickly populated parts of the city. We can draw up strategies to prevent deaths, which have been gradually rising over the past two weeks, and look for new ways to curb the rampant spread of the infection by revisiting the prevention and control measures that are already in place.” He said that the lockdown should be utilised to improve focused testing of vulnerable groups and persons with co-morbid conditions. “Besides, it should be used for finding better ways to treat symptomatic and critically-ill patients at tertiary care centres instead of asymptomatic patients, as it causes a burden on healthcare workers,” he added. “The maximum benefit of a lockdown can be attained only if people adhere to the guidelines on regular hand washing, wearing of masks in public places, protecting the elderly and other vulnerable sections and seeking medical care and testing early,” said K. Kolandaswamy, former director of public health and preventive medicine. He reiterated that hand washing could cut the chain of transmission.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Photograph of body lying next to patient goes viral, stirs up a controversy||The Health Department ordered a probe on Tuesday after a photograph of a packed body lying next to a patient in a COVID-19 ward at the Stanley Government Medical College Hospital went viral. However, the probe found that the photo was taken before the body, packed as per protocol, was removed for burial. According to sources in the hospital, a 65-year-old patient, who tested positive for COVID-19, and admitted on June 13, died on Monday morning. The body was packed as per norms and kept on the bed for clearance of the Resident Medical Officer before being shifted to the mortuary. Another COVID-19 patient in the ward took a photograph on his mobile phone and passed it on to his contacts. The allegation is that the packed body was lying on the bed for eight hours, when other patients were lying in adjacent beds. After the photograph was widely circulated, Stanley Government Medical College Hospital dean P. Balaji ordered an enquiry by a team, led by T. Sivakumar, head of the General Surgery Department. Protocol followed The team conducted an investigation on Tuesday and submitted its report in an hour. It was found that the patient died at 8 a.m. on Monday and a screen was put around the body after the death was certified. In about two hours, the formalities were completed and the body was shifted to the mortuary. “The photograph must have been taken when the body was about to be shifted to the mortuary after the surrounding screens were removed. As per guidelines for the safe disposal of the body of a COVID-19 patient, a Chennai Corporation official was informed. The relatives of the patient were also informed about the death. The burial was done as per government norms at 5.30 p.m. on Monday,” the report said. It added that the allegation that the body was lying next to a patient undergoing treatment was false.  The allegation is that the packed body was lying on the bed for eight hours, when other patients were lying in adjacent beds
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arya Gowda Road closed after crowds throng shops||The Greater Chennai Corporation and the police have sealed Arya Gowda Road in West Mambalam after crowding was reported in shops on Monday. As many as 150 shops and bank branches have been closed. “The number of COVID-19 cases in the area has been estimated at 15,” Corporation City Health Officer Jagadeesan said. A senior official of the Corporation said all cases from Arya Gowda Road had been traced back to the Koyambedu cluster. He said they were direct or extended contacts of the patients from the cluster. Corporation Joint Commissioner (Health) Madhusudan Reddy said the local field support staff in every area were permitted to close shops or streets to contain the spread of the disease. “Decisions on closing a road is usually taken after five index cases are reported,” he said. Police officers Tuesday said the commercial area was closed after residents thronged the shops in the locality. The crowding occurred as a result of officials in Kodambakkam zone sealing other commercial hubs in the suburb. Intensified lockdown Residents complained they were not permitted to go out to purchase essential commodities ahead of the 12-day intensified lockdown in the city, which begins on June 19. According to Corporation estimates, at least 300 containment zones were barricaded in the city’s 15 zones. The number of city roads closed during the lockdown reached 1,000 a few weeks ago but was brought down to 300 this month.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Between June 19-30, flyers can show ticket to get to airport||Air passengers heading to, or returning from the Chennai airport will be allowed to take private vehicles or cabs during the lockdown from June 19 to 30. If stopped, passengers have to produce a copy of the ticket, the State government informed the Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Tuesday. In a tweet, Chennai airport said: “As confirmed from TN Govt., air passengers are allowed to use private cars, taxi/rented cabs, @Olacabs @Uber etc., to commute to/from #Chennai airport during the intense #lockdown period. However passengers will need to produce air ticket/boarding card to the authorities on request.” Earlier in the day, AAI officials said, they had written to the State government asking how passengers can reach Chennai airport during the lockdown. Officials of AAI said that they had been receiving numerous queries from passengers on whether the airport will be functional between June 19 and 30; there were also questions over how the passengers will commute to the airport. “We know that the domestic flight services will continue. But there were some doubts and hence we had written to them,” an official said. Ever since the announcement of the lockdown came, hundreds of air passengers who had planned trips, both domestic and international, during the period didn’t know about how to commute to the airport. But it is not clear if passengers may be able to find cabs easily to reach the airport.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The inputs that led to CM’s announcement||Senior officials and police officers monitoring the COVID-19 situation in Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) limits had informed the State government that “internal restriction” of movement in Chennai city was necessary to break the cycle of disease spread. Their inputs were among the factors that eventually led to the Chief Minister announcing a complete lockdown between June 19 and 30 in Chennai and its surroundings. According to a G.O. issued in this regard by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Tuesday, during a review meeting, the officials said that internal restrictions in areas under the GCC would help the administration break the disease cycle and focus on early detection of cases. The detection of cases would be made through fever clinics, focused testing, effective contact tracing and efficient management of quarantine and containment areas, they said, adding that it would reduce the spread as movement would be restricted. This would help minimise the contacts of people testing positive, they said. It was also felt that the number of cases in GCC limits and other urban areas of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts were on the increase “due to the large urban population and also the fact that in many zones the houses are located close to each other and the average living space is also small”. Travel from Chennai During a video conference meeting with the Chief Secretary on June 12, various District Collectors said that the increase in the number of cases recently was due to a large number of persons coming from Chennai testing positive. “Therefore, they insisted that restricting movement would give them elbow room to control disease spread,” the G.O. said. Following the meeting of public health and medical experts with the Chief Minister, it was felt that an intensified lockdown might have to be considered in the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate area and certain areas of neighbouring districts to prevent the pace at which the disease was spreading. “This should be supported with more efficient quarantine and containment area management,” the G.O. added.  The detection of cases will be made through fever clinics, focused testing, effective contact tracing
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Strict movement restrictions worry industrialists||With the government banning the movement of workers from their houses to workplaces during the 12-day complete lockdown in Chennai and its surroundings, industrialists said that their units would be hit badly. With employees working in shifts and on rotation basis, it will be tough providing accommodation for everyone in and around the plant, as mandated by the government, they said. Representatives of MSMEs are also requesting the government to remove the condition of mandatorily subjecting workers to RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. Arranging stay “We have started looking for accommodation for our employees in and around the factory. There are some hotels close by so we are in talks with government officials to check if workers can be accommodated there,” said the managing director of an MNC. He said that his firm had several buses and instead of housing employees in and around the factory, the company could pick workers at their doorstep if the government permitted. The India head of an MNC said, “Post unlock 1.0, we thought MSMEs and industries were asked to take three steps forward and now we are taking two steps backwards. The cost of doing business, following the COVID-19 SOPs, has already gone up and the government must support industry rather that reintroducing the lockdown.” Many industries said that they were studying options on how to run business during the complete lockdown. Most business houses have indicated that they would operate, as orders have slowly started flowing in. However, the mandate on RT-PCR testing has been worrying industrialists. A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said, “When we enquired with a testing lab, we were told that testing can be done only for symptomatic persons on doctor’s prescription, as per ICMR guidelines. In this situation, how can we test the workers?” The association has written to the Chief Minister in this regard. Food for workers Mr. Sujeesh also said that shutting down units now would be a nightmare. “We have asked firms to accommodate workers within the factory and nearby rooms. However, food is going to be a concern,” he said. Hariharan Ramamoorthy, national vice-president, Laghu Udyog Bharati- T.N., said that industries would not br able to foot Rs. 4,000 for testing each worker when there was no cash flow.  We have asked firms to accommodate workers within the factory and nearby rooms. However, food is going to be a concern A.N. Sujeesh President, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. eases rules for inter-State movement of workers||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday decided to allow the inter-State movement of workers and executives engaged in industrial and other economic activities in neighbouring States without insisting on COVID-19 testing and quarantine, provided they return to their respective areas within 48 hours. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam informed the District Collectors about the decision. “However, any movement to or from containment zones may remain prohibited, and this has to be done with the mutual consent of both district administrations (the district from where the workers are sent and the receiving district),” he said. The Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency will arrange for e-passes for such persons. A senior official told The Hindu   that the decision was primarily aimed at helping workers and business people residing in districts sharing borders with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry to travel to their workplaces in those regions. “Until now, the inter-State borders have remained sealed for such people, and they haven’t been able to travel for work or business,” he said. However, the relaxation will not apply to areas where a ‘complete lockdown’ will be in force. When asked about the e-passes that had been granted to applicants who were planning or were scheduled to leave Chennai or neighbouring districts on dates that fall within the lockdown period, he said, “Those passes will be suspended.” Meanwhile, the State has witnessed an increase in the number of containment zones this week. There were 300-odd containment zones last week. The figure went up to 503 in 15 districts, as of June 12.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. gets Rs. 10 crore from SDRF for containment measures||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday sanctioned Rs. 21.43 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to various agencies, including Rs. 10 crore to the Greater Chennai Corporation, for carrying out COVID-19 containment and precautionary measures. While Rs. 10 crore was sanctioned for the Greater Chennai Corporation towards COVID-19 containment and prevention measures for the period between May and August, Rs. 9.08 crore was sanctioned to the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine for purchasing corona care drug kits. Estimated requirement The amount for the Greater Chennai Corporation will be subject to getting additional information for certain other needs, since the estimated requirement was for about Rs. 360 crore. A sum of Rs. 2 crore was sanctioned to the Tiruvallur Collector to meet the expenditure incurred on providing food, basic amenities and transportation, and operation of relief camps, etc., for migrant labourers. Besides, Rs. 35 lakh was sanctioned to the Tamil Nadu Medical Service Corporation for purchasing equipment and other necessities for a COVID-19 Care Centre at the ESI Hospital in Ayanavaram.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lockdown no solution to control virus spread’||A public interest litigation petition in the Madras High Court claimed that lockdown was not a solution to control the spread of COVID-19 and that the number of cases, as well as fatalities due to the disease, had gone up considerably, despite successive lockdowns imposed in various parts of the State since March 25. When the case was listed for admission before Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy on Monday, the petitioner’s counsel contended that the term “lockdown” did not find place either in the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 or the Disaster Management Act of 2005 or any other law of the land, and hence it was impermissible. He also argued that a lockdown violated the fundamental right to freedom of movement and forced poor labourers into penury. Lockdowns can only help the government prepare infrastructure required to deal with the situation, whereas the spread of the disease can be controlled through effective containment of the infected, he said. On the other hand, State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan said that petitions had been dismissed by other Division Benches of the court and hence this case should also be dismissed. After hearing both of them, the judges said that they would pass detailed orders in the case on Wednesday after going through the papers. M. Immanuvel, a book stall owner from Kovilampakkam, had filed the case, stating that the Epidemic Diseases Act empowered the Centre as well as the State government to enforce regulations necessary for arresting the spread of a disease. The law did not use the term lockdown. Yet, the governments had chosen to curtail the freedom of movement of all people, he said. Stating that normal life must be allowed to go on with precautions. the petitioner said that the State government was wrong in implementing lockdowns.
17 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kodambakkam zone has the highest number of barricaded streets in Chennai||The rise in number of COVID-19 cases in West Mambalam, in a single day on Monday, has raised concerns among the residents of Kodambakkam and parts of T. Nagar which fall under Kodambakkam Zone. This zone currently has the highest number of containment zones in the city. Despite the Royapuram zone having more than 5,200 COVID-19 positive cases, the Kodambakkam zone has the highest number of containment zones with 54 streets of the total 95 containment zones maintained by the Chennai Corporation. A senior official of the civic body said that any street which has more than 5 COVID-19 cases would be designated as a containment zone and the entire street would be closed. Previously, even if there was one COVID-19 patient, the street was barricaded, but the numbers have been revised. The next highest barricaded zone in the city was Tondiarpet with 24 streets, followed by Sholinganallur zone, with only four streets. Royapuram now has only three streets designated as containment zones. Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar and Teynampet zones have three containment zones each, with Ambattur and Perungudi zones having only two containment streets each. Seven zones including Tirvottiyur, Manali, and Madhavaram zones in north Chennai, and Valasaravakkam, Alandur and Adyar zones in south Chennai, do not have any containment zones. Also Anna Nagar zone in west Chennai has no barricaded street.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur Collector inspects care centre||The Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar inspected the ongoing works to set up a COVID-19 care centre at DD Medical College in Pattaraiperumbudur on Monday. The college was initially used as a quarantine facility for people who returned from other states and districts to Tiruvallur district. “There were only a few of them then. So, we thought of using the college to accommodate those with mild symptoms. In case there is a spike, we cannot admit everyone in the hospital. There will be sufficient number of medical staff and doctors posted here,” said an official from the Collectorate. The Collector, on Monday, inspected the premises to check if water, electricity and toilet facilities were available. “It can accommodate close to 3,000 persons,” the official added. There are plans to have Wi-Fi on the premises, so that the patients can use the internet. “There are also plans to have a library,” the official said.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirumazhisai market to stay shut on June 21 and 28||The Tirumazhisai vegetable market will not function on June 21 and 28 in view of the complete lockdown announced by the State government. The wholesale traders noted that the decision was taken to support the government’s efforts against the transmission of COVID-19. As the number of retailers visiting the market is likely to reduce, traders are planning to source less produce from other parts of the State and neighbouring States after June 19. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders’ Associations of KWMC Periyar Market, said that the market will not function on two Sundays during the complete lockdown. However, a decision is yet to be taken on the restriction of working hours during rest of the days. “We are planning to reduce arrivals by 30%-40%. The business hours of retail shops have been restricted from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Retailers may reduce their visits to the market,” he said. Traders also noted that the prices of some of the vegetables escalated this week. Beans and broadbeans were sold at Rs. 60 a kg in the wholesale market. Similarly, brinjal and lady’sfinger, which were sold for Rs. 10 a kg until last week, are now priced at Rs. 20 and Rs. 25 a kg.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why is State interested in getting MP’s bail cancelled, asks judge||Justice N. Sathish Kumar of the Madras High Court on Tuesday wondered why the State government was highly interested in getting cancelled, the bail granted to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP R.S. Bharathi in a SC/ST case when there were a host of other issues to be worried about during the times of a pandemic. He raised the question during the hearing of an appeal preferred by the Central Crime Branch (CCB), attached to Greater Chennai police, for cancelling the bail granted to the MP by a special court here on June 1 in a case booked against him under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. When an Additional Public Prosecutor contended that the threat of COVID-19 was one of the prime grounds on which the special court had granted bail and that taking such issues into consideration would lead to lawlessness in the State, the judge asked whether the State had been showing similar interest in other criminal cases also. He said if the prosecution was so confident that a clear case had been made out against the accused under the SC/ST Act, then it could very well complete the investigation at the earliest, file a charge sheet and take steps to commence the trial. In reply, the APP said, the bail granted in the present case should not become a precedent. Hence, the judge ordered notice to the MP on CCB’s appeal and adjourned the case to Friday for further hearing.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC orders payment of compensation to woman||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the State government to pay a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to a woman whose human rights were violated by a police inspector and two constables in 2018. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss also directed the government to recover the amount from the police personnel — Rs. 1 lakh from the inspector P. Jawahar, the then inspector of Washermenpet police station and Rs. 50,000 each from the other two constables C. Praveen Kumar and Anuradha. Adhilakshmi, a resident of Washermenpet approached the commission and stated that on September 13, 2018, during the Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations, she tried to intervene in a fight near her house. At this juncture, police constable Praveen Kumar took her to the station, along with her son, and was reportedly harassed. Though she was allowed to go home at midnight, her son was held back in the station. The next morning when she went to the station, constable Anuradha, scolded her and her son. The complainant felt humiliated and swallowed a small ring and glass bead. In the evening, when she was taken to the G.T. Court she fell unconscious. The Magistrate directed the inspector to admit her to the Stanley Government Hospital. On September 15, the Magistrate visited the complainant at the hospital. However, after his departure, the police personnel took her to Puzhal prison without the doctor’s permission. But when she informed jail authorities about her health condition, she was sent back to Stanley Hospital.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in HC against Thai nationals in special camp||A habeas corpus petition has been filed in the Madras High Court accusing the State government of having kept six Thai nationals in a special camp at a Borstal School despite all of them having been granted interim bail in a criminal case booked against them. Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and Pushpa Sathyanarayana on Tuesday adjourned the hearing on the petition to Monday next at the request of a government counsel. Advocate A. Syed Kaleesha of Chennai had filed the case with a plea to set the foreigners at liberty forthwith. According to the petitioner, Sohwang Donramarn, 75, Bao Wangae, 69, Thawisak Yeeraman, 39, Korled Lateh, 69, Amnat Sohnai, 58, and Muhammad Sa-U, 47, had come to India on tourist visas along with Khamidoi Donrosak who subsequently tested positive for COVID-19. Claiming that they were allowed to step out of the airport on March 6 only after screening, the petitioner said that none of them had any idea that Donrosak was suffering from COVID-19 until the health officials in Erode subjected them to tests on April 6. Immediately, thereafter, they were quarantined and a criminal case was also booked against them for endangering the lives of others by spreading the disease and having reportedly indulged in religious propagation despite having come to the country on a tourist visa. Denying the allegations, the six individuals moved the High Court seeking bail on the ground that they were only practising their faith and staying in mosques, because they could not afford to pay for hotel accommodation, and hence such acts would not amount to an offence. Though the High Court granted interim bail to them on May 6 on condition that they should surrender their passports and stay in Chennai, the police had shifted them to a borstal inside the central prison campus at Puzhal and not letting them step out, the petitioner said.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3.12 cr. fine collected for not wearing masks||The Chennai City Traffic Police (CCTP) have imposed fines to the tune of Rs. 3.12 crore on motorists found driving without wearing face masks from May 22. In mid-April, the Greater Chennai Corporation made it compulsory for residents stepping out of their homes to wear a face mask to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Following this, the CCTP personnel invoked the provisions of Section 179 of the Motor Vehicles Act which stipulates Rs. 500 fine for motorists violating rules. A senior police officer said that the CCTP have booked 62,454 cases against motorists for not wearing masks and collected over Rs. 3.12 crore as fine, from May 22 to June 15. The CCTP booked 13,772 cases against two-wheelers riders for taking pillion riders. Likewise, 2,835 cases were booked against autorickshaws carrying over two passengers “Altogether, we have booked 80,000 cases and collected Rs.4 crore fines from the violators from May 22,” the official said. Meanwhile, a note from the DGP’s office said 5,97,863 violations have been reported across the state so far.
17 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doorstep disbursement of dole||A cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 for every rice ration cardholder in Chennai and parts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts will be disbursed at their doorstep from June 22, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The State government on Monday announced the assistance for rice ration cardholders in Chennai and parts of its neighbouring districts, in view of the intensified COVID-19 lockdown from June 19 to 30. Officials from the Department concerned will disburse the aid at the doorstep of the consumers, Mr. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. The Chief Minister reiterated his appeal for people’s cooperation during the complete lockdown. Cash aid for disabled Mr. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 to each of the 13.35 lakh differently-abled persons with necessary identity cards, in view of the complete lockdown till June 30. A senior official said that every differently-abled person, who has a National Identity and Disability Certificate (NIDC) would get the assistance.
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||11 persons test positive in Coimbatore district||Eleven persons, including those who came from other districts to Coimbatore in the last several days, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. A 17-year-old girl from Namakkal who flew from Delhi to Coimbatore on Monday tested positive for the disease. The others are a 51-year-old man from Vellakinar, a 33-year-old man from Negamam and a 40-year-old taxi driver from Villipuram who came to Coimbatore from Chennai. The taxi driver’s case was cross notified to Villupuram as he returned to his native. A 61-year-old woman from Karamadai with a travel history to Karur tested positive when she sought treatment for flu-like symptoms at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. A 38-year-old man from Thudiyalur with a travel history to Tiruchi and a 38-year-old man from Ramanathapuram in Coimbatore who visited Chennai also tested positive when they sought treatment at ESI Hospital for fever and other complications. A 48-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram and a 50-year-old woman from Udhagamandalam tested positive after they were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital with influenza-like illness. Two other positive cases -- one aged 12 and another aged -- are from Chinniyampalayam. Except the taxi driver, the others were admitted to ESI Hospital for treatment. One in Tiruppur A 60-year-old woman from Vellakoil in Tiruppur district, who was undergoing treatment for cancer at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, tested positive, Health Department sources said. She was undergoing treatment for cancer for the past 22 days at CMCH. Hence it is suspected that the patient could have contracted the virus at the hospital, the sources said. The patient was admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Another patient, a native of Udumalpet who is admitted to Tiruchi Government Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19, was cross-notified to Tiruppur district on Tuesday. The 54-year-old man was residing in Chennai for nearly 20 years and visited Tiruchi on June 7, where he tested positive, according to the sources. While these two new cases were added to the district’s tally, two others that were reported on Monday were cross-notified to Chennai and Coimbatore districts on Tuesday. Hence, Tiruppur district’s tally continues to remain as 117, with two active cases.
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Distance education courses only within jurisdiction: BU||Bharathiar University has stated that the distance education courses offered by the School of Distance Education are conducted only within the State. The University’s statement was in response to an article published in these columns. The response from Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj said, “The University affirms that the School of Distance Education courses are conducted only within the state of Tamil Nadu which is allowed for by the UGC (Open and Distance Learning) Regulations 2017 (dated 23rd June 2017) under Part III, Section 4,” and went on to quote the section. Based on the Regulations, the University had closed admissions for all private study centres within and outside the State and also those abroad from 2018-19. And, the University had allowed only those students whom it had admitted in 2018-19 to complete their coursework and examination, which again was as per a Madras High Court order. At present the University had 44 learner support centres – 38 from its affiliated colleges and six at colleges affiliated to other universities in the State. Credit transfer The University also said that there was no question of credit transfer because such a provision did not exist under the present curriculum of the School of Distance Education and also denied offering open book examination.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||11, including two pregnant women, recover from COVID-19||Eleven persons, including two pregnant women and a cancer patient, recovered from COVID-19 and were discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, on Monday. According to hospital Dean A. Nirmala, two pregnant women, two persons with hypertension and a 49-year-old man who underwent tracheostomy for the complications of laryngeal cancer were among the 11 discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. The 49-year-old man was admitted to ESI hospital eight days ago after he was tested positive at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) where he was admitted following breathlessness caused by laryngeal cancer. “The medical team at CMCH performed tracheostomy on the patient as he was unable to breathe. The medical team did not have time to wait for COVID-19 test result to perform the procedure and they did it with all precautions. He was shifted to ESI when his test result returned positive on the next day,” said Dr. Nirmala. Members of the medical team, who performed the procedure, tested negative for COVID-19 and they were in quarantine. “He was in the high risk category and our nursing team took extra care for the patient as he had undergone tracheostomy,” she added. As of Tuesday, 308 persons from various districts, who were admitted to ESI Hospital, recovered from COVID-19. On Tuesday, the hospital had 67 patients who hailed from various districts. The hospital has so far not reported any COVID-19 related death officially.
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plan to shift injured leopard to Chennai for better treatment||The Forest Department plans to shift an injured female leopard, which was rescued from Sirumugai near Coimbatore on Sunday, to Vandalur Zoo in Chennai for better treatment. Improvement Officials with the Department said that the leopard showed signs of slight improvement on Tuesday following the treatment provided since Sunday evening. The leopard was found trapped in a barbed wire fence of a private land at Mothepalayam village within the limits of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Sunday. It had a severe wound caused by a snare and a fracture in the backbone. Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sugumar and Rajesh Kumar from government veterinary clinic at Thekkampatti administered fluids, antibiotics and vitamins to the leopard. The wound caused by the snare around its body close to fore legs were sutured. The veterinarians opined that the fracture on backbone and severe damage of veins could have paralysed the back portion of the carnivore. They also collected blood sample from the leopard which was examined in a laboratory here. Test result showed that the leopard aged around 18 months was anaemic. Senior officials of the Department held discussions with the veterinarians on the possibilities of recovery of the animal if it were to be shifted to Vandalur Zoo in Chennai.
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite maintenance work’||The Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday asked Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd. to expedite the maintenance work at the Peelamedu transit station. The Corporation asked the company to do so after Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath made a surprise inspection at the Peelamedu station. The station is from where the company compacts and collects the waste that the Corporation hands over after collecting it from various wards. From the transit station, the company takes the compacted waste to its plant in Vellalore. Sources familiar with the issue said the company shut down the plant for a few days every year to replace the metal sheets that compacted the waste. The plates underwent significant corrosion and damage compacting waste. This year, the company had stopped the compacting machine a week ago to replace the plates. It usually took less than a week, but this year it appeared to have taken more days and that was what the Commissioner wanted to find out. At the station, the sources said, the company representatives had promised that the compacting machine would be ready by Tuesday evening. The company sources said the waste compacting would resume on Wednesday.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers stage protest||Workers of National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills in Coimbatore district staged a protest on the mill campuses on Tuesday demanding wages for last month. Tamil Nadu AITUC secretary M. Arumugam said leaders of trade unions and Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan met Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani last month and sought payment of full wages for the NTC workers for April. However, the NTC management said it will pay only 50 % of the wages paid in April and the union leaders said the workers will receive it under protest. The NTC mill workers are paid the salary on the seventh of every month. This month, they have not received the wages so far for May. “We continue to demand full salary for April and 50 % salary for May,” he said. Leaders of trade unions here plan to meet Mr. Natarajan and the Collector to discuss the issue again.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries gear up to receive workers returning from their home towns||Several workers from other States who went home for Holi or even last month are said to be calling the industries here to say that they want to return to work. For the industries, especially the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs), though there is labour shortage, bringing back the workers poses several challenges. “The MSMEs that had provided accommodation facilities to the workers can keep them under quarantine at these facilities when they return. But, the units cannot take up testing for the workers or provide them separate accommodation,” says R. Ramamurthi, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. Prabhu Dhamodharan, convener at Indian Texpreneurs Federation, says the association has asked its members to earmark space within the premises, or rent houses nearby, to provide temporary accommodation to the migrant workers who return. “However, only the textile units that can afford to create such facilities can do so. The Central and State governments should come out with a mechanism to bring back the interested workers and also help them join work,” he says. Deputy Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association Ravi Sam says the workers are willing to come back. However, there are several challenges. “In my mill, the workers from Odisha want to return to Coimbatore. But there are unconfirmed reports of several norms that they need to adhere to. We can keep them in a separate accommodation and give them a separate shift to work. But, the workers will continue to go out to buy their essential needs. It is not possible to test every one regularly for COVID. So, workers need to be made aware on the precautions that they need to take,” he says. Meanwhile, Medall Diagnostics has launched testing packages for industries. Arjun Ananth, Chief Executive Officer of Medall Diagnostics, said it has packages from Rs. 100 to Rs. 800 where the workers are tested regularly for infections and tele consultations are provided. “We do not do COVID test as part of the package. But, the oxygen levels are tested every day for workers at factories that have opted for the package,” he says. Medall started tying up with Corporate companies three weeks ago. There is interest from industries in tier-two and tier-three cities and half a dozen companies in Chennai have opted for the packages. They fear that if the workers test positive the entire facility can be shut down. “Industries in Coimbatore that can afford can go for such packages. We can explore if these are viable,” adds Mr. Prabhu Dhamodharan. The MSMEs cannot take up regular health check ups or COVID-19 testing for workers. The government should do it, says Mr. Ramamurthy.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||30 hours after stabbing, knife removed from woman’s chest||Doctors at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) recently removed a knife from the chest of a 40-year-old woman from Krishnagiri, 30 hours after she was stabbed by a person. The woman was lucky enough to survive as the only the tip of the more than six-inch-long knife pierced a small portion of one of the lungs, and her heart was not injured in the stabbing. According to CMCH authorities, the woman was stabbed by a person known to her at Hosur in Krishnagiri on May 25. The woman remained in her house with the knife in her chest the entire night and she was admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College in Salem the next morning. Doctors at the hospital referred the woman to CMCH, and she was brought to the hospital around 2 p.m. A medical team led by E. Sreenivasan, Head of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, and Jaishankar Narayanan, Head of the Department of Anaesthesiology, removed the knife in a three-hour surgery. “The woman was conscious when she was brought to the hospital. As the knife was left untouched, the injury did not lead to internal bleeding,” said Dr. Sreenivasan. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas, who lauded the entire team, said that the woman was discharged from the hospital three days ago after she recovered completely.  The knife had pierced the woman’s body through the right chest and only a small portion of the handle was seen outside. E. Sreenivasan, Head, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Petrol, diesel will be brought under GST’||The Central government will soon bring petrol and diesel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) with the consent of all the State governments, former MP and BJP’s senior leader C.P. Radhakrishnan said here on Tuesday. “The true intention of the Central government is to bring the prices of petrol and diesel under GST,” he told presspersons in response to a question on the rising fuel prices. However, he alleged that the State governments had not agreed to the proposal yet. On the COVID-19 situation in the State, Mr. Radhakrishnan claimed that the State government “admitted” the discrepancies in the death figures of Chennai. The Opposition parties must not be “enemy parties” and must appreciate the efforts taken by the government, he said. The BJP accepts the need to keep places of worship closed to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Chennai and the neighbouring districts, he said. Accusing the Left parties of not condemning Kerala over the Siruvani dam controversy, he said the State government was looking to discuss the issue with the Kerala. The Centre announced Rs. 145 crore “in a single day” to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Coimbatore city, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Any particular grievances regarding the lack of availability of loans to MSMEs would be addressed by a committee of the BJP’s State unit headed by State treasurer S.R. Sekhar, he said.
17 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. proposes taking up first phase of Sanganoor Canal project||This year, again, the Coimbatore Corporation has proposed taking up the Sanganoor Canal project in the 2020-21 budget. As part of the project, the Corporation had proposed taking up development of the 3.6-km stretch of the Canal between Mettupalayam Road and Avinashi Road at Rs. 80 crore. The Corporation had prepared a detailed project report for the same and submitted it to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning for funds, the Budget said. In its budget for the financial year 2019-20, the Corporation had said it had started and was continuing the work to rid the Canal’s banks of encroachments. To completely remove encroachments and take up development works, the Corporation had sent a proposal to the State government for Rs. 458 crore. From this, the Corporation would get Rs. 150 crore to begin the works. But in the budget, the Corporation had not projected receiving any money for the project. The year before too (2018-19), the Corporation had made a mention of the Sanganoor Canal project saying it had prepared an estimate for Rs. 190 crore for submission to the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd. for funds. This year too, though the Corporation had included the project in its Budget to take up the work, it did not seem to anticipate any fund as the entry against the Sanganoor Canal project under the ‘Grants and Contributions for Specific Purpose’ head showed zero. The project was all about demolishing the 3,000-odd houses built encroaching upon the Canal’s banks after relocating the occupants, widening the Canal’s width, strengthening the banks and building two roads along the banks, connecting Mettupalayam Road to Trichy Road via Sathyamangalam Road and Avinashi Road. As part of the Rs. 458-crore proposal, the Corporation had committed to spending Rs. 250 crore towards resettlement of the 3,000 families to be evicted.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ayurveda clinic inaugurated||Swarga Foundation inaugurated ‘Sowkhya Ayurvedic Clinic’ on June 1 to mark the World Multiple Sclerosis Day. The clinic will provide treatments and free consultations for those affected with neuro disorders, musculoskeletal disorders, respiratory tract disorders and gastrointestinal disorders, a release from Managing Trustee of Swarga Foundation J. Swarnalatha said. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath inaugurated the clinic.
17 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Department of Posts will conduct divisional-level Dak Adalat on June 22 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Superintendent of Post Offices, Good Shed Road, and the regional-level Dak Adalat on June 24 at the office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, RS Puram, at 11 a.m. Complaints and suggestions related to postal service can be sent to customer care centre, office of the Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore division, Coimbatore - 641001 before June 19. For regional-level adalat the grievances should be sent Assistant Director (mails and estt.), office of the PMG, Western Region, Coimbatore - 641002 before June 20.
17 June 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Two, including a neo-natal mother, test positive in Dharmapuri||Two persons, including a neo-natal mother, tested positive for COVID-19 here. They are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Director of Health Gemini said, one of the two patients was a 30-year-old male, who had returned from Thiruvallur district. He was tested as a returnee from a hotspot. The second case was a 23-year-old woman admitted for delivery. The woman had delivered a baby three days ago. Cold and fever “Soon after, she complained of cold and fever and was tested for COVID 19. The mother has been shifted to COVID ward and the baby has not been tested but is being treated as a COVID positive baby,” Dr. Gemini said. The woman’s husband is a driver with travel history to Bengaluru. “The baby is being closely monitored by a paediatrician,” Dr. Gemini said. Earlier, all women coming in for delivery were tested for COVID. But, there has been a change in the protocol. Only those with symptoms will be tested, Dr. Gemini said. “However, all admissions are treated as COVID positive and same protocols of engagement are maintained.” As of Tuesday, there are 15 active positive cases.
17 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want draft electricity bill withdrawn||Stating that the proposed draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 would adversely affect each and every family in the State, the farmers on Tuesday urged the Central Government to withdraw the bill. A protest was organised under the banner “Free Electricity Rights Protection Joint Movement” at Veerappanchatiram bus stop, in which Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi, former Union Minister Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, and representatives from various farmers’ associations took part. Farmers claimed that once the Act was implemented, free electricity to farmers, power looms, households and subsidised power to all the establishments would be stopped and the government would be forced to purchase power from private companies. “The bill aims to privatise the power sector”, they said. Farmers said that though the State Government had clarified that free power would continue, they said that they wanted a law enacted towards it.
17 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Book Festival cancelled||The Erode Book Festival 2020 that was proposed to be held from July 31 to August 11 stands cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic.  A release from Makkal Sindhanai Peravai, the organisers, said that since large gathering of people was not allowed during the pandemic and reputed book publishers from Mumbai, Delhi and other major cities could not attend the festival, the proposed book festival has been cancelled. The 16th book festival will be held in August 2021.
17 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The Erode Taluk Police on Tuesday arrested a 43-year-old man on charges of burgling 56 sovereign gold jewellery from many houses and Rs. 5 lakh from a two-wheeler here. In March, R. Satheesh Kumar of Thiruvenkadam Palayam lodged a complaint with police that unidentified persons took away Rs. 5 lakh he had kept in his two-wheeler parked outside a marriage hall. A police team reviewed the video footage from surveillance cameras near the marriage hall. On June 16, the team picked up M. Karthick of Vamalai Street. He confessed to have stolen the cash and also was involved in house-breaking at Moolapalayam Bharathi Nagar, Municipal Colony, K.K. Nagar and Vallalar Street.
17 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply disconnected||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board on Tuesday disconnected power supply to five units that were found discharging effluents into sewage channels here. A flying squad inspected processing units functioning at Vettukattu Valasu, Rasampalayam and Vendipalayam and Soolai areas, all located in the Corporation limits. They found a small unit in Soolai functioning without permission and discharging effluents into the channel. Using an earthmover, the unit was demolished. Likewise, officials found two dyeing units and two bleaching units discharging effluents into the channel. Based on the direction of Collector C. Kathiravan, power supply to the four units was disconnected.
17 June 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not worry about grasshoppers’||Cotton farmers in Karaikal district who were scared about the productivity of the crop after sighting grasshoppers have heaved a sigh of relief after assurances by the Agriculture Department that the insect was not of a destructive type. Ruling out the presence of desert locusts, the Agriculture Dept. has told the farmers that the grasshoppers will consume only the leaves and not cause destruction to the flowers and pods. This year, the agro-climatic conditions have become favourable for proliferation of grasshoppers in the marshes, officials said. The farmers have been advised to spray Azarirachtin and chlorpyrifos in the fields to control the population of grasshoppers. Cotton is being cultivated in 625 hectares in the district. To ensure that farmers get better returns and are not exploited by middlemen the district administration and the agricultural department has facilitated the procurement through e-NAM (National Agriculture Market) electronic trading portal which networks existing mandis to create a unified national market. The cotton produce was procured through e-NAM twice during this month. During the first week of this month, 38 quintals were auctioned at the rate of Rs. 46.29 per kg. On Monday, 240.32 quintals brought by 63 farmers were auctioned for a maximum of Rs. 45.09 per kg.
17 June 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fake RSS Twitter handle: FIR registered||Following a complaint of an online impersonation, Karaikudi North police registered a case under Section 66 of the Information Technology Act and 505 (2) of the IPC, among other provisions, on Tuesday. The police said that a State-level Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary had lodged a complaint with Superintendent of Police Rohith Nathan, who directed the local police to register a case. The complaint was that controversial tweets were being posted from the fake Twitter handle in the name of the RSS. Some of the tweets were slanderous in nature and were on sub-judice issues within the Central Government’s Armed Police Force, the complaint stated. A senior police officer alleged that the handle appeared to be in collusion with other proxies of CAPF officers in a larger conspiracy attempting to incite disaffection and mutiny in the disciplined forces. “Whether any external agencies were involved in creating such a conspiracy is also being explored. We have sought certain inputs from Twitter India. When they are given, we will proceed further,” the officer added.
17 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Their lives changed in a flash – not in the desirable way||R. Raja, who runs a photo studio at Vilacheri, says there have been no new wedding orders for the past three months and customer footfall has drastically reduced due to the spread of COVID-19. This has forced him to take up minor welding works as an additional source of income. “It has been around 10 days since I reopened my studio. There is hardly one customer every day. Hence, I do minor welding works on the side, so that I can pay my rent and electricity charges,” he says. Like Mr. Raja, many photo studio owners and professional photographers are struggling due to the absence of grand weddings and functions. M. Israel Charles, who runs G.R. Mani Studio at Puttu Thoppu, says there have been numerous challenges and hurdles in the 100 years of existence of the studio. “Through the years, we have changed from black and white to colour photographs, and have turned completely digital. But, compared to these changes, the COVID-19 crisis is unique and more challenging,” he says. Most of the booked orders for grand weddings were cancelled, he says. “Since the lockdown started, most weddings have been a low-key affair with the participation of a very few family members. Many families click pictures using their smartphones. A few families which engage professional photographers opt for low-budget albums. This hardly fetches us any profit,” he adds. B. Veluchamy, who runs a studio in Sellur, says only a handful of customers come to his studio to click passport size photographs for registration with Labour Department. “Since there is not much work, I have called only three employees to work,” he says.  Digital designing The lack of orders for photographers and videographers has also affected digital labs and professionals who are involved in digital designing and editing, says V. Babu, who runs Express Digital Lab and Studio at Tallakulam. Many individual photographers and videographers who have borrowed money for purchasing equipment are finding it difficult to repay their dues during the lockdown, says A. Karthikeyan, a photographer. One way of revival of business would be to allow functions at wedding halls with safety precautions, says P. Barathan, a member of Tamil Nadu Video and Photographers Association. “Financial assistance must be provided for the professionals until the revival of the business,” he adds.
17 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stickers at homes of elderly, pregnant women||Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inaugurated the pasting of stickers outside the homes of the elderly and pregnant women cautioning outsiders from entering their homes in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, at Karisalkulam here on Tuesday. Mr. Visakan said that pregnant women, the elderly and people with comorbidities were a vulnerable population who needed utmost care. “When field level workers and volunteers undertake door-to-door screening as part of the fever camps, they will identify households with such residents. We have been distributing pamphlets for these residents which contain details of the medicines that they need to have to boost their immunity,” he said. The Collector said that the civic body had identified around 1.5 lakh population with elderly residents. The elderly were also given Ivermectin drug to boost their immunity. “All the other family members of such houses must have vitamin, zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer to boost their immunity. The family members must wash their hands, legs before entering their homes and must maintain personal distancing when they are outdoors,” he said. The Commissioner also urged that outsiders should avoid entering such residences. The Collector said that all people who have been entering Madurai from other districts were being screened at checkposts at Vadipatti and Kottampatti and only then allowed to enter Madurai. Vehicles which were entering the district without permission will also be screened before they enter the district, he added. He also said that separate teams of volunteers will be formed in the rural and urban parts of the district to inform the district administration whenever any persons from other places enter their area. Dr. Vinay said that fever camps were set up at 155 locations within the Corporation limits to undertake door-to-door medical screening. A team of 31 doctors, 155 urban primary health nurses, 530 domestic breeding checkers, 400 anganwadi workers and 200 volunteers were deployed as part of fever camps.
17 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign against child labour||Labour department officials and Child Welfare Committee members pledged to eradicate child labour while observing World Day Against Child Labour here on Friday. Joint Commissioner of Labour P. Subramanian said that as per tradition, an awareness campaign was conducted. “We provided stickers to vehicles that spread the message against child labour, conducted surprise inspection at shops, tea stalls and industries based on previous complaints,” Mr. Subramanian said. Every year around this time, they rescued at least 10 children from Madurai region comprising Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai districts. “This year, however, due to the COVID-19 lockdown, we see few children being employed,” the senior official said. Nil cases Mr. Subramanian added that no cases were filed. People could contact Labour Department or ChildLine at any time to complain if they saw child labour on the streets, he said.
17 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years in jail||The Madurai District Court on Tuesday sentenced a 54-year-old man from Dindigul district to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for possession of ganja. He was imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. Twenty-one kg of ganja was recovered from him. Delivering the verdict via video conferencing, the II Additional Special Judge for Exclusive Trial of Cases under NDPS Act P. Mathusuthanan sentenced K. Ganesan who was nabbed on March 30, 2019 after he was found carrying the substance in a gunny sack near the Sempatti-Oddanchatram road.
17 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||VCK appeal to CEO||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has appealed to the District Chief Education Officer to take action against private schools that were forcing parents to pay fees under the pretext of conducting online classes. In a memorandum submitted to the CEO, R. Swaminathan, party functionary Amuthan said though the State government had warned private schools against collecting fees, several schools were violating the order. Online classes were causing mental and physical stress to the children.
17 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. installs washbasins at 804 buildings||Madurai Corporation has installed washbasins with running water and soap at 804 buildings across the city as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. According to a press release from the civic body, the 804 spots include Corporation buildings, government offices and private buildings. Advice to buildings All private buildings, apartments, commercial establishments were also asked to install washbasins and cooperate with the civic body in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the release added.
17 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Permit functions at marriage halls’||Members of Tamil Nadu Video and Photographers Association have pressed for permission for functions at marriage halls with necessary safety precautions, which will help revive their business. Association president P.A. Madheswaran said many photographers and videographers, who were depending on functions and weddings for their livelihoods had to suffer financially due to COVID-19 pandemic.
17 June 2020||MADURAI/DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports 20 fresh cases||Twenty persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 464. A one-month-old boy from K. Pudur was among the fresh cases. Eighteen of the new cases were indigenous. Two cases would be cross-notified to Chennai, Collector T.G. Vinay said. The cases were reported from Sellur, Chintamani, T. Kallupatti, K.K. Nagar, K. Pudur, Tiruppalai, Madhichiyam, Avaniapuram, Ellis Nagar, Munichalai, B.B. Kulam, Melamadai, Uthangudi, Tirumangalam, Pothumbu, Old Central Market and Villapuram. With 10 more patients having been discharged, the district now has 158 active cases. Dindigul district recorded 13 fresh cases, 11 of whom had travel history. Health officials said they had returned from Chennai and Mumbai. They hailed from Vedasandur, Dindigul, Natham, Nilakottai, Pattiveeranpatti, S. Pudur and Kolinjipatti. Theni district reported four fresh cases from Thenkarai, Periyakulam, Theni and Kottur. All of them had returned from Chennai. In Ramanathapuram district, the total number of cases slipped from 158 to 156 as the officials at the government hospital said the two patients, natives of Ramanathapuram, were normal residents of Chennai and had hence been cross-notified. In Sivaganga too, the tally slipped from 57 to 55 as the cross-notification of two patients was necessitated since they were normal residents of Chennai. Eight new cases were recorded in Virudhunagar district. Four of them were from Chennai. The others were contacts of a positive person who had sneaked into the district. One more positive case was added to Virudhunagar district’s account after reconciling the death of a patient in Thoothukudi. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 188. With four more having been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 45. While the number of indigenous cases in Thoothukudi district witnessed a sharp drop as only one case was reported on Tuesday, the number of such cases witnessed a sudden rise in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts with 11 and 13 cases respectively. Thoothukudi has 129 active cases against the tally of 437 cases. Tirunelveli also reported seven imported cases that took its tally to 507 and the number of active cases to 127. In Tenkasi, all the fresh cases were ‘indigenous cases’. The district’s tally is 157 and the number of active cases is 64. Kanniyakumari saw three indigenous and three imported cases on Tuesday to boost it tally to 123 and active cases to 42.
17 June 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||E-pass checking at check posts intensified||The Namakkal district administration has warned of stern action against those travelling to the district from Chennai without e-pass. In a release, District Collector K. Megraj said that 14 border check posts have been set up in the district and persons travelling to the district from Chennai must travel only via the check posts should not try to enter the district without e-pass through short lanes. According to a release, stern action would be taken against such violators under Disaster Management Act and Indian Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. The district administration also advised public to inform them of persons travelling from Chennai to their neighbourhoods in the numbers 1077 and 8220402437.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC defers plea against Speaker||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred the hearing of a petition filed the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam against the Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker for allegedly delaying a decision on the anti-defection proceedings against 11 AIADMK MLAs who voted against the Edappadi Palaniswami government in a confidence motion in 2017. A Bench led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde briefly heard submissions made by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, for the DMK. Mr. Sibal raised the question of delay in deciding the disqualification petitions. He said the COVID-19 lockdown began only from March 24. The Speaker had been sitting on the petitions for months together now. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi opposed the submissions and, finally, the Bench decided to hear arguments after 15 days.
17 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Entry of people from Chennai restricted: CM||The government has decided to tighten restrictions on the entry of persons from Chennai. Announcing the decision in a video message to media, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said from Wednesday, only those having permission of the Collector would be allowed to enter Puducherry. “Even people with an e-pass from Chennai will not be allowed to enter Puducherry without the Collector's consent. Only those coming for medical treatment from neighbouring districts will be allowed,” he said. On entry, a 14-day quarantine is mandatory, he said. The government has also decided to impose fine on those not wearing masks, he added.
17 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Gloom in soldier’s village||A pall of gloom descended on the Kadukalur village, the native town of Army soldier K. Palani, who was among those killed in a “violent face-off between Indian and Chinese Army” in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday. As the news spread, his school classmates who lived in the village, some of his friends, relatives and well-wishers thronged the soldier’s house to console his family members on Tuesday. Palani, 40, had joined the Army when he was 18. He had last visited his family in January. Born to Kalimuthu and Logambal, he was married to Vanathi Devi, 34, and has a son Prasanna, 10, and daughter Divya, 8. “My son had recently told all of us here that for good he would be back in 12 months after serving the Army for 22 years. He had taken a home loan and built a house in our village Kazhuguoorani, for which we had a house-warming ceremony only on June 3,” Mr. Kalimuthu said. He added, “Only 10 days ago, we all wished him good luck on his wedding day (June 6). After that we were not able to contact him as the mobile phone signal was weak at his end.” Nachiappan, father-in-law of Palani, said that for the children’s education, they had taken a house on rent in Om Sakti Nagar in Ramanathapuram Town. Every time, he would enquire about each person in the family. He was very much concerned about the health of elders in the family. “With COVID-19 pandemic, Palani had cautioned his children to stay indoors,” he recalled. His aged parents lived in their ancestral house near Thiruvadanai, while Palani’s younger brother Idayakani, 35, was also serving in Army in Rajasthan. The district administration, which is preparing to accord state honours for the last rites of the jawan, said that they expected the mortal remains to be brought here by air from Chennai/Madurai on Wednesday. CM, Stalin condole Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and political party leaders including DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday expressed condolences over the death of Palani. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri, MDMK general secretary Vaiko, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan, MMK leader M H Jawahirullah and AISMK leader R. Sarathkumar were among the leaders who expressed condolences to Palani’s family.
17 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Body of fallen soldier to be brought to Ramanathapuram||A pall of gloom descended on the Kadukalur village, the native town of Indian Army soldier K Palani, who was among those killed in a “violent face-off between Indian and Chinese Army” in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday. As the news spread, his school classmates who lived in the village, some of his friends, relatives and well-wishers thronged the soldier’s house to console his family members on Tuesday. Palani (40) had joined the Indian Army when he was 18-years-old. He had last visited his family in January. Born to Kalimuthu and Logambal, he was married to Vanathi Devi (34) and has a son Prasanna (10) and daughter Divya (8). “My son had recently told all of us here that for good he would be back in 12 months after serving the Army for 22 years. He had taken a home loan and built a house in our village Kazhuguoorani, for which we had a house-warming ceremony only on June 3,” Mr. Kalimuthu said. Weeping uncontrollably, he added, “Only 10 days ago, we all wished him good luck on his wedding day (June 6). After that we were not able to contact him as the mobile phone signal was weak at his end.” Nachiappan, father-in-law of Palani, said that for the children’s education, they had taken a house on rent in Om Sakti Nagar in Ramanathapuram Town. Every time, he would enquire about each person in the family. He was very much concerned about the health of elders in the family. “With COVID-19 pandemic, Palani had cautioned his children to stay indoors,” he recalled. His aged parents lived in their ancestral house near Thiruvadanai, while Palani’s younger brother Idayakani (35) was also serving in Indian Army in Rajasthan. The district administration, which is preparing to accord state honours for the last rites of the jawan, said that they expected the mortal remains to be brought here by air from Chennai/Madurai on Wednesday.
17 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Seven, including two accused, test positive in Salem||Seven persons, including two accused, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem district. One person had come from Karnataka, two from Maharashtra and two were cases from within Salem.  Accused test positive Two persons arrested for separate offences have tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem district. While one was arrested by the Salem District Police for illegal sand mining, the other was arrested by the Civil Supplies CID for smuggling PDS rice. They were admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said 10 police personnel involved in the arrest of the accused in the illegal sand mining case were quarantined and their swab samples sent for tests. Contact tracing was also being done. The police station at Gengavalli and the vehicle used in the arrest were disinfected. Three police personnel involved in the arrest of the other person have also been quarantined.  3 cases in Namakkal Three COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Namakkal on Tuesday. According to health officials, two of the patients, a 35-year-old man and 75-year-old woman had travelled to the district from Chennai and they are undergoing treatment at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital. A 51-year-old woman from Paramathi-Velur who tested positive is undergoing treatment at the Karur Government Hospital.  Policewoman tests positive In Erode, a 35-year-old policewoman attached to the Tiruppur Police Commissionerate, tested positive on returning from Chennai recently. She was admitted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Health officials said she had stayed in Chennai for three days to seek a transfer. She returned to her house at Shastri Nagar in Erode Corporation limits recently. Her husband, who works at the Corporation’s zonal office, and other family members tested negative. But, they were asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Officials said the case was included in the Chennai district tally.
17 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Be transparent in reporting COVID-19 deaths’||General Secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi E.R. Eswaran wanted the State government to be transparent while reporting COVID-19 active cases and deaths. Speaking to reporters in Namakkal, Mr. Eswaran said, “the government should take strong measures to reduce cases in Chennai and Chief Minister should monitor containment measures until things are brought under control.” Mr. Eswaran said that false cases are being filed against Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj and said that they would indulge in protests if the cases are not withdrawn.
17 June 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Body tests positive||The body of a man “donated” for autopsy was found infected with COVID-19. As news spread on Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital campus, officials denied it, but a discreet probe unravelled the truth. The 72-year-old man from Sivaganga died two days ago and his family members donated the body to the hospital. A swab test revealed that the deceased was COVID-19 positive, doctors said.
17 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Grand Anicut||Water for irrigation released from Stanley reservoir in Mettur on June 12 flowed past the Grand Anicut on Tuesday. Special ‘poojas’ were performed at the ‘Anjaneyar’ and `Karuppannaswamy’ shrines in the Grand Anicut complex before the shutters were lifted to allow the water to flow into Cauvery, Vennar and Coleroon rivers and the Grand Anicut Canal. Around 500 cusecs of water was released in each river and the canal, initially. The quantum of water release would be increased subsequently depending on the arrival of water to the Grand Anicut popularly known as ‘Kallanai’ and as per the requirement of water for irrigation in the Cauvery and Vennar Sub-basins and the GA Canal irrigated areas, official sources said. Dignitaries garlanded the statues of Chola King, Karikalan, who had built the regulator across the River Cauvery and Sir Arthur Thomas Cotton, a British General, who learned the technique of laying foundations on a sand-bed using unhewn stones by studying the `Kallanai’ constructed in 2nd Century and modified the anicut structure. Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Handlooms Minister O. S. Manian, Agriculture Minister R. Duraikannu, Puducherry Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakannan, Collectors of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudkottai and Tiruchi districts, MPs and MLAs elected from this region attended the ceremony.
17 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers piqued as flow is less||For the second year in succession, the shutters of Grand Anicut were opened without water, much to the resentment of delta farmers who had assembled here on Tuesday. It had been announced that the shutters would be lifted at 11 a.m. to release the water into Cauvery and Vennar rivers and the Grand Anicut for irrigation purposes and also into the Coleroon river. But water released from Mettur flowed in at a slow pace. The dignitaries could press the button to symbolise the lifting of shutters only at around 1 p.m. because only then sufficient amount of water had accumulated near the shutters of the Anicut so as to pass through the barrage. A visibly annoyed N. V. Kannan, who is the Thanjavur district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to Communist Party of India (Marxists), attributed the delay and poor arrival of water to the unchecked mining activity on the Cauvery river upstream. He said even after 96 hours since water was released from the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur there was not much flow. The officials should ensure quick and equitable distribution of water for irrigation in Cauvery and Vennar Sub-basins so that the expectations of a good ‘kuruvai’ season among the farmers was not dampened, he added. General secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, S. Ranganathan of Mannargudi, and others took part in the event.
17 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Mason arrested under POCSO Act||The Swamimalai police have arrested a mason, G. Prakash of Papanasam under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Monday. According to police, the accused had lured a 17-year-old girl of Baburajapuram near Swamimalai to leave her house on June 4. The girl’s relatives lodged a man-missing complaint with the Swamimalai police. On interrogation it was ascertained that the culprit used to call on his sister residing in the house next to the girl’s house and he had fallen in love with her. Further, investigation revealed that the culprit had sexually assaulted the teenage girl. The Swamimalai police arrested the mason under POCSO Act on Monday night and remanded him to judicial custody on Tuesday. The girl was rescued from the culprit’s residence and sent back to her home at Baburajapuram, police said.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Despite lockdown freight earnings surpass Rs. 100 crore||Freight movement in Tiruchi Railway Division has remained steady notwithstanding the lockdown clamped from March-end onwards. Various commodities have been regularly dispatched through freight trains operated from Karaikal Port and other stations in Tiruchi Division limits to different destinations. Correspondingly, the earnings clocked through freight movement have also been steadily rising since March-end. The freight earnings through regular goods movements has surpassed Rs. 100 crore since the time lockdown was clamped, say railway sources. The earnings recorded in the 10-day period from the time lockdown was clamped till the conclusion of March was a little over Rs. 14 crore. During the entire month of April, the freight earnings surpassed over Rs. 18 crore. Earnings recorded a over two-fold jump in May as compared to the previous month clocking a little over Rs. 49 crore. The sources say earnings generated during the first 10-days in June was a little over Rs. 19.2 crore. In respect of quantity transported, the Tiruchi Division saw over 19 lakh tonnes of freight being moved from March-end through more than 29,000 wagons. Railway sources say movement of coal from Karaikal Port to other destinations within the State was on top in respect of commodities moved in Tiruchi Division during the lockdown period. The Division has also witnessed movement of foodgrains from various stations in the delta region besides lignite and cement. There has been daily movement of freight train from Tiruchi Division to various destinations. However, the sources say the freight earnings as compared to the corresponding period last year was lesser due to the lockdown resulting in demand coming down. In addition to goods trains, Southern Railway had also operated special parcel trains on select routes including Chennai to Nagercoil via Tiruchi.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘All pass’ methodology is impractical, say teachers||School heads are in confusion in the wake of the State Government decision to declare ‘all pass’ for SSLC students as they find the methodology specified for arriving at the passmark to be impracticable. The government has suggested that 80 % weightage must be given for quarterly and half-yearly examinations and 20 % for attendance. It is not unusual for a section of students to skip quarterly or half-yearly exams or even be on leave for lengthy durations as there is no scope for the schools to issue transfer certificate on disciplinary grounds due to the enforcement of EMIS (Educational Management Information System). “Once a student's name is uploaded in the EMIS data, the school head will no longer be in a position to issue transfer certificate,” a senior headmaster said. Teachers also say the methodology suggested by the government has come as a bolt from the blue, as it is a normal practice to evaluate performance of students in quarterly and half yearly exams rather strictly so that the students do not become complacent in the run up to the public exam. The School Education Department had, in the past, issued instruction for uploading the performance of students in quarterly and half-yearly exams in EMIS. Had the directive been followed, it would have been possible for the department to arrive at the consolidated scores of the students based on the formula specified by the government. “At this juncture, the school heads have no idea of the way forward,” he said. According to a senior official of School Education Department, the practice has been to obtain only the peripheral data pertaining to the number of students, and the pass percentage. Individual marks of students in the term exams have not been collected so far, the official said. Heads of government schools say they are worried over the scope for some unscrupulous private managements to fudge the data of individual scores by students, taking advantage of the loophole. Official sources indicated that the Directorate of Government Examinations will shortly be issuing fresh instructions by fine-tuning the methodology.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Chennai returnees contribute to sharp jump in positive cases||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise sharply in the central region on Tuesday, with 78 more persons testing positive for the virus. It was the highest count on a single day for the central districts with Nagapattinam district, in particular, witnessing a sharp spike with 43 new cases. Persons returning from Chennai accounted for a chunk of the cases. Tiruchi came next with 14 cases. Ten cases were recorded in Tiruvarur district and four cases each were identified in Thanjavur and Ariyalur districts. Perambalur recorded two cases and Karur one. Of the 43 cases in Nagapattinam district, five were categorised as “imported” cases. Natives of Nagapattinam district, who had returned from Chennai, contributed to the sharp rise in cases with 36 Chennai returnees testing positive. They were from different parts of Chennai, including Thiruvanmiyur, West Mambalam, T. Nagar, Kilpauk and Choolaimedu. Five other patients, who had tested positive for the virus, had returned from Jharkhand, Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala and Malaysia. All of them are under treatment at the Government Hospitals in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai. Most of them were asymptomatic and were under close watch. According to a health official in Nagapattinam, out of the 75 cases reported in the last one week, 65 were the Chennai returnees. “Vigil has been stepped up at the entry points to the district. It has been noticed that many people belonging to Nagapattinam district have been returning from Chennai. Swab samples are being lifted from those returning from Chennai. Otherwise, there was no cause for alarm,” he said. Four of a family residing at 11th cross in Thillai Nagar were among the 14 cases in Tiruchi. A doctor, who had returned from Kallakurichi, was among those who tested positive for the virus. Four cases were reported from Mettupalayam near Thuraiyur. They were under treatment at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. In Ariyalur district, three out four patients, who had tested positive for the virus, had returned from Chennai. The other patient was a Kuwait returnee. While he was admitted to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi, other three patients were under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital in Ariyalur. The total number of persons who had tested positive for coronavirus in Thanjavur district increased to 171 on Tuesday with the addition of four new cases. The number of active cases being treated at the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital stood at 64, sources said. With 10 more persons testing positive, 90 out of 148 persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Tiruvarur district so far are undergoing treatment at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thrust on outcome-based education||In the backdrop of outcome-based education becoming a major expectation from higher educational institutions, the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has initiated a workshop to enable mentee institutions to comply with requirements of National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and expose them to the specifics in submission of self assessment report (SAR). The six-day national workshop on ‘Perspectives of Teaching and Learning of Engineering Sciences for Outcome Based Education’ (NWOBE -2020) was initiated on Monday on virtual platform as the first webinar under the aegis of AICTE - Margdharshan scheme for over 110 participants from 14 mentee institutions all over the State. There were some participants from institutions in Maharashtra as well. The organising team has roped in eminent resource persons representing leading higher educational institutions in India and abroad to bring about a global outlook on higher education. So far eight Faculty Development Programmes have been organised under the scheme in thrust areas for the benefit of faculty members from mentee institutions. Workshop planned The NIT-T has planned another workshop titled ‘Research Methodology for Engineers’ and guest lectures by eminent industrialists and academicians through video-conference mode, N. Sivakumaran, Chief coordinator, AICTE Margdarshan Scheme, said. Inaugurating the workshop, Dileep N. Malkhede, Adviser - I, AICTE, emphasised on the importance of accreditation for betterment of the students’ future at national and international levels. Presiding over the inaugural session, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said content delivery and interactions on online platform will be the mainstay in future. The AICTE Margdarshan Scheme, she said, will motivate the faculty members to enhance teaching learning skills and prompt students to come up with innovative ideas and projects. The platform will pave way for students to move on to higher educational standards and develop research aptitude, she said.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation stone for memorials||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, through video conference, laid the foundation stone for memorials to be built in the city for ‘Perarasar’ Perumbidugu Mutharaiyar, Sir A.T. Paneerselvam and M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar. The memorials will come up at a 2.11 acre site identified between Central Bus Stand and Periya Milaguparai, close to K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College. The State government had announced in the Assembly that memorials (mani mandapams) will be built in Tiruchi for the three personalities. The mani mandapam for ‘Perasar’ Perumbidigu Mutharaiyar, a king who had ruled Tiruchi- Thanjavur region, will be built at a cost of Rs. 99.25 lakh. It will include a library and a statue of Mutharaiyar. The memorials for Sir A. T. Paneerselvam and M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar will be built adjacent to this, at a cost of Rs. 43.40 lakh and Rs. 42.69 lakh, respectively. Sir A. T. Paneerselvam, a barrister was a leading light of the erstwhile Justice Party and also a former chairman of Thanjavur Municipality. The British Government had appointed Sir A. T. Panneerselvam as Secretary to the Minister for Indian Affairs. Considered the first Tamil superstar, M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar was a famous yesteryear actor, producer and singer. District Collector S. Sivarasu and others were present during the ceremony at the memorial site.   Perambalur Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also inaugurated the newly constructed office of the Q Branch CID of Perambalur unit at Thuraimangalam here. The new building has separate rooms for Inspector, Sub Inspector and Police Writer, computer room, records room and a cell and the office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police on the first floor and a conference hall. An official release said the new building has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 89.19 lakh. The Chief Minister also inaugurated the Sub Treasury Office building at Alathur block constructed at a cost of Rs. 72.05 lakh. Post inauguration by the Chief Minister, District Collector V. Santha lighted ‘kuthuvilakku’ at both places and inspected the new buildings. Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban and other officials participated, the release further said.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Worn out pipelines hit drinking water supply in Thuraiyur||Frequent bursts on distribution lines and recurring faults at pumping station have compounded the problem of drinking water shortage for residents in Thuraiyur municipality. The town gets Cauvery water from the pumping station at Ayyampalayam near Musiri. The Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) supplies water to the residents of the municipality along with 98 village panchayats and four town panchayats, including Uppilliyapuram, Thathaiyangarpettai and Mettupalayam. The combined drinking water scheme that came into being in 2001 was designed to supply 3.12 million litres a day (MLD) to Thuraiyur municipality. Long time residents of Thuraiyur recalled that they got water supply almost on a daily basis in the initial stages after the scheme was inaugurated. After a few years, they began to receive water once in two to three days. The frequency of supply has gradually worsened. Residents allege that the water supply was too erratic and there was no standard schedule of water supply. “Water is so precious in Thuraiyur. We are supposed to get fresh water daily. But in some places we get water once a week,” said M. Suresh Babu, a resident of market area in Thuraiyur. He said that the duration of supply lasts for just 45 minutes. Within the short time, the residents had to collect water for the next eight days. Since it was highly insufficient, many residents had been managing the situation by buying water supplied by private tankers. Enquiries revealed that there were frequent burst or leakages on pipes along the distribution line from Ayyampalayam. Moreover, complaints of fault at the pumping station were on the rise, thereby disrupting the water supply. These complaints were attributed to the fact that many of these pipelines were old. As against 3.12 MLD of water supply, the municipality now gets just around 1.2 MLD to 1.7 MLD. “If we come across a leak or burst in the distribution line, water supply collapses at least for one or two days. By the time we clear the backlog, leakage occurs at some other location. It has a cascading effect. The pipes are worn out at many points,” said a senior official involved in the distribution of water. When contacted D. Dhamayanthi, Commissioner, Thuraiyur Municipality, told The Hindu that there were some issues in the distribution network. Steps were being taken to improve the water supply. “As there is a need for a separate drinking water scheme for Thuraiyur municipality, various options were being explored,” he added.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fisherman rescued mid-sea||A 65-year-old fisherman of Rameswaram who was reported missing after he had set sail from Thangachimadam a few days ago, was rescued mid-sea by fishermen of Pudukottai district in the early hours, on Tuesday. The rescued fisherman, T. Sesu of Thangachimadam, was admitted to the Government Hospital in Manamelkudi in Pudukottai district for treatment. Coastal Security Group sources told The Hindu on Tuesday that Sesu, along with three other fishermen from Rameswaram had set sail on June 13 on a mechanised boat. The hose in the boat’s engine was said to have developed a crack a couple of hours later. As sea water entered the boat, the fishermen jumped into the sea with empty ice boxes. Sources said a mechanised boat with fishermen from Kottaipattinam coastal village in Pudukottai district was returning to shore in the early hours when they spotted the fisherman mid-sea, clutching the ice box. The fishermen rescued Sesu and brought him to their village. Sources said Sesu’s health condition was stable. Information about the rescued fisherman has been passed on to his relatives.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||EPFO asks beneficiaries to utilise online facilities||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Tiruchi, has made arrangements for disposal of grievances of all stakeholders in time-bound manner. Subscribers and beneficiaries can utilise the online facilities to register their grievances and avoid visiting the office in view of COVID-19 pandemic, Vanlal Muan, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-I, Tiruchi, said in a press release. Grievances can be registered through the dedicated WhatsApp numbers: 6380139610, 6380142949 or 6380104232; email:ro.trichy@epfindiagov.inor Facebook : EPFO RO Tiruchi; or Twitter : @epfotrichy Grievances would be attended to within three working days, he said. Individual without access to these communication modes can drop written grievances with relevant documents, claims or life certificates for pension in the box kept near the front entrance of the office. Such communications should contain the mobile phone numbers or email addresses of the individuals. Visit to the EPFO office will be restricted to extraordinary cases, that too only with passes, he added.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BDU moves up to 53rd place in NIRF ranking||Bharathidasan University has secured the 53rd place in the NIRF 2020 ranking in the university category, improving on its last year’s 60th rank. The ranking framework assesses five parameters of the higher education institutions encompassing Teaching, Learning and Resources; Research and Professional Practices; Graduation Outcomes; Outreach and Inclusivity; and Perception. In the overall category, the university has taken the 77th place in the 2020 ranking, moving up from 86th position in 2019 and 94th ranking in 2018. Attributing the improvement in the ranking to the efforts of teaching faculty and administrative staff, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said Bharathidasan University was among the few universities that had been showing continuous improvement.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Train coach catches fire||An air-conditioned broad gauge coach which had come for periodic overhaul at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here suddenly caught fire on Tuesday. After one of the supervisors noticed fire in the coach stationed at the paint shop inside the workshop, an alert was sounded immediately. The fire brigade at the workshop rushed to the spot. Sources said the air-conditioned coach was partially damaged in the fire which was put out at around 8.30 p.m. There was no injury to any staff. Workshop authorities said a detailed inquiry would be conducted on Wednesday to ascertain the exact cause of the fire. The workshop resumed operations with 100% staff strength early this month following relaxations in the curfew announced by the State government.
17 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Another batch of expatriates arrive from Singapore||A total number of 179 passengers landed here from Singapore by an evacuation flight operated by the Air India Express on Tuesday.  Swab samples were taken from each one of them, official sources said adding that the passengers left for their respective districts by vehicles facilitated by the district administration. Those from Tiruchi district opted for hotel quarantine, the sources added.
17 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Radhapuram MLA reviews river-linking project||Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai on Tuesday reviewed the progress of the Tamirabharani-Karumaeniyar-Nambiyar river-linking project.  Inspecting the work at Chittoor in Radhapuram Assembly constituency, Mr. Inbadurai said the scheme would provide water for irrigation in 23,040 hectares, including 13,481 hectares in Tirunelveli district and 9,559 hectares in Thoothukudi district. The scheme would also fulfill drinking water needs of people living in the rain-shadow regions of Nanguneri, Thisaiyanvilai and Sattankulam. Though the project was expected to be completed by December-end, the delay caused by the lockdown would have adverse impact on the commissioning of the project by this year. “Due to the lockdown, we lost more than 70 days and it will certainly have adverse impact on the progress of the project. Even if we expedite it, we are not sure of its completion by December-end,” said a Public Works Department official here.  Who will benefit? Palayamkottai, Nanguneri, Radhapuram and Srivaikundam Assembly constituencies   Area: 23,040 hectares including 17,002 hectares of uncultivated land  Tirunelveli: 32 villages; 13,481 hectares Thoothukudi: 18 villages; 9,559 hectares Irrigation tanks: 252 Tirunelveli: 177 irrigation Thoothukudi: 75 Wells: 5,220 Tirunelveli: 177 Thoothukudi: 75
17 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Workers from Arunachal Pradesh want to return to home towns||Nearly 50 migrant workers from Arunachal Pradesh staged a demonstration outside Tiruppur District Collectorate on Monday night demanding to be sent to their home towns. They gathered at around 9 p.m. on Monday when around 180 workers from Arunachal Pradesh were sent in a government bus from the Collectorate to Chennai, as a Shramik special train to Arunachal Pradesh was scheduled to leave from Chennai on Tuesday. “The other workers demanded that they must be sent home too,” an official from the Revenue Department said. The demonstration was held from 9 p.m to 10.30 p.m. in which workers from Avinashi and Veerapandi in Tiruppur district and Sulthanpet in Coimbatore district participated, he said. Revenue Department officials and Tiruppur city police pacified the workers by assuring that they will be sent to their home towns, following which they dispersed from the spot. Nearly 15 women were present among the 50 workers who staged the demonstration, according to the official. The initial batch of the 180 workers comprised nearly 100 persons from Tiruppur Corporation limits and the others were from Avinashi and Palladam taluks. Nearly 200 workers from other parts of the district will be sent to Arunachal Pradesh in the upcoming special train, he said.
17 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Fine for not wearing masks, spitting||Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Tuesday that those found without masks and spitting in public places will have to pay spot fine henceforth. The defaulters will be levied a fine of Rs. 100 on the first occasion and Rs. 500 on the second occasion. The fine will be levied by the police and local body authorities, a release said. Those found to be spitting or not wearing masks for the third time will be booked by the police and action will be taken against them as per the Disaster Management Act, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  The Salem Corporation has collected Rs. 44.47 lakh as fine from persons who ventured out without wearing masks.
17 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘CM should reveal exact number of deaths’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami must reveal the exact number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the State, urged Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he alleged that the discrepancies in the death figures are due to the attempts of the State government trying to reduce the count. The government is trying to project a false image that only Chennai and the surrounding districts are the worst-hit in terms of COVID-19 cases, Mr. Subbarayan alleged. He further accused the State government of not carrying out adequate tests in rest of the districts, including Tiruppur district.
17 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||KVK’s advisory services over mobile phones a hit||The advisory service conceived and implemented by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Tiruvarur, to provide solutions to the problems faced by farmers in the field over the mobile phones during the lockdown period has received a good response. Around 200 farmers have utilised the service during the past two months where they have received the suggestions/methods from KVK scientists to control pest attacks and other animal husbandry related problems. The KVK scientists have also analysed the queries raised and the response from the farmers to comprehend how e-technology was utilised by the farmers to get their problems solved. This analysis threw up some interesting facts about how the farmers have become adept to e-technology. While nearly 30 % of the farmers have shared the results with the scientists, others remained content with the reply they received . While the advisory service has gone down well with the farmers who have been adept to make use of the technology, the KVK had also taken up another initiative - “KVK on the move”. This has been designed in such a manner that the scientists would be visiting the block extension centres once a week on rotational basis to address the farmers’ problems. This initiative has also been received well by the farmers.
17 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Decision to ease building approvals in the Nilgiris draws flak||A recent government notification, delegating power to district and zonal-level officers to grant building and planning approvals could lead to the further concretisation of the Nilgiris, activists said. In a release, the Nilgiris district administration stated that zonal officers with the Town and Country Planning Authority, along with officers from subordinate offices would comprise a district-level Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA) to grant building and planning approvals. Previously, the HACA was a State-level committee that had absolute authority to approve planning in areas with an approved Master Plan, which encompassed the major towns of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur. For approvals outside these areas, permissions had to be sought from the local body concerned. With the latest order, approvals for buildings up to 15,000 sq.ft., as well as land measuring up to an extent of one hectare in municipality and town panchayat areas, and two hectare in village panchayats, can be approved by the district-level HACA Committee. Powers decentralised “This is really bad news for the district, as under the guise of simplifying the process, the government has implemented a system that has decentralised the powers of the Hill Area Conservation Authority committee. This could lead to local, district-level officers being pressured into granting approvals for massive construction projects, paving the way for the destruction of whatever is left of the district,” said a Nilgiris-based activist and conservationist. Moreover, for planning permissions, the order states that no-objection certificates must be issued by the Mines Department, the Agricultural Engineering Department and the District Forest Officer, based on the recommendations of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF). However, there is a caveat that if the PCCF fails to object to the granting of the planning permissions for a period of more than 30 days, then the no-objection certificate can be issued by the District Forest Officer. “This means that for a problematic project, the official can just delay responding to the file for more than 30 days, and the project will then come to the purview of the district-level officer,” said the activist. The district-level Hill Area Conservation Authority committee can also now approve planning permit for layouts. The committee can grant approval for the land measuring up to two hectare in extent, depending on whether it is situated in a municipality, town or village panchayat. Once again, district-level officers from the Forest Department, Mines Department, Agricultural Engineering Department and the Revenue Department need to issue no-objection certificates for the change to occur. “The Nilgiris is already struggling with rapid urbanisation and loss of biodiversity resulting from it. The delegation of powers to the district-level officers could be the final nail in the coffin for the Nilgiris as we know it,” said another Nilgiris-based conservationist.
17 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Founder of Good Shepherd school passes away||Founder and Principal of Good Shepherd International School in Udhagamandalam P.C. Thomas passed away on Tuesday, the school confirmed. He was 76 years old. Dr. Thomas founded the school in 1977 with his wife Elsamma Thomas, the senior vice-president of the institution. They went on to expand the school from its initial founding in Fern Hill to M. Palada on the outskirts of Udhagamandalam town. The school is one of the most well-known residential schools in the Nilgiris.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Modern traffic signages to be installed||Palayamkottai and Melapalayam zones of Tirunelveli Corporation are going to get traffic signages with Internet of Things at the cost of Rs. 9.15 crore under the Smart City project. The main objective of the project is to identify busy locations that need to be equipped with different signages to regulate the flow of traffic to ensure drivers’ safety and also warn them of potential hazards. “The purpose of installing road signs is to promote road safety and efficiency by providing information for orderly movement of vehicles along all roads in urban areas,” says V. Narayanan Nair, CEO of Tirunelveli Smart City Ltd. “The roads signs will notify road users of regulations and give warnings, when they violate traffic regulations, and guidance, if needed for safe, uniform and efficient operation of vehicles,” Different types of signages have been proposed at various locations based on the usage. Installation of delineators, median markers, passenger information display, variable message display etc. are part of this proposal. The locations where the traffic signages are going to be installed will be finalised based on two rounds of survey and also with consultation of stakeholders. Another interesting and essential infrastructures to be created are e-toilets and incinerators to destroy the sanitary napkins. Another proposal eyes at finding an everlasting solution to the perennial two-wheeler parking problem around Nellaiyappar temple by creating a multi-level bike parking facility on an outlay of Rs. 5.14 crore.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai sees a dip, records 919 cases||Chennai now accounts for a total of 34,245 COVID-19 cases, of which 18,565 persons have been discharged. A total of 422 deaths have been reported in the city till now. As on date, a total of 26,782 persons have been discharged after treatment across the State. The number of active cases stands at 20,706. While the State’s recovery rate is around 55%, its case mortality rate has been increasing over the past two weeks, reaching 1.1%. Of the 49 deaths, 35 occurred in government hospitals. The day also marked the highest number of samples to be tested on a single day. A total of 19,242 samples were tested, taking the overall number of samples tested till now to 7,48,244. Chengalpattu reported 88 new cases, taking its tally to 3,108. The district accounts for 30 deaths. Tiruvannamalai, which has also been witnessing an increasing number of cases, reported 64 new cases. There were 60 cases in Ranipet, 52 in Tiruvallur, 46 in Kancheepuram, 38 in Nagapattinam and 20 cases in Madurai. Villupuram, Vellore, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul reported more than 10 cases each. Of the fresh cases, 61 persons had returned from abroad and other States. This included 25 persons from Maharashtra and 10 from Rajasthan. Till date, a total of 2,221 persons who returned from other countries and States have tested positive for COVID-19. Overall, a total of 2,444 children aged 0 to 12 and 5,664 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan inspected RGGGH on Tuesday. They discussed improving COVID-19 infrastructure including the number of beds at the hospital with RGGGH authorities.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||MGNREGS work halted in Aruppukottai village||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act Scheme is seen as the best available solution to the loss of jobs among the rural masses during the COVID-19 threat. However, jobs that would have benefited around 200 persons every day in Kovilankulam panchayat near here have remained suspended for the last one week, over the appointment of two persons as field in-charge. While the two appointees belonged to the Scheduled Caste, officials said that this had nothing to do with the suspension of work. Officials alleged that there was a disagreement between the Panchayat president, P. Balasubramanian and vice president, R. Gopal. The president said that he got representations from the SC community members that they should be given an opportunity to become field in-charge -- the person who supervises the work done by every registered worker. “I made two persons – one from Kovilankulam and another from Karisalkulam as field in-charge and based on my recommendation, the Block Development Officer appointed S. Kala and I. Sindhuja,” Mr. Balasubramanian said. However, the vice president, R. Gopal, said that he, along with a majority of members in the nine-member council, objected to the president unilaterally appointing both the field in-charges. “We insisted that the vice-president should also have a say in the appointment. One of them should be my nominee,” he added. Meanwhile, the deputy block development officer held talks with the president and other councillors that failed to break the deadlock. Consequently, the work has suffered and at least 200 persons have lost their job that would fetch them around Rs. 180 wages a day. “We are not against people belonging to any particular caste becoming the field in charge. But we want equal representation for the vice president,” Mr. Gopal, said. Meanwhile, a complaint has been submitted to the Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, seeking his intervention in this issue.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) for Rs. 7,500 dole to poor families||Hundreds of CPI (M) cadre staged demonstrations in 70 places across Virudhunagar district on Tuesday, pressing the government to give Rs. 7,500 as financial assistance to every family to overcome the adverse impact of COVID-19 lockdown. Participating in a demonstration in Rajapalayam, party’s district secretary K. Arjunan said the CPI(M) wanted the State government to give the relief of Rs. 7,500 to every family that was not paying income tax. Besides, each member of every poor family should be given 10 kg of food grains. Their other major demand was that the government should increase the number of days of employment given under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from 100 days to 200 days. Handloom sector “We demand that efforts be taken to ensure uninterrupted supply of yarn to keep the handlooms running,” Mr. Arjunan said. The party also wanted the provision of loans to all traders and small-scale industries to revive their business. CPI(M) cadre also staged demonstrations across Madurai district. The demonstrations were held at 11 locations including Arasaradi, Mela Ponnagaram, Munichalai, South Gate, Palanganatham and Jaihindpuram. The members demanded that the Central government provide Rs. 5,000 to each migrant worker. All small-scale units must be given a bank loan upto Rs. 10 lakh for revival of business. For the next six months, rice, pulses, sugar and wheat must be provided free of cost at all ration shops, they added.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 16   No. of persons tested +ve so far: 183 Domestic cases: 172 Imported cases: 11 No. of persons recovered: 150 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 31 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)      House quarantined: 1,209 Positive: 117 (One fresh case, another case cross-notified on June 16) Discharged: 115 Active cases: 2 (Admitted at ESI Hospital)
17 June 2020||B.S. Satish Kumar,KARNATAKA||Implementation of draft order on insecticide ban put off by 45 days||The Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has put off the implementation of its draft order on banning use of 27 different insecticides by 45 days. Earlier, the Union Ministry had issued a gazette notification on May 14, announcing that its draft order to ban the above 27 insecticides would come into effect after 45 days. It had also called for objections and suggestions from the stakeholders with respect to its draft ban order within 45 days from the issue of the gazette notification. However, following petitions by various experts and organisations, who had sought wider consultations and studies before effecting a ban, the Centre has granted additional time of 45 days to implement the order. Meanwhile, the time for receiving objections and suggestions too has been extended by 45 days. Prominent among those who had petitioned the Centre against immediately banning the 27 insecticides was noted scientist from Karnataka P. Chowdappa who is also former director of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI).  Call for consultations Dr. Chowdappa, who is also former president of Indian Phytopathological Society, Delhi, had said that the government should initiate wider consultations with all stakeholders concerned before taking a final call on the ban. “I request you to take a holistic view and put on hold the draft ban order at this challenging time (COVID-19), taking into consideration the best interest and welfare of Indian agriculture and farmers,” he had said in the letter to Sanjay Aggarwal, Secretary, Union Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare. “...The emergence of pest outbreaks may cause a serious damage due to non-availability of an efficacious broad spectrum of insecticides on the proposed ban list. The process of review should be science-based and consultative...,” he said. “...The five major reasons cited in the draft notification towards justification of the ban are endocrine disruption properties, ban in other countries, availability of alternative chemicals, ecotoxicity or toxicity to honey bee/ aquatic organisms and additional data submission on bio-efficacy and toxicity. Is this data is available for new generation pesticides, which are cost prohibitive,” he had wondered. Dr. Chowdappa, also former president of Association for Pest Management in Horticultural Ecosystems, Bengaluru, had said if banning of a particular pesticide by certain countries based on some studies can be taken as a basis to ban the same in India, scientific data was required to substantiate the action. He had argued that the proposed ban could increase farmers’ expenses two to three fold.
17 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain hits life in Belagavi||Heavy rain affected life in Belagavi district on Tuesday. It rained incessantly for nearly five hours in the afternoon. After a respite for around three hours, it began raining again in the evening. Some low-lying areas, including Hindalaga, and Pangul Galli were flooded. Residents were busy throwing out water from their homes and shops. There were reports of heavy rain in bordering Maharashtra too. Irrigation officials said that rain in and around Amboli Ghat, the catchment are of the Hiranyakeshi, received 273 mm rain in the last 24 hours. This is expected to cause heavy inflow in the river course and reverse flow into its tributaries, officials said. Heavy rain caused landslips on the Karnataka-Goa highway on the Chorla Ghat near Khanapur. Vehicles were stranded for kilometres on both sides as the police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel and Public Works Department officials were busy remvoing the trees and repairing the road. Vehicles would be asked to take alternative routes, Public Works Department officers said. All road traffic has been stopped on the road now. There was no threat of floods in the Krishna or the Ghataprabha, as there are no indications of release of water from Maharashtra as of now, said an Irrigation Department Engineer in charge of the Krishna Basin projects. Water level at the Naviluteertha Dam in Saundatti was put at 25 %, and there was no immediate chances of release of water from that dam, said another officer.
17 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Artists’ novel protest against tree-felling||A group of city-based artists who were upset with the constant cutting of trees in Belagavi have begun a novel method of protest by creating paintings and poetry against the act. Members of Gulmohar Belgaum Artists’ Group have created a series of paintings to protest against the cutting of trees in Vaccine depot and other areas in the city. The general theme was ‘the portrait of a murdered tree’, and the painters worked around it and came up with different designs. As many as 18 artists have created paintings in a span of three to four days. Each painting has a message about protecting the environment. “It has caused quite a furore after the pictures were shared on social media handles of the group and by personal handles of individual members,” said Preeti Pavate, who submitted a painting. “It is the least we could do,” said her daughter Viveca who spelt out her anger in a poem.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. issues guidelines for land conversion||The State government has come out with a set of guidelines for the acquisition and conversion of agricultural land for industrial purposes, to attract investors and provide them with land for industrial projects. The government issued a circular outlining 10 steps as a simple process for acquisition of farmland for industrial projects under the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961. Section 109 During the budget session in March, 2020, the government amended Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 for acquisition of farmland for industrial purposes. It granted permission for sale of lands exempted under section 109 of the Act after utilising such land for a period of seven years for the purpose for which it was permitted. These guidelines came a few days after the government decided to further amend Sections 63 (a), 79 (a), (b) and (c) 80 in the Act, which would enable any non-agriculturalist to buy farmland. It also removed existing ceiling limits to own farmland. The circular sated that industrialists or companies who want to acquire agricultural land must first upload applications on the Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) website. These will then be sent to Deputy Commissioners of the concerned districts, seeking details of land and fee for land conversion. Within 15 days, the DCs must return the file complete with all details related to the land to KUM. The DCs’ reports would be placed before the land audit committee for detailed examination of the land proposal. The circular said the approved report of the land audit committee would be placed before the meetings of the State High Level Clearance Committees (SHLCC) chaired by the Chief Minister or the State Single Window Clearance Committee (SSWCC). The clearance of the proposal by SHLCC and SSWCC would be considered as deemed approval of acquisition of farm land for industrial projects. The government said that the KUM and Kaveri portals would be integrated for convenience of registration of land, stamp and registration fee, date of registration.  Later, industrialists have to register acquired land on the Bhoomi website for obtaining mutation certificates. After obtaining rights over these lands, the industrialists/companies have to make online payments with regard to the land conversion fee for KUM. Subsequently, the company or industrialist would be given a digitally signed land conversion certificate, it said. The rules have been simplified in the background of the government’s decision to hold a Global Investors Meet in Bengaluru.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Sudden spurt in ICU admissions in last two days||There has been a sudden spurt in the number of critical COVID-19 patients in the State since Monday. From 16 ICU admissions on June 14, the number jumped to 72 on June 16. Of these, while 40 were moved to the ICU on Monday, 16 were shifted on Tuesday. What is particularly worrisome is the fact that four of the ICU admissions are children and an equal number of pregnant women. Around 15 cases are those with severe co-morbidities, who require continuous monitoring and are under observation. The four children include three aged four and one nine. While one four-year-old admitted to the ICU of a designated hospital in Bidar is also on ventilator for the past one week, another four-year-old admitted to the hospital on May 27 is battling for life for the last 18 days. While Kalaburagi topped the list of ICU patients till Monday, Bengaluru Urban saw a sudden jump from 17 ICU patients on Monday to 35 on Tuesday. With the numbers increasing, the format of reporting ICU patients in the health bulletin also changed on Tuesday. Earlier, Patient Number of every ICU case was mentioned in the bulletin. However, on Tuesday the bulletin only had the total number of cases in the affected districts. Sources said none of the ICU patients is a new case. “They have been shifted from the general ward to the ICU as their condition deteriorated. It is not just children and the aged who are in the ICU. Apart from the children, at least 10 are aged below 40. Among those who have been put on ventilator, except for the four-year-old almost all are aged above 50,” sources said. K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), attributed the sudden surge in ICU admissions to late reporting and referral from private hospitals. “Also with the increase in number of positive cases, those who are immunocompromised due to their co-morbidities are being shifted to the ICU as they require constant monitoring. Four pregnant women have also been shifted for better monitoring. Rest are under observation,” he said.  On the increase in the number of cases in Bengaluru Urban, he said this is because people tend to indulge in self-medication and seek medical advice only when their symptoms deteriorate. “Also, we have noticed they first go to the nearest private hospital and are referred to designated COVID hospitals from there. Apart from his, ILI and SARI cases are also adding to the burden,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said while the mortality rate with COVID-19 remains low, it has been observed that the infection suddenly deteriorates in those with a compromised immune system. “People should see a doctor as soon as they develop symptoms,” he added.  Admissions as on June 16 Bengaluru Urban: 35 Kalaburagi: 9 Bidar: 8 Ballari: 5 Dharwad, Shivamogga: 3 each Dakshina Kannada, Vijayapura, Davangere, and Udupi: 2 each Mandya: 1
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers in BBMP-run schools ‘adopt’ students of class X||Syeda Khutaijul Kubra knows it is time to get up and start studying when her phone rings at 4.30 a.m. Though groggy, she knows who the caller is: it’s her school teacher. Each of the teachers at the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Girls’ High School in Cleveland Town where she studies, have ‘adopted’ six Class X students who are preparing for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination, which is scheduled to begin on June 25. “My teacher calls me every day, and she is available to clear any doubts that I may have,” said Ms. Kubra. The BBMP’s track record in the SSLC examination in previous years shows that there’s plenty of room for improvement. The pass percentage in 2017-18 was 51.92, which increased marginally to 52.24 in 2018-19. This year is all the more challenging as schools have not been able to hold special classes on account of the pandemic. “Given the circumstances, the head masters have worked with teachers to ensure that the students don’t suffer and the pass percentage doesn’t drop,” said J. Manjunath, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Education). M. Harini, an SSLC student at BBMP Girls’ High School, Sriramapuram, said that teachers often call them to keep tabs on their revision work and send them model question papers to solve. “After they evaluate our work, they show us where we have lost marks and correct our mistakes. Though schools are closed, our teachers even visit our homes to check on us,” she said. As many as 1,639 students from 32 BBMP-run high schools will be appearing for the SSLC examination. Headmasters of these schools are taking several such steps to ensure that the students don’t fall behind. B.R. Muralidhar, vice principal of BBMP school in Sriramapuram, said that technology has come to the aid of children and teachers. “WhatsApp groups have been made, which have helped both teachers and students,” he said. Balappa Y. Padeppagol, vice principal of the Cleveland Town school, said that most students hail from families who do not have money to invest in gadgets or even internet connections. “Students have borrowed their relatives’ phones. We had contacted a few organisations to pay for top-up their plans,” he said and added that with all portions covered by December, teachers were helping students with revising their lessons and clearing their doubts. Meanwhile, BBMP has also started consulting with parents on when schools can be reopened. “This is based on the State government’s directions. We have two options – either have staggered classes or conduct them on a shift basis. We will send parents’ feedback to the government after consultations,” said Mr. Manjunath.  After they evaluate our work, they show us where we have lost marks and correct our mistakes. Teachers even visit our homes to check on us M. Harini, student, Girls’ High School, Sriramapuram   Students have borrowed their relatives’ phones. We had contacted a few organisations to pay for top-up their plans Balappa Y. Padeppagol, vice principal, BBMP Girls’ High School, Cleveland Town   Given the circumstances, the head masters have worked with teachers to ensure students don’t suffer and pass percentage doesn’t drop J. Manjunath, Special Commissioner (Education), BBMP
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Standardised agreement for sale notified||The long wait for standardised, uniform agreement for sale across the State is over. The State government has notified the Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation and Development) (First Amendment) Rules, 2020. The June 12 notification from the Housing Department lays down certain clauses, such as the promoter having to obtain ‘the final layout plan, sanctioned plan, specifications and approvals for the project’, agreeing to not make changes to approved plans, and having to register the project under KRERA. The draft Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation and Development) (Agreement for Sale) Rules, 2020 was first published this January. RERA Karnataka Chairman M.R. Kamble told The Hindu said, “There is now uniformity in sale agreement between home buyers and developers throughout the State. The interest of home buyers is protected.” The Forum for Peoples Collective Efforts (FPCE) concurred. “We are thankful to the government for notification of Karnataka Rera Rule for Agreement for Sale without diluting the rules, though delayed by more than three years. The earlier versions of the draft RERA rules had a lot of dilutions. We had opposed notification of the same and have been insisting on an undiluted version as per the model agreement notified by GOI,” the forum said. Pointing out the major benefits of the new agreement, FPCE general secretary M.S. Shankar said, “As per the notified rules, the promoters are held responsible for registering the agreement for sale at the sub-registrar’s office and also for formation of the association of allottees, convey the common areas to the association, hand over the original title deed and related documents, and ensure transition of maintenance to the allottees’ association.” Project possession has been a bitter bone of contention for long. The new agreement of sale specifies that in case a project is delayed beyond the date stipulated in the agreement except for reasons of force majeure , builders cannot ask for any price increase for whatever reason, including government fee and charges. “The agreement of sale says that possession of units should be given to buyers only upon receipt of occupancy certificate, upon making the unit completely habitable with all assured amenities and facilities. This will make builders more accountable and transparent,” Mr. Shankar added.  There is now uniformity in sale agreement between home buyers and developers throughout the State. The interest of home buyers is protected M.R. Kamble, Chairman, RERA Karnataka
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Accused can be produced before magistrate via videoconference first time after arrest’||The High Court of Karnataka has empowered judicial magistrates to authorise presenting of accused persons through videoconferencing even for the first time after their arrest in exceptional circumstances like the COVID-19 pandemic, if there exists an apprehension that the accused may be infected. “In a very exceptional case, where the magistrate is of the view that there is a serious apprehension that the accused may be infected with COVID-19 and therefore, for the purpose of following the best health practice, physical production of the accused for the first time before the court should be avoided, he can for the reasons specifically assigned, authorise the production of accused through videoconferencing,” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while hearing a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court, on legal and technical issues which cropped up owing to video conferencing hearings due to COVID-19 norms.  Exceptional case “One such very exceptional case can be where an accused, who is a resident of a containment zone or red zone, is sought to be produced or an accused, who has symptoms of COVID-19, is sought to be produced, or a person infected with COVID-19 is sought to be produced,” the Bench said. The production of accused through videoconferencing from the prison after their remand to judicial custody is already authorised by law. However, the issue of legality of production of accused through video conferencing for the first time after the arrest cropped up due to the pandemic and the recently-notified Video Conferencing Hearing (VCH) Rules, which said that magistrates, in exceptional circumstance, can pass first remand orders on production of accused through video conference. Senior counsel C.V. Nagesh, acting as amicus curiae, had pointed out that the legality of the VCH Rules could be questioned as Section 167(2(b) of Cr.PC mandates that accused will have to be produced in person before the magistrate for the first time after the arrest and subsequent extension of police remand.  ‘Deemed to be lawful’ Relying on recent judgement of the apex court declaring as lawful the measures taken by the High Courts to ensure functioning of courts in terms of social distancing guidelines and best public health practices, and to ensure robust functioning of the judicial system through videoconferencing technologies, the Bench said the action of the magistrate, under exceptional circumstances authorising production through videoconferencing, would be “deemed to be lawful”. “It is the duty of the court to ensure that they function in such a manner that the possibility of spread of virus is reduced tominimum,”the Bench said, while referring to recent instances of closure of courts and quarantine of staff, magistrates, public prosecutors, and advocates after a few accused and escorting police personnel tested positive for COVID-19 after production of accused before the magistrate.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Consumers say Bescom billing them for power they didn’t use||The Bescom, which has been fire-fighting accusations of issuing inflated bills, is now facing complaints from owners of temporary connections who say that they have been billed for the lockdown months. Individual house owners, who had to halt construction work because of the shutdown, said they were being forced to pay for the days during which there was no construction activity. “I’m building a house in Nandini Layout. I had taken a temporary connection of 5 kW. But when the lockdown was announced, we had to stop work. Site owners also took care of the construction workers during that period. But I still had to pay Rs. 9,000 for 58 days,” said Janardhan (name changed on request), a site owner, adding that the government has announced relief for most sections, but not people like him. Another site owner, who wished anonymity, said he took a temporary connection last September to construct his house. “I had to pay Rs. 4,000 for the two lockdown months. We checked with the subdivision offices, but Bescom officials are saying they have no order on this,” he said. Chandru, another site owner, said they had no option but to pay as the house was nearing completion. “We hadn’t even switched on the motor. But I had 5 kW sanctioned, so I ended up paying a hefty amount. Now, the house is nearly complete and I didn’t want to get into any argument,” he said. What Bescom says Bescom maintained that no concession was announced for temporary customers. “Those who opt for temporary connections take it for four weeks, and they need to renew it if they want to extend it. It is not a monthly billing cycle. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has fixed weekly minimum charges or energy charge as tariff, whichever is higher. For a week, for 1 kW connection, they are supposed to pay Rs. 110. The maximum period is two years. There is no provision for concession for temporary customers, though the government has announced some relief for permanent consumers,” a senior official explained.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No more hospitalisation for asymptomatic patients||Asymptomatic positive patients will no longer be admitted to designated hospitals for treatment in Karnataka. The State government will set up COVID Care Centres to monitor and treat asymptomatic infected persons, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons after a meeting with experts and senior officials on best practices and effective steps being taken by other States, the Minister said this decision has been taken as the number of cases are on the rise in the last two weeks. “This will reduce the burden on hospitals and ensure that beds are available for those who need it,” he said. “An expert committee has been formed to advise on the type of treatment and care required for these cases in different stages. The BBMP Commissioner has been directed to ensure that 20,000 beds are available in COVID Care Centres in Bengaluru,” the Minister said. Stating that private hospitals should act with utmost responsibility and pro-actively participate in the fight against COVID-19, the Minister warned of strict action against hospitals that refuse to treat these patients. “We are developing a mobile application that will guide on the availability of beds, ventilators, and ICU facilities,” he said. Meanwhile, the State saw seven more persons succumbing to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll touched 94, apart from four death of patients because of non-COVID causes. The seven deaths include five from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Ramanagaram and Bidar. The day also saw 317 new cases and with this the total number of positive cases touched 7,530. On Tuesday, Dakshina Kannada reported 79 new cases, the highest. Kalaburagi and Ballari reported 63 and 53 cases, respectively, followed by Bengaluru Urban that saw 47 cases.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASI who tested positive for COVID-19 dies of cardiac arrest||A 59-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector with V.V. Puram traffic police station, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was on medical leave, suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday and passed away. The ASI was due to retire in a few days and was on medical leave. “He developed complications and succumbed at the hospital,” said a senior police officer, adding that they are waiting for the post-mortem report. Memo to staff On Sunday, Joint Commissioner of Police, Traffic, B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda , issued a memo to his department to ensure that safety measures are in place.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contract doctors threaten to resign||Demanding regularisation of their services, as many as 507 MBBS doctors working on contract for years under the Health and Family Welfare Department, have threatened to submit resignations en masse on Wednesday. The contract doctors, who will arrive in Bengaluru from their districts on Wednesday morning, will submit their resignations to Health Minister B. Sriramulu and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “Although the services of over 2,000 doctors have been regularised from 2002 to 2016, 507 of us have been left out due to technical reasons. While we have been working on a par with permanent doctors, our salaries are far lesser. Moreover, now the government has issued a notification calling for appointment of doctors. While there are over 2,000 vacancies in the department, why should our services not be regularised,” asked Nitin Kumar, a doctor working in a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Hassan. Vinay Manjunath, a doctor from a PHC in Chickballapur and member of the Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association, said doctors want job security and equal pay for equal work. While permanent doctors in the department earn Rs. 85,000 with TA, DA. we get Rs. 45,000 a month, he said. ‘No assurance’ All the doctors are appointed in PHCs and have been deputed in districts hospitals during the pandemic. “We have submitted several petitions to Mr. Sriramulu, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Mr. Yediyurappa, and our jurisdictional MLAs, but have got no assurance,” the doctor said.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special cover on ‘1,000 India Post ATMs’||The Department of Posts will release a special cover on ‘1000 India Post ATMs’ to commemorate the milestone of 1,000 ATMs of India Post. The department, via a release, said that under the IT modernisation project, the Department of Posts, Government of India, commissioned its first ATM at Thyagarayanagar in Chennai on February 25, 2014, and the 1,000th ATM will be commissioned at Lunglei, Mizoram, on June 17. During the lockdown period, (between March 31 and May 31, 2020) India Post ATMs supported 14,46,419 transactions for a total value of Rs. 404.26 crore. The Special Cover will be released in Bengaluru by Sharda Sampath, Chief Post Master General, Karnataka Circle, and simultaneously at Shillong by Amitabh Kharkwal, CPMG, North East Circle.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RBI told to consider depositors’ plea to raise withdrawal limit||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the Enforcement Direction (ED) in connection with a case of alleged fraud in Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative (SGRC) Bank Ltd., Basavanagudi, and also asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to consider the plea of the depositors, mainly persons retired from services, to increase limit for withdrawing their money. It also directed the DG&IGP to authorise a senior officer to look into the issue of delay in starting the probe by the Bengaluru police even four months after registration of the FIR on February 7, 2020 A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.R. Narasimha Murthy and three other depositors of the bank. Noting that the RBIinitiated action based on the outcome of the 2019 inspection report, the Bench noticed that the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, who on January 23, 2020, had written letter to the ED on suspected money laundering by those connected with the bank, had not followed up on this. The Bench also asked authorities to examine conduct of forensic audit of the bank. Over 3,000 depositors of the Society and majority of the around 40,000 depositors had alleged they had lost their deposits due to fraud.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reconsider ban on online classes’||The Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association, Karnataka, has requested the State government to reconsider its decision to ban online classes. The schools have said that more than 90% of parents have expressed a strong desire for online classes to continue.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Webinar held on emerging opportunities||The Indian Institute of Plantation Management, Bengaluru (IIPMB), in association with The Hindu and Business Line , organised a webinar on ‘Growth potential of India’s Agricultural Exports and Emerging Career Opportunities’ on June 14. IIPMB will launch a two-year PGDM programme in Agricultural Export and Business Management in August. Sanjeev Nandhwani, secretary general, AEPC, said healthcare, agribusiness and food sectors will prosper after the pandemic.
17 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||EC disqualifies four BJP members in Dharwad ZP||The State Election Commission (EC) has disqualified four BJP members of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat for violating a whip issued by the party. The disqualified members are Annappa Desai, Ratna Patil, Manjawwa Harijan and Jyothi Bentur. The former zilla panchayat president Chaitra Shirur said that the Election Commission’s order comes following a petition filed by the BJP. The four members had allegedly voted in favour of the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress on February 5, 2019 and it resulted in the ouster of Ms. Chaitra Shirur from the post of the panchayat president. Sensing the possibility of cross-voting, Dharwad Rural district BJP president Iranna Jadi had issued a whip to all 10 BJP members to ensure that the no-confidence motion is defeated on the floor of the House. He had also warned that stern action will be taken against those cross-voting under the anti-defection law. All the 11 Congress members had on January 7 approached Ms. Chaitra Shirur asking her to call for a special general body meeting to pass a no-confidence motion against her. However, Ms. Chaitra Shirur had neglected this demand and had not called for any meeting. As there was no response from the ZP president to their demand, the Congress members approached the then ZP vice-president Shivanand Karigar on January 22, to call for a special general body meeting and even submitted a letter in this connection. After receiving the letter, Mr. Shivanand Karigar directed ZP CEO to hold a special general body meeting on February 5. The amended Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act stipulates that a special meeting could be called if it is demanded by 1/3 of the total number of members in the House and a no-confidence motion can be moved if 2/3 of the members press for it. Despite the strength of the BJP coming down to 10 after the by-poll for the Hebballi seat and the number of Congress members going up to 11, Ms. Chaitra Shirur had continued as panchayat president as the moratorium in the amendment to the Act provided her protection from being removed before the completion of 30 months in office.
17 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BPCL launches LPG booking via WhatsApp||The Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited has launched booking of LPG cylinders and making payment via WhatsApp. A press release issued by the Territory Manager (Bengaluru) of the company, here on Tuesday, said that BPCL customers can book cylinders by contacting 1800224344 from the mobile number registered with the company on WhatsApp. Once the booking is done, the customers will receive a confirmation message and link to make an online payment for the refill through debit or credit cards, UPI and any other payment application. This step has been taken up to promote digital payment among customers.
17 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Virus research laboratory inaugurated in Haveri||Home Minister and in-charge of Haveri district Basavaraj Bommai on Monday inaugurated a Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on the premises of the district hospital in Haveri. Speaking to presspersons after the inauguration, Mr. Bommai said that the government was efficiently handling all challenges arising out of the increase in COVID-19 patients and all necessary arrangements had been made in the district to attend to patients. The Minister said that apart from COVID-19 tests, VRDL would help in testing various viral infections, dengue, HIV, among others. “Nearly 100 tests can be conducted in a shift and a total of 300 tests in a day at VRDL. Initially, 50 to 60 samples will be tested. Subsequently, based on the experience and capabilities of the microbiologists and laboratory technicians, the number of samples being tested will go up. As it is the first day, five samples have been tested on an experimental basis and sent to NIMHANS for authentication,” he said. The Home Minister said that 16 ventilators have been installed at the Intensive Care Unit and another five had been sought from the government. A 50-bed isolation ward has been set up in district hospital and a 30-bed ward in Savanur. This apart, the Deputy Commissioner has been instructed to add 10 to 15 beds for COVID-19 patients in all the taluk centres, he said.
17 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SWR uses lockdown period to be ready for monsoon||Making good use of the cancellation of passenger train services due to COVID-19-induced lockdown, South Western Railway has initiated works to ensure preparedness for the monsoon season. According to a press release, during May and June, Utility Track Vehicles were being regularly operated in the Castle Rock-Kulem section of Hubballi division resulting in removal of 2,000 sleepers from side drains making them effective to cater to the water flow and preventing overflow of water onto the tracks. During this period, rehabilitation work on eight minor bridges on the ghat section between Londa-Miraj and Londa-Vasco-da-Gama section was completed. As a precautionary measure 1,000 sand bags have been kept at Caranzol, Dudsagar and Sonalium as monsoon reserves. Divisional Railway Manager, Hubballi Arvind Malkhede is monitoring the work done by the track maintenance departments along with branch officers of the divisions, the release said. According to the release, 1,700 tonnes of rail scrap have been trucked and kept ready for further disposal in the ghat section.
17 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘We are prepared to handle any emerging health situation’||Issues related to COVID-19 and preparedness of the district authorities in handling the increasing number of such cases in Kalaburagi district dominated the general body meeting of the zilla panchayat here on Tuesday. Replying to queries from zilla panchayat members, Chief Executive Officer P. Raja explained that the district administration and the health institutions were well prepared to tackle any emerging situation related to COVID-19. Of the 1,007 COVID-19 positive cases (including 63 cases on Tuesday), 459 persons had recovered. There are 475 active cases in the district. “We are prepared to handle the situation even if the district witnesses a three-fold increase in such cases,” he added. Clarifying doubts about the revised quarantine guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr. Raja said that people returning from other States will be home quarantined and those coming from Maharashtra will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine. Primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients will also have to undergo home quarantine. There are 56 ICU beds at the ESI Hospital and 35 ICU beds at the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).
17 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||1,007 COVID-19 positive cases in Kalaburagi district||With the detection of 63 new COVID-19 positive cases in Kalaburagi district on Tuesday, the total number of infected persons jumped to 1,007 which included 10 deaths and 474 people being discharged after recovery. Kalaburagi is the second district in the State to cross the 1,000 mark after Udupi which, as on Tuesday, has 1,035 positive cases to occupy the top position. As per the information shared by the district administration, four of the new cases were contacts of previously infected persons, three had returned from UAE, one came from Goa and 52 had returned from Maharashtra, one of the most affected States in the country. The source of infection were yet to be traced in three cases. The new cases included a two-year-old male child, a four-year-old girl, a five-year-old girl, two six-year-old boys, an eight-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy. The district also saw 15 patients being discharged on Tuesday bringing the number of active cases in the district down to 523.
17 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||GIMS gets 24 x 7 Tele-ICU facility||The Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) has become the second hospital in the State to get a 24 x7 Tele-ICU facilities. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Monday inaugurated the 24 x 7 Tele-ICU facilities at GIMS through video conferencing. The Tele-ICU at GIMS was established under the Action COVID Team (ACT) grants by the State government. The first Tele-ICU was established at the Ramanagaram district hospital, he added. Of the 70 ICU beds at GIMS, 26 have been upgraded for Tele-ICU facilities, in which a 10-member team consisting of technology professionals and medical experts will work round the clock in shifts and record real-time observations of coronavirus patients in the ICU through e-Health information and Communication System and recommend appropriate treatment to doctors treating such patients across the State.
17 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Direct recruitment to fill GIMS posts||Due to delay in expediting the process of appointment to vacant posts at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) by the Karnataka Examination Authority, the State government has decided to fill 16 posts of professors through direct recruitment through the Medical Education Department, Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar has said. Inspecting the functioning of GIMS Hospital and College here, Dr. Sudhakar directed GIMS director Kavitha Patil to prepare a notification for inviting applications for the 16 vacant posts of professors and submit it to the department within two days. He also directed Dr. Patil to introduce biometric attendance system for out-sourced staff to ensure mandatory attendance. Reacting to the complaints, the Minister advised her to remove house-keeping staff for their negligence towards duty during the pandemic situation. Priority should be given for locals while appointing people to C and D category posts, he said Dr. Sudhakar confirmed that the much-delayed trauma care centre established on the premises of the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences will be inaugurated on October 2. Director for Medical Education Girish has been asked to complete the pending works expeditiously and make arrangements for procurement of drugs and medical equipment for the centre. He also urged GIMS officials and staff to make use of the centre’s ambitious Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme for the benefit of poor patients.
17 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NMPT firemen rescue bull||The Fire and Emergency Services personnel of New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) on Sunday evening succeeded in saving a bull by removing the rope around its neck that was almost strangulating it. Port Chairman A.V. Ramana in a release here said that the bull had entered the dock area on June 13 in search of water. Noticing that the bull was in some discomfort, the firemen made an attempt to remove the rope from around its neck. The rope, he said, may have been tied around the animal’s neck by illegal cattle transporters in an attempt to steal the bull. Stray cattle in the NMPT area have been subjected to cruelty by illegal cattle transporters, he said. Residents and Animal Care Trust personnel had in vain made an attempt to remove the rope from around the bull’s neck in the past. Mr. Ramana said that NMPT arranged for treatment for the wounded bull on Monday.
17 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Spend first two minutes of online classes on cleanliness’||Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on Monday asked schools and colleges to spend the first two minutes of online classes to show videos about the need to maintain the premises around houses clean and prevent breeding of mosquitoes. This was among the steps proposed by Ms. Rupesh during the meeting on dengue and malaria prevention here. With widespread rain in Dakshina Kannada, Ms. Rupesh said, cases of malaria were being reported in Puttur, Belthangady, Sullia and Bantwal talukas. Officials were asked to intensify source reduction activity and prevent the spread of infection to other parts of the district. More attention should be given to clear fresh water collection around anganwadis and schools. Steps should be taken to prevent mosquito breeding in buildings under construction. Guppy fish that eat mosquito larvae should be let into open water tanks, fountains and other large fresh water deposits. Local bodies were asked to ensure smooth flow of water in roadside drains. Laboratories and hospitals were asked to immediately report cases of dengue to the office of the District Health and Family Welfare Officer.
17 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||79 test positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada||A spike in COVID-19 positive cases was seen on Tuesday with as many as 79 testing positive. Of the 79, 75 are those who returned from Saudi Arabia. As per a bulletin released by the district administration, the youngest among the Saudi Arabia returnees who tested positive is a two-year-old girl, while the eldest is a 57-year-old man. All these persons had returned to the city between June 5 and June 12. A 25-year-old man who returned from Pune on June 5 and two persons who returned from Mumbai on June 15 also tested positive. A 25-year-old man from Puttur with influenza like illness also tested positive for COVID-19. The condition of a 70-year-old man with diabetes and pneumonia, who is in ICU, was critical. A 52-year-old man with diabetes was also in ICU, the bulletin mentioned. As many as 11 persons were discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital on Tuesday after they tested negative. With this, there are 201 active cases in treatment at the hospital.
17 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tobacco production in State surpasses ceiling by 6 million kg||The extended tobacco auction in Karnataka concluded across the four platforms in Mysuru earlier this week with the output crossing 106 million kg against the ceiling of 100 million kg. The auction of tobacco, which had been suspended in March after the lockdown was declared, resumed on May 20. By June 9, the entire quantum of unsold tobacco was cleared. “102.5 million kg of tobacco had been sold when the lockdown was declared. The extended session saw a transaction of another 3.5 million kg of tobacco, taking the total to 106 million kg,” Manjunath, regional manager of Tobacco Board in Mysuru, told The Hindu.  As per the Tobacco Board norms, a penalty of Rs. 2 per kg and 7.5% of the proceeds of the sale will be imposed for excess cultivation. If the excess tobacco crosses 10% of the authorised quantum, the penalty will be increased to 15% of the sale proceeds. The penalty amount is contributed to the Tobacco Fund. Mr. Manjunath, however, made it clear that the prices of tobacco remained stable even during the extended session. “The tobacco purchased during the extended session commanded more or less the same price at Rs. 126.4 per kg,” he said. Since the extended auction session was restricted to four platforms, three in Periyapatna and one in Chilkunda, only representatives of companies from Karnataka participated. All of them were quarantined, tested and allowed to participate in the bidding only after their results were negative, Mr. Manjunath said. Meanwhile, president of Karnataka VFC Tobacco Growers’ Federation Javare Gowda said this year’s average price of tobacco was Rs. 10 less than last year’s Rs. 136 per kg. Tobacco yield last year plummeted to 93 million kg against the crop size of 99 million kg, keeping the prices stable.
17 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rail infrastructure, safety works expedited during lockdown||Suspension of regular train services due to COVID-19 has enabled the South Western Railway (SWR) to complete safety and infrastructure works besides taking up maintenance of tracks and other works across the zone. This includes monsoon preparedness in the ghat sections, closing of a few unmanned level-crossings, and eliminating manned level-crossings by constructing road underbridges. A SWR release said all planned safety works in the ghat section between Castle Rock and Kulem section of Hubballi division are nearing completion. There was no disruption of train services as only a few special trains operate at present and this also did not lead to staggering the works. Between Castle Rock and Kulem, 2,000 sleepers were removed from side drains to facilitate water flow during monsoon and prevent track flooding which could endanger safety. Repair of eight minor bridges on the ghat section between Londa-Miraj and Londa and Vasco-da-Gama section was also taken up and the bridges are now ready. In Mysuru division, three level-crossings were eliminated on the Mysuru-Hassan section by constructing low height subways. An official statement said the construction entailed insertion of pre-cast boxes under the track and were completed in a matter of hours which in normal times would have lead to cancellation or regulation of a number of passenger trains. There are 311 manned level-crossings in the Mysuru division of which 30 were eliminated last year and 16 are targeted for elimination by construction of subways this year. A canal crossing work between Ajjampura and Shivani stations on the Tumakuru-Hubballi line is underway. The release said it was earlier planned with daily blocking of track for a few hours and the work was to be staggered over a period of 90 days. But taking advantage of the lockdown, it has been planned for an early completion. In April, authorities took up the re-girdering and repair of the Tunga bridge and it was completed in 7 days.
17 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Accused sentenced to four years in jail||District and Sessions Court Judge Bailuru Shakar Ram has sentenced an accused to four years in jail and imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 for growing ganja at Sankeshwarhal village in Deodurg taluk of Raichur district. A release said that Excise Department officials had raided a field at Sankeshwarhal where the accused, Hanumantharaya, had grown ganja. The officials seized ganja on November 15, 2016 and arrested the accused before registering a case at Manvi Police Station. The judge, who heard the case, passed the order sentencing the accused to a jail term. Excise Inspector Monappa had submitted a detailed charge-sheet. Gopal Rao K. argued the case on behalf of the Excise Department.
17 June 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,KARNATAKA||12 fresh COVID-19 cases in Raichur and Yadgir||As many as 12 fresh cases of COVID-19 positive were registered in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Tuesday. Of the 12, six each were reported in Raichur and Yadgir. In Raichur, of the six, two persons returned from Maharashtra, one from Kalaburagi. Contact tracing is on in the case of the remaining three. In Yadgir, all the six had returned from Maharashtra.
17 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Seven test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as seven persons, including two children, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that of the seven persons, four were men, one woman and two children, including an eight-year-old boy and a seven-year-old girl. All these persons had returned from Mumbai recently. They had been shifted to COVID-19 hospitals in the district, he said.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Private schools conduct online admission tests, parents upset||Many private schools in the city that have not completed the admission process are conducting online assessment tests for students seeking seats in the coming academic year. Parents are crying foul as entrance tests for students go against Section 13 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, which states that no school can subject a child or his guardians to any screening procedure during the admission process. They allege that schools are screening applications not just for higher classes but also nursery, pre-primary and class I. “The entire process is conducted online,” said a parent. During the online test for nursery classes, for instance, teachers are asking students to recite rhymes and identify letters. “They are testing the oral and vocabulary skills. We are given a ‘syllabus’ for these tests a week before they are held,” the parent added. Another parent said her son was admitted to class IV of a CBSE school, but not before he was asked to answer questions by teachers during an online session. “I initially objected to the test, but the school said they could not admit my son until they analysed his learning levels. I had to relent,” she said. The experience can be harrowing for young children between the ages of three to six years as they have to sit in front of a laptop for anywhere between 15 and 30 minutes to take part in the assessment. “Making the child sit in front of a laptop without getting distracted is a challenge. Although my daughter knows her rhymes, she was unable to recite them during the online screening session,” said the mother of a four-year-old. Fr. Antony Sebastian of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said that parents can complain against school managements that subject their children to online assessment during admissions. “We will ensure that strict action is taken against such schools as it is illegal,” he said. Schools increase intake Many schools that had closed admissions for January are opening up new seats to increase intake. Principals and managements said the decision to increase the number of students in a class was made to recover costs as the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) had told them not to hike fees for the 2020-21 academic year. Others had put admissions on hold in March after the DPI issued an order stating that collection of fees and admissions should be stopped. “At such a juncture where schools are struggling to make ends meet and pay salaries to their staff, it is important for us to fill all the seats,” said a teacher in a school affiliated to the CBSE.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC: Can COVID-19 advisories be enforced under law?||Observing that loopholes in notifying COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and other norms should not become a defence to those who breach the norms, the Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to clarify whether advisories issued by the State police chief and the Commissioner of Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are enforceable in law. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order while asking the State government about measures taken for enforcing the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for operating places of worship, restaurants, hotels and shopping malls. Disaster Management Act is the relevant law Pointing out that penal action under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act could be initiated only if the advisories are issued by the competent authorities as per the DM Act, the bench said that the advisories issued by the State police chief and the BBMP Commissioner do not indicate that they were issued under this law. Meanwhile, the bench granted time to the Central government to show that the SOPs issued form part of the COVID-19 guidelines issued under the DM Act by the competent authority. The bench was hearing a PIL petition.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A group of theatre artistes launch mobile canteen||The COVID-19 pandemic has dealt a crippling blow to theatre troupes who depend on live performances and crowds to earn a living. While lockdown restrictions have eased considerably, it’s unlikely that live theatre will bounce back in the near future, forcing artistes to embrace new ways to make a living. A group of theatre artistes in the city have started a mobile eatery near Nandini Layout bus stop. Working out of a van, they sell homemade tomato bath, idli-vade, chapati, rice and sambar, and chitranna between 7 a.m. and noon. Channakeshava G., a designer and actor, said the group believed that both preparation and consumption of food is an art form and decided to run a mobile canteen. The idea was born out of need and passion. “Food is prepared by us at home without any baking soda or artificial colouring. We take all precautions while preparing and packaging food. We have seen artists start cafes and book stores. A roadside mobile eatery is rare,” he said. He and his friends admit that with their livelihood at stake, they had no option but to become entrepreneurs. “Five of us, from different theatre groups came together to start this mobile canteen. It helps that cooking is our passion,” he added. Lakshman K.P., who trained at the Inter-cultural Theatre Institute in Singapore, said, “COVID-19-related restrictions will remain for a long time. Our hope is to create a small but beautiful art space in and around our food van. We plan to hold poetry and photography sessions at our food stall.” Sidhaartha Maadhyamika, a theatre artist who has been part of a few indie films, is using this time to learn new skills. “We were in our own zone, comfortably numb for years. But the pandemic is teaching us to adapt and keep moving, which in a way is also what theatre is about,” he said.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Power supply||There will be intermittent power supply from 10 a.m. of June 17 till 4 p.m. of June 20 for areas under 66/11 KV Kodigehally MUSS.
17 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Seven fresh cases in Alappuzha||The number of COVID-19 cases continues to spiral in the district with seven more people testing positive on Tuesday. Five persons returned from foreign countries and two from Kolkata. One of the patients, a youth hailing from Venmony, reached the district from Kuwait on June 12. A 52-year-old man, a native of Bharanikavu, had come from Dammam in Saudi Arabia on June 10. The third patient, a youth from Thazhakara in the district, came from Kuwait on June 12. Another, a 58-year-old man hailing from Pallippuram, had come from Abu Dhabi on June 3. Two patients, a youth from Alappuzha and a 52-year-old Mararikulam native, reached the district from Kolkata on May 29 and June 4 respectively. All six have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha for treatment. The seventh patient, a 45-year-old Mavelikara native came from Dammam on June 14. As he was showing symptoms of the disease on arrival, the person was immediately shifted to a private hospital in Ernakulam. 5 test negative Meanwhile, five persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 108.
17 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Dredging of Thottappally spillway to be expedited||A meeting chaired by Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty at the district collectorate here on Tuesday decided to expedite the deepening and dredging of the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway. He said that three more dredgers would be deployed by June 18. “At present, three dredgers are involved in dredging works. Three more will be deployed, which will accelerate the work and ensure the smooth flow of water,” he said. Special officer It also decided to appoint a special officer to oversee the work. Earlier, Mr. Krishnankutty visited Thottappally. Along with reviewing the progress of the work, he also reviewed the deepening and widening of the Thottappally pozhi. He said that the works were being carried out to minimise the severity of floods in Kuttanad. Protest On Monday, tension prevailed at Thottappally after residents opposed the Indian Rare Earths Ltd.’s move to set up a spiral unit to separate minerals from the sand removed. People blocked a truck and prevented the unloading of the unit parts. The protest ended after District Collector A. Alexander intervened and shifted the lorry from the coast. Trouble has been brewing at Thottappally for some time now over mineral sand-mining. Last month, as per a State government decision, around 550 trees on a plot in the possession of the Irrigation Department close to the Thottappally pozhi had been cut down by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. According to the government, the trees were chopped to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi to ensure the smooth flow of water from Kuttanad through the Thottappally spillway to sea. The government further allowed the Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited (KMML) to remove sand from the pozhi and from the place where the trees stood. According to officials, the KMML has been given permission to extract two lakh cubic metre of sand. The KMML will pay Rs. 465 per cubic metre. However, the move has met with widespread protests, especially from fishers, who say the government move is aimed at large-scale extraction of mineral sand in the disguise of flood mitigation. Mr. Krishnankutty said that he would apprise Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Ministers concerned of the ongoing works.
17 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||COVID-19 casts a shadow over boat races||It is that time of year when snakeboat teams conduct rigorous training in the backwaters of Kuttanad to the chanting of aarpo irro irro .... and the harmonious strains of Vanchipattu. But, the backwaters around the villages in Kuttanad are quiet this time. The spectacle of 140-ft-long snakeboats (chundan vallams), crewed by around 100 oarsmen, darting over the water to the zestful cheering of crowds is likely to be missed during this boat race season, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic playing spoilsport. Dismay Much to the dismay of boat race buffs, the Champakulam Moolam boat race, the season opener, will not be held on July 4. “It is not possible to organise the race ensuring physical-distancing norms. However, we may still conduct the necessary rituals associated with the race. A final decision on it will be taken on Wednesday,” says A.V. Murali, convener, Moolam Boat Race Committee. The conduct of other small and big races including the Nehru trophy boat race, known as Kuttanad’s Olympics on water, and the fate of the second season of the Champions Boat League (CBL) hang in the balance. “At present, no discussions are taking place regarding the conduct of the Nehru trophy, also the first race of the CBL. Given the present situation, it is very unlikely that the race will be held on the second Saturday of August. It is possible the race will be rescheduled to a later stage. However, it depends on improvement in the pandemic situation. We should also consider the health of rowers and spectators,” says an official associated with the conduct of the race. CBL hit According to an official with the Tourism Department, the process of franchisee acquisitions of CBL teams has come to a halt due to the pestilence. Although some of the boat clubs have recruited rowers several months ago, they remain less optimistic about races taking place anytime soon. “It is not possible to conduct races with 100 rowers in a snakeboat due to the prevailing situation. I don’t see boat races happening soon,” says, V. Jayaprasad, president, Pallathuruthy Boat Club, the winner of the maiden CBL season. S. Jayakumar, secretary, Karichal Chundan Vallam Samithi, says the cancellation of the races would result in a dip in their revenue.
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||8 passengers of Kuwait flight among 13 cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district recorded 13 cases of COVID-19 for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Eight passengers of a flight from Kuwait that landed here on June 11 have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They include four Aluva residents, aged 38, 39, 47 and 52; a 35-year-old Kunnukara resident; and a 40-year-old Ayavana resident and his two children aged four and six years. The other patients are a 26-year-old from Elamakkara who arrived from Dubai on May 29; a 28-year-old Kunnathunadu native who arrived from Doha on June 5; a 53-year-old Edakkatuvayil native who reached Thiruvananthapuram from Abu Dhabi on June 4; a 34-year-old Thrikkakara resident arrived from Dubai on May 31; and a 34-year-old Lakshadweep resident who reached Karipur from Kuwait on May 26. A 48-year-old from Kakkanad who had been under treatment in the district since May 29 was tested negative on Tuesday. A total of 95 COVID-19 patients are under treatment in various hospitals. There are 10,283 in home quarantine in the district, 505 in COVID care centres and 1,207 in paid centres. Tests negative An 83-year-old Thrissur native who was critically ill when she was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam soon after her arrival from Mumbai on May 28, has tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 after 14 days of treatment. The woman also suffers from diabetic ketoacidosis and kidney disease, and her treatment will continue at the intensive care unit of the hospital. According to the hospital authorities, the life-saving drug tocilizumab played a crucial role in curing the patient of COVID-19. In Kannur A driver of the Excise Department testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday has put the Health Department on high alert in Kannur. Six others in the district also tested positive on Tuesday. Five of them came from abroad, while one arrived from another State. Eighteen employees of the Excise Department in Mattanur have been asked to go in home quarantine after the test results of the driver confirmed COVID-19 infection. How he contracted the disease is yet to be traced. Quarantine violation The Muzhakkunu police have registered a case against a 28-year-old man for circulating false messages on social media and for leaving his quarantine facility after he was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The case was registered against an Air India employee from Kavumbadi in Thilankeri based on a complaint filed by Kannur District Medical Officer K. Narayanan Nayak on June 14. Dies of heart attack The samples of a 54-year-old man who died at the District Hospital at Kanhangad in Kasaragod on Monday have tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said the man died of heart attack and not due to COVID-19. A resident of Uduma, Abdu Rehman, along with his son, was in home quarantine after returning from Dubai on Saturday. In Kozhikode The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district reached 102 on Tuesday when four more persons were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the first and second patients, aged 67 and 24, respectively, from Chevarambalam, had returned from Mumbai by train on June 10. The third patient is a 23-year-old man from Thamarassery, who returned from Oman on June 11. The fourth patient is a 30-year-old lorry driver who returned from Odisha on May 30. The number of people under observation is 11,453.  In Thrissur Seven new COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Tuesday. A total of 12,282 people are under observation in the district. As many as 139 people are undergoing COVID-19 treatment in various hospitals and 11 people from Thrissur are admitted in hospitals in other districts. (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode and Thrissur bureaus)
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Experts highlight safety hazards of brittle glass structures||Style over safety, driven mostly by cost considerations while setting up glass structures, remains a major safety hazard as manifested in the tragic death of a woman on Monday at Perumbavoor. Beena, a 45-year-old mother of three, died after she ran into a glass door and a splinter from it fatally wounded her at the Perumbavoor branch of Bank of Baroda. Noted architect S. Gopakumar observed that the National Building Code (NBC) had specific guidelines about glass structures and that he was shocked by the accident, which he said was caused probably by not using toughened glass. Toughened glass does not get easily smashed, but in the event it does, it creates no glass shards causing injuries, forget fatalities. Toughening is a machine-driven heating process to harden the glass. “While the thickness of the glass is a factor, the most significant aspect is to use toughened glass which collapses in granules just like windshields of vehicles when they get shattered. Toughened glass costs about two or three times the normal glass and it is perhaps one of the reasons for avoiding the material,” said Mr. Gopakumar. He wondered why the glass door of the bank didn’t sport a wooden handle or at least a sticker, which is usually the norm, to alert unsuspecting visitors about its presence. Glass doors, depending on whether they are fixed or openable, usually have a thickness of 6 mm, 8 mm or 10 mm with the last two specifications ideal for openable ones. Audit proposed G. Madhu, Head of the Department of Safety and Fire engineering, Cusat, said that while there had been instances in which people had suffered minor injuries on colliding against glass doors, the death threw light on an even greater safety hazard. “A safety audit of all buildings with glass structures should be held to rectify anomalies,” he said. K.K. Shiju, Regional Fire Officer, Ernakulam, said that while the NBC had guidelines regarding buildings with glass exteriors instead of the conventional wall, it was largely silent on glass partitions or doors. However, Mr. Shiju said that from a purely firefighting angle, hard-to-break toughened glass complicated the work of firefighters looking for a forced entry.
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KSEB passes the buck to consumers||With complaints of ‘excessive power bills’ flooding the section offices of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), its officials are urging consumers to keep a tab on their power-use patterns. Around 2,500 consumers have already approached board officials in the Ernakulam Circle with complaints of steep hike in their power bills for the past four months. The Ernakulam Circle office oversees power distribution and management of 7.37 lakh customers of Mattanchery, Thripunithura, Ernakulam central areas and North Paravur areas of the district. Complaints varied from miscalculations in bills to steep hike in monthly power bills. While most of the customers preferred to approach section offices of the board in their respective areas, a few others sought clarification on power bills over telephone while some others emailed their complaints. The miscalculation of power bills was caused by a software error in the hand-held billing device, which is being corrected. In some cases, the deduction of the bill amount that was earlier paid by the customers was not indicated in the bills, leading to confusion. Such errors would be rectified in the next bills, said S.R. Anand, Deputy Chief Engineer, Electrical Circle, Ernakulam. The increased day-time power consumption during the lockdown months had led to increased power bills in almost all the cases. For the majority of the consumers, power consumption had almost doubled. Since the declaration of the lockdown, people were forced to stay indoors. Watching TV, playing games in computers, cooking experiments using oven, watering of plants and farming were the pastime activities of people during these months. All through the day, fans and lights would be working and a large number of consumers chose to run their air-conditioners even during day hours, which resulted in increased power consumption, he said. An analysis of the power consumption pattern in the State indicated that day-time power usage increased significantly during the lockdown months whereas it remained almost steady during the night hours, he said. The cost of power per unit increases significantly when power consumption increases. Consumers could review their power consumption patterns for the past one year by logging on to the website of the board (www.kseb.in) and registering themselves by providing the consumer number, Mr. Anand said. “The board has attended to most of the complaints raised by consumers by explaining to them the consumption pattern,” he added.
17 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Helping students to handle stress||Stung by a string of distress cases of children in their early teens, the Department of General Education has stepped in with a round-the-clock telecounselling service targeting students. The service is being offered under the Career Guidance and Adolescence Counselling Cell of the department. “Students, especially those in their early teens, seem to be under a lot of stress with the anxieties emanating from the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. As such, they seem to be having unpredictable outbursts and extreme reactions to even minor issues,” says C.M. Azeem, State coordinator, Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell. The influx of expatriates having lost their jobs adds to the already fragile emotional state of their children as they fear that the uncertainties emanating from their parents’ joblessness might spoil their plans for higher studies and by extension their career choices. Souhrida Clubs Counsellors associated with Souhrida Clubs functioning in schools under the cell have been roped in for the project. They are faculty members within schools trained in counselling by the Bengaluru-based National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences and the Child Development Centre at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College.  Counsellors’ pool “We have created a pool of 15 such counsellors in every district for addressing the concerns of students and even their parents. The mobile numbers of the counsellors available in each district will be published,” said Mr. Azeem. These counsellors will handle issues they could address while those with more serious problems will be referred for institutional assistance for further follow-up through the district child protection unit or the child welfare committee concerned. “We are planning to run the project till the reopening of schools. The project was launched on Tuesday and depending on the kind of response we may enlist more counsellors, if need be,” says Mr. Azeem. This is for the first time that the cell is offering such a counselling service at a time other than exams. The cell has been operating a centralised help desk for assuaging exam-related anxieties through counselling during SSLC and higher secondary exams for some years now.  The service is being offered under the Career Guidance and Adolescence Counselling Cell
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Multi-level probe into woman’s death||A multi-level probe is under way into the incident in which a woman was tragically killed in a bank at Perumbavoor after getting fatally wounded from the shards of a smashed glass door into which she accidentally ran into on Monday. A police scientific expert team on Tuesday inspected the branch of Bank of Baroda at Perumbavoor in this connection. Earlier in the day, the State Human Rights Commission ordered a probe into the incident directing the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) and Perumbavoor municipal secretary to submit an inquiry report within three weeks. The Commission registered a suo motu case in the wake of allegations over the quality of the glass door. Though the Perumbavoor police have for the time being registered a case for “unnatural death” invoking Section 174 of CrPC, it may get altered depending on future findings. “We have written to PWD asking whether there are any specifications governing the installation of glass doors, in which case we will have to fix responsibility as to who violated them. Other agencies also would be approached in this connection, if need be,” said C. Jayakumar, Inspector, Perumbavoor. The bank operates out of a rented building and was occupied by Vijaya Bank since 2013 and amalgamated with the Bank of Baroda in April last year. Bank officials had no clear response when asked whether the door was made of toughened glass and said that the glass structure was there since the time of Vijaya Bank. The glass door, they said, prominently served the purpose of turning the bank into an enclosed space since an air-conditioner was in use. Meanwhile, the Perumbavoor municipality has directed its engineering division to inspect the building. “The building permit is usually issued at the time of completion of the structure and looks at aspects like parking, toilet facilities, and general safety. The glass structure may be put up at a later stage while doing the interiors and the local body need not be privy to it,” said Sathy Jayakrishnan, Municipal Chairperson.
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||11 held for vandalising office||A protest march taken out by the Youth Congress to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) deputy chief engineer’s office in the city on Tuesday led to chaos, leading to the arrest of 11 activists. The agitation was part of the ongoing State-wide protest being organised by opposition outfits against the allegedly inflated power bills for the lockdown period. The activists resorted to pelting stones shattering the windshield of an executive engineer’s car parked inside the office compound. Name boards of the office and an air-conditioner was also vandalised. The accused were charged with sections under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. They were produced before the court, which released them on bail.
17 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State gets 3 months to improve air quality||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given the Kerala government three months to come up with a proper action plan on making the State pollution-free. The Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta has asked the committee constituted to study the sources of air pollution to submit an action plan for improving the ambient air quality in the State on or before October 7. “In original application No. 260 of 2017, this Tribunal had directed the Government of Kerala to submit the status report of the number of old vehicles plying in the State and the action taken by the Motor Vehicles Department to phase out those old vehicles as per the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and to convert the same to green and clean fuel technology, so as to improve the air quality in the State. Till date, no report has been filed by the State of Kerala,” said the order issued on June 15. Air quality The tribunal had asked the committee to carry out a study on the ambient air quality, especially in the cities of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kochi, Alappuzha, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kasaragod and Kannur, to identify the sources of pollution and recommend short-term and long-term measures for improving the air quality. The tribunal had observed that lorries and trucks more than 10 years old were the main culprits in the rising air pollution level in Kerala.
17 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Student drowns, another missing in Periyar||A gathering of friends to celebrate completion of their graduation exams turned tragic after one of them drowned and another went missing in the Periyar along Nedumpara, near Perumbavoor, around 3.15 p.m. on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Basil Mathew, 21, of Kuthuvazhi. Vaisakh, 23, of Nedumpara, was yet to be traced after going missing along with his friend. A five-member scuba team from the Kothamangalam Fire and Rescue Services station fished out the body of the deceased after more than an hour-long search. A bunch of ten friends who had just completed their final year BCA graduation exams at Mar Elias College, Kottappady, had gone visiting to Vaisakh’s home. They were engaged in a game of volleyball on a sandpit surrounded by the river when tragedy struck. “It is learnt that the ball fell into water and Basil went to fetch it. It was one of the deepest stretches of the Periyar with a depth of almost 30 feet and though the water was still on the surface, there were strong under currents and the boy got caught in it,” said P.M. Rasheed, senior fire officer.
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Proof against bishop, govt. tells HC||Opposing a petition filed by Bishop Franco Mulakkal seeking discharge from a case relating to rape of a nun, the State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that there was strong material against him in the case. The prosecutor submitted that the petitioner was trying to delay the trial. The court adjourned the case to June 26.
17 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,560 to arrive by flight today||The Cochin International Airport has scheduled the arrival of seven repatriation flights on Wednesday, including a stopover flight from Frankfurt. These flights will together bring in 1,560 passengers, among whom will be 700 from Saudi Arabia. A Saudia flight, which was rescheduled on Monday, will arrive on Wednesday at 11 a.m. with 350 passengers from Jeddah.
17 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cases of forced detention of migrants in State, HC told||As industries are generally facing a shortage of workers and in their desperation to retain the available migrant workers, “instances of forced detention” have taken place in the State by not allowing these workers to return home, says a report filed before the Kerala High Court by an amicus curiae in a case relating to migrant labourers. It said the industries employed strategies such as detaining their wages, original identity cards such as Aadhaar or voters identity card and other belongings. They even used violence in some cases. Cases of violence It pointed out an instance in Malappuram where ten workers from Odisha were detained by their employer. The report also cited an incident in which four workers from West Bengal were assaulted and prevented from returning in Ernakulam district. The report was filed by Parvathy Sanjay, amicus curiae, based on a study by the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, a non-profit organisation. The report sought a directive to take stringent action against those employers who tried to forcefully retain migrant workers. Vulnerable group The report also pointed out that with the onset of monsoon, the work opportunities for “footloose labourers” (not attached to any employer or contractor) had become lesser and most of them wanted to go home. The report sought a directive to the government to consider migrant workers as a vulnerable group for disaster risk reduction interventions.
17 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four NoRKs positive in Kollam||The district reported four new COVID-19 cases and one recovery on Tuesday. All those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day are Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs). The patients include a 21-year-old Kulathupuzha resident who reached the Kannur airport from Tajikistan on May 28. After reaching Kollam on a special KSRTC service, he was placed in institutional quarantine at Karunagapally. He was later moved to home quarantine after his first sample taken on June 3 tested negative. After the second sample taken on June 14 returning positive, the person was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, on Tuesday. Another patient, a 27-year-old Puthur resident, had travelled from Kuwait to Kochi on June 12. He was undergoing institutional quarantine after reaching Kollam on a KSRTC special service. The third patient is a 30-year-old Chavara native who travelled from Kuwait to Kochi on June 11. He had hired a taxi from the airport to reach Kollam and was in home quarantine. The fourth patient, a 43-year-old from Paravur reached Kollam in a taxi from the Kannur airport. He had travelled from Saudi Arabia on June 11 and was in home quarantine. The only recovery from the district is a 19-year-old Punalur native. A medical student at Tajikistan, she had reached the Kannur airport on May 27 and boarded a KSRTC special service1. Call against misuse Meanwhile, the district administration has urged the public not to misuse the free quarantine facility. “This provision is offered to only those who have no facilities at home and all others can opt for paid quarantine. Our resources are limited and meant for only deserving persons who belong to economically backward sections,” said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. He also instructed local body officials and health inspectors to ensure that the facility was not misused.  Medical student from Punalur who returned from Tajikistan cured.
17 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Change of guard unlikely in district panchayat for now||A change of guard in the Kottayam district panchayat is likely to get delayed further as the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] faction led by P.J. Joseph appears to have flip-flopped on its decision to immediately move a no-confidence motion against president Sebastian Kulathungal, who owes his allegiance to the Jose K. Mani faction in the party. According to sources, the Joseph faction has put the action on hold for the time being as senior Congress leaders are reportedly dissatisfied over its abrupt dismissal of a compromise formula worked out by the United Democratic Front (UDF). Just two members With just two members in the 22-member panchayat, the faction requires the support of the Congress, which has eight members, to successfully move a motion on the floor.  “A meeting of the KC(M) parliamentary party to be held later this week will discuss the consequences of the action threadbare. Accordingly, the motion may be initiated sometime next week,” confirmed a senior leader of the Joseph group.  Ready for talks The Joseph faction has also slightly softened its stance from the “no more deliberations on the issue” to expressing willingness to continue the consultations with the UDF leadership. At the same time, the faction also maintains that there is no point in discussing the matter further with the rival faction led by Jose K. Mani. Swapping of divisions Following the marathon deliberations initiated by senior UDF leaders, including Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and P.K. Kunhalikutty, last week, the Mani faction gave up its reluctance to part with the post. Instead, the group demanded the swapping of two divisions of the district panchayat (Kaduthuruthy and Kangazha with Kanjirappally and Kuravilangad) between the factions in the coming local body elections. Though the Joseph group leaders who attended the deliberations sought time for deciding on this, Mr. Joseph stuck to his demand for the resignation of Mr. Kulathungal from the president’s post. This, however, appears to have escalated the crisis further and is learned to have caused disenchantment among a section of the UDF leadership.
17 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Four cases in Kottayam||The district on Tuesday reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 even as three persons who had been undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from hospitals. According to officials, two women, aged 32 and 29, who returned from Mumbai; a 45-year-old man who returned from Muscat; and a 30-year-old woman from Thiruvalla who was undergoing home quarantine in the district tested positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, the test results of the samples collected from the husband and son of the 32-year-old Mumbai returnee are yet to be received. With this, the total number of active cases in Kottayam rose to 54. Additionally, two persons who tested positive earlier are undergoing treatment in Ernakulam. Three discharged Meanwhile, three women, a 34-year-old from Muthukulam, a 30-year-old from Kodungoor, and a 40-year-old from Kumarakom, were discharged after they tested negative. They had returned from New Delhi, Saudi Arabia, and Abu Dhabi respectively. Besides the three women, a person from Konni who had been undergoing treatment at the hospital here too was discharged.
17 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New-look Butt Road Park to greet visitors||A slew of changes await visitors at Butt Road Beach Park as it reopens after the lockdown. The highlight of the renovation of the park is a fountain that springs into action as soon as one goes close to it. The fountain is being set up in a portion of the pond in the middle of the park, while the rest of the space will remain dry. “When an event takes place on the nearby stage, the fountain can be switched off, and chairs can be placed conveniently on the ground,” said District Tourism Promotion Council secretary Beena Madhu. The fountain is being readied as part of a Rs. 1-crore project of the Department of Tourism. Besides the fountain, the project includes construction of a compound wall on the western side of the park. “Work on the new facilities began much before the lockdown was announced. However, we had to suspend work for a while,” Ms. Beena said. A matter of concern is the unavailability of workers, she said. A cycle track, traffic park for children, and the renovation of cafeteria and lighting were also in the pipeline.
17 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||GAT-B applicants in State set to face travel restrictions||Students who have applied for the Graduate Aptitude Test-Biotechnology (GAT-B) for admission to the Department of Biotechnology-supported postgraduate programmes are set to be in distress over the difficulties in making travel arrangements within the State and the inter-State quarantine restrictions. The all-India joint entrance test is conducted online by the Regional Centre for Biotechnology on June 30 in 58 centres across the country including Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur in Kerala. An applicant could choose three centres and the third choice for an applicant from Kerala are in neighbouring States: Coimbatore, Bengaluru, Chennai or Tiruchirappalli. The portal for application is on from June 1 to June 18. The mode of application is only online. The applicant will know his/her centre of examination only on June 25 when the admit card is to be released online. The applicants and their parents in areas other than Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur and adjoining district are worried about the difficulties in making long-distance travel because of COVID-19. “The travel and quarantine restrictions in the neighbouring States will make it practically impossible to exercise the third option,” said a retired engineer in Kannur whose daughter has applied for GAT-B. “The COVID-19 situation in the neighbouring States is much worse than in Kerala and in the current circumstances it is very difficult to make arrangements for travel even to Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram,” he added. It is suggested that increasing the number of test centres in clusters of three districts with the exam centre located in the middle district is a solution so that the applicants.
17 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Renovated Perumthuruthy bridge to be opened today||It has been around six months since the people of Perumthuruthy, a strip of land between Eranhikkal and Purakkattiri on the northern side of Kozhikode Corporation, were almost cut off from the mainland. Their ordeal comes to an end on Wednesday when Mayor Thottathil Raveendran opens the renovated bridge that connects Perumthuruthy, almost an islet on Akalappuzha, with Elathur. In December, the walk-bridge collapsed cutting off the easiest way to the mainland. The bridge was around 25 years old, built when Elathur was a panchayat. For the last few months, a country boat service arranged by the Corporation had been the best available transportation for the residents. The present bridge, renovated at a cost of around Rs. 25 lakh, is suitable only for pedestrians.
17 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Woman hides mother’s body for three days||A woman at Chalavara , near Cherpulassery, allegedly waited beside the body of her mother for three days hoping she would resurrect. The death of Omana, 72, who had retired as a teacher from A.U.P. School, Chalavara, was kept hidden by her daughter Kavita. The police said Kavita sat beside her mother’s body for three days after she died on Saturday. She approached her neighbours on Tuesday. The police have registered a case for unnatural death.
17 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Don’t panic, focus on prevention: Noohu||District Collector P.B. Noohu has said that there is no need for panic though the number of COVID-19 cases is increasing, but there should be added vigil and verve in the preventive measures. Mr. Noohu, along with District Medical Officer (DMO) A.L. Sheeja and National Health Mission district coordinator Aby Sushan, was addressing reporters at the Press Club here on Tuesday. He said the administration had decided to make available 1,550 beds at various first-line treatment centres in the district by July 1, besides increasing the number of beds at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, which had been converted into a COVID-19 hospital, from 350 to 550. The District Hospital at Kozhencherry and the General Hospital at Adoor too would be made COVID-19 hospitals. If need be, patients would be admitted to the three private medical colleges in the district. Mr. Noohu said 10 ventilators had been arranged in the government hospitals and 89 others would be made available in the private sector. The DMO said Pathanamthitta stood second, next to Palakkad, in terms of the number of COVID-19 tests done. Dr. Sheeja said 60% of the patients in the district was asymptomatic. Though symptoms of the viral infection had manifested in certain persons after 14 days of quarantine, chances of others getting infection from them was less, she said. The NHM coordinator said the TrueNat installed at the Public Health Laboratory at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry would have the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCT) test in the next three weeks. Dengue, leptospirosis The DMO said the number of dengue and leptospirosis cases in the district had gone up considerably, compared to the previous years. Sixty-five dengue cases had been clinically confirmed in the district, besides 275 suspected cases as on Tuesday. Leptospirosis had been confirmed in 40 persons and six died of the disease in the past five months, she said.
17 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Milma-model coop. to market State’s natural honey||The government will set up a Milma-model consortium of beekeepers in an effort to tap the huge market for natural honey, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. Mr Sunil Kumar told The Hindu that the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) had been identified as the nodal agency for executing the proposed Kerala Honey Mission, which could eventually make Kerala a major producer and exporter of quality honey. The mission would produce and market a variety of processed natural honey with reduced water content as per international standards. He said Kerala with 27% of forest cover had not tapped even 20% of its honey-production potential and the Horticorp mission was to tap this potential to make the State the world leader in natural honey production. Horticorp would soon begin registration of beekeepers and form their clusters to float a cooperative society. Kerala had got 1.5 lakh apiculturists and the corporation would soon begin a survey to collect their actual data in all districts. Procurement on Horticorp managing director J. Sajeev said the corporation had started procurement and processing of forest honey and the honey harvested by apiculturists. The Amrit brand of processed natural honey launched by the corporation was in high demand in the domestic market. Mr. Sunil Kumar said Horticorp had produced 63 value-added products of honey under the ‘Amrit’ brand at its modern processing plant at Kochalummoodu in Alappuzha. He launched the Amrit Achenkovil Forest Honey by handing over a bottle of honey to Forest Minister K. Raju a week ago. He said the honey collected from the hives of stingless bees (‘cheruthaen’ in local parlance) was priced around Rs. 10,000 a kg in world market. Kerala was a store house of this precious honey which had immense medicinal value. Mr. Sunil Kumar said a Banana Park with over 200 banana varieties was coming up at Kannara in Thrissur.
17 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||ASHA worker, 5 others positive||An ASHA worker and five Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. A 30-year-old woman who came from Delhi on May 28, a 44-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 5, a 24-year-old youth who came from Qatar on June 5, a 32-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 9, a 47-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 10 and a 42-year-old ASHA worker from Mallappuzhasserry are the six persons who tested positive. As many as 99 persons who came into contact with the ASHA worker were home quarantined.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four new cases as 14 recover in capital||Four people, including a KSRTC driver, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 14 recovered from their illness in the district on Tuesday. The driver, a 40-year-old Thrissur native, is attached to the KSRTC’s Pappanamcode depot. Having arrived from his home town on his motorcycle on June 2, he rejoined duty the next day. Besides operating a regular trips, he has been engaged in transporting people who came from other States by trains to quarantine facilities and also till the inter-State border. He was hospitalised on Sunday. His throat swab was earlier collected. A 28-year-old Malappuram native who works in a mobile phone shop in Manacaud was also diagnosed with COVID-19. He came from Malappuram on May 27 and was staying in Pettah. He was also hospitalised. A 30-year-old woman, from Varkala, and her two-year-old child also tested positive. They came from Chennai on June 14. The government has declared Kattakada a hotspot. In addition to the six wards of the grama panchayat where restrictions came into effect a day ago, the district administration also declared the Amachal, Chandramangalam, Kulathummal and Plavoor wards as containment zones. Nearly 700 people were placed in quarantine after they reportedly came in close contact with the Kulathummal native ASHA worker who tested positive two days ago. Cremated The body of the 67-year old Vanchiyoor native who died after contracting the infection was cremated at the Shanthi Kavadom at Thycaud. As many as 13 health workers, including a doctor of the General Hospital where the deceased sought treatment, were placed in quarantine. Nearly 50 others, including his family members, are also being closely monitored for symptoms. In all, 929 people were placed in quarantine on Tuesday. Thirty two symptomatic people were also admitted to various hospitals. The City police booked 17 people under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 for violating lockdown norms. As many as 161 people were also fined for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 119 cases and arrested 130 people. Besides, 298 people were also apprehended for not wearing masks.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mobile units to combat pandemic||Van-mounted medical surveillance units would soon help the government track down COVID-19 infections in remote localities in the State. Doctors, paramedics, nurses and lab technicians kitted out in protective gear would fan out across the State in the mobile units and check on families in out-of-the way areas and with zero access to health care. They would focus on tribal regions and islets locked in by vast backwater lagoons for starts. Soon, the units would cover other parts of the State, including urban areas. Objectives Officials hope the move would help the government zero in on new clusters and identify potential hotspots as Kerala relaxes its lockdown restrictions to clamber out of the nearly three-month period of economic stasis. The units would work in tandem with the law enforcement, local body officials, neighbourhood watch groups, disaster management authorities and authorised volunteers involved in pandemic-control activities. The government has put 19 such units on the road. Each district would have at least one at its disposal while those with a higher number of hotspots would have a minimum of two vans.  CM’s request to PM  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow States to claim the money they have already spent for food, lodging, treatment and travel for migrant workers from the PM Cares Fund. In a letter, Mr Vijayan said the Centre had stipulated that State governments could draw from the fund in advance to underwrite arrangements for the welfare of migrant workers during the lockdown. The Centre is silent on whether it would compensate the funds already spent for the purpose by States such as Kerala. State’s plight The condition for disbursal of cash from the reserve should depend on the population of migrant workers and not on 2011 Census figures and number of COVID-19 infections. Kerala had to spend hugely to afford the free stay, food, treatment and travel fare of 4.85 lakh migrant workers. However, it was unable to reclaim the cash from the Centre.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EVs for MVD’s enforcement drive||Kerala will become the first State in the country to deploy electric vehicles (EVs) for enforcement activities. The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has placed orders for ‘plug-in electric vehicles’ for 65 Enforcement Squads of the Safe Kerala project for enforcing motor vehicles rules and to ensure road discipline. The 65 EVs are being dry-leased from the Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL), a Central government institution under the Ministry of Power, through the Agency for Non -Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT). “The MVD is turning to be a role model in ushering in green mobility. Going for EVs instead of fossil-fuelled vehicles will give a big push to e-mobility and curb spending on vehicle use. This is in tune with the government decision to all departments to hire EVs from April 1 instead of purchasing diesel vehicles. Work orders have been placed for 65 EVs,” Principal Secretary, Transport, K.R. Jyothilal told The Hindu . The government has opted for the dry lease (car without chauffeurs) of Tata Nexon EV for eight years by payment of upfront cost. An EV-charging network will also come up in the State with charging stations set up in the 65 offices of the Enforcement Squads. As the vehicles run for 312 km in one charging, the exchequer can save considerable money as the per-km cost will be Rs. 1. The government is yet to take a call on making available the charging stations to the public using EVs and on roping in home guards as drivers for the EVs to be procured by the MVD. The maintenance of the 65 EVs will be taken care of by the EESL. Customised vehicles The EVs being procured will be customised for enforcement activities and all gadgets for monitoring motor vehicles like speed radars will be installed in it, Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath has said. In addition to the driver, there will be one MVD officer during daytime and two at night in these vehicles that will be on the roads round the clock. The MVD is the first to go for bulk EVs in the State as per the government decision not to purchase new vehicles.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Interdisciplinary PG courses in the offing||Higher education in the State may soon witness a paradigm shift with the government actively pursuing academic programmes in emerging areas with a high level of academic mobility. The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has mooted interdisciplinary postgraduate (PG) programmes that will enable students to move across universities during the duration of their course. Experienced faculty The proposal also envisages appointing experienced faculty on tenure track before they are regularised. Under the system, the performance of faculty members joining as assistant professors will be evaluated at the end of five years and regularised if their performance is found satisfactory. Industry experts may be roped in as adjunct faculty for the proposed courses. A committee, chaired by KSHEC vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M., recently met to examine the modalities for commencing the programmes. The panel also comprised Kerala State Planning Board member B. Ekbal, Mahatma Gandhi University Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas, council governing body member R.V.G. Menon, and member secretary Rajan Varughese as its convener. The group is learnt to have zeroed in on emerging disciplines, including Energy Studies, Nanoscience, Gender Studies, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, that can be piloted for the proposed master’s programmes. Different experience Highlighting the need to channel the resources of all State universities, Prof. Thomas pointed out that academic mobility would enable each institution to pool in its expertise and infrastructure. The opportunity to experience campus life in different universities is also bound to attract many. “Soon, we may see our students pursuing a PG course in Nanoscience in the Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kerala University, Mahatma Gandhi University, or any others that have cutting-edge laboratory facilities in the relevant subject. While a semester each will be spent in the universities, the students will be sent abroad for their projects in the fourth (and final) semester. They will get joint master’s degrees at the end of the programme,” he said. While the committee is expected to submit its recommendations this week, the KSHEC is likely to broach the topic at its discussions that will include Vice Chancellors of the universities.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||St. Mary’s HSS gets foot overbridge||Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran inaugurated a foot overbridge in front of the St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School (HSS) at Pattom on Tuesday. City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar presided over the function. The overbridge comes as a blessing for the students who struggle to cross the main road in front of their school during peak hours and is expected to ease the traffic flow in the area. The project costing Rs. 1.1 crore was executed under a public-private partnership between the city Corporation and Sun Infrastructure Private Limited. Maintenance  The company will bear the cost of construction and maintenance of the foot overbridge. It will generate revenue from advertisement rights on the foot overbridge. CCTV cameras have been installed adjacent to the bridge, from which the footage will go to the police control room. The bridge is also equipped with poly carbonate roofing. This is the second foot overbridge in the city, after the inauguration of the one near the Cotton Hill Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School two years ago. Another one will be coming up soon at the East Fort junction.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) protest against Centre’s policies||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] organised protest meetings across the State on Tuesday as part of the party’s nationwide movement against the Central government’s labour and economic policies, handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, and crackdown on activists. Demands Some of the major demands of the party included the provision of 200 days employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, increase in wages, extension of the employment guarantee scheme to urban areas, unemployment allowance for the jobless, cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 per month for six months for all families outside the income tax bracket, distribution of 10 kg of rice for poor families, and reversal of the policy of privatisation of public sector undertakings. Inaugurating the protest in Thiruvananthapuram, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai accused the Narendra Modi government of aiding the spreading of the virus by announcing an unplanned lockdown, which led to the exodus of millions of migrant workers. CPI(M) State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said while the Kerala government had fought the pandemic with wide participation of the public, in a model lauded across the world, the Centre had given unscientific calls to fight the virus by banging plates and lighting lamps without actual steps to alleviate the sufferings of the people. He said 10 lakh party workers across two lakh centres participated in the hour-long protest in the State. Norms followed The protests across the State were organised by following all physical-distancing norms. Each CPI(M) branch committee organised five of six protests having a handful of people in each.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP virtual rally flays Opposition||BJP president J.P. Nadda has accused Opposition parties, including the Congress, of behaving irresponsibly, even while the Centre is focussed on containing the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Addressing the Kerala Jan Samvad Maha virtual rally through videoconferencing on Tuesday, Mr. Nadda alleged that the Congress had strived to reap political gains amid the prevailing the crisis. He was also critical of Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s attack on the National Democratic Alliance government for the hike in prices of petroleum products, even while the States that had Congress in power were yet to lower the duty that came under their purview. The rally was organised at Ganesham, Thycaud, to mark the first anniversary of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and to propagate the provisions of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic relief package. While Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan also joined the rally through videoconferencing, party State president K. Surendran presided over the programme from the venue in Thiruvananthapuram. Suresh Gopi, MP; O. Rajagopal, MLA; and senior party leaders also participated.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quarantined man commits suicide||A 33-year-old man who was in quarantine after coming from abroad allegedly committed suicide by setting himself ablaze in Attingal on Tuesday. The deceased person was identified as Sunil of Manamboor. He had returned from West Asia two days ago. According to the police, the incident occurred around 5 p.m. in Sunil’s former wife’s house in Kodumon colony in Vilayilmoola, 8 km away from his house where he was mandated to remain quarantined. The couple had divorced four months ago. They have a 10-year-old son. After managing to reach his former wife’s house, Sunil spoke to his son and kissed him before bidding farewell. He then went on to douse himself with petrol before setting himself on fire. Attempts made by nearby residents to rescue him proved futile. Helpline (Suicide prevention helpline – DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)  Attempts made by the people near his former wife’s house to rescue the man proved futile.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police collect more evidence in Kadinamkulam gang rape case||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have obtained further evidence to firm up the case pertaining to the gang rape of a woman in Kadinamkulam by seven people including her husband. The investigating team led by Attingal DySP S.Y. Suresh took all of the accused, viz, Mansoor, Akbar Shah, Arshad, Noufal, the victim’s husband, Rajan and Manoj to Rajan’s house in Puthukurichy where they were accused of hatching the conspiracy. They are yet to be taken to the deserted location in Channankara where the first four accused allegedly raped the victim. Examination Besides, the police also obtained evidence to prove that the bite marks on the victim’s body were a result of the attack. They were all produced before a dental doctor for the purpose. The police custody of the gang is set to end on Wednesday when they will be returned to judicial custody. Mass outrage The incident that took place on June 4 had sparked mass outrage. The victim and her two children were purportedly taken by her husband to the house under the pretext of showing them the beach nearby.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Protect domestic workers’ rights: MP||Domestic workers gathered in front of the Secretariat under the banner of the SEWA – Union in connection with International Domestic Workers’ Day on Tuesday. The day was observed with a campaign highlighting that domestic workers are not carriers of COVID-19 and they have the right to live with dignity as much as anyone else. The ‘My Fair Home’ campaign emphasises respect for domestic workers’ services and the need to be with them during these trying times. Binoy Viswom, MP, inaugurated the campaign. Domestic work was recognised the world over. It was owing to the presence of domestic workers that many services in society were available, he said.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF’s ‘lights off’ stir against power tariff hike||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has urged the public to switch off electric lights for three minutes at 9 p.m. on Wednesday in protest against the inflated power bills slapped on consumers by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the government had attempted to loot the people by sending them exaggerated power bills even as they struggled with the daily deprivation of having to put food on the table despite the loss of employment and economic collapse. Shops that remained shut for the better part of the three-month lockdown have received huge bills, often up to five times more than the usual tariff. The KSEB has not spared households. Domestic consumers whose monthly power bill that rarely exceeds Rs. 2,500 have now been asked to remit up to Rs. 16,000 or face disconnection. Fare slab changed The KSEB has not taken any meter reading since March 24. Instead, it has changed the fare slab arbitrarily to fleece consumers. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been repeatedly dismissive of the travails of the electricity consumers, Mr. Chennithala said. Mr. Chennithala said the protest on June 17 was a notice to the government. If the hiked bills were not withdrawn, the government would see street protests.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SMS/WhatsApp helpline for women likely to continue||The Women and Child Development Department’s SMS and WhatsApp complaint system for women and children in distress is set to become a permanent feature. Women and Child Development (WCD) Director T.V. Anupama said a proposal would be sent to the government for retaining the service beyond the COVID-19 lockdown. The SMS/WhatsApp service (9400080292) has received 136 complaints so far. A chunk of them related to domestic violence — 81. The number of complaints related to other problems experienced by women such as cyber safety, neighbours, or other abuse came to 22. Other complaints by women related to land, money, etc. — 17. Eleven complaints related to children. There were five complaints from outside the State or the country. 24-hour service The 24-hour service was launched in April to supplement the Mitra 181 women’s helpline. Ms. Anupama said that women protection officers of the department had expressed concern that with families cloistered together during the lockdown, many women who felt insecure would not have the freedom to make calls to the police or other authorities. They mooted an SMS or WhatsApp service that was easier for women to make complaints. The idea was to reach out to women whom the Mitra helpline could not cover. Going by the messages received through SMS or WhatsApp, their surmise was correct, Ms. Anupama said. Complaints The system received domestic violence complaints from other States — in one case where a Malayali was involved, the department contacted the complainant’s family and through women protection officers concerned intervened in the matter. In the case of non-Malayalis, complaints received were sent to the WCD departments of the States concerned. Three women living abroad also made use of the service. Comfortable Many women also gave the feedback that they felt more comfortable sending their complaints on WhatsApp rather than through phone calls owing to various reasons. “We realised there was space for such a helpline, and that is the reason behind the decision not to limit it to the lockdown,” said Ms. Anupama. She acknowledged that the number of cases received on the SMS/WhastApp service could be much lesser compared to Mitra 181, which had many advantages. However, those unable to call up 181 could rely on the SMS/WhatsApp helpline for help, she said.
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KITE keen to rope in Tendulkar for video lesson||As online classes for State school students on the Victers educational channel take off, the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) is looking to rope in former cricket player Sachin Tendulkar to deliver a video lesson for the students. The Class 9 English textbook under the State board has a lesson ‘Learning the Game,’ which is an excerpt from Tendulkar’s autobiography Playing It My Way . KITE, set up by the State government to foster ICT-enabled learning, now wants to include a video of the cricket icon speaking to students as part of the First Bell online classes, which are being telecast across the State. KITE Chief Executive Officer K. Anvar Sadath has written to Tendulkar for a video explaining to the students his childhood experiences.
17 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IBS inks pact with cargo.one||Berlin-based cargo.one and IBS Software, two technology leaders in aviation cargo, have entered into a strategic partnership to facilitate digital transformation of airlines to help them ramp up their operations, boost sales online, and effectively cushion the impact of the pandemic through this industry-first integration. The partnership will allow all airline customers of the IBS to seamlessly integrate with cargo.one and get access to its fast-growing user base through a cost-effective, data-driven, and fully digital distribution channel.
17 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur Archdiocese allows cremation of COVID victims||The Thrissur Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church, while issuing guidelines for funeral of COVID victims, has given permission for cremation of bodies if there is no facility for deep burial according to the protocol. Emphasising that this is an exemption in the case of COVID victims, Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath said the guidelines should be followed according to the situation and facility of the respective church. After the cremation, ash should be brought to the cemetery. The Archbishop said that laws of the Church endorsed the cremation of bodies. “Paragraph 2,301 of the Code of Canon of the Churches upholds it if it does not challenge the belief in resurrection of body.” However, the body of COVID victims should be buried according to the protocol in the cemetery itself if there were space and facility.
17 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Cine director Sachi in critical condition||Film director, scriptwriter, and producer K.R. Sachitanandan was admitted to Jubilee Mission Hospital here in a critical condition on Tuesday morning. Popularly known as Sachi, whose movies such as Driving License (script) and Ayyappanum Koshiyum (direction) were huge successes, had undergone a surgery at another private hospital. It is said that he suffered a cardiac arrest while being given anaesthesia for another surgery at the hospital.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ayurmasks from Kudumbashree||After masks, designer masks, and face shields, the Kudumbashree mission is entering the Ayurmask arena. The mission will manufacture the Ayurmasks in association with the State Ayush Department. The masks will be manufactured using natural substances. This is expected to bring in respiratory health benefits. They are washable, and the benefits of the medicinal plants will not be lost for three months.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Run for cover||
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Emergency landing||
17 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going all out to ensure customers’ safety||As one enters Jagga Hari’s Food Magic - an eatery in Dharmavaram, server Mahesh appears in a light-blue transparent protective gear, commanding the attention of visitors. At a time when a majority of hotels and restaurants are finding it difficult to restart their businesses conforming to the basic safety protocols, this ice cream parlour-cum-pizza corner has gone a step ahead by providing its employees disposable personal protective equipment (PPE) gear, in addition to arranging hand sanitisers at the entrance and checking the body temperature of customers. “We purchased 70 disposable kits at Rs. 400 apiece from a medical equipment supplier and made sure that all four employees wear them,” owner Jagga Sai Pavan tells The Hindu.  “We are giving them masks for free to spread awareness among customers,” he adds. The restaurant has reduced its seating capacitytill a vaccine is developed. “People have a misconception that dining-in or ordering food from outside endangers their lives, which is affecting our business. We are doing our best to ensure everyone’s safety,” Mr. Sai says.
17 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP lashes out at Lokesh over remarks on Jagan||Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav came down heavily on Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Tuesday over the latter’s criticism of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s working style. “Nara Lokesh neither has the stature nor the capability to comment on the style of functioning of the Chief Minister,” Mr. Madhav said in response to comments made by the TDP leader during a visit to Tadipatri on Monday. The MP demanded that Mr. Lokesh come up with evidence to substantiate his claim that the YSR Congress Party had offered Rs. 50 crore to TDP leader K. Atchannaidu for crossing over to the ruling party along with his family members. “There is no need for the ruling party to do so as we already have 151 MLAs in the Assembly. Also, there are no vacant slots,” Mr. Madhav said. “Parroting a few lines of script given to Mr. Lokesh does not make him a tall leader,” said Mr. Madhav, alleging that Mr. Lokesh had become a politician in a ‘backdoor business deal’. He also questioned Mr. Lokesh as to why the police should not conduct an investigation into alleged wrongdoings of TDP leaders like J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and representatives of Jatadhara Industries, and why the TDP cannot come up with evidence to prove their innocence. “Police will question officials of Ashok Leyland as and when needed, and the company had already given in writing that it had sold vehicles as scap and that they were not registrable,” Mr. Madhav said. An inquiry into the role of officers involved in the registration of BS-III vehicles as BS-IV vehicles was also being probed, the MP said.
17 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to tap solar energy for 9-hour farm supply||The State government is committed to providing nine hours of quality free power to farmers and has approved a proposal to set up 10,000 MW of solar power projects. A GO issued by the Energy Department on Monday said that the new project aims at switching to solar power which costs less and providing nine hours free power supply to agricultural consumers. The government will continue to pay the average transmission cost and average distribution cost to the discoms. Further, the government is also committed to paying the balance cost of the power consumption. Presently, farmers are being supplied nine hours of power supply in two groups. The annual agricultural consumption for 18.37 lakh pumps is about 12,221 MU per year as approved by APERC for 2020-21 financial year. The subsidy bill for agriculture has almost tripled from Rs. 3,186 crore in 2015-16 to Rs. 8,534 crore in 2020-21 due to reduction in cross subsidy. The subsidy requirement for agriculture is further expected to rise due to increase in number of pump sets and increase in power supply. The subsidy support for free power supply is likely to increase from Rs. 8,900 crore to Rs. 18,819 crore by 2030-3.
17 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur reports 35 new cases||After a brief period of lull, Guntur district reported a total of 35 cases on Tuesday, pushing the tally beyond 680. Of the new cases reported, Guntur city recorded seven cases followed by nine in Mangalagiri, one each in Mannava (Ponnur) and Tadepalli, three in Sattenapalli, two in Narasaraopet and one each in Vemuru, Tenali, Chintalapati and Namburu. Several residential areas including Brodiepet, Navabharat Nagar, Nallacheruvu in the city turned containment zones and barricades were erected. On a side note, the three PG doctors of NRI Medical College who tested positive are recovering.
17 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private schools, colleges ‘fleecing’ parents||Financially hit due to COVID-19 crisis, a large number of parents are now irked over the managements of corporate schools, which are forcing them to pay academic fee immediately. According to a few parents, school managements are forcing them to come to campus and purchase books and study materials also. The managements are forwarding digital messages to pay the annual fee, and buy books and uniforms. Non-payment is leading to suspension of children from the online classes, they say. A parent from the city T. Reddy (name changed) said that his son was promoted to X. For Class IX, he had paid Rs. 28,000 as fee and anticipated that for Class X, there would be an increase of Rs. 5,000 or Rs. 6,000. However, the school management had called him and informed that the fee would be Rs. 45,000. “They asked us to pay fee before June 15, claiming that online classes will begin. For every one or two days, they keep calling us and ask us to come to office and confirm admission by paying some minimum amount. Financially hit due to the lockdown, I did not confirm anything till now. I have to pay more for books and other work material, which may be about Rs. 7,000,” he said. Not just schools, even the private colleges are fleecing the parents. A parent Suresh (name changed) from the city whose son was promoted to second year Intermediate in a private junior college, said he had a pending due of Rs. 10,000. For that they blocked his son ID in online classes. I was forced to pay that immediately. Again, the college management asked us to pay Rs. 25,000 for classes and books for new academic year. Frightened that they would block my son again, I paid Rs. 10,000 and requested for some time to pay the balance. “I work in a shopping mall and I am being paid half-salary as of now. Should I use the amount to run my house or just keep on paying fee and buying books,” he questioned. Two schools sealed Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF) president G. Seetharam said that many school managements are blocking digital IDs, and their access to online class of those who are unable to pay the fee. This act is detrimental to the well-being of many children coming from the poor and middle class. The Education Department officials should conduct random checks and take strict action against the schools, he said.  The Education Department has already sealed two private schools, one at Anakapalle and another near Steel Plant, based on complaints from parents over alleged collection of money for books in the campus. District Educational Officer (DEO) B. Lingeswara Reddy said that as per the instructions of the government, the schools can collect only quarterly tuition fee from the parents only after academic classes begin in schools. He said that though the schools have started online classes, they are not allowed to collect any fee. Collection of fee for books, transport or any other purpose is also violation of norms, he said. If any parents were unable to afford it due to the lockdown, they should be allowed to pay it in instalments, he added. Parents should contact officials if they are forced to pay fees, he said.
17 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tungabhadra Pushkarams to be organised from Nov. 20||Tungabhadra Pushkarams will be organised at Mantralayam in the district from November 20 to December 1. With a large number of people from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka being expected to converge for the Pushkarams, the district authorities have begun the preprations. The officials are considering the places where a large crowd can be accommodated. The administration is also mulling strategy in view of the COVID pandemic if the situation continues to be like what it is today. Preparatory work has begun to ensure the smooth conduct of the event with adequate facilities for pilgrims. SP K. Fakkeerappa on Tuesday held talks with Raghavendra Mutt seer Subudendra Teerthulu and inspected the ghats along the Tungabhadra. He instructed Raghavendra Mutt engineer Suresh to get plans ready for a watch tower, VIP parking lot and other amenities. Pilgrim amenities A conference hall, amenities centre and other facilities need to be set up , he said. “A command control centre needs to be set up, apart from a new parking lot close to the bus station,” said Mr. Fakkeerappa.
17 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yagna performed at Srisailam temple||Priests at the Bhramarambha Mallikarjun Devasthanam in Srisailam conducted yagnas and performed special prayers for the protection of the humanity from the pandemic. Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao and priests conducted Arogya Bharat Yagna, Rudrahomam, Sahasrakalashabhishekam, Shatarudeeya parayanam, and Mrutrunjayee japam in the Mallikarjuna Swamy temple and Devi Atharvashirsha Upanishad Parayanam and Chandi Saptashati Homam were performed in the Bhramarambha ammavari temple. Shatarudayee parayana was conducted by 11 archakas reciting the Rudra Mantra 11 times each for 121 times and Rudahomam was also conducted. The Executive Officer said that this programme was conducted as per the directions of the Endowments Department.
17 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Historic temple unearthed in Nellore||A historic temple of Nageswara Swamy buried in sand was unearthed at Perumallapadu, near Chejerla, in Nellore district on Tuesday. The temple, believed to have been consecrated by Lord Parasurama got buried over a long period of time as river Penna changed its course. The brick structure may have got submerged in sand dunes probably after the 1850 floods, Archaeology Assistant Director Ramasubba Reddy felt. “A detailed examination of the site will be made and steps taken to preserve it for posterity,” he told The Hindu . Taking note of the temple coming to the fore, Endowments Assistant Commissioner V. Ravindra Reddy said the department would shortly take steps for renovation of the temple as desired by the local people.
17 June 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus cases surge in Nellore, Prakasam districts||There was no let-up in coronavirus cases as 23 more patients — 18 in Prakasam district and five in Nellore district — tested positive on Tuesday. Nine secondary contacts of an infected person from Chirala town contracted the virus in Prakasam district, while a 47-year-old from Markapur town on his return from Vijayawada after attending a marriage suffered from severe symptomatic conditions, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. A cluster containment action plan was implemented in the affected areas including Chirala and Managamuru Donaka in Ongole, where a 38-year-old woman from Mangamuru Donka area in Ongole tested positive Health officials are perplexed over the disease spreading to more places in the district. One person each from Jayanthipeta, Chackicherla, Chintalapallipadu, Kothapeta and Darsi were infected. A 17-year-old boy in Raviguntapalli, near Pamur, tested positive after returning from Chennai, a health bulletin compiled by the district administration said. With this the total number of confirmed cases went up to 205 in the district. Eighty patients are being treated at the COVID-19 isolation ward in Ongole now, while two patients were referred to the Regional COVID-19 centre in Nellore. In Nellore district, one person each from Buchireddipalem, Varikuntapadu, Jangamvaripalli and Naidupeta were infected. The fifth infected person hailed from West Godavari district. With this, the number of cases rose to 462. Meanwhile, 15 patients were discharged from the COVID-19 isolation ward in Nellore after making a full recovery, where 191 patients are now undergoing treatment. As many as 495 primary and secondary contacts of infected persons were quarantined.
17 June 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers, industrialists in State feel the pinch||The mood is downbeat among farmers, hoteliers and owners of manufacturing units, factories, aquaculture companies and other organisations in the State due to the acute of shortage of labourers. Industrialists fear fall in production of essential commodities due to the panic situation over COVID-19. Thousands of inter-district and inter-State workers used come to Andhra Pradesh with families to work in agriculture fields, spinning mills, warehouses, brick kilns, sand reaches, catering units, aquaculture companies, construction sites, poultry, feed manufacturing companies and other sectors and return after the end of the season. Hundreds of middlemen used to earn their livelihood by providing labourers to chilli, paddy, sugarcane, maize, turmeric and other farmers. No relief in sight “We faced shortage of labour during rabi harvesting operations with no one to assist us in harvesting and shifting the produce and we expect the situation to continue during the kharif season also,” said Sanga Nageswara Rao, a paddy farmer of Palakoderu in West Godavari district. An industrialist preferring anonymity said though the government eased restrictions, many factories were not fully operational. Distress sale “Aqua farmers are suffering huge losses and many sold the produce at lesser prices due to poor export facility, labour, cold storage and other problems,” said a shrimp farmer P. Rama Rao. A wholesale trader, Avula Sriramulu said there was no proper raw material supply to manufacturing companies and oil and rice mills were not fully operating and detergents, soaps, cleaners and other material were not being manufactured. “There is a need to supply labour to pharma companies, manufacturing units and ensure that essential services are not hampered,” said a trader K. Brahmaiah. Business on the decline Hoteliers said business was dull. “Small and medium hotels, chefs, helpers, servers and workers are from West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and other States. Many families from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts are eking out their livelihood by working in hotels and restaurants, but, due to coronavirus, all the workers have left and the impact is seen now,” said a hotelier M. Srinivasa Rao of Bhimavaram. “Men in the family used to work as chef or worker and women used to help them by cutting vegetables, and both used to earn at least Rs. 1,000 per day,”said a hotel owner Pilli Ramakrishna.
17 June 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drugs scam: lab technician, shop owner held||The ACB officials probing the drugs scam in Directorate of Insurance Medical Services (DIMS), arrested two more suspects in the case. P. Srirama Murthy, proprietor of Amaravathi Medicals, Bhavanipuram, Vijayawada, and Ch. Venugopal, working as lab technician in ESI dispensary, Pedakakani, Guntur, were arrested on Tuesday. Investigation reportedly revealed that Srirama Murthy and Venugopal, started Amaravati Medicals in Vijayawada and allegedly colluded with other accused , the ACB sleuths said. “Then DIMS Directors and accused in the scam — C.K. Ramesh Kumar and G. Vijaya Kumar — colluded with drug store owner and the lab technician and created fake quotations in the names of some firms and obtained purchase orders from DIMS at 50% higher rates,” the investigation officers said. Judicial custody Srirama Murthy and Venugopal were produced in the ACB Court, which remanded them in judicial custody. The duo were shifted to Rajamahendravaram Central Prison. The vigilance and ACB officials unearthed the scam in which then directors, a few joint directors, some civil surgeons working in some ESI hospitals, pharmacists, senior and junior assistants and other employees procured drugs, surgical equipment, dressing material, furniture and other stocks, all worth about Rs. 988 crore during 2016 to 2019, allegedly without inviting tenders and government sanction. The V&E noticed that based on the recommendation letters given by the then Labour Minister K. Atchannaidu, the officials made the purchases from the companies, violating guidelines and allegedly misappropriated about Rs. 150 crore. The police so far arrested nine persons in the case, and teams are searching for the remaining accused, ACB Joint Director P.V. Ravi Kumar said. Bail plea All the seven accused arrested in the case a couple of days ago, including the Tekkali MLA, the two directors, moved bail petitions in the court on Tuesday. However, the court rejected the petitions on technical grounds.
17 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People ignoring quarantine norms to face criminal cases||In an attempt to contain the coronavirus cases which saw a considerable rise in Vizianagram and Srikakulam districts after the lockdown norms are relaxed, the authorities have launched several stringent measures. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas have asked the police officials to book criminal cases against the people who ignore the home quarantine norms. The ‘Unlock-1’ has emerged as a challenge for both Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Around 35,000 people have returned to both districts in the last two weeks. Both the districts have many people who are working in different parts of the country as migrant workers. Infection count Srikakulam district which had reported no COVID cases till a month ago is witnessing positive cases daily. The district has registered 384 cases including 271 active ones till date. Around 10 cases have been reported from the district headquarters itself. “Many people are going to markets, paying no heed to the COVID protocols. A criminal case has been registered against a migrant worker who ignored to follow the home quarantine rules norms. Similar action will be taken against the people who violate quarantine norms,” said Mr. Nivas. Migrant workers The situation in Vizianagaram district is no different. The positive cases which was 31 in May last week have gone up with the arrival of people during the Unlock-1 period. As many as 22 persons who returned from Chennai have been tested positive, apart from 29 positive cases among the Vijayawada returnees, said District Medical and Health Officer J. Ravikumar. People who returned from Hyderabad, Nellore, Ongole and other places have been admitted to hospital. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has urged people to follow the social distancing norms. “The police officials have been instructed to impose fines on the people who venture out without wearing masks. More stringent measures will follow to control the pandemic,” he said.
17 June 2020||STAFF REPORTER,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused in gold heist case held after 3 years, tests +ve||In a sensational turn of events, an accused in the gold heist case in the city, was arrested by the police after three years. He was lodged in the sub-jail here on June 7 and his samples were collected. On June 9, he tested positive for COVID-19. He was wanted in many cases across the country and reportedly fled to Nepal after he looted the yellow metal along with 12 others on July 11, 2017. The gang made away with 5 kg ornaments by threatening the workshop owner with pistols and knives and slipped out of the State. The accused were all natives of Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and other States. The Governorpet police registered a case and took up investigation. On information that the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Mumbai arrested the accused, the Central Crime Station (CCS) police contacted the Mumbai police, took him into custody and brought him to Vijayawada on the Prisoners Transit Warrant. Swift action Then Vijayawada Police Commissioner D. Gautam Sawang, constituted ten teams headed by then DCP Kranthi Rana Tata, which arrested two conspirators – Dileep and Tanmai Mandal – and other gang members within 12 days of the robbery. Police teams which flew to Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and other cities, recovered 4.025 kg jewellery. However, the man — Accused No. 8 — and two others, managed to escape. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikrant Patel confirmed the arrest. Vijayawada sub-jail superintendent K. Raghu said the undertrial prisoner was kept in a single cell and after he tested positive, he judicial officers concerned were alerted. “We sent him to hospital for treatment ,” Mr. Raghu said.
17 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU gears up to start online classes||With the outbreak of COVID-19, Andhra University is contemplating to start online classes. AU has about 15,500 students in its campus and another 1.35 lakh in its 260-odd affiliated colleges. Speaking to The Hindu , Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy said that a sub-committee is being formed to design and see the implementation of the online mode of classes. The sub-committee will comprise the principals and HoDs of all departments and the first exercise will be to identify the issues and give possible solutions to tide over them, he said. The committee will meet in the coming week and the basic plan will be rolled out. The plan is being prepared with the possibility that classes may not resume in the next six months. Basically, we are working on two models – first is that one batch comes to the campus and the other goes through the online classes and the second is online classes for all, he said. Infrastructure The committee will also work on the infrastructure and training of the faculty. We need new gadgets such as high resolution cameras and some computers and most essentially train the teachers to get acquainted with the online mode. We are organising two-day session for all, said Prof. Prasada Reddy. The university is also working to set up e-studios in all departments and get the e-classrooms functional. A budget of around Rs. 70 lakh will be allocated, which includes Rs. 25 lakh for dedicated broadband connection from BSNL. AU also plans to use platforms such as Google Classroom, Webex or Zoom. “If required we will go for licences to operate on the platforms,” he said. The major challenge for the university is deliverance. The students should have access to some kind of computer or online system with internet connectivity. “Since we have students from all places, the challenge is to provide the service to students in the Agency areas, where there is no connectivity,” said the V-C. Connectivity issues In the Agency areas there are about nine colleges affiliated to the AU, with over 2,000 students and connectivity is an issue. “Students who do not have access might have to come to the campus or go to the nearest access point or at most skip the semester. Anyway we have already transferred all lab work to the next semester. And will be asking the State government to disband the semester system and revert to the once in a year examination system, till normalcy is restored. In which case we can cut the semester schedule by about 20 to 25%,” said Prof. Prasada Reddy.
17 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homam at Dharmagiri||The Sango Panga Astakshari Dwadasakshari Maha Sudarshana Viswa Shanti Homam was held at Veda Vignana Peetam here on Tuesday. The ritual was held to ward off the effects of the coronavirus and ensure health and happiness across the world, priests said. Thirumanjanam was held for Lord Sudarshana even as the ritual was conducted by Vedic scholars amid the chanting of Astakshari and Dwadasakshari maha mantras. TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and Officer on Special Duty P. Seshadri took part.
17 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarva darshan tokens booked till June 26: TTD||All Sarva darshan tokens for the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala have been booked till June 26, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials have said. The next date of issuing the tokens will be announced after a meeting with the officials concerned, they said. Initially, the TTD had planned to make around 3,000 tokens available on a daily basis across its counters at Tirupati. After witnessing the rush, it decided to issue the tokens for a week. The second batch of tokens got exhausted by Tuesday afternoon. The TTD has decided to adopt a wait and watch policy before announcing the next date of issuing tokens. The TTD has urged the devotees to arrive in the temple town only if they have valid tokens.
17 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mega kitchen inaugurated at Sri City, to feed 10,000 daily||‘Govinda’, a massive semi-automated kitchen was inaugurated at the industrial hub of Sri City on Tuesday by Touchstone Foundation, an independent charitable trust associated with International Society for Krsna Consciousness (ISKCON) movement, Bengaluru. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Sri City) B.H. Vimalakumari formally inaugurated the kitchen, which operates on a daily basis to serve 10,000 hygienic and delicious breakfasts and lunches to people. All the cauldrons, trolleys, rice chutes, dal/sambar tanks, cutting boards, knives and other equipment in the kitchen are sanitised before every use. “The kitchen manages operations from a single point of control, including inward logistics, storage, preparation, delivery, maintenance and other processes involved in the cycle of food preparation,” said the foundation’s chief operating officer Kaunteya Dasa, who announced that the profit gained from the service would be used for charity schemes run by ‘Akshaya Patra’, another ISKCON-backed non-profit organisation. Sri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy called it a long-cherished dream to have a one-stop-facility serving hygienic and quality food at affordable cost, not only to the corporate community, but also to the general public in and around Sri City.
17 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 new containment zones in Kadapa||Seventeen new containment zones have been declared in Kadapa district on Tuesday, following a sudden spike. Alankhanpalli, Bhavani Nagar, Vivekananda Nagar, satellite township, Bhagat Singh Nagar and Bestha street in Kadapa city have been declared containment zones. The other zones are in JNF road, SVM road in Proddatur, Peddakondappa colony, Bhakarapuram and Nagirigutta in Pulivendula, Kogatam, Peddacheppali in Kamalapuram, Pallavolu in Chapadu, Ramasai Nagar in Duvvur and Chinnadanduluru in Yerraguntla and Chelampalem in Obulavaripalle mandal. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran warned that the containment measures would be thoroughly enforced. The district police filed 198 cases and collected a fine of Rs. 48,655 from denizens for negligent activities like not wearing mask and ignoring lockdown norms. Eleven patients undergoing treatment at the State COVID Hospital on the SVIMS campus were discharged upon recovery on Tuesday. Six of them belong to Tirupati, two to Narayanavanam and one each from Chittoor, Nimmanapalle and Pichatur mandals. TUDA secretary and district COVID in-charge S. Lakshmi, medical officers Srinivasa Rao handed over Rs. 2,000 to each person and gave them a warm farewell. Four patients belonging to Puttur, Karvetinagaram, Tirupati and Nagari mandals, all in Chittoor district, were discharged from the Ruia hospital.
17 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto drivers thank govt. for financial aid||The financial support extended by the State Government under ‘Vahana Mitra’ was hailed by auto-rickshaw drivers as a crucial intervention during the lockdown. As a thanksgiving gesture, many drivers gathered at Kothapet junction in Chandragiri on Tuesday and offered a ‘palabhishekam’ to a portrait of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by pouring milk on it. The financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 proved to be very helpful in making ends meet, the drivers said. YSRCP Seva Dal district general secretary S. Farook explained that the government had spent Rs. 230 crore on the workers dependent on auto-rickshaws and cabs for the second year, in spite of a financial crunch. The drivers also thanked MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy for ensuring that the benefits of the government schemes reached the intended beneficiaries.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority to welfare, says Governor||Decentralisation of administration is the key principle based on which a legislation is in process to have three capitals, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said. Addressing the State Legislature via a video link from Raj Bhavan to formally mark the beginning of the Budget session of the Assembly on Tuesday, the Governor said under the three-capital concept, Amaravati would be the Legislative capital, Visakhapatnam the Executive capital and Kurnool the Judicial capital. ‘Sweeping reforms’ He said the government had done exceptionally well in ensuring social justice and in bringing welfare schemes to the targeted sections, introducing sweeping reforms in the administration, improving healthcare system manifold, instilling confidence among farmers and taking measures to revamp schools, hospitals and irrigation system. He said by prioritising water resource management through the Jalayagnam programme, the government had accelerated efforts for completion of the Polavaram project by December 2021, along with land acquisition, rehabilitation and settlement. Steps were also being initiated to take up the Rayalaseema drought mitigation project, speed up the Uttarandhra Srujala Sravanti, enhance the capacity of Polavaram Right Main Canal (RMC) to 50,000 cusecs to take care of the Krishna delta, the NSP ayacut and the drought-prone Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts. ‘Path-breaking laws’ The Governor spoke about “pathbreaking laws” brought in to usher in social, economic and political justice, and cited the setting up of the BC Commission to provide 50% quota to the SC, ST, BC and Minorities in nominated posts and works, and in governing councils of temples that come under the Endowments Department. Some of the legislations he referred to were provision of 75% reservation to locals, laws pertaining to introduction of English as a medium of instruction and regulate private schools and colleges, a Judicial Preview Commission, the Land Titling Act, and the Disha Bill. COVID management He said effective steps were being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 and that the State was ahead of others in the number of tests conducted. About 15,000 tests were being conducted per day and more than 10,000 tests per million. Reeling out statistics of the number of doctors, para medical staff, hospital beds and other medical facilities, he said all this had helped the State record a low mortality rate, a low positivity rate and a much higher recovery rate than most others. He said the State’s economy had shown tremendous resilience within the context of a global slowdown, even in the pre-COVID-19 times, and that its per capita income, measures at current prices, had increased by more than 12% from Rs. 1,51,173 in 2018-19 to Rs. 1,69,519 in 2019-20. Mr. Harichandan said the government had put in place an impeccable delivery mechanism of welfare schemes in the form of village and ward secretariats, and that 90% of the promises made in the party’s election manifesto, Navaratnalu, had been fulfilled in the first year itself. In the Education sector, he said changes were being ushered in through schemes such as Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, Jagananna Goru Mudda, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, Jagananna Vasathi Deevena and Jagananna Mana Badi while in the health sector, YSR Aarogyasri, YSR Aarogya Asaraa, YSR Kanti Velugu, YSR Telemedicine and Nadu Nedu were being implemented to take the fruits of the programmes to the grass-root level. He also elaborated on programmes taken up under Agriculture, Housing and Energy sectors.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC buses to turn into mobile testing labs||The Andhra Prdesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is not in a position to operate its entire fleet of buses in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic that has necessitated travel restrictions to contain the virus. The corporation, however, has joined the fight against COVID-19 by deploying its buses for rehabilitation works and also by converting some of them into mobile rythu bazaars that have been taking vegetables and other essentials to the doorstep of the residents living in containment zones. Now, the corporation authorities plan to refashion 53 of their high-end air conditioned buses into mobile medical labs that will collect swab samples of people by reaching out to them in far flung areas. As part of intensifying the battle against COVID-19, the government plans to use these ‘mobile labs’, christened as ‘Sanjivani’, to penetrate deep into the rural areas and reach out to people at the grass-root level to conduct COVID-19 tests. “Each district will get four such mobile labs to conduct swab tests in their respective areas,” said a top official of the APSRTC. A prototype of ‘Sanjivani’ currently stands at the Pandit Nehru Bus Station. Since not all people can visit the testing labs for COVID-19 testing, the mobile labs will go to people to collect swab tests.  In the new model of the bus, the passenger seats have made way for doctors’ chairs and stools fitted to the surface of the vehicle. Social distancing norm The glass in the windowpanes has been replaced with acrylic sheets which have holes big enough for doctors and the medical staff inside the vehicle to put their hands through them and reach the patient standing outside. “The doctors or the medical staff will be seated on the chairs inside the vehicle and collect swab samples through these holes from people standing on a high platform outside. The sample collection will happen without the two sides coming face-to-face, thus adhering to the social distancing norm,” said G. Srikanth, CEO of Amba Coach Builders, which is re-modelling the vehicles. Each of the mobile labs will have two computers which will capture online data of the swabs collected, he explained, informing that it may take a fortnight for the company to re-design the remaining 52 vehicles.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare gets lion’s share in the State budget||The State government has made a whopping allocation of Rs. 41,062.73 crore to the welfare departments for the financial year 2020-21 in its annual budget. The government introduced a new scheme, Jagananna thodu, financial assistance scheme for street hawkers. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, who presented the budget in the Assembly on Tuesday, said that the development of human resources required special attention to the welfare needs of the marginalised social groups. "It is our effort to implement programmes for the benefit of all groups to enable them to participate in the mainstream development process. Our government is committed to the welfare of all sections of the society cutting across lines of caste, religion, gender and vocation,” he said. The government tripled the budgetary allocations to the Backward Classes (BCs) compared to the last fiscal. The allocations stand at Rs. 26,934 crore as against the last year's budget estimates of Rs. 7,271 crore. The revised estimates (RE) for the last year were Rs. 18,986 crore indicating an increase in the expenditure towards the BC welfare. Similarly, the budget estimates for the minority welfare was only Rs. 952 crore during the last financial year but the revised estimates was Rs. 1,562 crore. The government made an allocation of Rs. 2,055 crore for the current fiscal. An allocation of Rs. 3,456 crore was made towards women, children, differently-abled and senior citizens. Kapu welfare The overall outlay proposed for the welfare of Scheduled Castes (SCs) in the SC Sub-Plan was Rs. 15,735 crore. Similarly, an outlay of Rs. 5,177 crore was earmarked for the Tribal Sub-Plan. An allocation of Rs. 25,331 crore was made for the BC Sub-Plan. An overall outlay of Rs. 2,846 crore was made towards Kapu welfare. An allocation of Rs. 5 crore was made for visit to the holy land of Jerusalem under minority welfare. The government revived the scheme of pilgrimage to the holy land of Jerusalem and the subsidy for the pilgrimage was increased from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000. Also, the incentives amount for Imams and Mouzans to Rs. 50 crore.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||34% dip in allocation for agriculture sector||The State government has made an allocation of Rs. 11,891.20 crore for the agriculture sector for the financial year 2020-21 and for the animal husbandry and fisheries sectors, it is Rs. 1,279 crore. The allocation for agriculture and allied sectors in 2019-20 was Rs. 20,677 crore, which was 9.07% of the total budget. Now it has come down to Rs. 13,617 crore, which is 6.06% of the total budget. There is negative growth of 34.14% in budget estimates for agriculture and allied sectors for the current fiscal 2020-21. Similarly, the negative growth of 33.08% is estimated for animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries. Agriculture and allied sectors and the animal husbandry sector have shown a decline in revised estimates (RE) for the previous financial year 2019-20. The budget estimates were Rs. 18,327 crore for the agriculture sector, but the RE pegged them at Rs. 5,986 crore. Similarly, budget estimates for animal husbandry and dairy development was Rs. 1,912 crore for the last fiscal, but the RE stood at Rs. 719 crore. Presenting the annual budget on Tuesday, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said the government has initiated new schemes and enhanced the assistance under several others for the well-being of farmers. ‘Priority area’ Post bifurcation, the successor State of Andhra Pradesh inherited a predominantly agrarian economy. Agriculture plays an important role not only for economic growth but also for achieving food security and providing income to more than 75 % of our workforce, he said. Major allocations include Rs. 3,615 crore towards YSR Ryhtu Bharosa and Rs. 3,000 crore towards price stabilisation fund. The government made an allocation of Rs. 1,100 crore towards YSR interest-free loans to farmers and Rs. 100 crore each was allocated to Rythu Bharosa Kendralu (RBKs) and Agriculture Market Infrastructure Fund, Rs. 500 crore was earmarked for YSR-PM Fasal Bima Yojana; Rs. 237 crore was allocated to Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, Rs. 200 crore for supply of seeds to farmers. The government earmarked Rs. 150 crore for the National Horticulture Mission and Rs. 65 crore for YSR Agri Testing Labs, and Rs. 20 crore was allocated for payment of ex gratia to farmers. Allocations for other schemes came to Rs. 2,802 crore.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials make mask mandatory in city||As the number of COVID-19 cases witnessed a huge spike in the recent past, the district administration has decided to impose a fine of Rs. 100 on persons not using a mask as an effort to contain virus transmission through droplets. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation is already imposing fine on violators from more than a month and collected over Rs. 1.5 lakh fine from over 1,000 persons. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said there were 791 cases in the district, and in Vijayawada and surrounding areas alone there were 690 cases. He asked people to wear masks when they were in public places and the officials concerned would enforce the rule and impose fine. He said Section 144 would be in force from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the district and only essential stores and some commercial establishment would be allowed to open in containment zones. He said a list of revised containment zones would be released soon.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly passes CRDA repeal, three-capital Bills||The Assembly passed a few key Bills on first day of the budget session on Tuesday. The Assembly passed the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 and the Bill to repeal AP CRDA Act 2014. These Bills were presented and passed in January this year. The Bills were sent to the Legislative Council for necessary action but they were not passed due to subsequent developments. The Council, however, referred the Bills to a select committee. Later, the Assembly passed another Bill to abolish the Council. The Assembly/Council did not meet thereafter. The AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 was tabled by the Minister for Finance Buggana Rajendranath and passed by voice vote. The Bill enables the setting up of three capitals — Amaravati (Legislative), Visakhapatnam (Executive) and Kurnool (Judicial). The Bill to repeal the AP CRDA Act 2014 was moved by Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanaryana and was passed by voice vote. Other Bills passed in the Assembly are AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Second Amendment) Bill 2020; A.P. Appropriation (Vote on Account) Bill 2020; AP Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill 2020; AP Good and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill 2020; AP Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill 2020; AP Excise (Amendment) Bill 2020; AP Prohibition (Amendment) Bill; and A.P. Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (Amendment) Bill 2020.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget full of false claims, lies and betrayals: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has criticised the State government for “not showing any commitment or assurance” in its Budget for 2020-21 to make genuine efforts to uplift the poor people and usher in balanced growth in the State. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) neglected good governance in the past one year. Now, the government was focussing on turning its falsehoods into truths in a bid to further cover up the massive destruction it has done so far, he alleged. The Budget is full of false claims, lies and betrayals. The Government fulfilled only 59.6% promises as against 90% being claimed by the Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, Mr. Naidu said. Expenditure The TDP chief said that the previous TDP Government spent Rs. 19,976 cr for capital expenditure in 2018-19 while the YSRCP regime could spend only Rs. 12,865 crore. This was not even half of its commitment and that too it was a revised estimate, not actual. In respect of loans, Andhra Pradesh got Rs. 2.57 lakh crore debts since the formation of the State till 2018-19. This was raised to Rs. 3.02 lakh crore in the last one year and estimated to be Rs. 3.5 lakh crore the next year. The YSRCP raised the State debt by Rs. 1 lakh crore. There are doubts more loans may be taken by the government without any responsibility towards the management of finances or economy, he said. Mr. Naidu said the government failed to spend the allocations it made for the crucial agriculture and irrigation sectors in 2019-20. While the previous TDP government spent Rs. 14,000 crore for irrigation in 2018-19, the present government spent only Rs. 4,900 crore during 2019-20. However, it was making tall claims of aiming to complete all projects in the next four years. Mr. Naidu blamed the Chief Minister’s “bankrupt policies” for the decline in agricultural growth rate to just 8% as against 11% during TDP time ‘Fight will continue’ On three Capitals and CRDA Act Repeal Bills passed in the Assembly, Mr. Naidu asserted that his party would continue its fight in the Legislative Council and outside.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get set for boating safely||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate nine control rooms at various tourist destinations for safe boating activity, in online mode on June 18. In the wake of the accident in the River Godavari that resulted in capsizing of a tourist boat , the government formed a panel that has submitted recommendations for safe operation of tourist boats. Based on the recommendations, the government asked the Tourism Department to set up control rooms . The nine control rooms are located at Singanapalli in West Godavari district, Gandi Pochamma in East Godavari district, Perantalapalli (West Godavari district), Pochavaram (West Godavari), Rajahmahendravaram (East Godavari), Rushikonda beach (Visakhapatnam), Nagarjuna Sagar Boating Point (Guntur), Srisailam Boating Point (Kurnool) and Berm Park in Vijayawada (Krisha district). Each control room will have a manager from the Revenue Department who will be responsible for the management of the control room operations and signing off on the departure clearances, a liaison officer from the Water Resource Department, who will issue weather related warnings and alert all the stakeholders in emergency. System operator There will be a system operator who will enter the details of each vessel, including the boat driver, crew and passengers on board besides maintaining a database of the vessels operating at the control rooms, including details of the validity of licences, registration and other permissions. An inspection staffwill check the registration and other permissions of the vessel as per the “departure clearance checklist”, check licence, fitness and condition of the crew and availability of life saving equipment. A policeman will supervise the security and crowd management at the control room and patrolling of the waterways on a regular basis. The control rooms will also have lifeguards and swimmers/quick response teams from the Tourism Department, consisting of well-trained swimmers trained in life-saving techniques. They will also explain to the tourists and passengers boarding the boat about the set of Dos and Don’ts to be followed.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more deaths push toll to 88||The State has reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 264 new cases during the past 24 hours as of 9 am on Tuesday as 15, 911 samples were tested. According to the bulletin by the Health Department, of the new cases, 193 are of locals and 44 are of migrant workers or people from other States and 27 are of foreign returnees. The tally has gone up to 6, 720 and 3, 513 of the have recovered, including the 128 new recoveries, in the past 24 hours. At present, there are 3, 119 active patients undergoing treatment in the State. Each of the two new deaths occurred in Chittoor and Prakasam districts. Cases mount in Kurnool The worst-hit districts of Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur continued to report a huge number of new local cases. Kurnool has seen 56 new cases while Krishna reported 34, Guntur reported 29. Anantapur reported 28, East Godavari reported 12, Nellore reported 11, West Godavari reported 10, Kadapa reported five, Chittoor reported four, Visakhapatnam reported three and Vizianagaram reported one case. Prakasam and Srikakulam reported no new cases. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1,092), Krishna (791), Guntur (671), Anantapur (513), Nellore (423), East Godavari (399), Chittoor (363), West Godavari (311), Kadapa (262), Visakhapatnam (223), Prakasam (103), Vizianagaram (74) and Srikakulam (55). Meanwhile, the deaths in Kurnool and Krishna districts alone account for 65% of the total deaths in the State. While Kurnool has 30 death cases, Krishna has 27 death cases of the total 88. Krishna has the highest death rate of 3.71% with at least one in every 30 positive patients succumbing to the disease. Guntur has nine deaths whereas Anantapur six.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A right mix: Chambers||Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FAPCCI) president C.V. Atchut Rao welcomed the State budget presented in the Assembly on Tuesday. In a statement, Mr. Rao said that the budget aims at combining development and welfare measures in the State and the allocations to the energy sector and transport show the importance given to the development of infrastructure projects. Mr. Rao, however, said that the government could have announced a few measures to promote and attract private investments which would help in creating more employment. Meanwhile, the Confederation of Indian Industry's State chapter felt that the budget focussed on the inclusive approach and the government spending would have enough demand in the market. In a release, CII State chairman D. Ramakrishna said the budget focussed on an inclusive approach to ensure people at the bottom of the pyramid benefit by direct transfers and the investment in infrastructure produces positive economic externalities to growth. The government's social spending would create demand for goods and services, he said. “Thrust is being given to building a comprehensive and enhanced social security cover for the poor through the Navratnalu umbrella. It is a welcome step in present scenario,” he said.
17 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Neglect’ of irrigation sector decried||The AP State Water Users Associations’ Federation has charged the government with neglecting the irrigation sector. While it allocated Rs. 14,000 crore in the previous budget, it could spend less than Rs. 5,000 crore. At this rate, the projects would never be completed, federation president Alla Gopala Krishna Rao said. The government says it was giving top priority to Polavaram, but the project had already been delayed by three years. It was not realising that cost escalation would itself run into Rs. 7,500 crore, he said.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance seized with liquor bottles||The Krishna district police on Tuesday seized 107 liquor bottles that were allegedly being smuggled from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh in an ambulance. During a vehicle check at the border checkpost, police found liquor bottles in the private ambulance. Two persons were arrested and the liquor bottles seized along with the vehicle. The Veerulapadu police registered a case and took up an investigation.
17 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police unearth sand smuggling racket||The Krishna district police claimed to have busted a sand smuggling racket, which reportedly had links to neighbouring Telangana. They registered cases against six contractors for booking sand by using Aadhaar cards of the villagers. During investigation, it was revealed that contractors booked about 942 tonnes of sand, said Special Enforcement Bureau Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal. Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinivasulu on Tuesday said the modus operandi of the accused was to collect Aadhaar cards of the villagers on the pretext of procuring sand for public works in the villages, and sell the stocks at higher prices. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said the contractors collected the Aadhaar cards from the villagers in Reddygudem, G. Konduru and Mylavara villages. They impersonated as locals and booked sand online, he said.
17 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allocation to Water Resources Dept. too cut||The budgetary allocation for Water Resources (Irrigation and Flood Control) has been fixed at Rs. 11,805.85 crore for the year 2020- 21. This is 10.15% less than what has been allocated in the previous budget. While Rs. 13,139.05 crore was allocated in 2019-20, the government was able to actually spend Rs. 5,345.69 crore. In the budget speech on Tuesday, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said the government was planning to provide adequate water to all districts through judicious use of surface and groundwater, interlinking of rivers and completion of all ongoing projects under Jalayagnam. Highest priority would be given to completion of the Polavaram project, he added. The Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Scheme was envisaged to ensure that the State’s share in the allocated waters of the Krishna was realised in the short number of flood days available and also to fulfil the State’s commitment on providing drinking water to Chennai. The Godavari-Penna Linkage and the Varikaselapudi Lift Scheme would be merged into the YSR Palnadu Drought Mitigation Scheme to benefit farmers of the Palnadu region. Uttarandhra Sujala Shravanti and Vamsadhara-Nagavali Link Project provide succour to the farmers of north coastal A.P.
17 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State being pushed into a debt trap’||APCC president S. Sailajanath has said the budget will push the State into a debt trap. In a statement here on Tuesday, Mr. Sailajanath said the government had put loan proposals for Rs. 62,820 crore in the budget. However, going by the previous year’s experience, the amount that would be borrowed might be much higher, he said. Though a revenue of Rs. 1.60 lakh crore was shown in the previous budget, the government fell short of its target and had to go for overdraft.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop plans of conducting SSC exams: BJYM urges govt.||The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Tuesday demanded that the government drop the plan of conducting SSC examinations, scheduled to begin on July 10, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and promote all students in the State. “As many as 11 States have promoted the students without conducting the examinations. The A.P. government should reconsider its decision of holding the examinations as the COVID positive cases are rising,” BJYM national executive member Surendra Mohan told the media here on Tuesday. An estimated 8 lakh students are expected to write the examinations and many parents would accompany them to the examination centres in the absence of public transport. ‘Avoid risk’ “If one student appearing for the examination is found to be COVID positive, all the students have to be put under quarantine for 14 days. Their families have to be isolated. Given the situation, the government should not put the lives of lakhs of students and their parents at risk,” said Mr. Surendra Mohan.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 new cases take tally to 313 in district||Ten new COVID-19 cases were reported from the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. With the new cases, the total number in the district increased to 313. Meanwhile, seven patients were discharged after testing negative. The number of active cases have risen on Tuesday to 169 and the number of discharged persons stands at 143. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V Sudhakar, all the new cases were reported from the existing cluster areas only. As on date, there are 41 very active clusters and 19 active clusters, he said. Meanwhile, officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation on Tuesday denotified 14 cluster containment areas as the zones did not report any cases for the last four weeks (28 days). Madhavadhara, Gopalapatnam, Marripalem, Sri Nagar, K.R.M. Colony, Pithapuram Colony, Simhadripuram, Vadlapudi, Naidu Thota, Appannapalem (Vepagunta), Priyadarshini Colony (Gajuwaka), Jagannadhapuram (Akkayyapalem), Railway New Colony and SVP Nagar (Kobbarithota) areas are denotified. Chief Medical & Officer of Health (C.M.o.H), K.S.L.G Sastry said that there are 45 clusters in the GVMC limits.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APRCET-2019 merit lists released||The merit order lists (subject-wise) of Andhra Pradesh Research Common Entrance Test (APRCET-2019) qualified candidates were released by the Andhra University Registrar here on Tuesday. The merit lists pertain to qualified candidates, seeking admission into research programmes of AU, who had attended viva-voce/interview and certificate verification between February 3 and 20. The process was delayed due to the lockdown, according to D.A. Naidu, Director, Directorate of Admissions, AU. All the candidates are informed to visit the website:www.audoa.inand view the results. Admissions will be conducted, following the rule of reservation, by obtaining the web options online from the APRCET-2019 rank holders. The website is kept open to exercise web options from June 25 to 27. ‘Upload certificates’ Candidates, who have qualified in GATE/GPAT on or before October 31, 2019, in engineering and pharmacy, and wish to join research programmes of Andhra University, should also register online onwww.audoa.inand upload their certificates between June 16 and 20. They can also exercise their web options from June 25 to 27. Vacancy position and other details can also be seen on the website.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Giri Pradakshina’ cancelled this year||The annual ‘Giri Pradakshina’ of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam has been cancelled this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lakhs of devotees circumambulate around the Simhachalam Hill range every year on the auspicious occasion and after completion of the 32-km trek around the hill, they pray to the deity at the temple atop the hill. This year ‘Giri Pradakshina’ falls on July 4 and Ashada Pournami falls on the next day. The fourth round of sandalwood pastewould be applied on June 5.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||17-year-old girl allegedly commits suicide||A 17-year-old girl allegedly ended life in her house at NTR Colony under Malkapuram police station limits here on Monday night. The girl reportedly took the extreme step allegedly unable to handle academic pressure. According to reports, the girl passed Intermediate and was preparing for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020. The girl was unable to handle the academic pressure and allegedly ended life by hanging herself from a hook in the ceiling. The police registered a case and investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna booked for ‘violating’ COVID norms||The Narsipatnam (Town) police on Monday booked cases against senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and a few others on charge of violation of the COVID-19 regulations. According to sources, the Telugu Desam Party leader apparently had gone to meet Municipal Commissioner of Narsipatnam to discuss an issue. According to Assistant Superintendent of Police (Narsipatnam) Tuhin Sinha, the cases were registered suo motu against the TDP leader and a few others on charge of ignoring social distancing norm while meeting the municipal officials.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag gas leak: panel to meet regulatory bodies||The high-power committee set up by the State government to probe into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers will submit its report soon. Committee Chairman Neerabh Kumar Prasad on Tuesday said they were working to finalise the report with the inputs gathered from all the members including the representatives of the Centre within the time-frame indicated by the State government. The panel is scheduled to conduct some more meetings and hearings with the regulatory authorities concerned this week. The panel held interactions with stakeholders during its visits to Visakhapatnam on May 9, 10 and 11, and June 6, 7 and 8. It held discussions with risk analyst Sagar Dhara and Hyderabad-based scientist Babu Rao through video link on June 15.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die, one injured in road accident||Two persons died and another person received serious injuries in a road accident near Bandaveedhi under G. Madugula police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency, on Tuesday. According to reports, the accident occurred when the three persons were going to Paderu on a bike from G. Madugula in the district. The trio was reportedly driving in the wrong direction and hit a cement-laden lorry coming in the opposite direction.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Submit applications for AUCET by July 5||The last date for submission of applications for Andhra University Common Entrance Test (AUCET) 2020 is July 5, the AU officials have announced on Tuesday. The notification for AUCET-2020 was issued on June 4 and applications were invited from eligible candidates for admission into various arts and science courses being offered by AU. Late fee “The last date for submission of applications online with late fee of Rs. 1,000 is July 10. Hall tickets can be downloaded from the university’s website from July 25. The tentative commencement of entrance test is between August 7 to 9,” said D.A. Naidu, Director of Directorate of Admissions (DOA), AU. The university is conducting 13 tests for admission into 27 arts and commerce courses, 42 science courses, two science courses in AUCE (A). The courses, fee structures and admission information brochure are available on the website. The examinations schedule will be uploaded to the website soon.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Given additional charge as sports officer||K.V.V. Narasimha Rao has been nominated as the new sports officer of East Coast Railway Sports Association (E Co RSA), Waltair. He assumed charge from Sakkeer Hussain, who has been transferred to Southern Railway as ADRM. Mr. Narasimha Rao is Senior Divisional Engineer (Coordination) of Waltair, who has been assigned the additional charge.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village Revenue Officer in ACB net||Officials from Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested M. Rama Krishna, Village Revenue Officer (In-charge) at Rajavaram in Payakaraopeta mandal in Visakhapatnam district, for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 14,000 from a person for doing official favour. According to sources, the VRO sought the bribe to update the land records of one Venkata Ramana, a native of Rajavaram area in the mandal.
17 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aishwarya Rastogi takes charge as DCP Zone I||Aishwarya Rastogi took charge as the new Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order – I) here on Tuesday. He was appointed as the DCP in place of S. Ranga Reddy, who was asked to report to police headquarters, Mangalagiri. Prior to this, Mr. Rastogi was AIG (Admin) at the DGP office. He had earlier worked in the district as ASP in Narsipatnam.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recurrent hikes in diesel price leave fishermen in dire straits||The recent increase in diesel price has put fishermen on a sticky wicket at a time when high operational cost is preventing many of them from undertaking long voyages. “Fishing is no more remunerative for us due to high operational cost and the recent increase in diesel price is adding to the burden,” rues P.C. Appa Rao, president of Andhra Pradesh Mechanised Boat Operators’ Welfare Association. Diesel cost in north Andhra region has gone up from Rs. 62 a litre to Rs. 67 in the last few days. “We will be happy if the government increases the per litre diesel subsidy from Rs. 9 to Rs. 12,” says Mr. Appa Rao. Rising operational cost has forced many boat operators to undertake short voyages . Many fishermen from Visakhapatnam, one of the leading hubs for fish exports with a turnover of around Rs. 8,000 crore per annum, are opting of short voyages of about 100 to 120 nautical miles from the coast (up to Donkuru near Bhavanapadu) to reduce their cost of operations. Normally, mechanised boats go on voyages for 12 to 15 days. Lack of ice Further, the paucity of ice is also giving the fishermen the jitters. Twenty-odd ice plants in the city are not in a position to cater to the demand as the fishing ban was cut short by two weeks, giving them no scope for preparations . Workers engaged by the ice plants are mostly from Odisha who have gone back to their native places in the wake of the pandemic. Subsidy arrears A long voyage costs Rs. 3.5 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh which includes the diesel and crew cost, and provisions for food for the crew members. Even as the government has increased the diesel subsidy from Rs. 6.03 per litre to Rs. 9, the arrears amounting to Rs. 1.73 crore are yet to be cleared. “The release of the amount will help us undertake long voyages," said Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association president Ch. Satyanarayana Murthy.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure sufficient stocks of sand’||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has asked the sand contractors to ensure that sufficient stocks are available before the onset of monsoon. Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar along with Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar on Tuesday inspected the sand reaches at Dharanikota and Atchampeta in Krosuru mandal. Approach roads “Set a target of storing 10,000 MT of sand every day and keeping in view the monsoon, daily 15,000 MT of sand should be stocked up. Engage more number of earth movers and ensure sufficient sand is available for people,” said the Collector. He also suggested that approach roads should be laid so that lorries could move freely and the canal bunds should be strengthened using cement bags. Later, the Collector asked people in Krosuru mandal to take precautions and wear masks in public places. Subramanyeswara Rao, Deputy Director of Mines Department, was present.
17 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Soyabean seed ruckus in ZP general body||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi faced a piquant situation during the Adilabad Zilla Parishad general body meeting here on Tuesday when Agriculture Department officials differed with MLAs on the question of supply of subsidised soyabean seeds in the district. Members in the general body were critical of the functioning of officials including the District Agriculture Officer (DAO) Asha Kumari who went on leave during the start of vaanakalam agriculture operations. The general body passed a resolution to surrender the services of the DAO holding her responsible for hitch in supply of subsidised seeds. In charge DAO B. Venkati also came under severe criticism from Adilabad MLA Jogu Ramanna when he revealed that there would be supply shortfall as seed manufacturing companies were not able to meet the demand. Earlier, Adilabad MP Soyam Bapu Rao asked the district administration to state in clear terms whether soyabean seeds will be supplied to farmers.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Link NREGS with village development works: CM||Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao has suggested that MGNREGS be utilised for creating facilities and necessary works in the rural areas besides providing employment to agriculture labour. He said the villages were in administratively good situation thanks to adequate funds, officers, clear cut policies and if they could not be developed despite these favourable conditions, they could never be developed. In a meeting with the district collectors, district panchayat officers and other officials here on Tuesday, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said that it should be the top priority of every one in the official machinery, including the Chief Minister, to keep villages clean and tidy. He directed that one lakh threshing floors be created in the farmers’ land all across the State this year besides constructing Vaikunta Dhamams (cremation/burial grounds) in every village in two months and Rythu Vedikas in four months. A village-level plan be prepared on what should be done over next four years and the works be carried out accordingly. A district card should be prepared with these details, he said. In the meeting attended by ministers, government’s Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, senior officials from various departments, Chief Minister gave guidance on the work to be done by the district collectors and district panchayat officers Collectors and senior officials expressed their views and Chief Minister gave his direction. He said that under the new Panchayat Raj Act, government decentralised the power and gave full powers to the collectors, filled vacancies from village secretary to State-level posts in Panchayat Raj department, has been releasing Rs. 308 crore to panchayats every month despite financial crisis due to COVID-19. It would also fulfil the promise of giving funds up to Rs. 5 lakh to panchayats whose income was less than that per year. Village funds Village panchayats would get Rs. 9,916 crore under all accounts, including Finance Commission funds, and in four years, they would get Rs. 39,594 crore and that could further go up. Thus village-wise development plans be prepared for effective utilisation of these funds, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said. He advised the gram panchayats to maintain accounts without fail and be prompt in payment of loans and utility bills. Ten % of funds should necessarily be allocated to Haritha Haram, he said. Various committees appointed for implementation of several government programmes should take up their work as a movement. funds to MPPs, ZPs The government also decided to allocate10 % of Finance Commission funds to mandal parishads and five % of funds to Zilla Parishads and any lapse in implementation of greenery and sanitation should not be tolerated, he asserted and assured collectors there would not be any political intervention. The Chief Minister also said that irrigation network mapping should be done as major irrigation projects were nearing completion and every collector should have district-wise network data. He instructed the collectors to work for curbing the spread of COVID-19 as per a strategy while also taking preventive measures to contain seasonal diseases.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GO on capping leaves scope for private hospitals to overcharge||Notwithstanding the cap on COVID-19 costs, patients checking into private hospitals may still have to dig deep into their pockets to pay for the treatment. According to the government order (GO) issued on Monday, charges for treatment in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is Rs. 7,500 per day which will go up to Rs. 9,000 if the patient is provided with ventilator support. For admission in a routine ward, the daily tariff has been fixed at Rs. 4,000. However, certain services or products are excluded from the capped prices, leaving scope for additional costs. It includes Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Rs. 2,200 for COVID-19 testing, high-end investigations such as CT-Scan, PET Scan, MRI etc., interventional procedures such as central line insertion, bronchoscopic procedures and biopsies. Looking for loopholes Doctors, health officials, insurance agents and the general public have remarked that private establishments might find loopholes in the GO to charge more. “When National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority had capped prices of drug-eluting stents, some of the corporate hospitals increased rates under other categories even as the price for angioplasty remained the same. We fear something like this might happen after the GO is issued,” said an insurance agent. The option of getting admitted into the government hospitals is open for all moderate and severe COVID-19 patients while those with mild or no symptoms have been advised to self-isolate at home. Extra charges Employees of a few corporate hospitals informed that while some charge Rs. 3,000 per day for the PPE, others find different ways of billing the disposable product. Usually, patients with moderate to severe infection are admitted for a period of 14 days. Even if a patient is admitted for 10 days in ICU and is provided ventilator support, they will incur an additional Rs. 30,000 just for the PPE apart from the Rs. 9,000 daily charges. Moreover, a COVID-19 test costs Rs. 2,200 and it is conducted at least twice before a patient can be discharged from the hospital with negative results each time. The insurance agent said private hospitals may also charge extra for gloves, socks, and other protective gear for doctors and nurses who attend the patient. Since COVID-19 primarily affects the lungs, doctors may examine the patient’s condition using High Resolution Computerised Tomography (HRCT) scan which costs around Rs. 3,000 in private diagnostic facilities. Doctors and insurance agents said that charges for the high-end investigations at private hospitals are at least 50% more than what is billed at private diagnostic centres. Lungs examination “The HRCT scan helps to know if the architecture of lungs has changed. Abnormalities in it is a common sign that coronavirus has affected lungs. If a COVID-19 patient with respiratory problems is admitted, the HRCT scan is performed at least twice. If required, it may be performed more than twice. So, charges for two scans at corporate hospitals will be at least Rs. 10,000,” said a government hospital doctor. Doctors from corporate hospitals in the city also said that the HRCT scan is a must. All these charges may vary depending on severity of the infection in the patient and the tariff set by each private hospital.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only 2 bids for clearing water hyacinth||The project to beautify and rejuvenate water bodies coming a cropper, the GHMC is in the process of finalising tenders for removal of water hyacinth from several city lakes, including a few which were listed under the project. A total of 36 lakes with heavy spread of the weed have been listed for the tenders divided into five packages. As per the information available, only two bidders have responded to the tender notification which is conspicuous by its absence on GHMC’s online portal. Major portion of these lakes is occupied by the fast spreading weed, due to unmitigated inflow of sewage water. Quite a few lakes such as Miralam tank in Bahadurpura, Maisamma Cheruvu in Kukatpally, Yerra Kunta in Chandrayangutta, and Singada Kunta in Banjara Hills, are fully covered with water hyacinth, while in several others, the weed has gobbled up 80% to 90% of the lake spread. As per the agreement, the work entails removal of water hyacinth and its transportation to the Jawaharnagar dump yard within a month from the date of agreement, besides maintenance of the lakes concerned for three years hence. While it is normal practice for the lakes wing of GHMC to get the weed removed before the onset of monsoon, this time, the job is handed over to the entomology wing. A committee has been set up with members drawn from sanitation, entomology and solid waste management wings, among others, to decide the modalities and finalise the tenders. Water hyacinth weed growth facilitates mosquito breeding in a big way during monsoon. “Though dengue has nothing to do with mosquitoes bred in external water bodies, weed removal will help contain the breeding of Culex mosquitoes, which are a big nuisance,” said an official. A previous project of GHMC to develop and beautify 19 lakes in the city has remained crippled after two years. A few lakes from the list such as Boin Cheruvu and Nalla Cheruvu, for which sewage diversion works have been completed, have found place in the tenders for water hyacinth removal. A total of 48 acres from the 56 acres of Boin Cheruvu in Hasmathpet, and 35 acres from the 57 acres of Nalla Cheruvu in Uppal are covered with water hyacinth. Sources said majority of the works pertaining to the Rs. 283-crore lake rejuvenation project had come to a standstill for a variety of reasons. The project has two components — first to divert the sewage from the lakes, and then to beautify lake surroundings. Pending payment for contractors has been a major hurdle, resulting in the works being stalled, an official said. Some patta holders for land in the lakes have objected, and approached the court, challenging the government orders. Compensation through Transferable Development Rights has not been an easy process, which has deterred several patta holders from parting with their lands, he said.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hygiene takes a hit as sanitation staff play truant||The ambulance driver stops a little ahead of the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences gate on Banjara Hills Road no.1 and begins removing his blue Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). He discards the shoe covering and the jacket covering his body and kicks it under the vehicle and waits. After some time, he drives away leaving behind the PPE which rolls to the side of the road. Discarded PPE has been spotted at graveyards, by the ambulance stand near Gandhi Hospital and other places, raising questions about how the bio-medical waste is being treated in Hyderabad. Some unsavoury images and videos of conditions in various quarantine facilities and Gandhi Hospital have already surfaced on social media. “The hygiene levels at Osmania, Niloufer and other hospitals have dipped as sanitation workers are not reporting for duty. Many of them are contracted workers and others are sub-contracted by the staffers. They are no longer reporting for duty due to stigma and fear,” says Mujtaba Askari of Helping Hand Foundation who has colleagues working in these hospitals. This absenteeism has added to worries about handling and disposal of bio-medical waste. Sub-contracting by sweepers, thoti and scavengers (official designation) happens as they are in the Rs. 13,000-40,270 pay band and hire other workers to do their job. “Biomedical waste is collected and disposed of from Gandhi and Chest Hospital every day. It comprises masks, coveralls, syringes, gloves, test materials, etc. Waste arising from COVID-19 is packaged in double bags and carried in separate vehicles and incinerated at 1050 Celsius as soon as the waste vehicle reaches the incineration facility,” says Masood Mallick of Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd. A challenge “Most government hospitals are huge and spread across acres. Moving bio-hazardous waste across multiple points seamlessly is always a challenge and with understaffed sanitation workers it has become difficult. Very few have dedicated transportation BHW trolleys to transfer business hazardous waste (BHW) to a central point from where it is taken for disposal,” informs Mr. Askari. The new Central Pollution Control Board guidelines expand the scope of specialised treatment of biomedical waste to home-care, quarantine home and quarantine camps. “Items like leftover food, disposable plates, glass, used masks, used tissues, used toiletries, etc. used by COVID-19 patient shall become biomedical waste and shall be segregated in yellow bag,” says the June 10 document on ‘Handling, Treatment and Disposal of Waste Generated during Treatment/Diagnosis/ Quarantine of COVID-19 Patients’. Telangana government has begun discharging a large number of asymptomatic patients asking them to stay in home quarantine. As the number of COVID-19 cases spike, collection and disposal of bio-medical waste is going to be a big challenge for the city.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure that your notices are mistake-free: HC to GHMC||Directing GHMC officials to serve notices with specific grounds to industrial units polluting the environment in Shastripuram area in Rajrendranagar, the Telangana High Court on Tuesday said the officials could not afford to issue notices with mistakes. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy made the observations on Monday while hearing a writ petition filed by Mohd. Taufeeq Ahmed who had been given notice to close his industrial unit. Earlier, on March 11, the bench instructed the GHMC to close down all industrial units causing pollution in Shastripuram area, after hearing a PIL plea. But many industrial owners moved the High Court, alleging that the civic body had served closure notices on them without specifically explaining the reasons for the notices. The petitioners claimed that normally seven days was given to answer a notice. Yet, the authorities started giving closure notice on the third day of serving the notice. Such action of authorities would only escalate litigation and increase work load of the HC, the bench said. However, the bench made it clear that the orders passed by it to close down all polluting industries in Shastripuram must be adhered to. The authorities should first assess what type of violations were made by the industries. The bench instructed the officers to make field visits to understand the facts before serving notices. If notices contained mistakes, the issue of checking polluting industries would get diverted and lower level staff were likely to collude with the violators, the bench said. Advocate-General B.S. Prasad told the bench that GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar would rectify all the notices and comply with the HC directions on the matter. The bench closed the petition.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Complete project in 10 months, KTR tells T-Fiber team||Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao has urged the team behind the T-Fiber project to provide high speed internet connectivity for all in the State, to ensure that the entire work is completed within 10 months. The Minister, who reviewed the progress of the project on Tuesday, set this deadline and instructed the officials that all the existing network infrastructure in the State and the State Data Centre should be brought under T-Fiber. The aim of T-Fiber is to connect, through optical fiber, every household, government institution and private enterprise across the State, with a focus on those in rural areas, and provide them high-speed internet connectivity. A release from the Minister’s office said Mr.Rao said the potential of T-Fiber network would be enormous in delivering citizen services. It would help transform the delivery of G2G and G2C services, especially in rural areas by connecting government institutions, enterprises and households. The network has potential to revolutionise delivery of online education, tele-health and agriculture services in the State. Stating this, the Minister instructed the T-Fiber team to connect Rythu Vedikas coming up in the State thereby realising the vision of Chief Minister to bring all the farmers to come under one roof to discuss, interact and exchange of ideas with ministers and government officials thorough video conferencing. He directed the officials that all municipal corporations and municipalities be included in the scope of T-Fiber. Calling upon the Master System Integrators to speed up the on-ground project execution, he said the RoW (right of way) Act would be reviewed to ensure brisk progress of work. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and T-Fiber managing director Sujai Karampuri participated.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII, ALPLA tie up to promote dual apprenticeship model||The Confederation of Indian Industry-Telangana (CII-TS) and ALPLA India Ltd. have entered into a memorandum of understanding for promoting dual apprenticeship model in diploma education. They will work closely with Telangana government’s Department of Technical Education in promoting and strengthening dual apprenticeship programme among the industry, according to Vagish Dixit, convenor-Education and Skills Panel of CII-TS and ALPLA India managing director. In a CII-TS release on Tuesday, he said dual apprenticeship programme had contributed to strengthening the manufacturing sector in Europe. Such programmes will be useful in the Indian context too. Dual education system is one of the most effective methods to train students with latest industrial trends while they pursue technical education. The concept is popular and widely used in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. It equips the trainees with technical skills with hands on exposure to practical aspects along with theoretical knowledge thus enabling students to be readily employable. Commissioner, Department of Technical and Collegiate Education, Navin Mittal appreciated CII and ALPLA for initiating dual apprenticeship and industry apprenticeship programmes in Hyderabad. ALPLA is a global leader in plastic packaging and produces custom-made packaging systems, bottles, closures and molded parts at 181 sites across 46 countries. The first project under the MoU is to be implemented at ALPLA plant in Pashamylaram Industrial park here, the release said.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private schools stare at financial crisis||A financial crisis is brewing in the private schools sector with several of them struggling to keep afloat and meet the regular expenditure for running because of a steep fall in their income as a result of lockdown. Telangana was one of the first States to impose lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus. In April, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed private school managements not to resort to mandatory nominal fee hike this academic year and collect only monthly fees instead of annual fees at one go. All the schools empathetic to the extraordinary situation complied with the advisory. But now three months later, with lockdown guidelines liberalised and several sectors opening up, the struggle, however, continues for many private schools with mounting fee payment defaults. Representatives of private schools told The Hindu that even while contending with fall in fee collection, they adapted to the online mode from April to prevent disruption of academic year. The Union HRD Ministry instructed that school staff be allowed to work from home and the lockdown should not disrupt education of students. While parents are happy with online classes, some of them withheld payment of even monthly fee. “We coped with the situation for three months by meeting fixed expenditure towards rentals, maintenance, and electricity charges, paying salaries of staff and EMIs on loans. Our institutions may end up as non-performing assets as we can’t repay loans if we don’t get our dues,” said some managements. “From where will the private schools mobilise resources and how long can they sustain with huge deficit revenue and still pay EMIs for buses and infrastructure?” Usha Reddy, chairperson of Hyderbad Sahodaya Schools Complex, asked. Very few private schools have their own premises and many function from leased land in the city. Government sources admitted that they asked school managements to collect monthly fees till the situation improved and not to increase school fees this academic year. But it was not fair on the part of people to withhold even monthly fee payments. “ It is as much the responsibility of parents as of schools to support each other,” they said. Sunita Rani, Director, Foster Billabong High, said some schools could not collect even 10% of their normal fee. Members of International Schools Association, Unaided Schools Forum, Association of International Schools, and School Principals Association issued a joint appeal in public interest to “Respect teachers and Support Your School”. The managements put in public domain the fixed expenditure they incur regularly like loan repayment and , maintenance.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Provide Rs. 20K relief assistance to artisan families: Krishnaiah||National Backward Classes Welfare Association has staged fasting protests in all district and mandal headquarters across the State on Tuesday to demand Rs. 20,000 as relief assistance to all families of artisans or community-based vocations since they had lost livelihoods due to COVID-19 lockdown for the last three months. Speaking at a protest staged in BC Bhavan here, president of the association R. Krishnaiah said due to lack of livelihood activity for the last three months the families of those carrying out community-based professions were facing the threat of hunger and only a relief assistance of Rs. 20,000 per family would help them sustain and survive through the difficult times. Along with Mr. Krishnaiah, State president Y. Satyanarayana, youth association president N. Venkatesh, general secretary G. Satyam, T.R. Chander, G. Shanker, N. Srinivas and others participated in the fast. Associations such as Gowda, Yadava, Kuruma, Mudiraj, Munnurukapu, Vishwabrahmana, Rajaka, Nayibrahmana, Meru, Medari, Matsyakara Sanghams’ leaders also expressed their solidarity with the protest and participated in the programme.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS suppressing Opposition voice’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government is suppressing the voice of the Opposition by not even allowing them to stage democratic protests. Speaking to party leaders along with AICC in-charge of party affairs in Telangana R.C. Khuntia over video-conference on Tuesday, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had stopped works on the irrigation projects started during the previous Congress regime. The pending projects were completely ignored and huge public money was wasted on new projects which did not irrigate even an acre of land so far. Meanwhile, the TPCC has decided to celebrate the birthday of the party leader Rahul Gandhi on June 19 by distributing food kits among the needy across the State. He asked the party cadres to distribute food kits among those in distress. Mr. Reddy asked the party leaders to honour the health and sanitation workers who are selflessly fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic, on the occasion. AICC leaders Srinivasa Krishnan, Bose Raju, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, S.A. Sampath Kumar, CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, and others participated.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1 lakh harvest drying platforms in villages||The State government has allocated Rs. 750 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for the construction of about one-lakh drying platforms planned in all gram panchayats and hamlets in rural 32 districts this financial year. Construction of the drying platforms/harvesting yards was proposed to prevent the farmers drying their crops on roads leading to accidents every year. A decision in this regard was taken by the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Agriculture and Chief Minister has approved the proposal based on its recommendation. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department has issued guidelines for constructing drying platforms in the lands belonging to self-help group (SHG) members who are farmers and other individual farmers too. The government has fixed the beneficiary contribution for SHG members/farmers for other communities at 10% of the cost, while it would not there for the SC/ST farmers and SHG members. The District Collectors would make mandal and village wise allocation/sanction based on the demand and population of farmers and selected the beneficiaries on the basis of lottery, if need be.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM, Governor offer their condolences to kin||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the martyrdom of Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, resident of Suryapet, in the clashes that took place on the Indo-China border near Ladakh. He said Col Santosh has sacrificed his life for the nation and his sacrifice could not be valued in any terms. Mr. Rao conveyed his heartfelt condolences to Col Santosh’s parents, his wife and children and other family members. The Chief Minister instructed Minister Jagdeesh Reddy to ensure that the State government’s representative should be present from the time of receiving the mortal remains of Col Santosh till the completion of last rites. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan expressed her heartfelt condolences to the family of Colonel B Santosh Babu, Havildar Palani and Sepoy Ojha who got martyred for our country. “I salute the brave soldiers who gave their lives to the nation. Their sacrifices will always be remembered by the nation. Entire nation shares the grief of the bereaved families,” the Governor said.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minors rescued from bangle-making unit||The Balapur police apprehended a person for allegedly putting to work at least nine minors at a bangle-making unit. Police raided the unit based on a tip-off and rescued the minors, Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said. They were allegedly made to work for long hours and in cramped conditions. “We raided the bangle making unit based on specific information. The accused is Mohsin, who is from Bihar. He runs the unit. He brought the victims from Bihar and put them to work in the single room where they work and stay, in unhygienic conditions. This has been going on for the last six months,” Mr Bhaskar said. The victims are in the age group of 14-18 years. Police intimated the Women and Child Welfare Department who took charge of the victims. Mr Bhaskar said a case under the Juvenile Justice Act was booked. Liquor theft The North Zone Task Force personnel apprehended two persons for allegedly breaking into a restaurant and stealing lliquor bottles. The accused are Kaliwalay Athish (23), a fruit vendor, and a resident of Puranapul, and Madugula Kanishk (21), an unemployed youth from Shahinayatgunj. On June 8, the accused, along with two associates, allegedly broke into a bar, stole 15 bottles of liquor and sold some of the bottles for Rs. 12,000 which they divided among themselves. Police seized from the possession of the accused Rs. 10,000 and two mobile phones.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Akshaya Patra distributes 1L grocery kits||Akshaya Patra Foundation thanked its 130 Aikya youth volunteers for packing one lakh essential grocery kits distributed to people from vulnerable communities and HITEX for supporting the undertaking by offering their centre. The kits had items including rice, condiments, sugar, potatoes, tamarind, oil, sambar powder, turmeric powder, and mirchi/chilli powder. Akshaya Patra has served more than six crore meals as part of its food relief efforts across India. In Telangana, the Foundation is working with the district administration to distribute the grocery kits.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Home guard loses battle with virus||A 35-year-old home guard of Dabeerpura police station in the South Zone succumbed to COVID-19 on Monday night. Sources said that he had complained of ill health last week after which he underwent testing. The results turned up positive for novel coronavirus. He was admitted to a private hospital after which he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital where he breathed his last. In the past few weeks, several policemen, including at least 15 from Banjara Hills Police Station, have tested positive for COVID. The home guard’s death is the second instance of a security personnel succumbing to the virus. The first case was reported in May after a 2007 batch constable from Nalgonda died at Gandhi Hospital.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Boy falls into sump, dies||In a freak mishap, a five-year-old boy died after falling into a water sump in a structure which houses the Charminar sub-registrar’s office. According to Mirchowk sub-inspector Lakshminarayana, the incident occurred around 1 pm in the Kali Khabar area. The victim, Farhan Ali ,was playing ‘hide-and-seek’ with children when he came across the sump, peered in, and fell into it. “There is a common grill between the building, where the boy was playing, and the building which has the sub-registrar’s office. There was a lid on the water sump. But, it seems that the victim was curious and tried to take a look inside, and fell into it,” Mr Lakshminarayana said. A few minutes later, passersby were alerted and retrieved him. However, it was too late. “We registered a case following a complint by the boy’s father, who is a bone-setter,” he said.
17 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New in-charge V-C for MANUU||Ayub Khan has relinquished the post of Vice-Chancellor (in-charge) of Maulana Azad National Urdu University. Taking the charge from him is Fatima Begum from Department of Education and Training and the senior most professor of the varsity. Prof. Khan joined MANUU in March 2019 as Pro Vice-Chancellor and took over as in-charge V-C from February 28 this year, succeeding Mohammad Aslam Parvaiz. He will rejoin his parent department of mathematics at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. In-charge registrar S.M. Rahmatullah presented a memento to him.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Booty worth Rs. 21 lakh recovered, three arrested||The Central Crime Station of the Rachakonda police on Tuesday apprehended three persons for alleged house burglary and seized from their possession 28.5 grams of gold ornaments, 3.2 kg of silver ornaments and other items, all worth over Rs. 21 lakh. The accused were identified as Ponnala Shiva Shankar (37) an autorickshaw driver, Indla Soma Shiva Shankar (35), a mason, and Ambala Nagamani (40) who works as a housekeeper. Ponnala Shiva Shankar and Indla Soma Shiva Shankar used to target isolated colonies along the ORR. They allegedly made a recce of the places on a stolen two-wheeler in the evenings. Thety were wanted in 26 cases. A case was booked.
17 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Illegal sand mining rampant under guise of supply for KLIP||Illegal sand mining on the pretext of transporting it for Mallannasagar project is dealing a serious dent to the State exchequer and harming the environment in the catchment areas of Moyathummeda rivulet in Bejjanki mandal. On the pretext of transporting sand to Kaleshwaram project, the sand mafia is reportedly moving sand illegally to the real estate ventures in Hyderabad and Karimnagar. Though villagers are up in arms against the illegal transportation of sand, the ‘sand mafia’ is threatening to kill them under the speeding wheels of tractors and trucks. Already, the sand mafia completed lifting sand from Gagillapur village and presently sand is being transported from Devakkapalli and Thotapalli villages. Every day hundreds of huge trucks and tractors transport the sand illegally from the rivulet in collusion with the local representatives, police and revenue officials. Several hundreds of trucks and tractors are seen waiting in serpentine queues adjoining Rajiv Rahadhari near Thotapally to load the sand and transport it illegally to Hyderabad, Siddipet and Karimnagar. Janardhan Reddy, a villager from Bejjanki mandal, said that they were scared of stopping illegal sand mining in the Moyathummeda rivulet as the sand mafia was in collusion with the authorities concerned. “The online booking of sand is a farce as the sand mafia is supplying the material at the doorsteps of the realtors. In the wake of monsoons the sand is being stored at various locations and dumps illegally in Karimnagar town and other places,” he alleged. Ironically, it is being done right in front of the LMD police station on Rajiv Rahadhari in Thimmapur mandal, said Bhaskar Reddy. The government is losing several crores of rupees through illegal sand mining in the region, he added.
17 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||MLA for more excavations at historical site||Choppadandi legislator Sunke Ravishankar said that he would request Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to take up more excavation and preservation of historical sites in Kotla Narsimhlupalle village of Gangadhara mandal. Responding to the news item ‘Unearthing of Jain idols calls for more excavations’ published in these columns on Tuesday, the Choppadandi legislator, along with district Grandhayala Samstha chairman A Ravinder Reddy, MPP Sriram Madhukar, sarpanch Kavitha Mallareddy and others visited Narsimhlupalle village and inspected the site where the ancient Jain idols were unearthed recently and they also performed pujas by breaking coconuts. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, Mr Ravishankar said he would urge the Chief Minister to declare Narsimhlupalle as heritage village and a tourist spot after taking up complete excavations.
17 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy opens parlour in Hyderabad||Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar and Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch Rajeshwara Rao formally inaugurated the Karimnagar Dairy’s parlour at Nizampet near Bandari Layout in Hyderabad on Tuesday. It is the dairy’s 41st parlour in the capital city. Incidentally, it was the 81st dairy parlour of the dairy in the State. The dairy, which had entered the Hyderabad market in 2015, is selling 45,000 litres of milk and milk products daily in the city.
17 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Area under turmeric likely to fall by 10%||Breaking their age-old practice farmers in the current vaanakalam crop season are disinclined to take up cultivation of major commercial crop turmeric in view of the increasing labour and investments costs, falling prices in market and lack of encouragement from governments. Given the mood of farmers it is estimated that turmeric transplantation would go down by at least 10 to 15 % this season and instead cultivation of other crops such as soyabean and maize is likely to increase in its place. No guarantee for the long cherished dream of establishment of Turmeric Board, absence of minimum support price are cited to be other reasons for possible shrinkage of land for turmeric plantation. The crop which is mainly grown in Armoor division is well known in the country for its quality and per acre yield. Farmers in the division grow the turmeric in an average of 40,000 acres every year. The six to nine month gestation period crop is not fetching even Rs. 5,000 per quintal of late, disappointing the farmers. “Investment costs increased with the increase in the cost of organic manure and labour costs. We have to spend at least Rs. 1.50 lakh on each acre to grow the turmeric. However, we are getting only Rs. 1.15 lakh on each acre. Hence, farmers prefer to reduce its plantation,” said S. Anwesh Reddy, a farmer in Sunket village of Morthad mandal. Farmers of Ankapur, a model village for its modern cultivation methods started transplanting paddy to avoid costs. “This year our farmers would go for paddy and other crops rather than turmeric as they incurred losses in successive years over the last one decade. In a way, turmeric farmers are vexed with waiting for help from governments on remunerative price,” said K.K. Bajanna, a progressive farmer in the village. Authorities of Horticulture Department, meanwhile, are also of the view that the cultivation of turmeric would reduce by 10 % this season.
17 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Preserving the last vignettes of Anantagiri||Muthyala Pochamma was the presiding deity of Anantagiri village in Illantakunta mandal of Rajananna Sircilla district. This village borders Kochhaguttapally village in Chinnakodur mandal in Siddipet district. Both these villages got submerged in the recently constructed Annapurna (Anantagiri) reservoir as part of Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) and hundreds of people got displaced. While some lost their houses, others lost both houses and lands. Tipparaveni Balakishan, a native of the village, who is working as cinematographer in the film field, felt that he should record the memories of the villages for posterity. So, during lockdown he planned a song on life in the two villages. The song Yellipothunname Pochamma, talli sallanga chudale mayamma’ covers several things like tradition of rangoli in the villages, milk collection, farming, coexistence among people and how the project separated them from each other. “We lived together till yesterday and now thrown out at different directions and scattered, literally...” goes the song. “I used drones to picture the villages. Similarly, some pictures were taken before submergence of the villages,” Mr. Balakishan told The Hindu . The song was uploaded on Youtube and is going viral on social media.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||PM lauds Punjab’s virus strategy||Appreciating Punjab’s COVID-19 micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked all other States to adopt the model. A Punjab government statement on Tuesday stated that the Prime Minister intervened as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was describing the State’s model suggested that all States should follow the same strategic approach to effectively counter the novel coronavirus challenge. Mr. Modi was conducting a videoconference with 21 Chief Ministers and Lieutenant Governors of States and Union Territories as part of his scheduled two-day interaction to review the COVID-19 situation and management strategies across the country. During the meeting, Capt. Amarinder suggested to the Prime Minister to set up a group, which should include a few Chief Ministers, to discuss and formulate a coordinated Centre-State response to the devastating impact of the virus on the economy and governments across the country, added the statement. The Chief Minister, according to the statement, said a detailed memorandum had already been sent to the Government of India, listing out the impact of COVID-19 and also seeking fiscal and non-fiscal assistance. He requested for release of the State’s pending share of taxes to tide over the fiscal crisis. The crisis in Punjab was likely to be acute with around Rs. 25,000-30,000 crore shortfall in revenue collection on various counts, he said. Emphasising the need for more tests, despite the current 5,527 tests per 10 lakh population in Punjab being higher than the all-India average of 4,088, Capt. Amarinder reiterated his request for direction to Central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase their testing capacity. He said the State government was working on a multi-pronged strategy to fight the pandemic. Some restrictions have been imposed on weekends and holidays, and strict enforcement of all protocols was being ensured through fines, he said. The focus is currently on a micro-containment strategy to isolate small ‘mohallas’ or villages rather than close down larger areas, he said.  104 fresh cases The videoconference came on a day Punjab recorded 104 fresh COVID-19 cases and reported one more death, taking the tally of fatalities to 72. The patient who died was from Ludhiana district. An official statement said the overall number of positive cases in the State is now 3,371. The major chunk of new cases, 31 and 22, were reported from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 838 and 2,461 patients have recovered so far.
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda slams BJP for rallies||Rajya Sabha MP and senior Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda on Tuesday said that while the country was battling COVID-19 pandemic, the BJP was busy celebrating the NDA government’s “so called” accomplishments on the completion of one year in office, and has left people to fend for themselves. “What is the BJP celebrating by holding political rallies across the State? Is the corona battle over? Or are we celebrating the rise in corona cases? Or are we celebrating the loss of lives and livelihoods? Or is the record levels of unemployment that is being celebrated,” quipped Mr. Hooda, addressing a press conference here. “In Haryana, COVID cases are rapidly increasing. Far from reacting with the seriousness the situation demands, the State government is engaged in political propaganda. The government should give the same level of attention as the Union Home Minister has shown in Delhi. Like Delhi, testing should be increased three-fold and prices should be halved. Ideally, the State government should have demanded from the Centre itself. But it seems that the government is waiting for the situation in Haryana to turn into something like Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat,” he said.  Unemployment rate Mr. Hooda said that unemployment rate in Haryana is consistently rising. “Haryana has twice the unemployment than the country average. It is not that these figures have increased only during the corona period. Even before corona, Haryana had 28% unemployment rate. The rate had touched 43% and is 35.7%,” he said. Referring to the problems of farmers, he said the maize farmers are not getting remunerative price for their produce. “The government is not buying the crop. This is after the government had itself advised farmers to grow maize instead of paddy. The MSP of maize is Rs. 1,760, but most farmers have to sell it for just Rs. 1,100 to 1,200.”
17 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Unable to afford fees, students in Haryana shifting to govt. schools||Several students in Haryana are preferring to shift from private to government schools as parents of most are finding it difficult to afford the fees of private-run schools amid the prolonged lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak. With numerous students from private schools seeking admission to government schools, the State government has come out with guidelines regarding the mandatory ‘School Leaving Certificate’' for students, citing the reason that formal education of any student should not suffer on account of the pandemic. Private schools, however, have taken the State government head-on over the latest guidelines and demanded immediate withdrawal or else be ready to face an agitation. “The guidelines are an attempt to finish private schools. We will burn copies of the government orders and also “gherao” the Haryana Chief Minister’s residence in Karnal if the orders are not reversed,” Satyavan Kundu, president, Haryana Private School Sangh — a body of around 13,000 private schools across the State -- told The Hindu . Mr. Kundu said there has been an increase in the number of students seeking SLC this year in comparison to the previous years. “One of the reason behind many students and parents wanting to shift is due to drop in their incomes on account of the prolonged lockdown that had effected economic activities. Most of the students are shifting schools in rural areas,” he said.  ‘Address concerns’ He added that private schools were also going through difficult times and the government needs to address their concerns as well so that they could be run efficiently. Haryana Education Department had on June 15 issued guidelines surrounding mandatory ‘School Leaving Certificate’ for students, seeking admission to government schools in Haryana. According to the latest guidelines, if a private school doesn’t issue SLC to a student who is seeking admission in a government school, even then the student will be admitted to the government school. The Education Department had announced that all such students who wish to enroll in government schools should be admitted immediately. “The government schools should inform the student’s previous school in writing and urge that school to issue a School Leaving Certificate online within 15 days. It should also be mentioned in this that if the School Leaving Certificate is not received from that school within 15 days, then it will automatically be deemed to have been issued,” said an official statement.
17 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram fighting uphill battle against deadly virus||Gurugram recorded its first COVID-19 case on March 16, and saw its 1,000th case over 78 days later on June 2. Just six days after that, the city breached the 2,000-mark; and five days later, on June 13, the total number of cases had crossed 3,000. With 2,779 new cases and 42 deaths between June 1 and June 16, almost 75% of all cases and 91% of deaths in Gurugram have been reported in the past two weeks alone. The city accounts for nearly half (3,682) of all virus cases (7,832) reported in Haryana so far. There are 1,722 active cases in Gurugram. Earlier this month, Chief Minister Manohar Lal had downplayed the sudden spike in cases, attributing it to delay in reporting by private labs. Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri later said the spike in cases was due to easing of restrictions and Gurugram’s proximity to Delhi, a hotspot for cases. But the surge in cases has revealed the district administration’s seemingly lackadaisical approach against the deadly virus. Late start The city did not even have its own COVID-19 testing lab till a couple of days ago; only four ambulances to cater to the large population; and no hearse van. Officials privy to the administration’s efforts said poor contact tracing and failure to implement restrictions in containment zones were two major factors that contributed immensely to the spread of the virus. The Haryana government kept its border with Delhi sealed for over a month, but it seems to have done little to stop cases. The gravity of the situation, however, seems to have dawned upon the authorities over the past few days with the former Chief Medical Officer being shunted out and replaced with Virender Yadav, who was earlier able to control the outbreak in Nuh. Swinging into action, the administration has directed all private hospitals to reserve 25% beds for COVID-19 patients. For better coordination, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority CEO Sonal Goel has been appointed the nodal officer for private hospitals, and real-time data on bed availability in the city’s hospitals is now available online. Several measures taken Mr. Lal also took stock of the situation with senior officials in a meeting on Monday and directed them to conduct a survey of vacant buildings that can be converted into isolation centres. He also asked officials to encourage Residents’ Welfare Associations to set up their own isolation centres to augment the number of beds. As many as 4,314 beds, 625 ICU beds and 329 ventilators are available. Of these, 79 ICU beds and 17 ventilators are occupied. The administration is in the process of increasing capacity and has advised asymptomatic patients to self-isolate at home. The facility of telemedicine has also been started for them. Many hotels are also offering paid isolation facilities. Mr. Yadav said they will soon bolster sample collection from 600 to 1,000 per day in order to trace the infected; and two labs will be set up in the district hospital to reduce testing time. He added that the administration was considering setting up special camps in all four MCG zones to facilitate testing.
17 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Well fire: Army surveys for Bailey bridge||Personnel of the Army’s 3 Corps on Tuesday surveyed the Oil India Limited (OIL) well blowout site in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district for constructing a Bailey bridge across a natural pond nearby. The bride is expected to ease the access of specialists to the well that burst into flames on June 9, almost two weeks after it had a blowout — uncontrolled escape of natural gas at tremendous force. “Vehicles have been sent to the Army’s Misamari (Sonitpur district) unit for mobilising material and personnel,” an OIL spokesperson said. He said the first load of disaster control equipment from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s Rajahmundry operations in Andhra Pradesh reached OIL’s headquarters in Duliajan early Tuesday. The second load of equipment from Rajahmundry was in transit, he added.
17 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Private health workers help avert crisis||The private sector health workers have for the time being bailed the Nagaland government out of a crisis following a ‘cease-work’ protest by some 1,800 National Health Mission (NHM) doctors and other staff over regularisation of their service.  State-wide protest The protests across the State amid the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic began on June 14. “We thought it (cease-work) would paralyse the operations but we were able to employ the services of the private practitioners for swab collections and testing is being done without any problem,” the State’s COVID-19 spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon told The Hindu.  “So the administrative problem of releasing those returnees who have tested negative and certified recovered by the doctors have been avoided for now,” he added.
17 June 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan lifts curbs on movement||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday lifted curbs on the inter-State movement of people, citing improvement in COVID-19 situation. The government had put restrictions on the inter-State movement on June 10 after a sudden spike in cases, making it mandatory to obtain a pass for travelling out of the State whereas those entering Rajasthan were required to show their personal ID.  ‘Improved situation’ The State Home Department order says as the number of daily infections has stabilised and the recovery rate improved, the conditions imposed on the entry and exit of people are removed with immediate effect .
17 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||3 held in fake teaching jobs case||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested three persons on charges of allegedly providing teaching jobs to several women in schools across the State with fake documents in the name of Anamika Shukla. Among the arrested was Pushpendra, who, the police said, was the alleged mastermind of the fake teacher recruitment case. The State police Special Task Force, which is investigating the case, said it had arrested the accused from Gonda district on Monday. The Kasganj police had last Thursday nabbed Jaswant Singh, Pushpendra’s brother, who allegedly arranged jobs on fake certificates for several women. Jaswant Singh was arrested on the inputs of Supriya, the first woman to be arrested on charges of forging the documents of Anamika Shukla. G.S. Chandrabhan, SP Kasganj, said Jaswant Singh, Pushependra’s brother and a college dropout, was himself working as a teacher in a school in Kannuaj under fake B.Sc, B.Ed. and NET certificates using an alias. The police have arrested the women teaching under the identity of Anamika Shukla in Mainpuri, Aligarh and Kasganj districts so far.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. adds 437 deaths to COVID-19 toll||The Capital recorded 93 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours — the highest single-day jump in deaths so far. Meanwhile, the death toll was revised from 1,400 to 1,837 on Tuesday, according to a heath bulletin released by the Delhi government. The city reported 1,859 new cases, taking the total to 44,688; 520 patients recovered, taking the total to 16,500. There are now 242 containment zones in the city. The total number of tests conducted is 3,04,483 with 7,786 tests being conducted in the past 24 hours, the bulletin added. The Delhi government also passed an order that all patients need to be issued a certificate at the time of discharge from hospitals and instructed MD/MS of all dedicated COVID-19 hospitals to start issuing such certificates with immediate effect.  The government has also constituted three teams of doctors to inspect the facilities available at 25 private hospitals in the city in an order on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has written to the Health Ministry suggesting ramping up of COVID-19 testing in Delhi containment zones and hospitals by using rapid antigen detection test. In a letter to the Health Ministry, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava said that Delhi should use rapid antigen kits for COVID-19 testing in select areas. “It is critical to immediately augment COVID-19 testing capacity in containment zones of Delhi to prevent the spread of infection,” read the letter. It added that testing remains a cornerstone in the fight against the virus and therefore ramping up testing is critical to track and trace all cases.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Taj Mansingh Hotel attached to hospital||The Delhi government on Tuesday ordered Taj Mansingh Hotel to place all its rooms at the disposal of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. This comes a day after the High Court dismissed a petition challenging a similar order in the case of Hotel Surya, which has now been attached with the nearby Holy Family Hospital as a dedicated COVID-19 facility. Hotel Surya Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia inspected Hotel Surya on Tuesday, following which Mr. Kejriwal said that the hotel will become operational with 120 beds in the next 2-3 days. “This is a tough time for everyone, and we all need to come together to fight against COVID,” he said. The facility will gradually be ramped up to 250-300 beds. “Around 30-35 more hotels will be requisitioned and around 3,000-3,500 beds will be added to the total bed capacity,” he added.  The order on Taj Mansingh was issued by Chanakyapuri Sub-Divisional Magistrate Piyush Rohankar. The hotel has been instructed to provide rooms, housekeeping services and disinfection as well as to ensure disposal of biomedical waste. The hotel staff will be provided protective gear and “basic adequate training”, and in case of shortage of staff, manpower will be provided by the hospital. Charges will be collected by the hospital and paid to the hotel. Additionally, the hospital has been allowed to accommodate its doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff at their own expenses after deciding the rates mutually. Non-compliance of the order will attract penal action as per the Disaster Management Act, 2006 along with the Epidemic act 1897 and penal provisions of section 188 of the IPC, it read.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||No self-isolation for officials after inter-State travel||Constitutional and government functionaries, as well as their staff, will not be required to home quarantine themselves for seven days after making inter-State journeys related to official work as long as they are asymptomatic. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary, Vijay Dev, the requirement, which is mandatory for general citizens undertaking inter-State travel through bus, train or air, has been waived for such individuals. “However, they are advised to self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they should inform the District Surveillance Officer or the State/National Call Centre (1075),” it also stated. According to a similar order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on June 3, general citizens undertaking inter-State journeys are supposed to home quarantine for seven days. In the case of the average traveller, airport, railways and transport authorities are mandated to share details of passengers with the Delhi government on a daily basis. These details are then forwarded to the local district administration. The District Magistrate is then supposed to ensure that such individuals undergo a mandatory seven-day home quarantine.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Hotels as COVID facilities acceptable, panel tells HC||The Delhi government has informed the High Court that the report by an expert committee to use two luxurious hotels here as extended COVID-19 facilities was “acceptable”. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the government, said: “The report submitted by the committee is acceptable to the government. All steps indicated therein shall be taken by the government before putting the hotels in question into operation as Covid-19 hospitals”. The committee of doctors said Hotel Crown Plaza, Okhla and Hotel Surya, New Friends Colony, was infrastructurally feasible to be used as extended COVID-19 hospitals. The committee said the banquet halls in these hotels can be properly equipped and converted into dedicated COVID-19 health centres if there is a shortage of beds in Delhi. The court had last week formed the committee comprising Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS and V.K. Paul, Member of the Niti Aayog, to visit the two hotels and give their report. It was hearing separate petitions by the two hotels, challenging the government’s decision. The hotels had contended that the presence of air conditioning, the lack of large lifts which are capable of being used for stretchers, lack of bio-waste disposal, and the measure to safeguard the hotel workforce as reasons against converting them as extended COVID-19 hospitals. Mr. Jain had argued that these apprehensions are unfounded and looking into the grave nature of the situation that has arisen because of the pandemic, certain drastic measures, including the decision to convert the hotels to COVID-19 hospitals, was taken.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Gurdwara body offers to operate care centres||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Tuesday offered to prepare and operate 850 beds for COVID-19 patients within the premises of gurdwaras across the city to cater to those with mild symptoms. The officials said the DSGMC has requested Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide the requisite permission and sanctions for immediate operation of the care centres. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said: “These centres will provide best medical care, oxygen and laboratory services to COVID-19 patients. The DSGMC has taken this initiative following the steep surge in the number cases. If a patient becomes critical, they can be referred to COVID-19 hospitals under the Delhi government.” “The DSGMC will take care of all meals, drinking water, general medicines, oxygen, haematological and biochemistry laboratory services for the patients,” he added. Provisions for 60 beds at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj, 40 at Gurudwara Damdama Sahib near the Hazrat Nizamudding Dargaj, 235 at Gurudwara Bangla Sahib have been offered by the DSGMC apart from 200 beds at its marriage hall in Gurudwara Nanak Piao Sahib.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC raps DU prof. for plea against deduction for PM CARES fund||Only a ‘stonehearted person’ would challenge an organisation’s decision to deduct one-day salary for a pandemic, the Delhi High Court said on Tuesday, while dismissing an appeal by a Delhi University professor against deduction of his salary for contributing to the PM CARES fund to combat COVID-19. Keeping in view the severity and spread of the virus, the deduction of one day’s salary of the professor, that is Rs. 7,500, cannot be said to be contrary to public interest or harsh or inequitable, the HC said. “This court is constrained to ask: wouldn’t a ‘stonehearted person’ only challenge the decision to deduct one-day’s salary for a pandemic?” said the Bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula. The court dismissed the appeal challenging a single judge’s order which had also rejected his plea against deduction of one-day salary by the university for contributing to the PM CARES fund. The court said it was of the opinion that the writ petition is not a PIL as it has not been filed in the prescribed format of a PIL and further the teachers and staff of DU are neither financially weak nor suppressed to such an extent that they cannot approach this court directly. ‘No notice’ The counsel for the professor submitted that the university did not give all its employees adequate notice of such deduction and proceeded to deduct one day’s salary even in respect of those employees who had expressed their desire not to make a contribution. He argued that voluntary contribution cannot be deducted without anyone’s consent.  This court is constrained to ask: wouldn’t a ‘stonehearted person’ only challenge the decision to deduct one-day’s salary for a pandemic? High Court Bench
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. protests ‘failures’ of Kejriwal, Modi govts.||Delhi Congress on Tuesday held protests at multiple venues across the city against the “the abject failures of the Narendra Modi Government at the Centre and the Kejriwal government here in tackling the pandemic”, the party said. Social distancing norms It also said all the protesters were following social distancing norms, wearing black bands and sitting outside their homes. It alleged that both State and Centre governments indulged only in pointless meetings, futile talks and time-wasting tactics even as the virus made a sudden surge here. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar, who sat on a dharna at the DPCC office, said both the BJP and AAP governments wasted 84 days after the lockdown was announced when cases were in single digits and at manageable levels. “Both governments were patting each other on their backs instead of shoring up the facilities, strengthening the hospital infrastructure and providing all the necessary equipment and amenities to frontline Covid-19 warriors,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that Union Home Minister Amit Shah after his visit to the LNJP Hospital praised the hospital despite multiple reports have emerged that patients were being left on stretcher outside and dead bodies were left unattended.
17 June 2020||New DELHI,||Health Minister tests negative||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) in the early hours of Tuesday after he complained of fever and difficulty in breathing, tested negative for COVID-19, an official from the hospital said. “Due to high grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I was admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated,” Mr. Jain Tweeted. In response to this, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Without taking care of your health, you engaged in public service 24 hours a day. Take care and get well soon.” An official from RGSS said: “His fever has come down and oxygen levels are better now.” Last week, Mr. Kejriwal had also tested negative for the virus.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Need help to upgrade Hindu Rao Hospital’||North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Avtar Singh on Tuesday said that the Delhi government would have to assist the civic body in increasing resources available at the Hindu Rao Hospital, which was recently declared a COVID-19 facility. Following a meeting with doctors and hospital administration, Mr. Singh said that a lot of resources are required, which the government would be intimated. All the same, doctors at the hospital raised some issues regarding a specific area for donning and doffing PPE kits and other procedural issues but were assured that Standard Operating Procedures were being developed and would be put in place, a doctor informed. The civic body, in a statement, said that the hospital has about 200 beds for COVID-19 patients and an additional 300 beds will be installed. The casualty ward has been converted into a COVID-19 facility and a flu clinic has been started. Hospital officials said that facility has been made for staff to stay in hospital premises.
17 June 2020||Ajeet Mahale Mumbai,||Day 2: fewer commuters than expected||Suburban train services remained largely smooth on Tuesday with fewer than expected people commuting on the second day of operations. Around 70,000 people travelled on Mumbai’s suburban network, a marginal rise from Monday’s 60,000. The Railways had scheduled 362 services in anticipation of nearly 1.25 lakh passengers from different parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). On Monday, when Western Railway (WR) and Central (CR) started services for employees engaged in essential services, around 60,000 people travelled on local trains. The muted response was said to have been due to a lack of awareness as the decision to run the trains had been taken late on Sunday night. “We expected more people on Tuesday and were prepared for it,” a senior railway official said. However, on Tuesday morning, WR saw 8,700 people come to their ticket counters during the morning shift, while Central Railway sold around 7,800 tickets between 8 a.m. and 12 p.m. For a short period there were queues outside Virar, Nalasopara and Thane. According to a senior WR official, many trains saw barely 400 travellers as against their capacity of 700. During the evening peak hours, there were queues outside Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), which Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passengers Association, said was due to an issue with scheduling as two Thane-bound trains ran after a Kalyan local at 5.30 p.m. Several people living in areas like Dombivali had to wait and eventually take a Karjat fast at 6.53 p.m. “The system will take time to settle down. There should be more Kalyan-bound trains. Even passengers should have patience,” she said. Ms. Argade added that there wasn’t much rush in the morning as people typically leave at different times, while all offices shut at the same time. In all, CR and WR each carried around 35,000 people on 200 and 162 services respectively. Pradeep Narkar, secretary, Municipal Mazdoor Union, said trains were only halting at fast stops, one of the reason for the low numbers among hospital staff as major hospitals such as KEM and Kasturba are walking distance from Parel and Chinchpokli, respectively, both slow stops, as was Sion Hospital. “If the train must only halt at fast stops, then they should provide enough buses at these stations. A similar arrangement should be made for people who live close to slow stops so that they can take the train from Ghatkopar or Thane,” he said. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking ran 2,654 buses on Tuesday and ferried around 5.5 lakh passengers. However, Subhash Gupta, president of the Rail Yatri Parishad, said fear was the biggest reason why fewer than expected people turned up on Tuesday. “People were still afraid of catching the infection and consider buses to be safer,” he said.
17 June 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Veteran journalist Dinu Ranadive passes away||Veteran journalist and freedom fighter Dinu Ranadive passed away on Tuesday. He was 95. Ranadive was widely respective throughout his career and even after for his investigative journalism, relentless coverage of social movements, and activism for the downtrodden. His wife Savita had passed away exactly a month ago on May 16. She was a school teacher and a union activist. Ranadive started his career as the founder-editor of Samyukta Maharashtra Patrika in the 1950s, which had a lasting impact on the movement for the unification of Maharashtra as a State based on language. He then did exemplary reporting on the Goa Freedom Struggle in 1961. As a reporter for Maharashtra Times , he came to be known for his frontline war reporting during the Bangladesh war in 1970-71, during which he trekked on foot to the rural areas around Chittagong. Ranadive’s activism and pledge towards journalism was such that late Arun Sadhu’s iconic Marathi novel Sinhasan had a central character based on him. He was recently conferred with Mumbai Press Club’s Red Ink award for Lifetime Achievement. “With the passing of Dinu Ranadive, a voice of the downtrodden and poor was lost,” said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||Hundreds of COVID-19 patients untraceable in city, admits BMC||It is not just the dead who are missing in the city. While the government reconciles anomalies in deaths recorded in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) COVID-19 data, as many as 1,000-2,000 of the city’s reported coronavirus patients are currently untraceable. These patients are neither admitted to hospitals or COVID-19 care centres, nor are they dead. In many cases, their contact numbers or addresses on record are incorrect. As of Monday, Mumbai had reported 59,293 COVID-19 cases. When a person tests positive, the lab uploads results directly to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, based on which the BMC updates its data. The civic epidemiology cell then alerts the wards concerned. In Mumbai, since most cases are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, the patients are advised home quarantine. Currently, three lakh people are in home quarantine. However, 1,000-2,000 such patients are not traceable. Ward mismatch Additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide, in charge of the COVID-19 war room, said, “In some incidents, the case is actually from one ward but has been shown against another ward on the ICMR list. But some patients actually cannot be traced — the person is neither admitted to hospital or a care centre, nor have they died. We particularly look at cases that are shown as active for more than 30 days but cannot be traced.” In some cases, patients who do not live in the city have given addresses of local relatives or acquaintances. “We are trying our best to get them (untraceable cases) reconciled. Some are done, some are ongoing. We send the list to each ward every week and ask for updates. When we find such cases, we assign teachers to make calls and try to trace these patients,” Ms. Bhide said. The BMC had reviewed its data and reconciled around 32,000 cases on May 25. “But it’s a very overwhelming exercise for wards to give accurate information. There are anomalies every time we take information,” she said. Listed as recoveries F North ward has around 80 untraceable cases, while H East ward has around 35. Many wards have even added these untraceable patients to the list of recoveries. “We are aware that wards are showing them as recoveries,” Ms. Bhide said. Joint municipal commissioner Ashutosh Salil said they are attempting to contact all the untraceables. “But many people have given incorrect contact numbers and addresses. We have a team of teachers making calls, but half the numbers are not available or are wrong. We may have to ask the police for help. We will take a call on that.”
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||BMC stops labs from sharing ‘positive’ reports with patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has changed its testing protocols yet again, prohibiting laboratories from sharing COVID-19-positive reports directly with patients. Reports will now have to be shared with the corporation, which in turn will notify patients. However, a COVID-19 negative report can be shared with the patient. “The objective is to prevent panic, as people immediately start looking for a hospital bed, even if they may not need one. In this case, our staff will notify the person and at the same time, guide them as to whether they need to be admitted to a facility or be home quarantined,” said a civic official. The BMC has come under fire for changing its testing protocol often. On assuming charge, Municipal Commissioner I.S. Chahal had said the BMC will come up with a comprehensive testing policy based on Indian Council for Medical Research guidelines, and formed a new policy on May 12. The policy requested laboratories not to notify patients without informing the BMC, “as patients are to be made aware of precautions, isolation and quarantine requirements.” On June 13, the BMC amended this policy, prohibiting laboratories from sending a positive report directly to patients. The guidelines apply to home testing too. In case of samples sent by hospitals, laboratories will have to share patients’ positive reports with the BMC, while negative reports can be shared with the hospital. A senior doctor from a city-based hospital, which has its own laboratory, said in the past they would communicate the reports to patients and the BMC simultaneously. “But with the new notification, we will now be sending only the positive reports to the BMC,” he said. This applies mainly to patients who walk into the hospital just for testing, he said. Another doctor said while the BMC’s aim is to reduce panic, as patients start looking for hospital beds as soon as they get a positive report, any delay in knowing the COVID-19 status also causes anxiety. “It is only fair on patients if the BMC communicates the status immediately and guides them thoroughly at every step,” said the doctor.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s death toll now 3,167||Mumbai’s COVID-19 death toll recorded a massive jump on Tuesday, thanks to data reconciliation by the State government. From 2,250 on Monday, the number went up to 3,167 and the case fatality rate zoomed to 5.2% from 3.7%. The city also recorded 935 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 60,228. While 55 deaths were recorded on Tuesday, the reconciliation exercise added 862 previous fatalities to the toll. A media release from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said these deaths were since March. Mumbai’s first positive COVID-19 case was recorded on March 11. The Opposition has questioned the BMC’s delay in updating figures. “This is nothing but a criminal conspiracy to show reduced number of COVID-19 deaths, and an FIR should be registered against those responsible,” demanded former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya. A member of the civic death audit committee told The Hindu the data was already being reconciled, and the work was sped up after a directive from the Indian Council of Medical Research to update statistics immediately. “The committee was clearing as much backlog as possible. Many private hospitals had not submitted their papers. Also, the committee members are mainstream doctors and officials who are at the centre of fighting the outbreak. This left us with limited time to handle paperwork,” said the member. Each death has to be rationalised before being labelled a COVID-19 death. “The issue has been politicised unnecessarily.” Ward watch Dharavi reported 21 new cases on Tuesday, pushing its total tally to 2,089. The area has reported 77 deaths so far. K East ward (Andheri) continued to have the highest number of cases in Mumbai, with is total now at 4,130. G North ward, which includes Dharavi, is a close second at 3,917 cases. There are only two wards with fewer than 1,000 cases now. Mumbai’s case doubling rate now stands at 28 days, and its average case growth is 2.49%. R North continued to grow the fastest at 5.6%. NMMC crosses 4,000 The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on Tuesday reported 63 more cases, taking its tally to 4,061. Three more deaths took the toll to 124. The Panvel Municipal Corporation has reported 21 new cases and one death. Eleven more people tested positive in Panvel rural.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||State adds 862 deaths to city’s COVID-19 tally||The Maharashtra government has added 862 deaths to its Mumbai COVID-19 toll database following the completion of a reconciliation drive on Tuesday, in a move that could lend fuel  to the Opposition’s allegations of data jugglery. Senior State government officials, however, attribute the data gap to a manpower shortage. Of the over 1,300 cases of deaths scrutinised during the exercise announced by Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta recently, 862 have been found to be related to COVID-19 that were not added to the city’s official death toll. The final tally is now 3,167 as on Tuesday. Another 466 deaths have been added to the State fatalities, taking the overall toll to 5,537 as on Tuesday (see box). The cases in Mumbai were being scrutinised by the civic Death Audit Committee and there was no attempt to suppress the numbers, senior officials said. The scrutiny of over 1,300 cases was done as per the universally-approved ICD-10-CM (coding and reporting) guidelines of the U.S.-based Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the National Center for Health Statistics. However, because of manpower shortage, the civic committee met only once as opposed to the required three times a week, leading to a backlog in which deaths could not be ascertained, officials said. “The data was anyway going to be updated in a day or two but was leaked and turned into a conspiracy of suppression of facts. There was no deliberate attempt to bury the numbers,” said a senior official. The State’s surveillance officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the backlog is cleared every day. “The data has to be screened, checked for duplication, and then added to the list. We have been carrying out this process on a daily basis,” said Dr. Awate. At least 95% of data has been reconciled already, he said. The data bulletin released every evening provides an update of deaths over the past 48 hours in addition to “a chunk of deaths from the previous backlog,” said Mr. Awate. State officials said this is the first time they are handling so much data on a daily basis. “We have dealt with malaria, dengue, H1N1 etc but there are many more cases now. In just two-and-a-half months, we have got data of more than one lakh cases. This time is also tedious because of manpower issues,” said Dr. Awate. Former chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis had on Monday alleged the committee had labelled nearly 451 cases as ‘non-COVID’ deaths, while at least 500 deaths due to COVID-19 in various hospitals in the city have not been presented before the committee. In all, there is a shortfall of nearly 950 deaths in the tally, he said. Mr. Fadnavis told The Hindu the number will only grow in the days to come. “In some death certificates, they wrote ‘Covid suspect’, in others they mentioned different causes. The committee should only sit on those death cases where there is a doubt. For the remaining ones, the ICMR rules are clear that a decision must be made in less than seven days,” he said. He also said the audit committee was given a new mandate that ran contrary to ICMR guidelines. “In May, 560 deaths were not accounted for although they were COVID-19 deaths, and in June, 120 deaths are not accounted even though they are COVID-related. This clearly shows the State is trying to suppress the number of deaths in Mumbai.” Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta had on Monday admitted to “discrepancies” in the manual loading of data to the ICMR website and ordered a reconciliation drive on Monday. He, however, said there was no deliberate suppression of figures. In several cases, the cause of death may have been shown as COVID-19, while the actual reason may have been cardiac arrest or renal failure, he said. “There is no question of suppression of facts and figures, although there are political allegations that we’ve buried data,” Mr. Mehta had said.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||India Post wants access to local trains for staff||With a backlog of 1.50 lakh-odd undelivered speed post mail during the lockdown, India Post wants that postal staff be allowed to use the local trains as moving letters and documents forms an important part of people’s lives. The postal department has lost four people to the pandemic and nearly 40 employees and their family members have tested positive across Mumbai. The department officials are in touch with the office of the Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta to allow use of local trains by their staff members to travel to 160 of the 230 post offices, of which 89 are delivery post offices. Suburban train services which resumed on the Central, Western and Harbour Lines from June 15 are not yet allowing bank and postal employees despite requests from various quarters. “Currently, mails are being delivered as per essentials, medical equipment and medicines. I have instructed the use of vehicles by our staff. No postmen or postwomen are walking on the streets, can’t endanger their lives,” said Swati Pandey, Postmaster General, Mumbai. Ms. Pandey said that during the lockdown period, 2,500 kg of medicines, personal protective equipment kits, COVID kits, and ventilators had been moved across the country by the postal department. “With unlock 1.0, one can seek delivery and send normal documents as well by speed post. We have now started doing that,” she informed. As per plans to get more mail out, Ms. Pandey is also trying to requisition more vehicles from their central depot in Worli. “There are some other logistical issues also that we are trying to address. Drivers are not coming in because five of their colleagues tested positive. We want to get more mail out and it will be done using our vehicles,” she said. Among the most crucial deliveries during the lockdown was a COVID testing machine, imported from the U.S., for delivery to a Pune hospital. Since the size of the package was unknown, a jeep was made available only to be changed to a van within 30 minutes, as a bigger vehicle was required. Ms. Pandey also said that people could visit any of the 89 post offices and collect their letters or documents. “There is a lot of business mail that some organisations have refused to accept saying they are closed and staff were working from home. There are also several housing societies that are not allowing entry to our staff,” Ms. Pandey said.
17 June 2020||Pune,||PCMC stares at 1,000 active cases by June-end||Till mid-May, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits was in double digits. However, with lockdown restrictions eased since then, the township has seen a precipitate rise in cases in its slum clusters, with its active case tally now at 510. The township currently has a total 1,256 cases. Municipal Commissioner Shravan Hardikar told The Hindu , “With our present case doubling rate of 15 days, we expect the cumulative tally to touch the 3,000 mark [by June-end] with 1,000-1,200 active cases. A multiplicity of factors is responsible for this spike, not least of which is the influx of people from Mumbai since the easing of lockdown regulations, and the ease of movement between PCMC and Pune municipal limits.” Till May 10, the civic body’s total case tally stood at a little over 170 cases, with only half of them being active. In contrast, Pune was witnessing daily surges of more than 200 cases. However, over the next month, the PCMC’s case tally shot up to 1,000, with nearly 400 active cases by June 10. “The first case in the Anandnagar slum cluster was detected on May 17 after a person from there visited a liquor vendor in a containment zone in Yerawada in Pune. Since then, this cluster has reported more than 100 cases till May-end,” Mr. Hardikar said. The virus has so far claimed 33 lives in the township. Matters have been somewhat offset with more than 700 recoveries and a recovery rate of nearly 60%. “The Anandnagar and Sai Baba Nagar slum clusters have emerged as hotspots. Several cases have been found in Ajintha Nagar as well. Personnel in two banks have tested positive as well, and a number of policemen,” the civic chief said. Fortunately, there have been no significant rise in cases in the PCMC’s industrial units — the lifeline of the township — with only stray cases being reported. Mr. Hardikar said a software-based tracking system was being usedy to monitor people with co-morbidities, and senior citizens. “We also propose to increase our present sample testing capacity from 300 to 500 and then take it to 1,000 in the coming weeks,” he said. A dedicated sample testing facility is to come up soon at the civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, he said.  A multiplicity of factors is responsible for this spike, not least of which is the influx of people from Mumbai and ease of movement between PCMC and Pune Shravan Hardikar Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Commissioner
17 June 2020||Pune,||Pune policeman succumbs as cases mount in district||A 56-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to the Special Branch of the Pune Police succumbed to the novel coronavirus while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hadapsar late on Monday. According to authorities, the official, who was diabetic and had high blood pressure, became the third police personnel in the city to die due to COVID-19. Sources said he had been on sick leave for the past few months after an accident. He is said to have tested positive for COVID-19 a fortnight ago, following which his family members were quarantined. Last month, a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to the Faraskhana police station and a 42-year-old traffic constable had succumbed to the disease. Till date, more than 70 police personnel in the city have tested positive, of whom 46 have recovered. Meanwhile, Pune district reported 145 new cases on Tuesday as its cumulative case tally, including deaths and recoveries, rose to 12,389. With four deaths, the toll has climbed to 515, authorities said. Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said only 3,952 cases are active, while 7,922 people have been discharged so far. The district’s recovery rate has increased to 63.94%. The number of active cases in Pune has come down since Monday’s tally of 4,057. In a record single-day high, authorities said more than 230 people had been discharged in the district in the last 24 hours. The total death toll in Pune division, which includes Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts along with Pune, has risen to 716. The division’s case tally is now 15,893, of which 5,021 are active. A total 10,156 people in these five districts have been discharged thus far, Dr. Mhaisekar said. Around 254 patients are critical.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||Saamana taunts Cong. ahead of meet with CM||An editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday stirred the political pot by calling its ally Congress an ‘old creaking cot’, following recent unrest within the party over not having a say in decisions taken by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “The cot is old and creaks often. The cot is very old, but has historical legacy. There are many leaders in the party who can change sides. This is the reason why murmurs are being heard. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should be prepared to tolerate such murmurs in the alliance,” the editorial said, ahead of a meeting of Congress leaders with Mr. Thackeray. The Shiv Sena also asserted that internal resentment was inevitable in an alliance of parties with different ideologies, but there was no threat to the MVA government. “But no one should harbour the idea that the MVA government will collapse and the ‘gates of Raj Bhavan will be opened for them early in the morning again’,” the editorial said. The Marathi daily was making a reference to the swearing in of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar as the deputy chief minister during a stand-off between the Sena and its former ally BJP over forming the State government in November last year. State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the editorial was based on incomplete information and sent out a wrong message about the party as it wanted to discuss with the Chief Minister issues concerning the people of the State and not bureaucratic transfers. Mr. Thorat said, “The Chief Minister is the head of the alliance and the government. When he will hear us out, he too will be satisfied. Then the Saamana should write another editorial. We are with the MVA.” Bone of contention The editorial also said nominations to the 12 Legislative Council seats from the Governor’s quota should be shared based on the strength of each coalition partner in the Assembly. The Sena has 56 MLAs, the NCP 54 and the Congress 44 in the 288-member House. Mr. Thorat said even ministries in the MVA government were allocated based on the same criterion. The nominations seem to have emerged as a fresh trigger for resentment in the Congress as party leaders have been insisting on a one-third share for each ally: four nominations each. PWD Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan had also reportedly alluded to a growing dissatisfaction among party leaders and ministers over not getting their fair share as an alliance partner. The editorial also said, “In power-sharing, the Shiv Sena has sacrificed the most. It had to give one ministerial berth to the NCP when Sharad Pawar objected to the Congress getting the post of Speaker. Two additional Cabinet berths were given to the Congress instead of the posts of Minister of State.” Meanwhile, Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut played down the remarks made in the editorial by saying that the coordination among the MVA allies was great and all issues would be resolved after the meeting with the Chief Minister. He said, “There is no jibe made at the Congress. It is the writing style of Saamana .” (With PTI inputs)
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||Thane central prison grossly overcrowded: ADGP tells HC||The Bombay High Court was told on Monday that mass swab testing of asymptomatic prison inmates will not be undertaken until express assurance of quarantine facility is given by the Municipal Commissioner or Collectors, as many of the prisons in the State are overcrowded. The submission was made as part of a compliance report filed by Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General, Prisons (ADGP) and Inspector General of Prisons, on the number of COVID-19 cases in prisons. The report added that Thane central prison is grossly overcrowded, and despite requests to the Thane Collector to open a temporary prison, no action has been taken. According to the report, As on June 13, 17,695 screenings and 1,681 swab tests had been conducted in 10 central prisons in Maharashtra and the ADGP office. Of these, 269 tested positive, 115 recovered and four have died, the Bombay High Court was told on Monday. The five page report said 4,466 screenings were conducted at Yerwada jail at Pune, and one inmate had died. In Thane central prison, 4,000 screenings and 11 swab tests were conducted, of which two tested positive and recovered. Four jail staffers also tested positive, and two of them were cured. In Aurangabad jail, 3,318 screenings were conducted. Of 517 swabs collected, 29 tested positive, 14 were staffers. In Solapur jail, 377 screenings and 62 swab tests were conducted; of which 62 tested positive and two were cured. Tested after death In some cases, the infection came to light after the death of the patients. A 53-year-old undertrial from Taloja jail, who was in prison since April 24, was admitted to JJ Hospital on May 9 due to diabetes and died the same day. When his throat swab was tested later, he was found to be positive for COVID-19. The cause of death was certified as pneumonia cellusis. In Dhule, too, an 23-year-old undertrial, who had been in prison since May 9, was admitted to Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College and Hospital on May 12 after he exhibited withdrawal symptoms from alcohol and ganja. He died the next day. His throat swab was taken after his death and it tested positive. In Taloja jail, an undertrial (33), who was in prison since October 10, 2019, allegedly committed suicide in the prison hospital on May 27. His throat swabs, too, tested positive later.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||CSMIA sees minimal increase in traffic despite government nod||Despite being allowed to mount more flights from Mumbai, airlines chose not to immediately increase their flights and instead introduce them gradually, spread over the week. On Monday, the government had permitted Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to cater to 100 domestic commercial passenger flight movements — 50 departures and 50 arrivals. This would mean doubling the number of flights from the current total of 50 flights a day. A look at flight schedules released by the GVK-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL) showed a total of 52 scheduled domestic flights, which include 26 departures and 26 arrivals, on Tuesday. CSMIA catered to a total of 6,410 passengers which include 4,611 passengers at departures and 1,799 at arrivals. Seven airlines operated to 14 sectors, with the highest passenger load capacity seen on the Delhi route departing out of CSMIA. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6.05 a.m. while the first flight arrived at 9.40 a.m. from Bengaluru. These were operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo, respectively. “None of the airlines operated flights to sectors like Chennai, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Kochi or Goa. However, Delhi, Kolkata, Varanasi and Ranchi had multiple options,” an airport official said. CSMIA has catered to 1,056 domestic commercial passenger flight movements since May 25. These included 531 departures and 525 arrivals. From then till June 15, the airport has catered to a total of 1,30,385 passengers which include 91,593 passengers at departures and 38,792 at arrivals. An IndiGo official confirmed that the airline would be adding flights over time. “We are adding a few additional flights to and from Mumbai. Further additions to the network will firm up over the course of the week,” a Vistara spokesperson said.  None of the airlines operated flights to sectors like Chennai, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Kochi or Goa Airport official
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Only 1,342 bail pleas pending in courts’||The State government on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court that only 1,342 of the 14,121 interim bail applications filed are pending in courts across the State. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K.K. Tated was hearing three separate public interest litigations raising concerns over several inmates and jail staffers in the State testing positive for the novel coronavirus. One of the pleas was filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties seeking the court’s intervention in reducing overcrowding in prisons. The petition also sought information on the health status of convicts and undertrials, especially in Arthur Road jail, which has reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases among prisons in the State. Other prisons reporting cases include Yerwada, Taloja, Dhule, Satara and Byculla. The Bench said the compliance report filed by Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) and Inspector General (Prisons), revealed a “very sorry state of affairs”. The Bench directed the State Advocate General to be present for the next hearing on June 19 and inform it about the number of undertrials and convicts in all correctional homes and their capacity; and the number of inmates above 60 years and if they are suffering from any diseases.
17 June 2020||Nagpur,||Lonar lake: HC seeks report on colour change||The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court has sought reports on the environmental impact assessment of Lonar lake from National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and the Geological Survey of India. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor was hearing a petition filed by one Kirti Nipankar, raising concerns over the lake water which has turned pink in colour. The Bench said a court-appointed committee, including the judges themselves, would visit the site. The State Forest Department informed the court it has already collected samples from the lake which have been sent to NEERI, in Nagpur, and the Agarkar Research Institute in Pune. Advocate Anand Parchure, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that an expert team which is probing the colour change could also examine findings submitted by NASA expert Dr. Shawn Wright. As per Dr. Wright’s findings, there is a glass formation over the surface of the bed rock of the Lonar crater, which is a basalt rock. This is a new feature not found anywhere else on the Earth and only on the beds of craters existing on moon. The Bench directed NEERI and Agarkar Research Institute to submit their reports to the court within four weeks. It said, “The expert team from NEERI and the Geological Survey of India shall examine the findings regarding glass formation on surface of the crater lake by collecting requisite samples and analysing them, and submit their reports within a period of four weeks.” The forest department also informed the Bench that since the area is an eco-sensitive zone, the construction of Lonar-Kinhi road would be a problem, as there is a large quantity of a unique material called ejecta blanket, which contains is a substance found on the moon. The court accepted this argument and directed the Buldhana district collector to take immediate steps to protect the material from possible theft and pilferage. It also prohibited construction of the Lonar-Kinhi Road until further orders, and posted the matter for hearing on June 29.
17 June 2020||Panaji,||Former Goa minister Achyut Usgaonkar dies||Former Goa minister Achyut Kashinath Sinai Usgaonkar died at a hospital near here on Tuesday following age-related ailments, family sources said. He was 92. Usgaonkar was a leader of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, the oldest regional outfit in Goa. He served as cabinet minister from August 13, 1977 to April 27, 1979 in the then Shashikala Kakodkar government. “He died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital around 7.30 a.m.,” his son-in-law Dinar Tarcar said. He is survived by three daughters, including film actor Varsha Usgaonkar. Before serving as a minister, he was the deputy speaker during the term of Dayanand Bandodkar, State’s first chief minister.
17 June 2020||Seoul,||N. Korea blows up liaison office with South||North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office on its side of the border on Tuesday, the South’s Unification Ministry said, after days of increasingly virulent rhetoric from Pyongyang. “North Korea blows up Kaesong Liaison Office at 14:49,” the Ministry, which handles inter-Korean relations, said in a one-line alert sent to reporters. The statement came minutes after an explosion was heard and smoke seen rising from the long-shuttered joint industrial zone in Kaesong, where the liaison office was set up less than two years ago, Yonhap news agency reported citing unspecified sources. Its destruction came after Kim Yo-jong, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, said at the weekend: “Before long, a tragic scene of the useless north-south joint liaison office completely collapsed would be seen.” Analysts say Pyongyang may be seeking to manufacture a crisis to increase pressure on Seoul while nuclear negotiations with Washington are at a standstill. Earlier on Tuesday, North Korean state media quoted the military as saying it had been studying an “action plan” to re-enter zones that had been demilitarised under the 2018 inter-Korean pact and “turn the front line into a fortress”. South Korea's Defence Ministry called for North Korea to abide by the 2018 agreement, under which both sides vowed to cease “all hostile acts” and dismantled a number of structures along the heavily fortified Demilitarized Zone between the countries. Since early June, North Korea has issued a series of vitriolic condemnations of the South over activists sending anti-Pyongyang leaflets over the border — something defectors do on a regular basis. Last week, Pyongyang announced it was severing all official communication links with South Korea. The leaflets — usually attached to hot air balloons or floated in bottles — criticise North Korean leader for human rights abuses and his nuclear ambitions. “North Korea is frustrated that the South has failed to offer an alternative plan to revive the U.S.-North talks, let alone create a right atmosphere for the revival,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a director of the Sejong Institute’s Center for North Korean Studies. “It has concluded the South has failed as a mediator in the process.” The liaison office was opened in September 2018, days before the South’s President Moon Jae-in flew to Pyongyang for his third summit with Kim. Relations soured Officials from both sides were stationed at the office during subsequent months, but inter-Korean relations soured following the collapse of the Hanoi summit between Mr. Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump in February last year. Its operations were suspended in January because of the pandemic. Since North Korea condemned the leaflet launches, Seoul’s Unification Ministry has filed a police complaint against two defector groups and warned of a “thorough crackdown” against the activists. (With Reuters input)
17 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan educators fear virus might bring about new divides||Forced to shift to online platforms due to the coronavirus pandemic, Sri Lankan educators fear that the uneven access to gadgets and internet connection among students might bring new divides in the country’s free education system. Ever since Sri Lanka reported its first local case of COVID-19 on March 10, public health authorities have been on high alert. With frontline health workers and the military leading the fight against the virus, the country went into curfew for nearly two months, simultaneously shutting its airports and ports to visitors. Schools and universities have remained closed during the time, swiftly opting for online tools and platforms to continue with the academic calendar. Wasting no time, authorities issued gazette on the subject, while the University Grants Commission (UGC) wrote to all vice-chancellors in March, asking them to “minimise the damage to this academic year”, by adapting to online platforms. The UGC also offered free access to online resources for all university students and faculty members. However, it wasn’t all that simple. Not all students owned devices or had access to good internet connections in their hometowns. In a survey conducted by the Faculty of Arts at the University of Colombo, of the 50% of the students who responded, half did not own a large-screen device. Though smartphones were prevalent, not all had easy access to the internet, according to Kaushalya Perera, senior lecturer in the Department of English. “Most students have gone home. Many have poor or irregular signal coverage in their areas,” she told The Hindu . According to the Department of Census and Statistics, over 4.2 million children are in Sri Lanka’s school system, while over 100,000 are in the national universities, as per UGC data. The public education system, which a majority of students goes to, does not charge a fee up to university. There is no official data on students' access to smartphones or other devices, but educators estimate it to be significantly lower compared to overall smartphone penetration. Mobile broadband connections, often linked to smartphone usage, was over 5 million in early 2018, Sri Lankan news website Economy Next reported. However, 4G coverage is not even in all parts of the country, particularly in the central hill country and smaller towns. Further, data charges are lesser during the night and early morning, compared to rates during the day. Some students requested Mahendran Thiruvarangan, who teaches at the Department of Linguistics & English at the University of Jaffna, to hold online classes early in the morning, when mobile data is cheaper. “We may upload the readings, but students need good internet coverage to access them and attend an online class.” Poor signal One of his students in Akkaraipattu, in the eastern Ampara district, often complained of poor signal. “Also, not all students live in big homes with separate rooms to have quiet and privacy while attending a class. We have to be mindful of these challenges that students face, especially those from modest backgrounds,” Mr. Thiruvarangan said. Some students are engaged in part-time work to support their parents who may have lost their jobs during the pandemic and find it hard to keep up with online classes, according to Sivalakshan Ganesan, who is studying Engineering Technology at University of Sri Jayewardenepura. “My friends living in areas like Badulla, Kurunegala, don’t have signal strength near their homes. Some even travel to the nearest towns to be able to download material or attend class. Our education system is free, but coronavirus is creating a situation where only those of us who have money can continue learning,” he said. Even students with access to gadgets and a good internet connection have other problems — from the strain of reading textbooks on smart phones, to managing with fewer digital textbooks in Sinhala and Tamil, as compared to English, teachers noted. At times, the process is very stressful for teachers and students, according to David Suren, who teaches A-level [correspondents to class 12] students at a school in central Matale city in Sri Lanka’s Central Province. About half of the parents of children in his school are employed in the tea estates, braving low wages and strenuous working conditions.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||1 in 5 people globally at risk of severe COVID-19: study||In just six months, nearly 8 million people worldwide have been stricken with confirmed cases of COVID-19, and at least 4,34,000 have died. But those deaths have not been distributed evenly; among the most vulnerable are people with underlying health conditions, such as diabetes and diseases that affect the heart and lungs. According to a new modelling study, roughly 1.7 billion people around the world — 22% of the global population — fall into that category. That estimate, published Monday in The Lancet Global Health , excluded healthy older individuals without underlying health conditions, a group also known to be at risk because of their age. It also did not take into account risk factors like poverty and obesity, which can influence a person’s susceptibility to disease and access to treatment. Containment efforts But such data could help health officials focus containment efforts on people vulnerable to the virus’ most dangerous effects and, perhaps, eventually prioritize them for vaccination, said Andrew Clark of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the study’s first author. Since the early days of the pandemic, researchers have known that chronic conditions can exacerbate disease. Now, there’s a better “understanding of the numbers involved,” Clark said. The researchers compiled 11 categories of underlying conditions that may raise the risk of severe COVID-19 — a form of symptomatic disease that warrants hospitalization — using information from the World Health Organization and health agencies in the United States and Britain. The list includes patients who regularly take immunosuppressive drugs, such as those with autoimmune disorders, or are undergoing immunity-weakening treatments like chemotherapy. Not all conditions have been well studied in the context of COVID-19, cautioned Dr. Lona Mody, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan. Little is known, for instance, about the risks for people with HIV, listed in the study as a potential complicating factor. The researchers mined data from the Global Burden of Disease Study , a comprehensive worldwide epidemiological survey last updated in 2017, to identify the number of individuals worldwide with at least one of these high-risk conditions. Nearly 200 countries were included in the final tally. In total, the analysis found, more than one-fifth of the world’s population may be at increased risk of more severe disease. The study also estimated that about 4% of the world’s population, around 349 million people, would require hospitalisation if they became infected.NY Times
17 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. top court ruling backs LGBT workers||The U.S. Supreme Court delivered a landmark victory for the gay and transgender communities on Monday when it ruled that employers cannot discriminate against workers because of their sexual orientation. In a blow to the administration of President Donald Trump, the court ruled by six votes to three that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlaws discrimination against employees because of a person’s sex, also covers sexual orientation and transgender status. ‘Answer is clear’ “Today we must decide whether someone can be fired simply for being homosexual or transgender,” the court said. “The answer is clear.” Gerald Bostock, one of the plaintiffs, said he was in “shock.” “But trust me when I say my heart is just full, I am so happy,” he said. “No one has to be fearful going to work, fearful that they could lose their job because of who they are, who they love or how they identify,” Mr. Bostock said, though he noted there was still “a lot of work to be done.” Mr. Trump’s administration had effectively thrown in its lot with employers, but the President later Monday called the ruling “very powerful.” Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights activists, as well as Democratic politicians and several major businesses, had been demanding that the court spell out that the community was protected by the law. Protected by law “This is a huge victory for LGBTQ equality,” said James Esseks, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s LGBTQ & HIV Project.  Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for President, hailed the decision as “a momentous step forward for our country.” Mr. Biden was Vice-President when the court made its historic ruling in favour of same sex marriage in 2015. Rights activists had feared that Mr. Trump’s appointment of two new conservative judges to the top court could hinder further wins for their cause. Yet it was one of them, Neil Gorsuch, who wrote the majority decision, joining with the court’s four progressive-leaning judges and Chief Justice John Roberts. The Alliance Defending Freedom, a Christian religious freedom group, said the court’s decision was “truly troubling” and encroached on the religious beliefs of employers.
17 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka CID seizes journalist’s laptop over Swiss kidnap claim||A Sri Lankan journalist attached to the The New York Times has said police recently raided her home and seized her laptop, in connection with the alleged abduction of a Swiss Embassy staffer in Colombo last November. On Monday, Dharisha Bastians, a correspondent for The New York Times and a former editor of the State-run Sunday Observer , tweeted a statement, saying the CID raided her home on June 9. “Five CID officials arrived at my residence in Colombo with a warrant to search the house. The officers searched the entire house, including bedrooms, my desk and my workspace... My computer was found, seized and sealed,” she said, adding that earlier, the CID obtained her telephone call records without a court order. “As a journalist, I was horrified at the public exposure of my telephone records, which could seriously endanger and compromise my sources and contacts, then, now and in the future,” she said. In November 2019, a Swiss Embassy staffer said she was abducted, sexually harassed and threatened by unidentified men. The allegation, backed by the Swiss Embassy, sparked a diplomatic row between Bern and Colombo, with both making contradictory claims over the said incident that Sri Lanka’s Human Rights Commission termed “deeply concerning”. Police earlier accused Ms. Bastians of having communicated with the Embassy staffer, who was arrested and subsequently granted bail, following the government’s allegations that she had “fabricated” the abduction claim. The journalist left the country following the November 2019 elections, in which President Gotabaya secured a resounding mandate. In December last year, President Rajapaksa told media that the Embassy staffer must have been “compelled by some interested parties” to bring “disrepute” to him and his government. On Tuesday, the Colombo Chief Magistrate ordered government analysts to examine whether any alterations had been made to Ms. Bastians’s seized laptop, after her lawyers made an application to court.
17 June 2020||Beijing,||Beijing in critical situation, 27 new cases from cluster||Beijing’s coronavirus situation is “extremely severe”, a city official warned on Tuesday, as 27 new infections were reported in the Chinese capital from a cluster that has sparked a huge trace-and-test programme. The coronavirus resurgence — believed to have started at the city’s sprawling Xinfadi wholesale food market — has prompted alarm. The new cases took the number of infections in Beijing over the past five days to 106, as authorities locked down almost 30 communities in the city and tested thousands of people.
17 June 2020||Ramallah,||Israeli Army is raiding Ramallah: PA||The Israeli Army raided Ramallah in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday, the first such incursion since the Palestinian Authority(PA) cut security coordination with Israel, a Palestinian official said. “Israeli forces entered Ramallah before dawn,” Interior Ministry spokesman Ghassan Nimr said, noting that “three houses were searched” in the city but no arrests made. The PA is headquartered in Ramallah and the city is nominally under full Palestinian control, but the Israeli army has carried out numerous raids there. A security source said Israeli soldiers arrested a 20-year-old man. The incursion sparked clashes between residents and Israeli soldiers, who responded to stone-throwing with tear gas, the source added.
17 June 2020||GENEVA,||African nations seek scrutiny of US, others over racism||African nations have prepared a draft resolution at the U.N.’s top human rights body that singles out the U.S. and would launch intense international scrutiny of systemic racism against people of African descent in the wake of recent killings of blacks by American police. The draft text could become the centerpiece for an urgent debate hastily scheduled for Wednesday for the Geneva-based Human Rights Council. It calls for a commission of inquiry to look into “systemic racism” against “Africans and of people of African descent” in the U.S. and around the world.AP
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Nepal ties and the Benaras to Bengaluru spectrum||Benaras was a keystone of India-Nepal ties for centuries. B.P. Koirala, the doyen of democratic politics in Nepal, was a resident of the city; so too was Pushpalal Shrestha, one of the founders of the Communist Party of Nepal. Many in bureaucracy and politics had studied at Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, and Nepal’s intellectual software was largely coded there. Till the 1980s, an easy and affordable way to reach Kathmandu was to fly from Benaras. Then the flights stopped as takers became insufficient. Today, one of the most profitable sectors for Nepal Airlines is Kathmandu-Bengaluru. Here, a burgeoning colony of Nepali programmers work for storied Indian tech companies, creating software for the world. The changed equation symbolises both a changing India and a changing Nepal. A changing Nepal The obvious change in Nepal is that it is now a democratic republic after nearly 250 years of being a monarchy. The Nepali Congress and Maoist leader, Prachanda, claim democracy (1990) and the abolition of monarchy (2008) as their legacies. More pervasive is the societal change from Nepal’s exposure to globalisation. Geography, too, stands to change, with the Chinese now having the potential to bore through the Himalayas and exhibiting their presence in Kathmandu in economics and politics. The constant in Nepal is a nationalism which is really a mask for anti-India sentiment. Politicians use it for personal gain, and it is deeply ingrained in the bureaucracy, academia and the media. Today, Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli is cementing his legacy as a nationalist by extending Nepal’s map into Indian territory. The cartographic aggression and the embedding of the new map in the country’s national emblem and Constitution are untenable and should have been avoided under all circumstances. But this is not the first time Nepal has thumbed its nose at India, even at the cost of its people’s well-being. In 2015, the Nepali Congress government adopted the new Constitution, ignoring India’s concerns. This instinct to cut off the nose to spite the face is visible in the lack of progress on the game-changing 5,000 MW Pancheshwar hydroelectric project. Nepal’s viable hydro-electricity potential is 40,000 MW; the country generates only 1,000 MW and must import 600 MW from India. Identity politics with India is also visible within the country where Nepali citizens from the Terai (Madhesis) feel discriminated as being “Indian”. To Nepal, their attitudes reflect the angst of a small state. To India, Nepal appears incorrigible.  Shift with globalisation After democracy was restored in 1990, passports were more liberally issued, and Nepalis began looking for work opportunities globally, beyond just India. West Asia and South-East Asia specifically became major destinations for labour migration. Security uncertainties with the Maoist insurgency at home also propelled the trend of migration. Students and skilled personnel began moving to Europe, the United States, Australia, Thailand and even to Japan and South Korea. As of 2019, nearly a fifth of Nepal’s population, from all parts of the country, were reportedly overseas. At an estimated $8 billion, global remittances account for nearly 30% of Nepal’s nominal GDP, making it one of the most remittance-dependent countries in the world. Leftist ideology and the prominent presence of international non-governmental organisations — ostensibly there to resolve conflict and alleviate poverty — have added to Nepal’s exposure to the world. Underreported is the presence of Christian missionaries who entered Nepal during and in the aftermath of the Maoist insurgency. “Faith Houses”, as churches are euphemistically called in Nepal, can be found in villages and towns across the country, including the Terai, and represent not only European and American organisations but Korean too. Moreover, posters advertising education opportunities in Australia, the United States, Canada and South-East Asia adorn Nepal. Nepal’s 2011 Census shows that over 80% of its 28 million-strong population were Hindus, and since 1962, it had formally been a Hindu kingdom. The new Constitution in 2015 makes Nepal a secular country. The proliferation of communication technology has also spread a certain cosmopolitanism but without the accompanying metropolitanism. A link despite diversification Kathmandu has continued its long-standing efforts to spread Nepal’s options beyond India. Multilateral development banks are by far the biggest lenders and players in the country’s development efforts. And in fact, one of Nepal’s largest aid donors is the European Union. India and China are not the only players for big projects either. A long-delayed project to pipe water into Kathmandu was with an Italian company, major investments in the telecom sector are coming from Malaysia, and the largest international carrier in Nepal is Qatar Airways. The outward movement of students, along with with the growth of institutions of higher learning at home, has meant that most young people in Nepal, including emerging contemporary leaders in politics, business or academics, have not studied in India. This lack of common collegiate roots removes a natural bond of previous generations that had provided for better understanding and even empathy. Today, while most Nepalis understand Hindi, because of the popularity of Bollywood, articulation is quite another matter. But despite Nepal’s efforts to diversify its options globally, its linkages with India remain robust. Nepal’s trade with India has grown in absolute terms and continues to account for more than two-thirds of Nepal’s external trade of around $12 billion annually. This clearly reflects the advantages of geography, both physical and societal. India continues to be the largest aggregate investor in Nepal. The massive under-construction Arun-III 900 MW hydro-electric project is slated to singly produce as much power, when completed in five years, as Nepal produces today. Moreover, the peg with the Indian Rupee provides unique stability to the Nepali Rupee. Nepal’s per-capita income is just above $1,000. While the huge remittance economy has brought a semblance of well-being, the country has a long way to go in reaching prosperity. The relationship with India, with open borders and Nepalis being allowed to live and work freely, provides Nepal a unique advantage and an economic cushion. The latter is particularly important today with COVID-19-caused global contraction positioned to pop the remittance bubble. Neither the Chinese nor any others are likely to write blank cheques. Focus areas India for its part should also focus on developing its border areas with Nepal, with better roads and amenities of interest (such as shopping malls) to the burgeoning Nepali middle class. This would have economic plusses for both sides and keep ties strong at the people’s level. It would also be an image makeover. Given the cultural and ethnic commonalities, it befuddles and draws anger in India when things go wrong in ties with Nepal. Those responsible for bringing things to such an impasse must be held to account, but it is important that we update the prism through which we view our relationship with our Himalayan neighbour. We must not forget the past nor turn away from it but, instead, must be mindful of the realities of a changing India and a changing Nepal. Benaras will always be a keystone, but contemporary reality makes it imperative to look at Bengaluru. Manjeev S. Puri is a former Ambassador of India to Nepal. The views expressed are personal
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Of gods and governments||The COVID-19 pandemic is unleashing a flurry of contractual disputes. Due to the lockdowns, a large number of companies and individually owned enterprises find their contractual obligations impossible to meet or economically ruinous, especially in the aviation, automobile, construction, hospitality and entertainment, retail, and insurance sectors. Consequently, they have refused the promised employment and suspended supplies of goods or services, triggering legal claims of compensation from the counterparties. Reducing scope of dispute Many parties have invoked COVID-19 as force majeure (FM) — an event that is beyond the control of the parties and renders contractual performance impossible. Most contracts contain a FM clause to catalogue events like wars, riots or strikes in which the parties would prefer to terminate the contract or put it on hold. Acts of the government (such as lockdowns) and acts of god (such as floods, cyclones) are typically listed under a FM clause. This provision reduces the scope of dispute between parties in case a FM event occurs. Plus, it helps them allocate contract risks efficiently. The problem is, many a times the clause contains ambiguous and catch-all phrases like, ‘events including but not limited to the ones listed herein’. Such ambiguities are being exploited by many contracting parties. They are seeking termination or suspension of business deals by claiming that COVID-19 is a FM event. Moreover, ambivalent statements by government agencies regarding the pandemic have added to the confusion. How the courts and the regulators adjudicate contractual disputes will determine the distribution of losses among the disputants and, more importantly, the quantum of economic cost of the pandemic. Delayed or ambiguous rulings will aggravate the economic costs of the disease by disrupting supply chains beyond the lockdown period. By contrast, clear and consistent judgments will discourage opportunistic behaviour and encourage pre-trial negotiations thereby avoiding unnecessary litigation and attendant social costs. Issues of individual welfare are better addressed through public policy and not court rulings. As to the status of COVID-19 or the lockdowns as FM, courts should interpret ambiguous or catch-all terms on the principle of ejusdem generis – ‘when general words follow an enumeration of things, they apply to things of the same general kind specifically mentioned.’ COVID-19 is not FM per se. It is the lockdowns, not the virus, that has made it impossible for the airlines, hotels and caterers to deliver as promised and contractors to complete projects on schedule. Under such contexts, it is justified to use the lockdowns as FM for non-performance or delayed performance, as the case may be. In other contexts, however, the clause has been used for dubious reasons. Discoms have invoked it under power purchase agreements. They have withheld monthly payments and have asked some power producers to stop the project. True, due to lockdown of industries and commercial establishments the demand for electricity has fallen. However, the virus and the lockdowns have not affected the generation-capacity of power producers, nor have they rendered it impossible for discoms to off-take electricity, an essential service. In any case, a reduced demand or the agreement becoming commercially onerous does not qualify as a FM event. If the contract does not have a FM clause, parties can seek termination of the contract on grounds of frustration. Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, along with its interpretations by the Supreme Court ( Satyabrata Ghose v. Mugneeram Bangur ) renders a contract void if a subsequent event makes performance impossible or useless for one or the other party. Accordingly, claims by wedding caterers regarding frustration of contract can hold ground for events that were pre-scheduled but could not take place during the lockdown. Lockdown as force majeure A justifiable use of COVID-19-induced lockdown as FM or an event causing frustration of contract is subject to context and facts. In Standard Retail Pvt. Ltd. v G.S Global Corp. & Ors. (2020), the Bombay High Court rejected the claims of the petitioner, who argued that the lockdowns had led to frustration of his contract for supply of steel by the respondent G.S Global Corp. The Court aptly observed that the lockdowns did not apply to the steel sector, an essential item as per the government notification. Moreover, the relief under FM was applicable only to the seller (if supply became impossible). But the seller had already dispatched the supplies. Moreover, restitution goes hand-in-hand with the use of FM and frustration of purpose to terminate the contract. A seller seeking to terminate the contract should return the payment received for the yet-to-be-fulfilled part of the promise. This principle has been grossly violated by the airlines. Thousands of prior bookings had to be cancelled due to ban of flights during the lockdown (a FM event in this case). What is troublesome is that rather than refunding the cancelled tickets, airlines have sought to convert them into credit shells usable only for buying future tickets from the same carrier. This is an opportunistic move. Riskiness of returns is an integral part of most business and commercial activities. The Supreme Court in Naihati Jute Mills Ltd v. Hyaliram Jagannath (1967) held that a contractual obligation becoming economically arduous is not a ground for absolving a party of its commitment. Therefore, OYO’s decision to suspend payments to client hotels citing commercial unprofitability is not a ground for frustration of contract. Similarly, the demands of multiplexes, retailers and restaurants are untenable. They are seeking rental waivers from premise owners citing the lockdowns as FM. Government notifications declaring COVID-19 as FM has encouraged such demands. Lease agreements typically allow rental waivers only if a FM event causes physical damage to the property rendering it unfit for commercial use. This is not the case with COVID-19. Besides, lessee cannot claim frustration of contracts as the lockdowns and concomitant losses are temporary. Insurance contracts are intricate. Property insurance claims require physical damage to the property. As the lockdown has caused no physical harm, claims for loss of business income are not tenable. Moreover, courts should realise that the losses on account of the lockdown are quite different from those meant to be covered by individual policies. Business losses caused by epidemics and lockdowns tend to be numerous and highly correlated. That is why standard insurance policies do not allow compensation for such losses. Allowing a single claim will set a precedent for all, potentially bankrupting the insurance industry. Courts and regulators should encourage litigants to go for negotiations or mediation to settle disputes. In most cases, a middle ground exists within the contract letter. Ram Singh is Professor, Delhi School of Economics, and Utkarsh Leo is Assistant Professor, NALSAR University of Law
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Rural India, the new viral flash point||The initial misplaced optimism that India is somehow protected from the COVID-19 pandemic has proved to be illusory, with rapidly escalating numbers of cases and deaths in urban India. The urban blight is so intense as to occupy the entire attention of the health-care workforce, planners and policy makers. The medical services in these urban areas — Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai to cite the three major epicentres of the epidemic — have been overwhelmed, judging from the reports available every day in the public domain. Clearly unprepared We are now facing only the fury of the urban wave of this epidemic in India. Remember, 65% of the country’s population is rural. They have been relatively underexposed, with very few cases and deaths. Thus, the large, vulnerable majority in rural India is yet to feel the heat of this epidemic. There is a pervasive and false confidence among the general public that, somehow, rural India will escape with minimal casualty. The recent (limited) restoration of public transport and a relaxation of restrictions on the movement of people are developments that have set the stage for the inevitable and even more dangerous wave of this epidemic. Just as importations from other countries through air traffic set the stage for the urban blight, importations from urban to rural India will set the stage for the rural wave. We need to remind ourselves that rural India is clearly unprepared to face this epidemic. Contrasts in health care There has always been an urban-rural divide in India in health care and education, two vital indices of human development. This deficiency has been very costly not only in terms of rural lives and livelihoods but also overall national wealth creation. If the first urban wave of the COVID-19 tsunami is overwhelming our relatively better urban health-care resources, one can imagine the predicament of rural India with its already deficient health-care resources when it faces the rural epidemic tidal wave. The lockdown of the entire country led to a paralysis of urban and rural life synchronously while the urban and rural waves of this epidemic are clearly asynchronous. The rural wave is just beginning while the urban wave is about to peak. When rural areas were hardly affected we had the lockdown but now that the rural wave is just beginning, paradoxically, we find that rural people are going about without masks or physical distancing, congregating in marketplaces and places of worship. This portends an imminent catastrophe, yet unrecognised and therefore inadequately anticipated for risk-mitigation. Administer the social vaccine Now is the right time to implement the social vaccine, a prophylaxis before the rural spread of the epidemic. A decentralised approach with participation of all stakeholders in each village, taluk and district is the need and potential of the day. The most important step would be to educate rural people with all the tools at our disposal — print, radio, the electronic media, and messages through mobile phones. We need to give them accurate information in simple language to make them clearly understand that their self-protection and the protection of their families are entirely in their hands. Two behaviourial changes are critical — every man, woman and child must wear a cotton cloth mask when out of the home, and observe strict hand hygiene. All elders and any person with a co-morbidity should be cocooned (by reverse quarantine) — all wearing masks when interacting with others even inside homes. It is mortality that we must prevent in this unfair disease for the vulnerable. Proceeding step by step At the State and district levels, we need a systematic approach; it must entail blocking urban-rural importations, quarantining those who move from red zone to green, diagnosing and managing clinical COVID-19 syndrome with or without positive PCR test results, and providing field hospitals exclusively for isolating and managing COVID-19 cases (manned by younger, and therefore less vulnerable, medical and nursing teams). Simple clinical diagnostic criteria are available with the writers of this article. At the same time, we need to protect and sustain existing hospitals and primary health centres not to be frequented by COVID-19 patients, but for providing care for all other medical, surgical and obstetric emergencies. Mildly and moderately symptomatic COVID-19 patients should be managed by home isolation, delivering essential and medical supplies at home, and home monitoring of oxygen saturation by readily available portable finger pulse oximeters. Each such patient should be followed up daily by a designated medical professional, who should call over the phone and identify those who need hospitalisation for life-threatening pneumonia. Non-communicable diseases and other common diseases should be handled on a tele-medicine platform manned by experienced and older (age more than 55 years) medical personnel; there should be a follow-up over the mobile phone. This approach will minimise the loss of medical manpower due to COVID-19 at the time when we need them the most. If we are caught napping at this crucial hour, it will be a monumental error for which we can never forgive ourselves. State health administrators and the medical fraternity have the knowledge and skills to tackle the rural wave with courage and wisdom. M.S. Seshadri is retired Professor of Medical Endocriniology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and now Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC, Vellore and past President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||For better conditions of work||After a stressful lockdown period, thousands of migrant workers have returned to their villages. Many have said they wish to stay there. They no longer yearn to go back to their work in the cities. This is understandable given their terrible living conditions in the cities and the shocking treatment meted out to them during the lockdown period. This is an opportunity for those working to provide workers security, those involved in the cooperative movement, those trying to improve the living conditions in rural India, and those working in the area of skill development to reach out to, and enable, the migrant workers to fulfill their desire of staying at home. Forming cooperative societies Back home, the migrants can form cooperative societies. So can MGNREGA workers. Many migrant workers said they worked as tailors in the cities, many as plumbers, some as cooks, and some as construction workers. All of them can form cooperatives. What will be the purpose of these cooperatives? These cooperative societies, if they expand and form hubs, could start developing their services or products that can be sold with better terms and conditions. For example, if in a village in Bihar several tailors come together to form a cooperative society of tailoring, they could attract contracts from garment manufacturers in Bihar and also elsewhere. There are many government agencies that have been mandated to help build cooperative societies. There are also cooperative banks to help such societies. With large national institutions enabling such cooperative societies, groups of migrant workers can find institutional strength. Another possibility for those whose skills or products do not have enough marketing in a local area is to re-enter the city as labour cooperatives, or even unions, with demands that they get housing and other support systems that help them have a decent living, not only a wage. Many workers are engaged in seasonal work in cities. With the marriage season requiring many special services, for example, it is customary for such workers to provide their services and return to their villages. They too could get together to form service cooperatives. NGOs and cooperative federations, agencies such as the National Cooperative Union of India, and labour unions can intervene, especially since many workers have said they do not have work in the village but they also do not want to move elsewhere. The AMUL project is a model of one kind, but there are other, lesser-known models which are not as sophisticated and fair in terms of wages and other terms as AMUL but still offer ideas for today. India has examples of putting-out work in several industries. I once found that the parts of dry iron boxes were being produced by a group of women from their homes. It was a deeply exploitative system where the women on contractual work had poor salaries and no benefits. Cooperatives, on the other hand, can get the same process done without the middle man. MGNREGA has been offered as a way of alleviating migrant workers’ distress but this is not only a short term but also vulnerable wage-earning occupation. Sites cannot be opened during the monsoon season. Also, at any given area, there may not be enough sites to engage many people. So another possibility is to give MGNREGA better shape so that MGNREGA funds can be used to enable women or artisans to market their products. A pyramid of group economic activity This is a valuable opportunity for the state to build new kinds of economic structures in India, a pyramid of group economic activity going from the rural areas through collective marketing to fill the demand from the cities. What has been lacking so far in this dispersed production model is lack of concern for the fair treatment of the workers. In Mangaluru, a beedi worker said beedis are rolled by women in their own homes. The leaf, the thread and the tobacco are given to them by middlemen. The woman said she takes back packets of 1,000 rolled bidis and is paid for them. But she would be denied wages if she didn’t submit to the sexual demands of the contractor. This said, beedi workers have been unionised in many areas now, so dispersed production can be a way forward. Successful unionisation of workers can protect them from exploitation. It is possible to have dispersed production, home-based or small-unit based, to start a supply chain to markets, whether local markets or capital city markets or export markets. This is an opportunity to rebuild economic production through different institutional arrangements. Arrangements that can provide an optimal solution to the workers as well as contribute to the GDP must be made. It will also rebuild an India where cities are not congested and where the standard of living in rural areas will improve. Devaki Jain is a Delhi-based economist
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||In defence of MPLADS||The Indian Parliament is the nucleus of the republic. It has a legion of functions to perform. Subhash Kashyap, in Our Parliament , has enumerated the multiple functions of Parliament. It includes political and financial control, supervision of administration, elicitation and dissemination of information on the government of the day, grievance ventilation, national integration, legislative and constituent functions and furnishing leadership to the nation. The functions are non-exhaustive and incremental. Doing away with a vital role The responsibility of an MP does not end with the supervision of administration and legislation. He has to find solutions to the grievances of the electorate of his constituency and promote their developmental aspirations. As Parliament is a multifunctional institution, an MP is a multifunctional representative. His representative and grievance ventilation functions should not end with petitioning ministers and officials. An MP knows the developmental and welfare issues of his constituency better than anyone else. The Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) has enabled MPs to play a leadership role in the developmental process of his constituency and sort out its day-to-day problems. The suspension of the MPLADS for 2020-21 and 2021-22 in the wake of the pandemic has done away with this vital role of MPs. The government’s decision to suspend MPLADS funds for two years evoked mixed reactions. Many Opposition parties opposed the move. On social media, many people supported the move and even demanded the scrapping of the scheme altogether citing reasons that are unfounded. A close examination of the arguments against the MPLADS will expose their hollowness. The first is that the very nature of the scheme gives space for corruption. This is not supported by empirical data. The vital role of an MP in the MPLADS ends with selecting micro development projects for his constituency. Implementation of these projects is done by district-level officers under the vigilant eye of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. The projects are implemented according to the Ministry’s guidelines. Furthermore, the Scheme undergoes an impartial and meticulous auditing. The second instalment of funds is released only when the first instalment is fully utilised with no audit objections. This procedure leaves no place for corruption. The pork barrel policy of State and Union Governments often leads to skewed development and regional imbalance. The ruling party channels public money to particular constituencies based on political considerations, at the expense of broader public interests. The elected opposition legislators of those constituencies fall victim to this pork barrel politics. MPLADS has been an antidote to this favouritism. The Scheme provided opposition MPs some chance to cater to the developmental needs of their constituency. The suspension of the Scheme has snatched away this limited opportunity. Aspirations of the marginalised Of the MPLADS corpus, 15% has been earmarked for the development of Scheduled Castes and 7.5% for the Scheduled Tribes. Around Rs. 20 lakh of the MPLADS fund per annum has been allotted for the welfare of differently abled people. Suspension of the MPLADS undermines the developmental aspirations of these marginalised segments. In Kerala there are handsome funds at the disposal of MLAs. In 2012, Kerala announced the launching of the Legislative Assembly Constituency Asset Development Fund. This aims at creating durable assets for which each MLA will be allocated Rs. 5 crore during a particular financial year for undertaking capital works in his/her constituency so as to improve infrastructural facilities. The corpus has subsequently been enhanced to Rs. 6 crore per annum. The suspension of the MPLADS undermines the prestige of MPs vis-à-vis MLAs. A scheme that catered to the developmental aspirations of local people, ironed out the regional imbalances and made MPs engaged should be restored as early as possible. Rajmohan Unnithan is MP in the Lok Sabha from Kasaragod
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Closed again||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to impose a complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of neighbouring Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur for 12 days from June 19 is a response to rising apprehension that the coronavirus pandemic has spun out of control. When such a measure was resorted to earlier, for four days from April 26, the cumulative cases in the State were 1,821, but they have snowballed to just over 46,500 cases on June 15. Mortality has also risen in spite of many curbs from the earlier lockdown being retained during the ‘Unlock 1’ phase, such as the absence of bus transport. The AIADMK government has done well to learn some lessons from the previous full lockdown episode, which led to crowding for the purchase of essentials — it has allowed three days for the city and neighbouring districts to prepare. Yet, it is the preventable ballooning of cases that has necessitated a fresh lockdown now, highlighting the desultory approaches to infection prevention. With some determination, and steps such as free distribution of masks, the public could have been nudged into healthy behaviour. But such leadership was absent, and rising case numbers led to pressure for another strict lockdown, including from some retail traders. The State government appeared to be confused, initially denying any such plan and even informing the High Court to that effect. The national experience with a lockdown makes it clear that it is a blunt weapon, useful only for a brief period, and to support a clear plan of action. Some studies point to heightened impact of an activity freeze on the urban poor, who have to cope with such pressures by liquidating their savings, and may be worse off than their rural counterparts. In Chennai, the pressure due to the lockdown has been prolonged, although the State has tried to ameliorate the impact with free supply of essentials. It has now promised Rs. 1,000 to ration card holders, and the disabled. But the effects of a full lockdown run deeper, and relief measures for the disadvantaged must be augmented. Now that some air and rail services are on, passengers with tickets must be helped to use these facilities. There is also a case to allow door delivery of all materials by e-commerce sites, barring in containment zones. Tamil Nadu’s latest measure seems to have caught some sections of industry, such as the automotive sector that depends on a stable supply chain, by surprise. The economy today is complex and a more transparent and consultative approach is necessary to plan for the future. During the full lockdown phase, the government must cohere to make up for lost time: distribute masks to all, bring about compliance in mask-wearing and physical distancing, help densely populated areas, and make testing universally available.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A quota case||Quota politics is back in play to favour, this time, students from government higher secondary schools in Tamil Nadu. The Cabinet’s nod on Monday, for an ordinance to create a horizontal 7.5% reservation of the State’s quota of seats in medical colleges, is a well-intentioned move to address the problem of poor representation from government schools in MBBS/BDS courses which has been in existence even prior to the introduction of NEET for admission. The issue of inequity has come in for criticism against NEET which came into operation in Tamil Nadu in 2017. Since then, there has been a high-decibel campaign, against NEET and the AIADMK government, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on the ground that the design and form of the test are loaded against students of rural areas, government schools, Backward and Most Backward Classes, and Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. Like in the case of other professional course entrance tests, most candidates clearing NEET in Tamil Nadu are invariably those who undergo private coaching. It was also in the last three years that the AIADMK regime veered closer towards the BJP-led government at the Centre. Despite the authorities asserting that NEET is neither against communal reservation nor weaker sections, the campaign appears to have had an impact during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as the DMK-led front won 38 out of 39 seats. The State’s latest decision comes in the backdrop of this factor and also of next year’s Assembly election. It is unclear whether the horizontal reservation will pass legal scrutiny. In February 2002, the Madras High Court quashed the horizontal quota of 25% in professional courses for higher secondary students from schools in village panchayats. This time, the State has acted on a panel recommendation, which concluded that there was a “cognitive gap” among students of government schools, given the perception that those from the CBSE stream enjoy greater advantage in NEET than students of the State board. Those backing the latest quota cite special reservation for the differently-abled and an arrangement in Karnataka, of 15% of seats being set apart for rural students seeking professional courses. Apparently, there is nothing in NEET’s rules against States providing “special reservation” out of their quota of seats, a position articulated, in 2017, by former Union Health Minister and BJP president, J.P. Nadda, in favour of rural students. The trend of horizontal reservation is happening with respect to national law universities for students from the host States. It is debatable whether the test of backwardness can be stretched to any extent although the equity principle is important. While poor representation in professional courses from the vulnerable sections is a symptom, the causes are deep-rooted. A holistic and sustained approach to improve school education will alone pave the way for a lasting solution.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Pressures on ruling Cong. leaders||The AICC session of the Ruling Congress which ended yesterday [June 15] provided an interesting case-study of how the young radicals with a firm foothold in the Working Committee were able to exert subtle political pressures on the party leadership and influence policy formulations in the name of putting more teeth into the resolutions to refurbish its socialist image. After the Congress split, the more immediate objective of these radicals was to impress on all concerned that they were no longer petty pressure groups seeking self-expression by simply tilting at the windmills of power, but part and parcel of the ruling hierarchy with a duty to ensure that the party leadership adhered to the path of democratic socialism. The new technique adopted by them before the AICC session was to plead for a more radical stance by the Ruling Congress on the ground that the party position on any major policy issue should be a little ahead of the Government position — to put more punch into the processes of implementation of the pledged objectives. But this approach met with some resistance from the party elders.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Fuel demand reaches 80-85% of pre-COVID-19 levels: Pradhan||Fuel demand has reached 80-85% of pre-COVID-19 levels in the first half of June, but returning to a 5% growth trajectory may take up to two years, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and industry leaders said on Tuesday. Fuel sales in the world’s third biggest oil consuming nation had fallen to the lowest since 2007 as the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The demand, which had fallen by as much as 70%, has since recovered after restrictions were eased beginning early May. “When compared with June 2019, petroleum product demand during the first fortnight of June rose to 80-85% of pre-COVID-19 levels,” Mr. Pradhan said during a webinar. Fuel consumption at 14.65 million tonnes in May was 47.4% higher than April, but 23.3% lower than a year earlier. Diesel, the most consumed fuel, was down about 29.4% in May, while petrol sales fell 35.3%. Between June 1 and 15, diesel demand recovered further. At 2.67 million tonnes, it was 15% lower than a year earlier, industry data showed. Petrol sales at 930,000 tonnes was 18% lower. ATF, whose sales slumped to almost nil as airlines suspended operations, was 73% lower in the first half of June. LPG sales were up 7% at 960,000 tonnes. Sanjiv Singh, Chairman of Indian Oil Corp., said at the webinar that the return of growth trajectory in fuel demand would take 2 years. Prior to losing momentum in 2019-20 due to sluggish economic activity, demand had grown at 4-5 %. Refining capacity India planned to almost double its oil refining capacity to 450-500 million tonnes in the next 10 years to meet rising domestic fuel demand as well as to cater to the export market, Mr. Pradhan said. Construction of a new 60 million tonne-a-year west coast refinery, which is crucial to the capacity doubling plan, will start soon. “Our refining capacity will increase from about 250 million tonnes per annum now to 450-500 million tonnes in next 10 years,” he said.  The refining capacity of 249.9 million tonnes exceeded the fuel demand of 213.7 million tonnes in 2019-20, but the demand is likely to rise to 335 million tonnes by 2030 and 472 million tonnes by 2040.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Mobile, card payments topped ATM withdrawals in 2019’||Mobile payments and card transactions exceeded cash withdrawals from automated teller machines (ATMs) for the first time in 2019, indicating that the country’s push towards digital payments was bearing fruit, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence’s 2020 India Mobile Payments Market Report. Mobile payments, initiated by payment apps comprising account-to-account transfers and payments made from stored-value accounts, rose 163% to $287 billion in 2019. By comparison, point-of-sale transactions completed using debit and credit cards, including online and in apps, rose 24% to $204 billion, S&P said. Card and mobile payments as a percentage of GDP rose to 20% in the quarter ended December 31, 2019, S&P said, adding that India ranked favourably among countries that built instant payment schemes, processing at least five times more transactions than the second-largest market based on an analysis of real-time payment volumes. ‘High growth unlikely’ “High growth rates in cashless payments seen in recent years are unlikely to repeat amid an economic slowdown due to the novel coronavirus pandemic,” said Sampath Sharma Nariyanuri, fintech analyst at S&P Global Market Intelligence. “However, we expect mobile payments to be more resilient and will gain a bigger lead over card payments, as their uptake will accelerate due to ongoing social distancing measures and concerns over usage of cash and plastic.” The report estimated that card purchases and Unified Payments Interface (UPI)-led mobile payments represented 21% of the $781 billion in in-store transactions in 2019. Google Pay and PhonePe led the UPI payment space as the two handled more than 7 billion transactions in total, representing more than two-thirds of UPI transactions in 2019. “Google and Amazon are already offering a far greater breadth of payments in India than in other large markets such as U.S., Germany, U.K. and Japan. With the expected entry of Facebook’s WhatsApp, U.S. technology companies will extend their dominance in India,” it said. “In the absence of a clear path to profitability, consumer-facing technology firms such as Paytm and PhonePe will continue to need investor support to fuel their expansion plans,” the report’s authors added.
17 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Indices rise on global cues amid border tension||Equity benchmarks witnessed a volatile session on Tuesday — mirroring a strong rally in the global markets and turning jittery as the border tension between India and China escalated — before closing with gains of over 1% each. The 30-share Sensex, which gained nearly 800 points to touch a high of 34,022 during intra-day trade, closed at 33,605.22, an increase of 376.42 points, or 1.13%. Soon after reports came in about casualties amid Indo-China tension near the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the benchmark dipped in the red to touch a low of 32,953.30. The broader Nifty gained 100.30 points, or 1.02%, to close at 9,914. “Domestic market in the early trade was driven by positive global cues after U.S. Federal Reserve launched a massive programme under which it will buy up to $750 billion in corporate bonds to support businesses hit by the lockdown,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “But it erased earlier gains as investors turned cautious amid reports of a violent face-off between India and China. Later, investors set aside this fear and markets finally managed to recover,” Mr. Khemka added. Gainers versus losers The benchmark Sensex had an equal share of gainers and losers, with the HDFC twins leading the gainers’ pack. Foreign portfolio investors continued to sell Indian shares, with Tuesday’s net sales pegged at Rs. 1,479 crore, while their domestic counterparts bought shares worth Rs. 1,161.51 crore.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tax dispute settlement dents NMDC’s Q4 profit||NMDC has posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 347 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2020. A decline of 76% compared to Rs. 1,451.81 crore in the year earlier period, the profit was impacted as the public sector mining major had opted to settle a dispute relating to Direct Tax under the Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme. Accordingly, Rs. 795 crore was paid as part of the settlement in the quarter, reducing the PAT, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. Revenue from operations of the country’s largest iron ore producer for the quarter was Rs. 3,187.34 crore, or 33% lower from the Rs. 3,643.32 crore of the year earlier period. For 2019-20, consolidated net profit at Rs. 3,601.52 crore was 22% lower in comparison to Rs. 4,637.07 crore of previous fiscal. Revenue from operations at Rs. 11,699.22 crore (Rs. 12,152.67 crore) declined 3.73%. NMDC produced 31.49 million tonnes and sold 31.51 MT of iron ore during 2019-20 against 32.36 MT production and 32.36 MT sales of the previous fiscal.
17 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Retail fuel prices aligned with international prices’||Retail prices of petrol and diesel are aligned to international product prices, Mukesh Kumar Surana, CMD, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), said, after the company, along with other oil retailers, increased the price of petrol and diesel for the tenth consecutive day on Tuesday. HPCL also reported a 99% fall in its fourth quarter net profit to Rs. 27 crore, mainly because of Rs. 4,113 crore in inventory losses and Rs. 975 crore of forex losses. The fall in profit came on the back of a 2% decline in revenue to Rs. 71,268 crore on account of a sharp decline in crude prices. Asked about the increase in retail prices of petrol and diesel, Mr. Surana said, “When crude oil prices have gone up from $13 a barrel to around $40 a barrel, the increase in product prices is logical. We didn’t revise the fuel prices during lockdown so now we have aligned our product prices with global product prices.” The average gross refining margins (GRMs) for the quarter stood at a negative $1.23 per barrel, compared with $4.51 per barrel a year earlier. “The lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic in India led to significant demand contraction in the last part of March 2020 necessitating regulated refinery operations,” said Mr. Surana. To enhance its overseas footprint, HPCL had tied up with State Trade Corporation of Bhutan Limited for setting up of retail outlets and supply of motor fuels in Bhutan. “HPCL also achieved highest export of lubes in current financial year,” he said. For 2019-20, HPCL has proposed a final dividend of Rs. 9.75 per share.
17 June 2020||MUMBAI,||China’s Great Wall Motor commits to $1 billion investment in Maharashtra||China’s largest sport utility vehicle (SUV) manufacturer Great Wall Motor Company Ltd., which recently acquired General Motors’ car manufacturing plant at Talegaon, near Pune, has signed an MoU with the Maharashtra government reaffirming its commitment to invest $1 billion in phases. “The MoU officially announced the investment in the state-of-the-art automotive manufacturing facility in Talegaon, Maharashtra. The plant will be equipped with latest world-class technology and along with the R&D centre in Bengaluru will generate employment for over 3,000 people in phased manner,” GWM said in a statement. Parker Shi, MD, GWM India, said, “This would be a highly automated plant in Talegaon with advanced robotics technology integrated in many of the production processes.” “Overall, we are committed to $1 billion investment in India in a phased manner, which is directed towards manufacturing world-class intelligent and premium products, R&D centre, building supply chain and providing jobs to over 3,000 people in a phased manner,” he added. The plant located in Talegaon Industrial Park, Maharashtra, covers an area of about 300 acres and is close to the Expressway. The unit is about 100 kilometres from Mumbai Port. The factory already has facilities like logistics distribution centre, training centre, project management building, administrative office building and a public facilities centre.
17 June 2020||new delhi,||Govt. banks disburse Rs. 16,031 crore to MSMEs||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said public sector banks have disbursed Rs. 16,031.39 crore till June 12, under the Rs. 3-lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector, adversely affected following COVID-19. Public sector banks (PSBs) have sanctioned loans worth Rs. 32,049.86 crore under the 100% ECLGS for the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector beginning June 1. The scheme is the biggest fiscal component of the Rs. 20-lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. “As of 12 June 2020, #PSBs have sanctioned loans worth Rs. 32,049.86 crore under the 100% Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, out of which Rs. 16,031.39 crore has already been disbursed,” Ms. Sitharaman tweeted. On May 21, the Cabinet had approved an additional funding of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore at a concessional rate of 9.25% through the ECLGS for the MSME sector.  100% guarantee Under the scheme, 100% guarantee coverage will be provided by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC) for an additional funding of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore to eligible MSMEs and interested Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency (MUDRA) borrowers in the form of a guaranteed emergency credit line (GECL) facility. Corpus created For this purpose, a corpus of Rs. 41,600 crore was provided by the government, spread over the current and next three financial years. The scheme will be applicable to all loans sanctioned under GECL facility during the period from the date of announcement of the plan to October 31 or till an amount of Rs. 3 lakh crore is sanctioned under GECL, whichever is earlier. The main objective of the scheme is to provide an incentive to member lending institutions to increase access and enable availability of additional funding facility to MSME borrowers, in view of the economic distress caused by the COVID-19 crisis, by giving them 100% guarantee for any losses suffered by them due to non-repayment of the GECL funding by borrowers.
17 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Highest smartphone usage in India’||India remains the region with the highest monthly data usage per smartphone, according to the Ericsson Mobility Report released on Tuesday. The total mobile data traffic is projected to triple to 21 EB (1 exabyte = 1,000 petabytes) per month in 2025. Average monthly mobile data usage per smartphone continued to show robust growth, boosted by the rapid adoption of 4G. “The spread of COVID-19 has prompted people all over the world to change their daily lives and, in many cases, work or study from home,” Fredrik Jejdling, executive vice-president and head of Networks at Ericsson, said in the report. “This has led to a rapid shift of network traffic from business to residential areas,” he added. Total mobile broadband subscriptions are set to top 1 billion by 2025.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||ICICI Bank cuts FD rates by 15-75 bps||Private sector lender ICICI Bank has reduced retail term deposit rates by 15 to 75 basis points (bps) across various maturities, with effect from Tuesday. The new rate for deposits (with premature withdrawal facility) with tenure of one year to 389 days will be 5.15% for amounts less than Rs. 5 crore, the Mumbai-based lender said. The deposit rate for tenure of 18 months and 1 day to two years will be 5.35%. A similar rate is offered for deposits of 2 years and 1 day to 3 years. The rate for deposits with maturities of 3 years one day to 5 years will be 5.5%. Senior citizens will be offered 50 bps more than the card rate, the bank said. Most banks have been dropping deposit rates after the Reserve Bank of India cut the repo rate by 40 bps at the end of May.
17 June 2020||Mumbai,||ATF dearer by 16%; petrol, diesel costlier||Prices of petrol and diesel were raised for the tenth consecutive day on Tuesday. The price of aviation turbine fuel (ATF) has also gone up by more than 16%. The revision has driven fuel prices to their costliest since October 2018. According to Indian Oil Corporation, the price of petrol was increased by 47 paise to Rs. 76.73 a litre in Delhi, while that of diesel rose 57 paise a litre to Rs. 75.19 in Delhi. Oil marketing companies have also raised jet fuel prices for the second time this month. ATF will now cost Rs. 39,069.87 per kilolitre (kl) in Delhi for domestic airlines. The sharp rise could aggravate cost pressures for airlines facing a severe revenue crunch due to limited operations. ATF constitutes about 50% of a carrier’s operational cost.
17 June 2020||Chennai,||Hyundai gets over 30,000 bookings for all new Creta||Hyundai Motor India Ltd. has received more than 30,000 bookings for its all new Creta since its unveiling. Diesel constituted 55% of the bookings, said the company in a statement. “We are confident that Creta will continue to lead the way back towards normalcy in automobile sales with its immense success,” said Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing and service), HMIL.
17 June 2020||London,||Fans told to stay away||Premier League chief executive Richard Masters has warned fans to stay away from stadiums once the top-flight football returns behind closed doors on Wednesday. The Premier League resumes after a three-month hiatus with Aston Villa’s home game against Sheffield United and Arsenal’s trip to Manchester City. A full programme of matches follows over the weekend, including Liverpool’s potential title-clincher at Merseyside rival Everton. There are fears some supporters will ignore social-distancing rules by congregating outside the grounds where their teams are playing. But after talks between the league’s key stakeholders and police, it was agreed not to move any of the remaining 92 matches to neutral venues at present. Aware of the scrutiny the league will be under, Masters has issued a plea to fans not to gather around stadiums during matches. “Please stay away and enjoy the matches at home. By turning up to the game you are putting things at jeopardy,” Masters told the BBC on Tuesday. There will be no fans allowed into any Premier League games this term.
17 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Not letting the lockdown drag him down||Fidel R. Snehit is not wasting time sitting at home in despair during the lockdown. With his scheduled training programme in Europe this summer going awry, the paddler has been watching videos of Olympic and World champion Ma Long of China as well as his own, to improve his all-round game at the MLR-UTT Academy. Ultimate Table Tennis has been supporting Snehit's training by providing specialised physiotherapists, mental conditioning coaches and nutrition experts to the academy. The fact that Snehit jumped from No. 337 at the start of 2019 to No. 40 in the World Under-21 rankings in 16 months is, perhaps, proof of his talent. He also made it to the semifinals of the Oman Open and won the gold in the Khelo India and National youth championship singles. Idolising Nadal Snehit, who idolises Rafael Nadal, is reading autobiographies of famous athletes and keeping himself mentally fresh to be ready for any challenge whenever action begins on the circuit. “Yes, it is frustrating to stay home. But with no options left, many of us are forced to look for alternative methods to stay in touch with the game,” he says. With coach Somnath Ghosh guiding him at the academy, Snehit is looking ahead — he hopes to join the Indian senior team at the earliest and then make it to the Olympics. “I am aware of the challenges and the competition at the highest level. But I am confident that once I start competing in international events, I will be a much better player given the kind of training programme I am used to in the recent past,” he concluded.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Niccolo Campriani — shooting’s rare gold standard||It is not always that an Olympic gold brings happiness. Take the case of three-time Olympic champion Niccolo Campriani of Italy. “We have the right to be unhappy,” said Campriani as he talked about his project ‘Taking Refuge’, which documents the journey of refugee shooters training for the Olympics. The rifle 3-position gold in Rio in 2016 didn’t actually make Campriani happy. And it had nothing to do with him having won two golds and a silver, spread across the London and Rio Games. “I was trailing [0.6 point] before the last shot. I shot early, and it was 9.2 [best is 10.9]. It was a mistake. For eight seconds, I was happy with the silver medal. Then, Sergey Kamenskiy shot. It was bad, and I was the Olympic champion,” recalled Campriani. The Russian had shot 8.3, and lost the gold by 0.3 point. “I struggled to accept it. Didn’t feel that I earned that gold,” reasoned Campriani. In a win-at-all-costs world, it is rare to find a champion unhappy with the gold.  “After the London Olympics, I felt a void. Everyone expected me to continue shooting, and I did. Passion became an obsession. From four hours a day, I was training for 12 hours. I wasn’t enjoying it, even though I was good at it. So, I had decided that the last shot in the Rio Olympics would be the last shot of my life,” recalled Campriani. For inner peace To acquire inner peace, Campriani donated the difference in the Italian government’s cash award between the gold and silver medals, €75,000, to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), in Italy. It was one of the biggest private donations, and the UNHCR invited him to visit a refugee camp in Zambia. “It was an incredible experience,” said Campriani, who has decided to send a male and a female refugee to the Olympics. No wonder, the only individual Olympic champion in the country, Abhinav Bindra, volunteered to support the cause of his friend, Campriani. Both expect other Olympic champions to carry the legacy forward.  After the London Olympics, I felt a void. Everyone expected me to continue shooting, and I did. Passion became an obsession. From four hours a day, I started training for 12 hours
17 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Danikutty David passes away||Former Kerala volleyball captain Danikutty David passed away in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Danikutty, who was 60, had been ailing for some time. He is survived by wife and two children. Danikutty shot into prominence as the captain of the Kerala University team that won the all-India crown at Warangal in 1981. He represented Kerala in 11 successive Nationals from 1981 and was the skipper when the team won the bronze in Delhi in 1986. An attacker, Danikutty represented South India in the Trial Games of 1982 Delhi Asiad and was selected for the Indian camp for the Asian Games. He was a member of the Kerala side that won gold in the National Games in Delhi in 1985. The crowning moment of his career came when he helped Titanium win the 1993 Federation Cup and got the ‘best player’ award. “We were teammates and rivals. He was a very good player and great team-man. He was good enough to play for India. It is a personal loss to me,” said Cyril C. Velloor, former India captain and Danikutty’s close friend. “Danikutty played in an era when Kerala had some outstanding players like Jimmy George, Udayakumar, Abdul Razzak and Velloor. He held his own in a team of superstars. He attended many national camps but unfortunately couldn’t represent India,” said former Kerala Police coach T.V. Sumitrov.
17 June 2020||Chennai,||All England win crucial in my coaching journey: Gopi Chand||National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand, in a conversation with India off-spinner R. Ashwin on the show ‘DRS with Ash’, gave an insight into how seamlessly he transformed from a player to coach. “After winning the All England title, I knew what it took to triumph at the international level,” Gopi Chand said. “But I had a few injuries in 2002. I knew the formula needed to win but couldn’t use it on myself. So the only way to do it was to find other kids as I didn’t have the body to use it.” Trust factor The National coach added that the All England win helped him earn the trust of the kids when he began his second innings in the sport. “The win helped people trust me. Had I not won, it would have taken time. Especially in those initial years, it was critical. Whatever I said they believed.” He explained further: “When you finish as a player, you are almost like hanging off a cliff. You need to decide how to fall. If you decide to jump off when you have the energy, you can bounce back and use that in your next career. I jumped into coaching and that gave me the energy moving forward.” Gopi Chand also highlighted the role of coaches at different levels. He recalled how Hamid Hussain helped him fall in love with the game when he was starting, how S.M. Arif sir brought in a sense of discipline when he was at the intermediate level, and how Prakash Padukone served as an inspiration and role model at the elite level.  I knew the formula needed to win but couldn’t use it on myself. So I had to find other kids   After my playing career got over, I jumped into coaching and that gave me the energy   Gopi came up with a few interesting observations on India cricketer Ashwin’s show DRS with Ash
17 June 2020||Sydney,||T20 WC plans unrealistic: CA||Staging the Twenty20 World Cup in Australia this year in the midst of COVID-19 is “unrealistic”, Cricket Australia (CA) chairman Earl Eddings admitted on Tuesday. The tournament is scheduled to take place from October 18 to November 15. But with many global borders still shut, Eddings conceded that it is looking increasingly unlikely that the showpiece would go ahead. “While it hasn’t been formally called off this year, or postponed, trying to get 16 countries into Australia in the current world, where most countries are still going through COVID spiking, I think it’s unrealistic, or it’s going to be very, very difficult,” he said. Roberts resigns Meanwhile, CA chief executive Kevin Roberts resigned on Tuesday after the board demanded a leadership “reset” as anger simmers over its handling of the coronavirus crisis. Roberts’ departure makes him the third Australian sporting chief to fall on his sword during the pandemic, after Rugby Australia’s Raelene Castle and the National Rugby League’s Todd Greenberg. Eddings said T20 World Cup chief Nick Hockley has taken over from Roberts on an interim basis. Roberts alone is not responsible for CA’s financial woes and the culpability of the Board also needs to be fixed, said former Australian skipper Allan Border. Border’s view “You can’t just lump it all on Kevin Roberts. Surely there are other people, particularly the directors of the Australian cricket board. Where’s their culpability in all of this?” asked Border. “It was only a couple of years ago we had a couple hundred million dollars in the bank, then all of a sudden we’re broke by August this year? I just can’t quite work it out. “We’re in off-season, and all of a sudden we’re losing money hand over fist from a very strong position just a couple of years ago. “I just can’t work out where all the money’s gone,” Border said.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Sport needed now for a measure of normalcy||From mid-May to mid-June, India has seen a four-fold increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, and a similar rise in the number of deaths. That might be a strange way to begin a column on sport, but no discussion on any field of human endeavour now can start anywhere else. What we have learnt in the past weeks and months is this: We don’t know much. Future plans are balanced precariously on this non-knowing. To talk of cricket at a time like this might be offensive, even blasphemous, but sport is a measure of normalcy around the world, and we must get it right. If India remain among the top COVID-19 countries, it is unlikely their players will be welcome for a cricket series. Quid pro quo The ‘lives versus livelihood’ debate — the Australian Cricket Board will lose $300 million if India don’t tour later this year – cannot afford to get lost in the thickets of desperation. The build-up to the international season is a period of organised quid pro quo.  India accept to tour Australia in return for which the Australian board allows its players to travel for the IPL. Pakistan tour England in the hope that England will tour their country for the first time since 2005. Australia are happy to postpone the World T20 and focus on the Indian tour for practical reasons — it is more complicated to keep 16 teams and staff in a ‘biosecure’ environment for nearly a month, much easier to deal with one team. There is too the suggestion, nothing overt, that if the World T20 is postponed then that will open up a window for the IPL. Behind all these ‘return to normal’ plans, pulling the levers of sport, is television. The West Indies team is already in England, in quarantine, getting ready to play three Tests in three weeks before empty stadiums. It is a team of 14 players and 11 reserves. England are staring at a loss of nearly $300 million if there is no cricket this season. Such is the keenness of the England Cricket Board to have both the West Indies and Pakistan tour that they are paying for the chartered flights on which these teams arrive. The tour fees for the reserve players too will be paid by them. The extra players are in the team in case a substitution has to be made at short notice. The International Cricket Council has already ruled that a ‘Covid substitute’ may be used if a player tests positive during a match. The IPL question It is looking increasingly likely that the IPL will be taken out of the country — as happened in 2009 owing to Lok Sabha elections at that time — with the UAE the most likely venue. There is talk of a shorter, more focused tournament, but ultimately COVID-19 will decide. Not surprisingly, most people associated with the IPL, from the millionaire team owners and players to the cottage industry around the tournament (groundsmen, cobblers, souvenir-makers) feel confident the tournament will go ahead. Again hope, rather than realism is the cause for this optimism. The purely domestic scene seems to inspire less hope. How many and what tournaments are to be curtailed or dropped is a decision that can be taken only as the situation clarifies. Is it better to play a full season of the Ranji Trophy, which is the national championship, rather than a series of truncated tournaments? And that’s only for our senior cricketers. At the age-group levels, it is probably best to cancel the season. There is too the question of payment to the domestic players, for many of whom cricket is their livelihood. The BCCI treasurer said a couple of months ago that there would be no pay cuts, but will he be of the same mind a couple of months later? There is nothing like sport to give us a sense of normal life, and that’s something we need more urgently now than at any other time in memory. But when everyone’s survival depends on everyone else, it becomes difficult to draw the line between what is possible and what is not. We have gone from a nation that didn’t take the COVID-19 seriously to one which boasted we were better off than some European countries to one which is threatening to overtake the worst-affected. Cricket is important, but not that important.
17 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam parts ways with Valera||Gokulam Kerala has parted ways with coach Fernando Santiago Valera, for the second time in as many years. The Spaniard, who had left the club in 2018, had returned to take charge this past season. It was a season that began with a bang and ended with a whimper for the Kerala team. Valera’s boys had scored a stunning triumph at the Durand Cup in Kolkata, but had a disappointing campaign it the I-League, in which they finished sixth. The team management wasn’t happy with that show, as it had spent more on its players than ever before and had high expectations. Another reason for Gokulam not to renew the contract with Valera was the coach’s salary. The management wasn’t willing to pay what he demanded. Apparently, there were some other conditions from Valera that were not acceptable by the Gokulam management, which is currently considering the few CVs that it has received over the last few days.
17 June 2020||KOCHI,||GCDA to discuss the Nehru Stadium issue with KCA, KFA and Kerala Blasters FC||With the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) writing to the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) that it wants the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here back for international and domestic matches, the GCDA has decided to call the various stakeholders of the stadium for a discussion. The KCA had taken the stadium, which has hosted many ODI cricket matches and also international football, on a 30-year lease from its guardian GCDA in August 2014 but it has not been able to use the ground for cricket after the 2017 FIFA under-17 World Cup and it is now Kerala Blasters’ home base in the Indian Super League. The KCA now feels that it is time to get the MoU with the GCDA, in which the Kerala Football Association is also a signatory, working in its favour again. And V. Salim, the GCDA Chairman, is all for it too. “Our desire is to have all sports happening at the (Nehru) stadium. We should go forward with mutual understanding, this is a good stadium and it should be useful for everybody,” Salim told The Hindu on Tuesday. “We have to sit down with the KCA, the KFA and Kerala Blasters and discuss the issue. We plan to do this after the coronavirus issue settles down.”  There could be many contentious issues when the meeting takes place. For the KCA feels that its turf wickets which were removed for the FIFA under-17 World Cup should be restored when it gets the stadium back. “I think we had five wickets there and if we want to lay them again, it will cost us anything between Rs. 40 to Rs. 60 lakh,” said Sreejith V. Nair, the KCA secretary. “It is the responsibility of the football association or whoever is using the stadium to give back the ground and the wickets to us in the same condition they were taken... it is there in the agreement. And after the under-17 World Cup, Kerala Blasters has been hosting ISL matches at the stadium,” said Nair.
17 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Lending support to the hockey family||Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ) and GoSports Foundation, two non-government not-for-profit organisations working to support Olympic and Paralympic hopefuls, have teamed up to launch an initiative to raise funds for 200 most vulnerable people impacted by COVID-19 pandemic at the Indian hockey grassroots — groundstaff, coaches and young players — across the country. Called LetsStickTogether, the aim is to raise Rs. 20,00,000 via donations to support people at the bottom of the hockey pyramid whose lives have been torn apart in recent months. A statement released by the two organisations said: “The sport involves numerous participants both on and off the field who contribute to a team’s success. For many of these people, their involvement with hockey is their sole source of income. For others, all other sources of family income have dried up. Sport is their only hope and that hope must be protected and kept alive.”  Viren Rasquinha, OGQ CEO, said: “The aim is to raise money by July 15. Funds for first 100 beneficiaries have been collected from donors, hockey and sports followers. The disbursements have started, we need your support to help the next 100. “COVID-19 has hurt the people at the grassroots in hockey. #LetsStickTogether is an effort by OGQ and GoSports to keep the hockey fire burning against all odds.”
17 June 2020||LONDON,||Third-time lucky for Battaash in King’s Stand Stakes||Top sprinter Battaash (Jim Crowley astride) added one major title missing from his trophy cabinet, after finishing second in the past two editions, by winning the King’s Stand Stakes, one of the two Group One races at the Royal Ascot, which got underway in crowd-free conditions on Tuesday. Circus Maximus (Ryan Moore up) claimed the honours in the Queen Anne Stakes, the other Group One race on the opening day of the prestigious horse-racing event of the English summer. A total of 36 races have been scheduled in the programme. Queen hails organisers Earlier, Queen Elizabeth II, who is missing the event for the first time in her 68-year reign, said Royal Ascot would “remain one of Britain’s finest sporting occasions”. “This year Ascot will feel different for many,” the 94-year-old monarch wrote. “It is so often a chance for friends, families and colleagues to gather together and enjoy a shared passion. I am sure however, that with the valiant efforts of the organisers, owners, trainers and stable staff it will remain one of Britain’s finest sporting occasions and a highlight of the racing calendar.” Live telecast The five-day event is being telecast on the Eurosport channel, between 6 p.m. and 9.30 p.m., till June 20. Eurosport is available on Tata Sky (495), Airtel (304) and Hathaway (184).
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eight KISCEs coming up||Following up on its efforts to push for greater grassroots development of sports and infrastructure, the Sports Ministry has now decided to set up Khelo India State Centres of Excellence (KISCE) under Khelo India. While KISCE would be identified in every State, the first phase of the scheme will see eight State-owned facilities being upgraded. The eight have been selected on the basis of facilities available in priority sports, infrastructure and past champions.   The eight centres: Sangey Lhaden SA (Itanagar); Jaiprakash Narayan National Youth Centre (Bengaluru); GV Raja Sr. Sec. Sports School (Thiruvananthapuram); Khuman Lampak Sports Complex (Imphal); Rajiv Gandhi Stadium (Aizawl); State Sports Academy (Kohima); Kalinga Stadium (Bhubaneshwar), Regional Sports School (Hakimpet) .
17 June 2020||MADRID,||Sevilla stutters against Levante||Sevilla suffered a setback in its bid to qualify for next season’s Champions League group stage as a late own goal by Diego Carlos allowed visiting Levante to grab a 1-1 draw on Monday. Julen Lopetegui’s side, which sits third in LaLiga, holds a five-point lead over fifth-placed Getafe, although most of its closest rivals still have to play in this round of matches.  The results: Levante 1 (Diego Carlos 87-og) drew with Sevilla 1 (De Jong 46); Real Betis 2 (Canales 85-p, Tello 88) drew with Granada 2 (Carlos Fernandez 29, Soldado 90+1).
17 June 2020||GENEVA,||Lisbon to host CL knockout rounds: reports||The Champions League final is heading to Lisbon, with UEFA planning an August 23 final to cap seven broadcast nights in a 12-day span of elite European teams playing knockout soccer. The semifinals will be shared by the Stadium of Light and the nearby home stadium of Sporting Lisbon on August 18 and 19. Four quarterfinals are planned on consecutive nights from August 12 to 15.AP
17 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||With 334 species, Guwahati redefining concept of urban jungle||What is common to the Chinese pangolin, Nepal cricket frog, Bengal monitor lizard, Assamese cat snake, Eurasian moorhen, Asian elephant, Terai cricket frog and Ganges river dolphin? They share space with an estimated one million humans in Guwahati, Assam’s principal city and the largest in the northeast, along with 326 other species of fauna recorded so far. Very few of them are caged in the Assam State zoo that occupies 30 hectares of the 620-hectare Hengerabari Reserve Forest referred to as the city’s lungs. According to city-based wildlife biologist Jayaditya Purkayastha, Guwahati redefines the term “urban jungle” with 334 and counting free-ranging faunal species living in the green spaces within concrete structures. The 328-sq km city and its outskirts have 18 hills, eight reserve forests, two wildlife sanctuaries and a Ramsar site (Deepor Beel) besides the Brahmaputra flowing past its northern edge. This stretch of the river has a few Ganges river dolphin, which has the status of ‘city animal’. Mr. Purkayastha and members of Help Earth, a green group, have over the years recorded 26 species of amphibians, 56 reptiles, 36 mammals and 216 birds. “We have more than 1,100 captive wild animals belonging to 107 species, of which 52 are highly protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972. Our captive animals include exotic species such as giraffe, hippopotamus, macaw, Gaboon viper and some birds,” said Tejas Mariswamy, the zoo’s director. “There have been reports of animals exploring human habitations during the COVID-19 lockdown. This has never been the case with Guwahati where people have co-existed with arguably the widest range of fauna despite human-animal conflicts such as the lynching of a leopard a few day ago,” Mr. Purkayastha told The Hindu . His specialisation in herpetology triggered the initiative of documenting urban wildlife rather than ‘conventional’ areas such as the Kaziranga National Park. Among the reptiles, he has recorded 10 species of turtles, 18 of lizards and 30 of snakes. “Six of Guwahati’s resident snakes are venomous, three of them [krait] strictly nocturnal while the monocled cobra is around wetlands. Thus, the snakes we see in the city are most likely to be non-venomous, providing services such as rodent population control,” he said. Wildlife specialists are worried that Guwahati has been following the global trend, which projects the urban area on earth to triple before 2030. “Our innate obsession with big and colourful creatures makes it hard to recognise the small and less charismatic species. The common Asian toad, red-eyed frog, tokay gecko, Salazar’s pit viper, Indian roofed turtle, bar-headed goose and oriental turtle dove need to survive as much as their larger neighbours like the elephant, gaur, leopard, Bengal fox, dhole and Indian flying squirrel,” Mr. Purkayastha said.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Azhvars’ coming foretold||Karabhajana was one of the nava yogiswaras, who answered King Nimi’s questions. This conversation between Nimi and Karabhajana finds a place in Srimad Bhagavatam, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Karabhajana describes Vishnu’s forms in different yugas and explains how He was worshipped in the many yugas. Karabhajana says that in Kali yuga, Vishnu is worshipped through nama sankirtana. Many sages who lived in Krita Yuga want to be born in Kali Yuga as Vishnu bhaktas, so that they can sing the praises of Vishnu. Nimi asks Karabhajana, where these bhaktas will be born. Karabhajana says that they will be born in Dravida desa, on the banks of the Tamraparani, on the banks of the Vaigai, on the banks of the Palar and on the banks of west flowing rivers. Here it is clear that Karabhajana was predicting the birth of the Azhvars. Periyazhvar and Andal appeared on the banks of the Vaigai; Nammazhvar and Madhurakavi on the banks of the Tamraparani; Tondaradippodi Azhvar, Tirumangai Azhvar and Thiruppanazhvar on the banks of the Cauvery; Poigai Azhvar, Bhootatazhvar, Peyazhvar and Thirumazhisai Azhvar on the banks of the Palar and Kulasekara Azhvar in the South Western region — Kerala. Thus, the appearance of the Azhvars in Tamil Nadu and Kerala was predicted in the Bhagavata Purana, and as foreseen, the Azhvars appeared on the banks of the rivers mentioned in the Purana. Karabhajana also predicts that these devotees would not desire anything but His mercy. Every individual is born with three debts — debts to devas, rishis and one’s ancestors. Hari bhaktas are released from these three debts, says Srimad Bhagavatam. King Nimi learned about Bhagavata dharma and about the worship of Vishnu from the nava yogisvaras. After they advised Nimi, the nine yogis disappeared.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 10:21 IST,||Sudoku - June 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Ordinary objects, extraordinary art||In the photograph Joker (of Batman fame) falls off a building, his evil grin intact. You may be forgiven for thinking it is a still from the film. Look closer and you will see the Joker is but an action figure and the buildings behind him are made of AC vents, bluetooth speakers, keyboards and dumbbells. The street lamps you see in the picture are actually rice lights and candle LEDs. The photograph is a result of Mumbai-based photographer Arjun Menon’s boredom. It was frustrating being in lockdown because just before it, he had shot a series of pictures with the Indian Army in action with tanks, guns and helicopters. He began looking for creative ways to keep his photography going and looking around found some interesting ideas. “I have always loved my old action figures, so featuring them was an obvious choice. I started looking for things within my house that would help me create a background. And suddenly, a whole new world opened up. I realised that ordinary objects, clicked from a certain angle, can create an illusion. These could be anything from a cheese grater to an oven, or even a computer cabinet,” he says. What started as a one-time thing has turned into a series of 12 images. His other pictures include Batman in a fight with Joker with Gotham city burning behind them, Wolverine cornered by his enemies, and Predator and Terminator locking horns. He says, “I have been a professional photographer for nine years, but this project has been a completely new learning process. With each image, I seem to have a better idea of how to compose a frame and what camera angles to use so that the image looks more realistic. This series has taught me so much about perspective, scale, and lighting.”  He posts each picture along with behind-the-scenes videos, on his Instagram handle @artleavesmark. “It takes at least four to seven days to create each image.” Some are tougher than others, and perhaps the most difficult of the lot was the ‘Self aware-Terminator’. “I wanted to shoot a scene filled with molten lava. It took me days to figure about a way to make the lava. Finally, I thought of orange jelly as a possible solution, and my wife and I made a big batch of it. The viscosity and colour worked perfectly.” Arjun says that post-lockdown, he will continue to shoot for the series. “The thrill of creating something visually pleasing with abstract props is always a challenge. I love to learn and train myself to think differently.”
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Axone shines a torch on how diverse culture is’||Sayani Gupta eats fish like a cat: bones, head, et al much to horror of people dining with her. The disagreement on food choices and practices is a miniscule example of the existing prejudices everyone carries despite how ‘woke’ they claim to be. “We all feel like we are the ones who’s right,” says the 34-year-old actor. “There’s this constant debate about us and them, whether it’s Hindu-Muslim; Brahmin-Dalit; or even black-white. I don’t know why people are constantly trying to divide us, we’re all ultimately going to die,” she laughs. The solution then, according to Gupta, is to consciously operate from a place of respect and empathy. Easier said than done, of course. Authentic representation The actor is delving into the subject of intolerance while talking to The Hindu because of her latest role in Nicholas Kharkongor’s Axone . She plays Upasana, a young Nepali woman in Delhi, part of a gang of friends who happen to be North Eastern migrants. The group of youngsters are clutching onto their roots while trying to assimilate in the Capital’s North Indian culture. At the same time, love, camaraderie and life’s other struggles plague their daily existence. “It’s a very simple film, not at all rocket science,” says Gupta. “It might underline something we might choose to ignore but all of us understand these things.” In the film, a group of friends are trying their hardest to prepare axone — pronounced akuney — pork made with fermented soybean paste. An acquired taste, the dish has been described as pungent enough to curl nose hairs. But like a character in the film says, the protagonists have a right to make their own food. In turn, the people they live around can refuse to tolerate its aroma. Using the politics of food, director Kharkongor highlights racism, that is felt by North Eastern migrants and in turn their own prejudices  as well. “That’s one of the reasons I jumped on this film,” explains the actor. “For the first time, I came across a script that was so authentic in its representation of people from the North East. It shines a torch on how diverse the culture is.” Important messages Made on a shoe-string  budget, the film was shot in Delhi during the infernally hot month of July; a time when most locals flee for better climates. In addition to cruel natural elements, most of the shoot was conducted in basements and cramped houses without air conditioning. “The shoot was misery,” guffaws Gupta adding that almost every member of the cast was hospitalised because of dehydration, food poisoning or consuming bad water. A particularly moving scene with the stars of the film walking hand in hand towards their destination clad in the finest of traditional attire had a darker backstory. “I must have spent the previous night preparing 35 bottles of ORS,” reveals the actor. “We had to hold up [Asenla Jamir who plays Minam] or she would have fallen otherwise.” Despite the trials, though, Gupta says the sheer experience of making Axone far outweighed whatever they had to endure. To be able to present this light-hearted story that had a much deeper and important message just beneath the surface. The cast and crew today heartily laugh over the misery they suffered. The character of Upasana is an opportunity for Gupta to portray a woman with agency, an utterly important criterion when it comes to project selection. From playing a blind lesbian activist in Margarita with a Straw (2015) to Dalit woman Gaura in Article 15 (2019) and the investigative journalist Damini Rizvi-Roy in Four More Shots Please . In spite of leaps in craft and filmmaking, Gupta believes diversity and gender representation on screen in India has a long way to go. “I know for a fact that Four More Shots and content about women with control of their lives made a section of people, mostly men, disturbed,” reveals Gupta adding that there needs to be more stories about women instead of them being accessories in someone else’s life. Axone is currently streaming on Netflix   For the first time, I came across a script that was so authentic in its representation of people from the North East.Sayani Gupta
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Four designated courts to deal with trial of Delhi riots cases||The Delhi High Court has designated two sessions and two magisterial courts for trial of the recent communal violence registered in the north-east and Shahdara districts in the Capital. “The courts of CMM-9 [Chief Metropolitan Magistrate], North-East, KKD [Karkardooma] and MM-4 [Metropolitan Magistrate], Shahdara, KKD are designated as the courts for trial of recent communal violence/riot cases registered in the north-east and Shahdara districts respectively,” the order issued by the HC Registrar General said. “The courts of ASJ [Additional Sessions Judge] -3, North-East, KKD and ASJ-3, Shahdara, KKD are designated as courts for trial of the recent riots,” another order stated. It, further, stated that all other cases, except riot cases, from the four courts will be withdrawn and assigned to some other courts. Seven chargesheets Meanwhile, the Delhi Police on Tuesday filed seven chargesheets against 39 persons in Karkardooma court in connection with the north-east riots, the police said. A senior police officer said that the first chargesheet has been filed in Anwar murder case reported from Karawal Nagar. Sources said that five persons were arrested in this case. “Anwar was shot dead after which being beaten up and his body was burnt inside his house,” the officer said. The second chargesheet was filed in Aftab murder case reported from Karawal Nagar and three persons were arrested in the case. Aftab was attacked by a mob and then thrown into the drain. He was a Class 11 student who had come from Bijnor a week before riots broke out. The third chargesheet was filed in Babu Salmani murder case reported from Khajuri Khas. Sources said that 16 persons were arrested in connection with the case. Babu, an auto driver, was on his way home when he was attacked by a mob. The fourth chargesheet was submitted in Salman murder case reported from Karawal Nagar. Sources said that three persons were held in connection with the crime. The fifth chargesheet was submitted in Vir Bhan Singh’s murder case also reported from Karawal Nagar. In this case, four persons have been chargesheeted, police sources said. He was going to have food when he was shot dead. The sixth and seventh chargesheet was registered in Alok Tiwari and Dinesh Kumar murder cases reported from Karawal Nagar respectively. Four persons each were arrested in both case. The officer said that a total of 14 Hindus and 25 Muslims were chargesheeted on Tuesday.
17 June 2020||June 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Sounds of a pandemic: indie style||When the lockdown was announced in late March, one expected a slowdown in the number of independent music releases. Interestingly, that didn’t happen. Many artistes released singles, both in Hindi and English, though a sizeable chunk talked about the coronavirus. The most heartening bit is that there has been a spate of new rock albums since March, this year. What’s noteworthy is that the big labels, more keen to promote Indian hip-hop and soppy ballads, are nowhere involved. All these groups have produced their music independently.       Established acts  On March 15, just a few days before the lockdown began, Bengaluru band Thermal And A Quarter released its latest album A World Gone Mad . Fronted by popular artiste Bruce Lee Mani, this had the group’s trademark sound and smooth guitar lines, with cool tracks like ‘Where Do We Gotta Go Now’, ‘Distance’ and ‘Unbelong’. More recently, Delhi band Menwhopause put out the seven-track set Binge Walking . Vocalist Sarabjit Chadha, who had quit in the interim, returns to sing beauties like ‘Little Lies’, ‘Off-Kilter’ and ‘Mellow Breeze’. Good songwriting, an atmospheric vibe, intense guitars and classy production add to the charm, and the album is as listenable as their successful 2011 EMI Music release Easy . If Thermal And A Quarter and Menwhopause are established acts with a dedicated following, the other albums were released by relatively new outfits. Mumbai-based Protocol, a six-piece progressive rock band fronted by Shweta Venkataramani, has a clear winner in Friar's Lantern . Venkataramani seems influenced by Amy Lee of Evanescence and Alanis Morissette, and the band’s sound appears inspired by progressive acts, Porcupine Tree and Opeth, and some 1990s thrash metal. It's a good combination, and the songs ‘An Honest Conversation’, ‘Swipe Left’ and ‘Perfection’ prove their mettle. Guitarists Desikan Gopalan and Sandesh Rao, keyboardist Rahul Kannan, drummer Nachiket Karekar and bassist Vivian D'Souza (now replaced by Rajiv Menon) shine.       Talent and rhythm  Also from Mumbai, electro-rockers Corner Cafe Chronicles have released their debut album Renaissance Part 1 , going in for reverse crowd funding. They are known for the earlier single ‘Gloria's Kitchen’, and have come up with a coherent six-song set. The band, which features Chinmay Patkar, Soumitra Vichare, Parth Malhotra and Swanand Thakur, uses a lot of synths and samples, besides guitar and bass. The songs ‘Porcelain People’ and ‘Shapes; have strong doses of psychedelia. Finally, one must mention Beyond: Life by Pune guitarist Mradul Singhal, who was killed in a motorcycle accident in March. Released posthumously, this stays away from his characteristic metal sound and falls in the chill-out, ambient zone, as his acoustic guitar is in conversation with the fretless bass of Brazilian musician Samuel Chacon. All this proves that there is good talent in the independent English music space, with artistes ready to record original material. The fact that they are releasing well-approached albums, instead of singles, proves their dedication. A bit of push from the recording labels will do wonders. But barring a few bands, not many have got the necessary industry backing.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea for CBI probe into workers’ fund||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the city government to respond to petition seeking CBI probe into alleged misappropriation in the Rs. 3,200-crore cess fund meant for migrant and construction workers in the Capital. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar also issued notice to the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers (DBOCW) Welfare Board on the petition by NGO - PT Deendayal Upadhyay Smriti Sansthan. The High Court posted the case for further hearing on July 2. ‘Rampant corruption’ Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the NGO, said some incriminating documents showed the alleged rampant corruption by the Delhi government and the welfare board and misutilisation of the Rs. 3,200-crore Delhi Building Cess fund by fraudulently giving benefits to non construction workers such as auto drivers, factory workers, tailors and hawkers. The NGO said each State has its own ‘cess fund’ which is collected for the owners/employers of building and other construction works under the Building and Other Construction Workers 9RE & CS) Act, by collecting one per cent on the cost incurred on the project. Delhi cess fund has collected around Rs. 3,200 crore, which was created exclusively for the benefit of registered construction workers.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Arrange travel services for mandi migrants’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the city government to prepare a chart of schedule for train or bus services which will be used to help migrant labourers, stranded at Azadpur Mandi here, to take them to their respective States. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said the Delhi government has to prepare the chart in advance, alongwith the date and time of departure of the train or buses, so that the migrants can be informed well in advance. “It is not expected that 686 labourers should land up together at the inter-State bus terminals or at the railway stations and continue waiting there to board buses or trains for heading to their hometowns,” the Bench remarked. Set up help desk The Bench also directed that a help desk shall be set up at Azadpur Mandi at the earliest, so that shelter can be offered to those labourers, who are still spending the night in the open at the mandi or are in need of ready meals. The High Court’s direction came while hearing a PIL by the Potato and Onion Masakhour Merchant Association to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi, during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown period, are provided two square meals in a day, till normalcy is restored.
17 June 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA wants cashless treatment for staff||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Tuesday wrote to the Vice-Chancellor calling for provisions to treat university teachers and employees in case they test positive for COVID-19. Instead of the earlier directions, according to which if COVID-19 patients from the university are unable to pay expenses of treatment at a private hospital, they are to be transferred to a government hospital, the DUTA demanded that the university facilitate cashless treatment to all employees and their dependent family members suffering from COVID-19 in all designated hospitals in Delhi-NCR to minimise loss of time and harassment, it said. It also demanded that ad hoc, guest and contractual employees get the same financial relief and medical benefits to assist in disease management. The union also suggested the the ‘Teachers Welfare Fund’ of the university which “has been lying unused for many years now” be activated to provide financial aid to DU employees requiring treatment for COVID-19. Touching upon a recent incident of the death of professor Wali Akhtar who was reportedly denied timely treatment at several leading hospitals, the DUTA said that the university must write to the hospitals which denied treatment to express its anguish. It also urged the V-C to “explore all possible avenues to ensure that hospitals which are on the university panel are duty-bound not to turn away any patient and provide timely treatment.”
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mother-son duo distribute free home-made masks in south Delhi||A mother-son duo in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park has taken the initiative to distribute home-made masks for free. Laxmi Das, 56, and her 24-year-old son Sourav Das are currently running a #pickonestaysafe campaign in the area by putting up dispensers at markets in the locality. The initiative began soon after the lockdown was announced and the Capital was reeling under a shortage of masks and PPE kits, said Mr. Das, a documentary film-maker. “Just after the lockdown began I went and bought two very expensive masks. That is when the idea struck us. My mother decided to stitch the masks at home itself,” said Mr. Das. I had already been stitching masks for villagers in Nainital even before the lockdown, he added. The mask dispensers are made out of recycled boxes. “There are around five dispensers, made of leftover chocolate and hair dryer boxes, installed as of now,” said Mr. Das. The duo has already distributed nearly 2,200 home-made masks, the raw material for which is being procured from a relative who owns a apparel factory.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man beats youth to death over theft suspicion||A 41-year-old man has been arrested for beating a youth to death over suspicion of theft in south east Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin on Tuesday, police said. DCP (South-East), R.P. Meena, said that the accused has been identified as Mehtab, a resident of Sarai Kale Khan, who allegedly killed Gautam, a resident of Govindpuri. The police said that a PCR call was received regarding a murder at a DDA Park near Baba Bhure Shah Dargah. When the police reached the spot, the body was found with bruises on chest, back and thighs after which a murder case was registered. During investigation, it was revealed that Mehtab caught the victim suspecting that he had stolen his mobile phone. “The accused tied him to an e-rickshaw and beat him up with iron rods and plastic pipes,” Mr. Meena said.
17 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia to hold online exams||Jamia Millia Islamia on Tuesday said that the Academic Council of the university had decided that holding offline examinations for terminal semester/year in the month of July was found to be non-viable as the same may further compromise the well-being of the students. “Keeping the JMI students health concern prime and in accordance with the flexibility given in UGC guidelines on final semester/ year examination mode to be adopted by each university, Jamia Millia Islamia has decided not to have a face-to-face exam/ open book exam, etc. in July/August in Delhi for terminal class students,” the university said. It added that the assessment of terminal/final semester/year students of all the programmes, including MPhil./PhD course work will be done on the basis of online examination/assessment.
