17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish starts new term with 14-member team||Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar was on Monday sworn in as Bihar Chief Minister by Governor Phagu Chauhan at the Raj Bhavan here on Monday. Along with him, 14 Ministers from all the four NDA constituent parties took oath. Two four-time BJP legislators, Tarkishore Prasad from the Katihar constituency and Renu Devi from Bettiah, who were sworn in, were tipped to be Deputy Chief Ministers. Five Ministers from the BJP who took the oath were Amarendra Pratap Singh, Ram Surat Rai, Rampreet Paswan, Mangal Pandey and Jivesh Kumar Mishra. Party sources said senior State BJP leader Nand Kishore Yadav, who was the Road Construction Minister in the previous NDA government, was tipped to be the Assembly Speaker. From the JD(U), Vijay Choudhury, Ashok Choudhury, Mewalal Choudhury, Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Sheela Kumari took oath as Ministers. Ms. Kumari had won the polls for the first time from the Phulparas constituency in Madhubani district and Mr. Mewalal Choudhury, former Vice-Chancellor of Sabour Agricultural University, was elected from the Tarapur constituency in Munger for the second time. Mr. Vijay Choudhury was the Speaker in the previous NDA government. Mukesh Sahni from the Vikassheel Insaan Party and Santosh Kumar Suman from the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) also took oath. Mr. Suman is the son of party chief and former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Judge recuses himself from Jagan case||Justice U.U. Lalit of the Supreme Court on Monday recused himself from hearing separate writ petitions that sought action against the Andhra Pradesh government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for levelling “false, vague and political allegations” against Supreme Court judge N.V. Ramana and other High Court judges. The judge, who leads a three-member Bench, withdrew from hearing the case, explaining that he had, as a lawyer, represented some of the parties involved in the case. Justice Lalit, one of the few senior advocates directly elevated as Supreme Court judge in the history of the court, said, “I have difficulty in hearing this... I cannot take up this matter. I have as a lawyer represented some of these parties.” The Bench then recorded a short order, requesting Chief Justice of India (CJI) S.A. Bobde to list the case before an appropriate Bench. Letter by CM The petitions relate to a letter by Mr. Reddy addressed to the CJI against the judges and the subsequent revelation of its contents at a press conference. Recently, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal refrained from giving his statutory consent to pleas seeking contempt of court action against Mr. Reddy and his Principal Adviser Ajeya Kallam. Mr. Venugopal said it was up to the CJI, who is “seized of the letter”, to take an appropriate decision.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 cases dip to 502 in Telangana||The lowest number of daily cases in Telangana in the past four-and-half months was recorded on Sunday. Only 502 positive cases were detected as only 17,296 samples were examined. Usually, around 40,000 to 45,000 samples are tested in a day. From July, this is the lowest number of cases. The second lowest of 14,729 tests and 582 cases were recorded on October 25. The number of tests dropped on day of festivals and Sundays. The new 502 cases on Sunday include 141 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 72 from Rangareddy. No case was detected in Yadadri Bhongir and Narayanpet. Results of 288 samples were awaited. From March 2 to November 15, a total of 48,91,729 samples were examined and 2,57,876 were found to be positive for coronavirus. Of the total cases, 14,385 were active cases, 2,42,084 have recovered, and 1,407 have died.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP, TDP trying to appease Muslims: Somu||Accusing the ruling YSRCP of trying to appease Muslims in the Nandyal family suicide case, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said it is unfortunate that the State government had got Circle Inspector Somasekhar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar arrested on charge of abetting suicide of the family members of Abdul Salaam, without considering the fact that the policemen were investigating the case in which the deceased auto driver was a suspect. “The YSRCP gave in to the pressure from the Muslim community and cases were registered against the policemen who were doing their duty. TDP leader N. Chandrababu Naidu has raked up the controversy by calling for an agitation. It is evident from this episode that the YSRCP and TDP are resorting to vote bank politics,” Mr. Veerraju told the media here on Monday. He further said that the BJP was accused of doing politics in the name of religion when it raised its voice on issues related to the TTD and questioned the Antarvedi temple chariot burning incident. “The BJP will continue to speak on the matters concerning the Hindus,” he said. Referring to the Tungabhadra Pushkaram, the BJP leader said the government had imposed curbs on bathing at the river ghats built at a cost of nearly Rs. 200 crore during the pushakaram, beginning November 20. “Instead of preventing the devotees from having the holy dip in the river in the wake of COVID-19, the government should let the festival go on smoothly by taking the necessary measures,” said Mr. Veerraju. Polavaram project Mr. Veerraju said that the Central government would sanction funds to the Polavaram project, but not before letting the people know how the TDP and the YSRCP governments got benefited by jacking up the costs. “The YSRCP government should probe into the alleged irregularities that took place during the TDP regime and be fair about the financial implications of the national project. Both parties owe an explanation on how the project cost went up to around Rs. 50,000 crore from Rs. 28,000 crore,” Mr. Veerraju said, saying that both the contractors to whom the project was awarded were not above suspicion. He alleged that Mr. Chandrababu Naidu had no intention to build the Polavaram project. “Instead, the TDP president had got two lift irrigation schemes constructed in East and West Godavari districts. It was only at the behest of the BJP that Mr. Naidu undertook the ambitious project,” Mr. Veerraju claimed. Expressing concern over the ‘rampant red sanders smuggling’ in the State, the BJP leader said the DSP heading the task force was inactive.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||No lockdown, peak of third wave over: Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the government will not impose any lockdown in the city because of the COVID-19 situation. He also said that the peak of third wave of the infection had passed and positivity of cases would slowly come down. The Minister said the “lowest positivity” is among healthcare workers of COVID-19 hospitals because they are “taking measures for protection”. “The people who are in the most dangerous condition have the lowest positivity because they are protecting themselves. So, protection is sufficient,” Mr. Jain said. A total of 2,324 healthcare workers in Delhi have been infected by COVID-19 and 75 of them have died till October, according to a report prepared by the National Centre for Disease Control under the Central government. Mask benefits Addressing reporters on Monday, Mr. Jain said, “I don’t think there will be a lockdown. We have learned from previous lockdowns that we can get the benefit of lockdown by using masks. (There is) no chance of a lockdown.” Mr. Jain asked people not to be worried by the number of cases. “I can tell you definitely the peak of Delhi’s third wave has passed. The first wave was in June, the second wave was in September. You look at the positivity, it was 15% one day, but that level was not reached after it. The peak is gone and slowly it will come down,” the Minister said. He said that “positivity” is the most important factor. “In June, the weekly average of positivity was 37%, in the second wave also it went up to 12-13%, now the highest was 15% and is now decreasing,” he added. Mr. Jain said that people should be “a little” afraid of the virus and not be careless. He asserted that stricter actions will be taken against people for not following COVID-19 safety norms in public, and said penalties worth Rs. 45 crore have been imposed in the last several days for such violations. “The problem is many people are not feeling afraid of this virus at all, and some people are too scared. We have to strike a balance,” he said. The Minister also said that Delhi has conducted the highest number of tests per million people and that is the reason for higher number of cases in the city. (With inputs from PTI)
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Winter session of Parliament unlikely amid rising COVID cases||The winter session of Parliament that usually commences by last week of November is unlikely to be held due to the high number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, according to sources. As per parliamentary records, there have only been three instances in the past of the winter session not being held — in 1975, 1979 and 1984. The Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs (CCPA) meets to decide the dates for the session and the announcement has to be made giving Members of Parliament at least two weeks’ notice. So far, the CCPA has not met and the government is mulling over combining the Budget session of Parliament, which usually begins on February 1, and the winter session. The Constitution mandates there should not be a gap of six months or more between two sessions. With the monsoon session of Parliament held in September, the government has no constitutional compulsion to hold a winter session. During the monsoon session of Parliament, nearly 40 MPs tested positive for the virus. Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu also tested positive soon after the conclusion of the winter session. So far three MPs — Kanniyakumari MP H. Vasanthakumar, Tirupati MP Balli Durga Prasad and Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti have died due to complications arising from COVID-19 infection. None of them had attended the session. The monsoon session that was called on September 14 was supposed to go on till October 1, with a total 18 sittings. It was cut short by eight days and concluded on September 24. The previous Budget session of Parliament too ended abruptly on March 23 for a similar reason.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shaheen Bagh activists seek verdict review||Twelve individuals, who took part in the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest at Shaheen Bagh, on Monday sought a review of the Supreme Court judgment which declared the demonstration of dissent as “unacceptable” for blocking a public road. On October 7, a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the protest, considered an iconic dissent mounted by the mothers, children and senior citizens of Shaheen Bagh against the controversial citizenship law, was inconvenient for commuters. The court had said the protesters should express their dissent only in designated areas chosen by the administration. Right to dissent should not hamper the right of movement of the public. Protest should not become a nuisance, the 13-page verdict had said. Though it had upheld the right to peaceful protest against a law, it unequivocally made it clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied, and that too indefinitely. Fundamental rights do not live in isolation. The right of the protester has to be balanced with the right of the commuter. They have to co-exist in mutual respect, the court had said in October. In the review petition, Kazi Fatima and 11 others said the protesters were not even heard by the court. The review petition asked how the court can restrict expressions of dissent to certain designated areas. ‘Restricting dissent’ “Restricting protests to designated areas upsets the very concept of dissent and protests... Protests are the only way for citizens in a democracy to show their dissent. Curb on this freedom leaves citizens with no resort to voice their concerns,” the review petition said. It referred to how the “police have in the recent past acted arbitrarily by beating students and protesters”. The observations made by the court in the judgment “clothes the police with an arbitrary discretion to attack any peaceful protesters”. “This would lead to a situation wherein the administration would never engage in dialogue with protesters, but instead take action against them, including their prosecution,” the petition said. The court had said it was finally the pandemic, which intervened like the “hand of God”, that led the protesters to relent and end the blockade. The demonstration was removed by the police from the site on March 24.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Stringent provisions against violations in new GHMC Act||The upcoming new GHMC Act will have stiff penalties like demolition without notice for constructions taken up on lake beds or storm-water drains, or encroaching on any full tank level or buffer zone of the water bodies, said Minister for IT, Industries and Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. Such action will also be taken against those misusing the new TS-bPASS — Building Plan Approval and Self-Certification System — by violating bylaws, open setback rules, constructing on government property and building extra floors, among others. “TS-bPASS is an easy online process for getting building permissions, making the town planning and municipal officials accountable but the onus is also on the applicant to adhere to the ‘self-certification’ process or stringent action will follow,” said Mr. Rama Rao. Launching the TS-bPASS formally at the Marri Chenna Reddy Human Resource Development Institute (MCR-HRD) in the presence of Mayor B. Rammohan and senior officials, the Minister said discussions will be held with legal experts and the judiciary to apprise them about the new regulations. He pointed out that the recent floods had affected a large number of people and it was a result of decades of permitting encroachments on water bodies due to rapid urbanisation. TS-bPASS allows online automatic approvals for building plans from 75 sq. yards to 600 sq. yards with online payments and issuance of the permissions too. For plots above 600 sq. yards permissions have to be issued within 21 days in a single window so that clearance for fire safety, airports authority, irrigation department, and others can also be obtained. Any shortfall will be intimated within a week and permissions delayed beyond 21 days are deemed to be approved. There are also penalties for any delay in the approvals by any particular official, said Municipal Administration Secretary Arvind Kumar.  Mr. Rama Rao said TS-bPASS backed by legislation and along with the new ‘Dharani’ portal providing instant registration and mutation of properties are citizen-friendly initiatives of the KCR government so that not a single paisa need to be paid as bribe. “These are not simple reforms and will be benchmarks for other States and they will be forced to emulate,” he claimed. The Minister quickly accepted the suggestion made by president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India – Hyderabad (CREDAI-Hyd) P. Rama Krishna Rao to link the TS-bPASS with TS-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TS-RERA) and sought feedback to improve the process. In this context, Mr. Rama Rao urged builders not to jack up prices but keep the affordability tag intact as it is the unique selling proposition (USP) of Hyderabad City and keep them within the majority people’s affordable range. The Minister also gave away instant permissions under the new format to about 10 persons with one Ms. Ramadevi becoming the first successful applicant for 66 sq.yards. Chief City Planner Devender Reddy presided.
17 November 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,||Krishna district to get five child-friendly police stations||The Krishna district police has decided to transform five police stations into child-friendly one by allotting some place for creating play area for children. As part of the ongoing Children’s Day celebrations from November 14 to 20, the authorities have planned to launch the child-friendly police stations in the district, said Krishna Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. “Five police stations in Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Gudivada, Nandigama and Avanigadda police sub-divisions will be transformed into child-friendly police stations, in collaboration with the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department, and NGOs,” the SP said. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha and Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, during a webinar with the police officers recently, has asked them to promote ‘child-friendly’ policing in the State. Child rights Mr. Sawang has instructed the officers to take measures to prevent child labour and protect child rights. “Under the Section 107 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, each police station should have a child welfare police officer, to deal with the children in conflict with law and child in need of care and protection (CNCP). To create some space for the rescued and runaway children and to deal with children in emergency conditions, child-friendly police stations are being planned in all divisions,” District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar told The Hindu on Monday. Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) State programme director P. Francis Thambi, who sponsored the facilities at child-friendly police stations, said the theme was to create child-friendly atmosphere on the station premises. First-of-its-kind move “Toys, garments, play material, first-aid and furniture have been arranged at the child-friendly stations. The officer deputed at the station will attend to the duties by wearing a pink T-Shirt,” said Mr. Francis and thanked the SP for the move. Another sponsor, World Vision India State Manager Tabita Francis, thanked the State government, DGP and the SP for the initiative, saying that it is a first-of-its- kind initiative in the State. Mr. Ravindranath Babu said the child-friendly police stations at Gudivada and Machilipatnam, would be inaugurated on November 20, marking the International Child Rights Day.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Counselling for medical, dental admissions to kick off tomorrow||Counselling for filling medical and dental seats in Tamil Nadu will begin on Wednesday, with the first session devoted to special categories and then the seats reserved for government school students, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Monday. As on date, 313 seats in MBBS and 92 in BDS were available for government school students under the 7.5% reservation. The State has 3,650 MBBS seats and 194 BDS seats under the State quota. Of these, 227 seats in MBBS and 12 seats in BDS were reserved for government school students. The State will have 2,805 MBBS seats and 153 BDS seats after surrendering seats to the All-India Quota. In the management category, 2,100 seats are available in MBBS and 1,760 in BDS. Of these, 86 seats in MBBS and 80 in BDS are reserved for government school students. A total of MBBS 306 seats are reserved for NRI candidates. Of the 24,712 applications received, 23,707 were found eligible. As many as 15,885 candidates from the State board and 7,366 candidates from the CBSE/SSCE stream have applied; 285 students of the ISCE stream have also applied. A total of 171 candidates from other boards are also on the list. For the government quota seats, the Directorate of Medical Education had received 972 applications, of which 951 were eligible. While three candidates were listed under the Other Category, four were under the ST category. The most number of applicants were under the Backward Class category — 332 — and 327 under the Most Backward Class/Denotified Communities. Among the applicants, 9,596 are from the current year and 14,111 are those who passed Class 12 prior to the academic year 2019-20. The Directorate of Medical Education has set aside 80 seats for persons with disabilities under the 5% reservation. A total of 412 seats have been reserved for sportspersons and 448 seats for wards of ex-servicemen. Toppers Srijan R, of Tiruppur, has topped the State’s merit list with a score of 710 in NEET. Mohanaprabha Ravichandran of Namakkal is ranked second with a score of 705, while G. Swetha of Chennai is ranked third with 701. Among the government school students under the special reservation, Jeevithkumar R of Theni district is ranked first, with a score of 664. Anbarasan S of Kallakurichi with a score of 646 and Dhivyadharshini S of Chennai with a score of 620 are ranked second and third. Gunasekaran R of Vellore, who has scored 562, is ranked fourth. He is an Adi Dravida student who studied at the Government Adi Dravidar Higher Secondary School at T.T. Mottur. In the management category, the first two ranks have been bagged by students from Kerala. Jai Murhekar, of Chennai, is ranked third with a score of 691. Counselling process Counselling will be held at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium from November 18, with 500 candidates being called for each session. As usual, counselling will be held first for special categories such as persons with disabilities and wards of ex-servicemen and sportspersons and then for government school students and the general category, the Minister said. Dr. Vijayabaskar said the counselling would be in-person as the government wanted to scrutinise claims of nativity and ensure that only genuine candidates were given admission. Several teams had been formed to scrutinise every certificate produced by the candidates, he said.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC declines orders on GHMC reserved divisions’ rotation||Telangana High Court on Monday declined to pass any interim orders in a PIL petition stating that government was gearing up for GHMC elections without following the rule of rotation of reserved divisions. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, however, directed the State government, State Election Commission and GHMC Commissioner to file detailed counter affidavits on the matter. The petition was filed by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Dasoju Sravan Kumar. He contended that the Supreme Court had earlier ruled that reserved divisions must be governed by rule of rotation but the State government was not adhering to it. Due to this, people belonging to most backward classes were being deprived of an opportunity to avail reservations, he stated. Hearing contentions of the petitioner’s lawyer, the bench expressed dissatisfaction over the petitioner moving the HC on the matter just before GHMC elections and observed the petitioner seemed to be aiming at deferring the elections. The previous GHMC elections were held in 2016. The bench remarked that the petitioner had an option of moving the HC after the previous GHMC elections and securing clear order on the matter. The bench directed the Registry to tag this petition to batch of PIL pleas with similar content. Meanwhile, Justice A. Abhishek Reddy of the HC placed before the bench headed by the CJ a writ petition challenging section 5 (2) (e) of the GHMC Amendment Act-2020 pertaining to rotation of reserved divisions. GHMC former Deputy Mayor and BJP leader Subhash Chander Ji filed the petition seeking a direction to declare the amendment as illegal. Earlier there was rotation of reserved divisions for one term. The amendment which made rotation for two consecutive terms was in violation of constitutional provisions, the petitioner’s counsel B. Rachna Reddy contended.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports lowest single-day infection count in last four months||The State has reported 753 new cocornavirus infections and 13 new deaths in the last 24 hours, ending on Monday morning. With this, the overall tally went up to 8,54,764 and the toll to 6,881. It was lowest single-day tally in nearly the past four months. The State has been witnessing less than 2,000 cases per day for the past eight days. However, only 43,044 samples were tested in the past day as against the 70,000 on an average in the past several weeks. The positivity rate of the samples tested in the past day was put at 1.75%, which was lowest in over the past four months. Positivity rate declines Also, the overall positivity rate of 91.97 lakh samples tested so far came down to 9.29%. The death rate and recovery rate remained at 0.81% and 97.10% respectively while 8,29,991 patients including 1,507 in the past day have recovered. There are 17,892 active patients in the State. Chittoor and Krishna districts continue to report more number of deaths per day. The two districts, along with Visakhpatnam, reported two more deaths each while Kadapa, Kurnool and Prakasam reported zero deaths. The remaining seven districts reported one death each. Meanwhile, West Godavari district reported 216 new cases and East Godavari reported 130 new cases, while the rest reported less than 100 cases. Chittoor district reported 87, Krishna 76, Kadapa 66, Guntur 50, Prakasam 36, Visakhapatnam 25, Srikakulam 25, Nellore 14, Vizianagaram 12, Kurnool 12 and Anantapur 4. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,20,571), West Godavari (90474), Chittoor (82,149), Guntur (71,046), (66,177), Prakasam (60,987), Nellore (60,898), Kurnool (59,954), Visakhapatnam (57,320), Kadapa (53,681), Srikakulam (45,044), Krishna (43,273) and Vizianagaram (40,295).
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Draft electoral rolls for State published||Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand announced the publication of draft electoral rolls on Monday as per the mandate given by the the Election Commission of India and stated that claims and objections thereof would be received from teh cirizens till December 15. After their disposal, the final electoral rolls would be published on January 15. Electors/eligible citizens who will be attaining 18 years as on January 1, 2021 and have missed enrolment on earlier occasions can file their applications for enrolment, objections and corrections from November 16 to December 15. The citizens can send their applications on the websitr http://www.nvsp.in, the Chief Electoral Officer said.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Early data show Moderna vaccine is 94.5% effective||Drugmaker Moderna on Monday announced that its coronavirus vaccine was 94.5% effective, based on an early look at the results from its large, continuing study. Researchers said the results were better than they had dared to imagine. But the vaccine will not be widely available for months, probably not until spring. Moderna is the second company to report preliminary data on an apparently successful vaccine, offering hope in a surging pandemic that has infected more than 53 million people worldwide and killed more than 1.2 million. Pfizer, in collaboration with BioNTech, was the first, reporting a week ago that its vaccine was more than 90% effective. Moderna also said its vaccine has a longer shelf life under refrigeration and at room temperature than previously reported. Researchers test vaccines by inoculating some study participants and giving others placebos, and then watching the two groups to see how many people get sick. In Moderna’s study, 95 people contracted the coronavirus: five who were vaccinated, and 90 who received placebo shots of saltwater. Statistically, the difference between the two groups was highly significant. And of the 95 cases, 11 were severe — all in the placebo group.NY Times
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Attack on judges: 16 booked||The CBI has booked 16 individuals and other unknown persons on the allegation that they intentionally targeted some judges of the Supreme Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court through interviews to the media, posted abusive comments and issued threats on social media platforms. Several provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act have been invoked.page 8
17 November 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar allies break poll pact||Fissures within the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, an amalgam of seven political parties, came starkly to the fore on Monday as the Congress fielded candidates against the alliance partner Peoples Democratic Party on many seats for the upcoming District Development Council polls. Sources said the Congress decided to field candidates in Tral, Larnoo, Keller, Tangdar and other seats in Kashmir that was decided by the alliance to have joint candidates from the PDP. At Budgam, PDP district president Nazir Ahmad Khan also filed his nomination despite the alliance deciding on a candidate from the National Conference.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Phase III trials for Covaxin begin||Bharat Biotech on Monday said it has commenced phase III trials for Covaxin, the COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It will involve 26,000 volunteers across India, the first phase III efficacy study and the largest clinical trial for a COVID-19 vaccine in the country.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic no hurdle||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||White blanket||
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||T.N. objects to any move to reopen Sterlite||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday objected to any move in the Supreme Court to reopen the Sterlite Copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi, saying the Madras High Court had ordered its permanent closure. Health priority “The order is that of permanent closure,” senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan submitted before a Bench of Justices Navin Sinha and K.M. Joseph.  However, the Bench gave senior advocate A.M. Singhvi an opportunity to file documents and suggestions in the case. The Bench posted the case for December 2. Mr. Vishwanathan said the plight and health of the people in the vicinity should be given priority. The plant was closed in May 2018 following an order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Protests against the plant saw 13 people die in police firing. In August, the High Court had rejected multiple pleas by natural resources company Vedanta to reopen the plant. Vedanta had challenged the various orders passed by the State government and the TNPCB refusing consent to operate, to stop production, to disconnect electricity and to seal the premises. The High Court had held that the prohibitory orders were rightly passed for violation of the laws relating to pollution control. Vedanta had argued that the High Court decision on August 18 to keep the plant closed was a “retrograde step”. It had submitted that there was no notice or complaint of pollution prior to the closure of the plant.
17 November 2020||Kolkata,||Ghosh promises ‘Gujarat model’ for West Bengal||West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Monday said that if voted to power his party will emulate Gujarat’s growth model to develop the State. Mr. Ghosh said that the Trinamool Congress government and previous Left Front governments have turned the State into a hub of migrant workers.
17 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram reserves 75% ICU beds for COVID care||The Gurugram administration on Monday ordered reservation of 50% beds in general category and 75% beds in ICU/ventilator category in public and private hospitals for COVID-19 patients in view of the sudden spike in infections. The number of beds available under the general category and ICU/ventilator category is expected to increase by around 800 and 300.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Wind, dip in farm fires help improve Delhi’s air||The air quality of Delhi improved to ‘poor’ category on Monday, from ‘severe’ a day earlier, due to stronger surface winds and less effect of stubble burning in neighbouring States. The air quality of Gurugram and Noida also improved to the ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data.
17 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram reserves 75% ICU beds for COVID care||The Gurugram administration on Monday ordered reserva-tion of 50% beds in general category and 75% beds in ICU/ventilator category in public and private hospitals for COVID-19 patients in view of the sudden spike in infections. The number of beds available under the general category and ICU/ventilator category is expected to increase by around 800 and 300.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu has 6.10 crore voters||According to the draft rolls published on Monday by the Election Commission, the total electorate in the State stood at 6.10 crore, including 3.09 crore women, 3.01 crore men and 6,385 persons of the third gender. The Sholinga- nallur Assembly constituency has the largest electorate.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Daily tally stays below 2,000 for fourth day||The number of COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu daily stayed below the 2,000 mark for the fourth consecutive day and dipped further marginally to 1,725 on Monday. The total number of cases reported so far in the State was at 7,59,916.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. goes in for pool funding to repair roads||The government has accor- ded in-principle approval for taking up urgently required road works for about Rs. 1,000 crore through pooled financing raised as loan through banks and financial institutions on behalf of the urban local bodies. “The loan shall be repaid by the urban local bodies,” a G.O. issued in this regard stated.
17 November 2020||Kochi,||GAIL completes Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline||The much-delayed Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline project is finally ready for commissioning as GAIL India has completed the final 540-metre treacherous stretch across the Chandragiri river in northern Kerala, according to a senior company official. The 444-km-long natural gas pipeline was launched in 2009 at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,915 crore and was to be commissioned in 2014. But opposition with regard to safety and on commercial grounds, wherein the land price was the main hurdle, had resulted in the project cost nearly doubling to over Rs. 5,750 crore. ‘Testing is on’ “We completed the most difficult stretch across the Chandragiri river in Kasaragod district on Saturday. Now, testing is on and this will be completed in the next two days. Within this week itself, gas will reach Mangaluru through the 444-km pipeline,” P. Murugesan, Executive Director and Head of Southern Region, GAIL, said on Monday. The formal commissioning will be done later, according to the availability of the Minister, he added. The pipeline is charged up to Kannur now and has been live up to Koottanad in Palakkad district, 90 km north of Kochi, since June 2019. Koottanad is the main junction of the project. From here, the line bifurcates to Mangaluru and Bengaluru. The first phase of the project was commissioned in August 2013 in the Kochi metropolitan area, with industrial supplies and domestic supplies from February 2016 by Adani Gas. With the commissioning of the pipeline, gas demand in Kerala will touch 80-90 million cubic metres per annum from 60 million cubic metres now. Apart from huge environmental gains, the State can gain monetarily as it can get up to Rs. 1,000 crore by way of taxes alone. 540-metre stretch Authorities were ready to complete the project in August, but a 540-metre stretch across the Chandragiri river became a nightmare for them. As a way out, they reduced the diameter of the pipe to a fourth — from 24 inches to just 6 inches now. Mr. Murugesan said the pipeline would supply gas to all seven districts it passed through in Kerala — Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod — and the hilly Wayanad district.
17 November 2020||Patna,||Congress sees bid to break Grand Alliance||The Congress on Monday slammed senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Shivanand Tiwari for his statement that Rahul Gandhi was picnicking at his sister’s Shimla house during the Bihar Assembly election. Mr. Tiwari is acting on the directions of the BJP and the Janatal Dal(U) to divide the RJD and the Congress, and he wants to save the fragile National Democratic Alliance government and damage the possibilities of the formation of a Grand Alliance government, the Congress’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil said. The RJD leadership, he said, should take note of this betrayer. Otherwise, the two parties that united out of an ideological commitment and the people of Bihar would suffer, he said. ‘Rahul’s promise’ Congress leader Tariq Anwar too slammed the RJD leader’s statement. “The RJD is a regional party and its scope is limited to Bihar. Rahul Gandhi had said that he will keep coming here whenever Bihar needs him and he did this as well. He [Mr. Gandhi] cannot act like RJD leaders,” he said. Senior State Congress leader and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “Shivanand Tiwari is not an official spokesman of the RJD. He is hand in glove with the BJP and the JD(U) and is speaking their language.” BJP leader and Union Minister Giriraj Singh tweeted to take a jibe at Mr. Tiwari’s statement. “Regarding Rahul Gandhi, senior leader of the RJD, an ally of the grand alliance in Bihar, Shivanand Tiwari says that he (Rahul Gandhi) is a non-serious tourist politician. Shivanand ji has come to know Rahul ji more than Obama (former U.S. President). Why is the Congress silent yet?” he said. Poor performance Mr. Tiwari had raised questions over the dismal performance of the Congress in the polls. “Rahul Gandhi visited Bihar on three days and addressed two rallies every day. PM Modi is very senior to him in age but he has been addressing three or four rallies every day. After campaigning for three days, Rahul Gandhi went to Shimla for picnic at his sister’s house,” he said on Sunday. Mr. Tiwari’s son, Rahul Tiwari, won the Shahpur seat in Bhojpur on the RJD ticket.  RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari wants to divide the RJD and the Congress on the directions of the BJP and the JD(U) Shaktisinh Gohil Congress leader
17 November 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar allies break poll pact||Fissures within the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven political parties, came starkly to the fore on Monday as the Congress fielded candidates against the alliance partner Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on many seats for the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls. Sources said the Congress, which filed nominations for the second phase on Monday, decided to field candidates in Tral, Larnoo, Keller, Tangdar and other seats in Kashmir that was decided by the alliance to have joint candidates from the PDP. To fight as Independent At Budgam in central Kashmir, PDP district president Nazir Ahmad Khan also filed his nomination despite the alliance deciding on a candidate from the National Conference (NC). “I was given an authority letter by the alliance to file nomination papers. However, at the eleventh hour, I was replaced with an NC candidate. I don’t think I have done any mistake by filing nomination papers as an independent,” Mr. Khan said. A second rung PDP leader, on condition of anonymity, said the Congress was putting up candidates against the PDP, especially in south Kashmir. “The Congress is playing a perfect spoiler. It seems as if the Congress is in a seat-sharing arrangement with only the NC,” the PDP leader said. ‘Misleading reports’ However, senior Congress leader and former legislator Ghulam Nabi Monga told The Hindu that the Congress was committed to the alliance. “These are misleading reports. The BJP is trying to create fissures. If any Congress candidate has filed nomination in seats where a joint candidate is contesting, he will be asked to withdraw his nomination or publicly support the alliance candidate,” Mr. Monga said. He said the alliance partners need to sit down and thrash out the issue to avoid any confusion. The Congress, which avoided attending the meetings of the alliance in Jammu fearing a backlash from the Hindu belt due to the utterances of NC president Farooq Abdullah and PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti, has finally decided to enter into an “electoral alliance” with the amalgam. “The Congress has an electoral alliance as on date with the Gupkar alliance. The apex body of the Congress will sit in the near future and take a final decision on the ideological alliance,” Mr. Monga said.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,||Pressured to name politicians: Sivasankar||Counsel of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, filed an argument note at the Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Monday alleging that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had exerted pressure on the bureaucrat to name a few political targets of its choice, which he refused to oblige. The allegations related to the kickbacks received by Mr. Sivasankar in the LIFE Mission project at Wadakkanchery were also baseless, the note said. It pointed out that the evidence from the WhatsApp chats presented by the ED were only half-truths and lies to mislead the court. Probe into other projects The ED reiterated that its investigation had clearly established the role of Mr. Sivasankar in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The agency is looking into whether he had received kickbacks for projects such as the Kerala Fibre Optics Network (K-FON) and SmartCity Kochi. Mr. Sivasankar had shared confidential details about these projects with Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case. The WhatsApp chats between him and Swapna proved his involvement in the gold smuggling case and receipt of kickbacks in the LIFE Mission project, it said. Customs’ questioning The Customs (Preventive) on Monday questioned Mr. Sivasankar in connection with its probe into the gold smuggling case. The investigating team reached the Kakkanad sub-jail in the afternoon where Mr. Sivasankar is in judicial remand and took his statement. The Principal Sessions Court had earlier cleared the request by the Customs to question him. The Customs, which had referred to Mr. Sivasankar as a person of interest in its probe, decided to further interrogate him after the ED informed the court that he was the mastermind behind the gold smuggling. The agency had stated that the money seized from the bank locker of Swapna was bribe meant for Mr. Sivasankar in the LIFE Mission project. The Customs officials remained tight-lipped on whether they had received evidence to nail Mr. Sivasankar as an accused in their case.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Nitish will have to live with a different BJP||It has been a good month for the BJP so far, with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) moving past the majority line in the Bihar Assembly; the party far ahead of its ally, the Janata Dal(U); and grabbing the House Speaker’s position as well. But what has really made this an important month for the BJP in the State is that it has been given, through the difference in its relative strength vis a vis the JD(U), the opportunity to make changes in the party organisation and even take bold steps in broadening its social coalition, over and above that of being a party identified with upper castes. Change in leader The BJP’s national leadership’s ambitions with regard to its Bihar unit came to the fore on Sunday afternoon, when Tarkishore Prasad was elected the leader of the legislature party in the Assembly and Renu Devi deputy leader. This clearly meant that former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, who also doubled as the legislature party leader, will not be made Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Modi had, for years, managed the BJP’s relationship with Nitish Kumar and his exclusion this time around meant that the terms of engagement between the BJP and the JD(U) had changed and would be far tougher for Mr. Kumar without the benign friendship of Mr. Modi. For years, Mr. Modi had been resented by his own party men for giving in too much to Mr. Kumar and not asserting enough on behalf of the party within the coalition. Even in 2010, when just before the Bihar polls, Mr. Kumar said that there was no need for then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi to campaign on behalf of the NDA in the State, matters were smoothed over but the BJP cadre was restive at such an open insult to a popular leader in their party. The BJP, therefore, seems to be making a decisive break from some of the old patterns of its relationship with Mr. Kumar and the JD(U). The chief ministership may not be in the BJP’s hands but the party intends greater control over the government and the Assembly. A generational shift within the State leadership is being effected, with leaders like Union Minister Nityanand Rai likely to take centre stage. The silent voter Many who covered the Bihar polls saw first hand that BJP and the Prime Minister’s popularity remained intact through months of the COVID-19 pandemic, lockdown and after. Much of it was attributed to the welfare work done under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and improvement in last-mile delivery of welfare goods of various Central programmes. Several commentators and even some party leaders were of the view that the BJP would have improved its tally had it fought alone, and maybe even won on its own. The national leadership of the BJP, however, had learnt from the 2015 debacle and knew that a BJP-JD(U) alliance had the critical mass of social coalitions needed to win. That the JD(U)’s vote among Extremely Backward Castes (EBCs), Mahadalits (a sub-category among Dalits created by Mr. Kumar) and women was important to reach the finish line. The large number of women voters who outnumbered male voters in every phase of the three-phase poll and the NDA’s success in Seemanchal, considered the stronghold of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), proved that these category of voters did flock to the NDA. But what was also clear through the election was that Mr. Kumar was not the only draw for this vote bank and Mr. Narendra Modi with his welfare policies and non upper caste moorings was a big draw as well. The Prime Minister alluded to this “silent voter” in every thanksgiving message after the polls. The appointment of Ms. Devi, not just an experienced and assertive politician but also belonging to the backward Nonia community, as deputy leader, gives enough notice of the BJP seeking to widen its social base, with or without Mr. Kumar’s help. The 2020 verdict, therefore, is being seen as a take-off point for a new Bihar unit of the BJP. A project that had to be abandoned in 2015, but which is likely to gain traction in the next five years.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks Centre’s reply on KUWJ plea||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre, the Uttar Pradesh government and its police chief on a plea made by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) for the release of its secretary Siddhique Kappan. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde scheduled a hearing on November 20 after the KUWJ’s lawyer, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, pressed for bail. Chief Justice Bobde said the Bench would like to hear the State. Mr. Sibal said the journalist was detained along with some others on October 5 while on their way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four men. An FIR had been registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in the case. Mr. Kappan is lodged in the Mathura jail, the KUWJ noted. “But the FIR does not have his name in it. There is no reference of an offence against him. But he is in jail since October 5. The magistrate says go to jail. The jail authorities say go to the magistrate... My Lord, this man is a journalist,” Mr. Sibal submitted. But the CJI referred to the last hearing when Mr. Sibal was advised to approach the Allahabad High Court for the journalist's freedom. “But I am not able to meet this gentleman... I have no access to him. He is in jail”, Mr. Sibal replied. Pleas under Article 32 Chief Justice Bobde, while asking how then he moved the apex court, said the reason for advising the KUWJ to approach the High Court was because it was “trying to discourage petitions under Article 32”. Mr. Sibal replied, “But you [Supreme Court] have interfered in such Article 32 petitions in the past...” Chief Justice Bobde said, “We are aware of our powers under Article 32”. Mr. Sibal persisted, “I would not have tried to come straight to you under Article 32, but this is the case of a journalist... We want bail”. He also pushed for an immediate stay order against the State, but did not succeed. An application filed by the KUWJ has sought the fulfilment of Mr. Kappan’s basic rights such as legal help and access to family. The KUWJ had approached the Supreme Court on a habeas corpus plea to know the whereabouts of Mr. Kappan. But the court refused to intervene while advising the union to move the Allahabad High Court instead. The union said the FIR registered in the case related to speech on certain websites. But it said the URL and names of the alleged offending websites were not specified. The FIR is completely frivolous, the union said.
17 November 2020||Kochi,||Actor alleges attempt to intimidate during trial||The survivor in the actor sexual assault case informed the High Court on Monday that there were attempts to harass and intimidate her during the cross-examination, which left her weeping most of the time. Counsel for the survivor made the submissions when the petitions filed by her and the State government seeking to transfer the trial from Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court to another court came up for hearing. The court reserved its orders and extended the stay for the trial till Friday. The counsel submitted that during the trial, she was forced to undergo the ordeal of cross-examination for 9 to 10 days, in which irrelevant questions maligning her character were raised. No judge would have allowed such questions to a survivor of a sexual crime. Counsel S. Sreekumar submitted that the survivor was compelled to speak about the horrific incident in front of a large number of lawyers. The survivor submitted that there should be a transparent and impartial trial in a criminal case. But it was not possible here as the court was biased. Govt. stance Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the prosecution had tried its best to avoid embarrassment to the court. But, as the partisan attitude of the judge had crossed all boundaries, the State government had filed the petition. When the prosecution expressed lack of confidence in the judge, the proper course for the sessions court would have been to inform the High Court. But the presiding judge did not do so and went on with the trial. He also handed over to the court a sealed cover containing the deposition of the survivor on the questions put to her during the cross-examination. Though a petition was filed before the trial court to stop the proceedings, the court went ahead with hearing all dormant applications, including the one for altering the charges against the accused, when the prosecutor was not present. Despite producing a stay order by the High Court, the trial court said the stay was only for trial and not for pending applications and started posting and hearing these petitions with an endorsement that the prosecutor was absent, he submitted.  Her counsel submits that during cross-examination, irrelevant questions maligning her character were raised
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala cases dip, but positivity at 10%||The number of COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu daily stayed below the 2,000 mark for the fourth consecutive day and dipped further marginally to 1,725 on Monday. The total number of cases reported so far in the State was at 7,59,916. A total of 2,384 people were reported recovered and 17 had died due to COVID-19 on Monday. The total number of recoveries and deaths respectively stood at 7,32,656 (96.41 %) and 11,495 (1.51%). There were 15,765 active cases as on Monday. Chennai (497), Coimbatore (174) and Chengalpattu (118) were the only three districts to report more than 100 cases. Five other districts - Tiruvallur (83), Kancheepuram (79), Salem (74), Tiruppur (69) and Erode (64) - reported more than 50 cases. Following the recent pattern, on Monday, Kerala’s COVID-19 cases dipped along with testing, registering 2,710 new cases from 25,141 samples. Telangana recorded a four-and-a-half month low on Sunday. Only 502 positive cases were detected from 17,296 samples, against 40,000 to 45,000 samples tested in a day. This was the lowest number of cases since July. The new 502 cases on Sunday included 141 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and 72 from Rangareddy. No case was detected in Yadadri Bhongir and Narayanpet. Results of 288 samples were awaited. Andhra Pradesh reported 753 new infections and 13 new deaths on Monday. With this, the overall tally went up to 8,54,764 and the toll to 6,881. However, only 43,044 samples were tested as against the 70,000 on an average over many weeks now. The positivity rate in the past day was 1.75%, the lowest in four months. The positivity rate of 91.97 lakh samples tested so far was 9.29%. Karnataka on Monday reported 1,157 new cases. Also, 12 deaths were recorded. The State’s positivity rate stood at 1.51%, while the case fatality rate was 1.04%. Bengaluru Urban, which has witnessed a reduction in cases, reported 597 new cases.  (With inputs from   Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad   and Bengaluru bureaus)
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K parties’ stand on flag, Art. 370 anti-national: BJP||In the run-up to the first-ever District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir, the BJP on Monday termed the stance of the parties of the Gupkar alliance on Article 370 and the tricolour “anti-national” and demanded that the Congress clarify if it supported these parties or not. At a press conference, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad cited a number of pro-people Central laws that have been brought into force in the Union Territory (UT) following the 2019 repeal of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, and asked if the Congress supports their annulment by bringing back Article 370. “I want to ask Sonia Gandhi [Congress president] and Rahul Gandhi, do they want restoration of Article 370? Please tell the nation categorically and clearly does the Congress support annulment of pro-people laws,” Mr. Prasad asked. He attacked the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgamation of various Jammu and Kashmir parties, whose demands have drawn some support from the Congress. Mr. Prasad pointed to the “anti-national” views of National Conference (NC) leader Dr. Farooq Abdullah, who had favoured China's support for Article 370 restoration, and People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s Mehbooba Mufti’s statement that she would not raise the national flag if the separate flag of Jammu and Kashmir is not restored, and sought to know the Congress’s stand over them. Mr. Prasad said women were earlier deprived of property rights in the UT if they married outside and anti-corruption laws, reservation for the disadvantaged sections of society and various other “humanist” Central laws were not implemented in the region. He accused the Gupkar alliance of working to push Jammu and Kashmir towards “narrow conservatism”. “If a Muslim or Hindu girl from Jammu and Kashmir married a boy from outside, then she would have no right in the property of her father. We have changed it and restored her right to property,” he observed.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian students in U.S. dropped 4.4% last year||The number of Indian students in the United States dropped 4.4 per cent in 2019-20, the worst drop in over a decade, according to initial data released on Monday from a study funded by the U.S. government. COVID-19 is likely to pull those figures down even further, with new international student enrolment in American universities crashing 42 per cent in fall 2020. However, 90 per cent of institutions reported that students have deferred enrolment by a year, meaning that many may be hoping to resume their plans to study in the U.S. next year. China has bigger share Key findings of Open Doors 2020, an annual survey conducted by the International Institute of Education in partnership with the U.S. State Department, showed that 18 per cent of the one million international students in the U.S. are from India. Only China, with 35 per cent, holds a bigger share of the international population in American institutions. However, the number of Indian students in the U.S. dropped to 4.4 per cent to 1.93 lakh in 2019-20, after six straight years of growth. In fact, this is the sharpest decline since the 5 per cent fall in 2005-06. The 2020-21 drop is likely to be steeper still, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A survey of fall enrolment at 700 institutions showed that 20 per cent of their international students are studying online this year. There is no data split available by country of origin for the 2020 enrolments.  Admissions deferred The total number of international students — including those studying online — dipped 16 per cent. But new enrolments were the worst-hit, with a 43 per cent drop. The number of new international students who are in the U.S. and able to attend physical classes has slumped 72 per cent. Students may be adopting a wait-and-watch attitude — the institutions surveyed said 40,000 of their students had deferred fall admission to a future semester. Online worries For those who have chosen to study online, the challenges can be overwhelming. “For international students signing into real-time studies during U.S. working hours, there are challenges of adapting their academic hours while living in different time zones,” said the report, adding that about half of the institutions surveyed said they were adapting course schedules to cope with such time differences.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan continues to raise terror charges||A day after the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) described Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s allegations against India as ‘diversion’, Islamabad cited a recent U.N. report and claimed presence of the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda in India. The Ministry did not respond to the allegation but officials told The Hindu earlier that the Pakistani statements are aimed at targeting India ahead of January 2021 when India will begin its stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. The office of the spokesperson of Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Monday claimed that India has ‘mischievously’ presented itself as a ‘victim’ of terrorism and said, “The presence of ISIL and AQIS in India as highlighted in recent U.N. report indicates that India is emerging as a hotbed of U.N.-designated international terrorist organisations and posing a great risk to the region”. The claim indicates a change in Pakistani campaign for global platforms where it is often accused of harbouring top international terrorists from a wide variety of groups like the al-Qaeda. A U.N. report in June had pointed out “significant numbers” of IS and al-Qaeda members in Kerala and Karnataka. The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning the IS, the al-Qaeda and associated individuals and entities said, “One member-state reported that the ISIL Indian affiliate (Hind Wilayah), which was announced on May 10, 2019, has between 180 and 200 members.” Soon thereafter, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy told the Lok Sabha that the information was “not factually correct”. Over the weekend, Mr. Qureshi had claimed that his country is preparing evidence of India’s support to terrorism inside Pakistan. “The so-called claims of ‘proof’ against India enjoy no credibility, are fabricated and represent figments of imagination. This desperate attempt will find few takers as the international community is aware of Pakistan’s tactics and proof of its terror sponsorship has been admitted by none other than its own leadership,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in response on Sunday.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Comply with FDI ceiling, govt. tells digital news firms||Four days after it brought digital news portals and videostreaming platforms like Netflix under its jurisdiction, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issued a detailed notification asking the companies to comply with the 26% cap on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) sanctioned last year. The notification reiterates the Cabinet decision of August last year, imposing a 26% cap on FDI under government route for uploading/streaming of news and current affairs through digital media. The only major departure is that now even the companies that have investment below the 26% cap have to intimate the Ministry about the shareholding pattern along with the ‘names and address of its directors/shareholders’. These details have to be submitted within a month’s time. The firms who have more than 26% of FDI have been instructed to take steps to bring down the figure before October 15, 2021. “This serves no purpose. The government is just trying to get more and more levers with which to manipulate the digital media. The spate of notifications that you see are not isolated; it clearly indicates that they want to exert control and this will continue,” said Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of news portal News Laundry . Mr Sekhri is also the general secretary of Digipub News India Foundation, an umbrella body of 11 digital news organisations. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Press Council of India on the occasion of National Press Day, Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said that a free press was critical to democracy. Regulation for TV “Freedom of press is the soul of democracy. Freedom of press is very important but any freedom comes with responsibility. So, there has to be a responsible freedom and no sensationalism by the press,” he said in a video message. Mr. Javadekar spoke about the need for a regulatory body for TV channels. The Ministry was mulling over bringing a code of conduct for them, he stated.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,||Film bodies seek bailout package||The Malayalam film industry will request the government to roll out a bailout package to tide over the financial crisis induced by the COVID-19 pandemic at a meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on November 19. The Kerala Film Chamber has submitted a memorandum seeking government intervention to save the industry. Reopening A decision on reopening cinemas can be taken only after the government announced relief measures, chamber president K. Vijayakumar said here on Monday. Among its various demands, the industry had requested the authorities to reduce the present rate of entertainment tax and GST (Goods and Services Tax) slabs on ticket collections. Mr. Vijayakumar hoped that the government would direct local bodies to stop collecting the entertainment tax on movie tickets. The present slab of 12% GST on tickets that cost less than Rs. 100 and 18% on tickets above Rs. 100 should also be reviewed in view of the financial uncertainties triggered by COVID-19, he said. The chamber president said the Kerala State Electricity Board had imposed fixed power charges on theatre owners despite the cinema halls remaining closed since March. Mr. Vijayakumar said the fixed charge was around Rs. 45,000 for a single-screen facility. Additional expenses The reopening of cinemas would incur additional expenses on the owners as an estimated Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh was required to carry out maintenance and cleaning work, he said.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Webinar on weather and impact on business||The Weather Company in association with The Hindu BusinessLine will be hosting a webinar on ‘Weather and Its impact on business’. The webinar will showcase various cases for weather business solutions using the weather data of IBM Weather Operations Centre. The webinar would be held on November 19 from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. The panellists are Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul; ID - Fresh Food co-founder and CEO Musthafa PC; Cropln founder and CEO Krishna Kumar, and Himanshu Goyal, India Business Leader, The Weather Company. It will be moderated by Vinson Kurian, Senior Deputy Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine . The webinar will focus on weather data collated and provided by IBM through industry-leading science and technology to ensure business continuity and reduce weather-related disruption for making efficient business decision-making. For free registration, visit: https://bit.ly/THBLIBM or scan the QR Code.
17 November 2020||Bhopal,||Won’t tolerate illegal conversion: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said religious conversion of tribals in the name of service would not be tolerated. On ‘Tribal Pride Day’ on Sunday, he said steps were being taken to prevent illegal conversions. “Religious conversion in the name of service has been going on for years,” he stated. Mr. Chouhan remembered freedom fighter Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary, saying he was admitted to a German Christian school after undergoing conversion. “Soon Birsa realised it and left school and rejoined the mainstream,” he said, adding Birsa fought for his culture and tradition.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Parliament winter session seems unlikely||The winter session of Parliament, which usually commences by the last week of November, is unlikely to be held due to the high number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, according to sources. Going by parliamentary records, there had been only three instances — in 1975, 1979 and 1984 — when the winter session was called off. The Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs meets to decide the dates of the session and an announcement has to be made giving the members at least two weeks’ notice. So far, the committee has not met, and the government has a plan to combine the Budget session, which begins usually on February 1, and the winter session. The Constitution mandates there should not be a gap of six months or more between two sessions. With the monsoon session held in September, the government has no constitutional compulsion to hold a winter session. 40 MPs tested positive During the monsoon session, nearly 40 MPs tested COVID-19 positive. Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu also tested positive soon after the conclusion of the session. Two Lok Sabha members H. Vasanthakumar (Kanyakumari) and Balli Durga Prasad (Tirupathi) and Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti died from complications from COVID-19. None of them had attended the session. The monsoon session that was called on September 14 was supposed to go on till October 1 with 18 sittings. It was cut short by eight days and concluded on September 24. The previous Budget session too ended abruptly on March 23 for a similar reason.
17 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Accused in Dalit woman murder case arrested||The Basti police on Monday said it had arrested a person who allegedly murdered a Dalit woman (23), his alleged lover, after she resisted his attempts to rape her while they were meeting in the fields. Two police personnel including an SHO were suspended on Sunday for not registering an FIR on the complaint of the family of the woman who was found dead in a field near her house in Kalwari area. Basti SP Hemraj Meena said the autopsy report had found the cause of the death to be ante-mortem strangulation but there was no evidence of any sexual assault. The arrested person was identified as Balchandra Yadav, who police said had been in regular touch on mobile phone with the victim especially during the lockdown. At around 5:45 a.m., a police team intercepted Yadav , said the SP. Yadav allegedly fired at the police team who in retaliation shot him in his leg, said Mr. Meena. A .315 bore country-made pistol was recovered from him, the SP said. Yadav, whose native village is nine km from the girl’s home, used to visit her village often as his maternal uncle lived there, said the police. On November 10, she went to meet him in the fields at around 7 p.m. and the two spent around one and half hours there, said Mr. Meena. “The two were having a discussion about marriage and elopement when the boy tried to make physical moves at her. She protested and bit two of his fingers,” said Mr. Meena. In anger, the accused first strangulated her with his hands and then with her dupatta, said the officer. He then allegedly covered her body with hay and fled, the police said.
17 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Accused in Dalit woman murder case arrested||The Basti police on Monday said it had arrested a person who allegedly murdered a Dalit woman (23), his alleged lover, after she resisted his attempts to rape her while they were meeting in the fields. Two police personnel including an SHO were suspended on Sunday for not registering an FIR on the complaint of the family of the woman who was found dead in a field near her house in Kalwari area. Basti SP Hemraj Meena said the autopsy report had found the cause of the death to be ante-mortem strangulation but there was no evidence of any sexual assault. The arrested person was identified as Balchandra Yadav, who police said had been in regular touch on mobile phone with the victim especially during the lockdown. At around 5:45 a.m., a police team intercepted Yadav , said the SP. Yadav allegedly fired at the police team who in retaliation shot him in his leg, said Mr. Meena. A .315 bore country-made pistol was recovered from him, the SP said. Yadav, whose native village is nine km from the girl’s home, used to visit her village often as his maternal uncle lived there, said the police. On November 10, she went to meet him in the fields at around 7 p.m. and the two spent around one and half hours there, said Mr. Meena. “The two were having a discussion about marriage and elopement when the boy tried to make physical moves at her. She protested and bit two of his fingers,” said Mr. Meena. In anger, the accused first strangulated her with his hands and then with her dupatta, said the officer. He then allegedly covered her body with hay and fled, the police said.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,||COVID-19 patient alleges sexual assault at hospital||A 33-year old man was booked on the charge of sexually assaulting a COVID-19 patient at the Malabar Medical College Hospital on Monday. The Atholi police said, Aswin, the suspect who was working with the purchase department of the hospital, assaulted the woman after taking her to an isolated area of the hospital on Sunday night. The case was registered against him after the victim contacted the police over the phone soon after the incident. She told the police that the man had taken him to the isolated area around 11 p.m. in the guise of consulting a doctor. She claimed that he had misbehaved with her at the time of admission for treatment. Following the police investigation into the incident, the hospital authorities placed the man under suspension. There were also some local protests led by Left parties seeking the arrest of the accused. It was last Thursday that the woman was admitted to the hospital along with her parents.
17 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Norms in place to check COVID-19 at Sabarimala||From supplying medicinal water to arranging hand sanitisers and disinfecting the premises using chlorinated water, a new set of arrangements have been rolled out at Sabarimala for the Mandalam-Makaravilakku season that began on Monday. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said preparations had been made in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol and in accordance with the directions of the High Court. A counter has been opened near the Ganapati Kovil at Pampa to supply medicinal water. The water will be supplied in one-litre stainless steel containers, which could be refilled at Charalmedu, Jyothinagar and Malikappuram. Devotees have to remit a caution deposit of Rs. 20 and this would repaid on returning the container. Spots have been marked at the Sannidhanam, including Valiyanadapanthal, lower and upper Thirumuttam, Malikappuram, prasadam counters and Annadana Mandapam, to ensure physical distancing. The devotees can wash their legs and use hand sanitisers at the beginning of Valiyanadapanthal. Disinfection The Annadana Mandapam, Devaswom mess, police mess and bhandaram will be disinfected with the thermal vaporisation fogging machine. Toilets too will be disinfected. Sanitiser dispensers operated by foot have been installed at 23 spots and those with sensors will be installed at the counter for receiving coconuts filled with ghee, staff gate and in front of the executive office. Bins have been placed for dumping face masks and gloves. Five emergency medical centres have been set up along the route from Pampa to the Sannidhanam, besides two control rooms by the Forest Department. The Health Department has deployed 20 ambulances while the Department of Ayurveda has set up temporary dispensaries at Pampa, Erumely and the Sannidhanam.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Early data show vaccine is 94.5% effective||The results were analysed by an independent data safety monitoring board, appointed by the National Institutes of Health. Moderna, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, developed its vaccine in collaboration with researchers from the Vaccine Research Center, part of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The company announced on October 22 that it had completed enrolment of its 30,000-person study, and that 25,650 participants had already received two shots. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the institute, said: “I had been saying I would be satisfied with a 75% effective vaccine. Aspirationally, you would like to see 90, 95%, but I wasn’t expecting it. I thought we’d be good, but 94.5% is very impressive.” Stéphane Bancel, chief executive of Moderna, said in a statement that the results had provided “the first clinical validation that our vaccine can prevent COVID-19 disease, including severe disease.” Pfizer and Moderna each announced the findings in news releases, not in peer-reviewed scientific journals, and the companies have not yet disclosed the detailed data that would allow outside experts to evaluate their claims. Therefore, the results cannot be considered conclusive. The companies’ products open the door to an entirely new way of creating vaccines — and creating them fast. Both use a synthetic version of coronavirus genetic material, called messenger RNA or mRNA, to programme a person’s cells to churn out many copies of a fragment of the virus. That fragment sets off alarms in the immune system and stimulates it to attack, should the real virus try to invade. Researchers say the positive results from Pfizer and Moderna bode well for other vaccines, because all of the candidates being tested aim at the same target — the so-called spike protein on the coronavirus that it uses to invade human cells.  It will be important to determine whether the vaccines work equally well in older and younger people, experts say. Researchers also want to know if the vaccines prevent people from spreading the virus — an ideal result that could help quash the pandemic. Another big unknown is how long the immunity provided by the vaccines will last. An additional concern is that the vaccines must be stored and transported at low temperatures — minus 20 degree Celsius for Moderna, and minus 70 degree Celsius for Pfizer — which could complicate their distribution. But on Monday, Moderna said researchers had found that its vaccine had a longer shelf life in the refrigerator than previously thought: 30 days, not seven. And it will last 12 hours at room temperature, the company said. Both companies said they expected to apply within weeks to the FDA for emergency authorisation to begin vaccinating the public. In addition to the evidence for effectiveness, the companies must also submit two months of safety data on at least half of the participants. So far, studies of the two vaccines have not found serious side effects, but participants have reported sore arms, fatigue, fever and joint and muscle aches that last for a day or two.
17 November 2020||new Delhi,||CBI books 16 for targeting SC, A.P. High Court judges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked 16 individuals and other unknown persons on the allegation that they intentionally targeted some judges of the Supreme Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court through interviews to the media, posted abusive comments and issued threats on social media platforms. The agency has taken over the probe into 12 cases earlier registered by the Cyber Crime unit of the Amaravati CID, following the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s directive on October 12. Several provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology (IT) Act have been invoked. Objectionable posts The High Court order mentioned that on May 22, different Benches of the court had passed orders with respect to some petitions, against the orders and actions of the State government and its functionaries. “Immediately thereafter, the social media was flooded with objectionable posts. Even the persons occupying high position went to the media and gave interviews against the High Court and its judges, that too, from the party office belonging to a political party, which is in power,” it read. The FIR states that the cases were initially registered by the CID on the complaints lodged by the Registrar General of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. They alleged that personnel occupying posts of prominence in the State intentionally targeted the judges, gave interviews, uploaded posts, and attributed motives to some judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court in delivering orders/judgments. They allegedly uploaded abusive posts against the judges on Facebook and Twitter over recent judgments/orders delivered by the judges.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Judge recuses himself from Jagan case||Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, in his contempt plea to Mr. Venugopal, claimed that the decision of a Bench led by Justice Ramana on September 16, directing expeditious completion of pending criminal trials against politicians had spurred Mr. Reddy to write the letter. Mr. Reddy, the lawyer said, had 31 criminal cases against him. A petitioner-in-person, advocate G.S. Mani, has accused Mr. Reddy of “misusing his official post”. A similar petition has also been filed by an NGO, Anti Corruption Council of India Trust. The third petition is by another lawyer, Sunil Kumar Singh, who has urged the apex court to issue an order to bar Mr. Reddy from making public statements against the judiciary and holding press conferences to malign the judicial institution. The Constitution does not allow such deliberate attempts to publicly embarrass the judiciary. “What is at stake is the confidence that courts inspire in the public in a democracy... Discussions can go wild in the media within hours or days and affect the image of the judiciary,” Mr. Singh contended. The right place to bring allegations against the higher judiciary is Parliament or the State Legislature and not press conferences, he has argued. The petition said the constitutional immunity granted to the judiciary is to allow them to function fearlessly.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish starts new term with 14-member team||Congratulating Mr. Kumar on being elected Chief Minister again, Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan tweeted that he “hoped the government would complete its full term and you would remain NDA’s chief minister”. The LJP had put up candidates against the JD(U) in the recent Assembly polls and caused huge damage to the tally of winning seats for the party. Mr. Paswan had said that he had fielded candidates against the JD(U) to “dethrone” Mr. Kumar as Chief Minister. The JD(U) could win only 43 seats, while the BJP bagged 74 seats. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress boycotted the swearing-in ceremony, saying, “the mandate was against the NDA”. “RJD boycotts the swearing-in ceremony. The mandate for change was against NDA and the mandate has been converted into government order. Ask the unemployed youth, farmers, contract workers, teachers of Bihar what they are going through. People are upset with the fraud committed by NDA. We’re people’s representatives and we stand with people”, tweeted RJD, the single largest party with 75 seats in the 243-seat Assembly. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said the “party would not attend the function as the alliance partner RJD has boycotted it and we believe that the mandate was against the NDA”. Senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J.P. Nadda, party’s State in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and other leaders attended the swearing-in function held at the Raj Bhavan.
17 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP says it will emulate Gujarat model in Bengal||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Monday said his party would emulate Gujarat’s growth model to develop the State if voted to power in the Assembly election in 2021.  “Didimoni [Mamata Banerjee] often says we are trying to turn Bengal into Gujarat. I say we will certainly do so and turn it into a developed State. Our men and women won’t have to go there for work. We will ensure employment opportunities are available here,” Mr. Ghosh said. Responding to Mr. Ghosh’s remarks, the Trinamool leadership reminded the BJP of the “communal violence and atrocities against minorities in Gujarat in 2002”.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia may discuss Bihar loss with senior leaders||Exactly a week after the debacle in Bihar, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday is likely to meet a group of senior party leaders who are part of a recently constituted group to help the party president in organisational and operational matters. The meeting comes amid calls for introspection by party leaders like former Law Minister Kapil Sibal who has said the results showed that the party was not seen as an alternative choice and the leadership was treating the defeat as business as usual. Karti Chidambaram, MP, took to Twitter and tagging Mr. Sibal’s comment, asked his party to “ideate, consult and act”. “Bihar elections, the Gupkar Alliance in Jammu and Kashmir, the next round of Assembly elections could be discussed in a virtual meet,” a member of the Congress’s special committee told The Hindu on Monday. Senior leaders of the group include A.K. Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Mukul Wasnik, who was part of the Group of 23 (G-23) leaders who had questioned the leadership in a letter to Ms. Gandhi. Mr. Sibal’s latest comment against his party attracted sharp comments from some of his colleagues including Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. There was, however, no official reaction from the party on the former Law Minister, who is also part of the G-23. “There was no need for Mr. Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in the media. This has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country,” Mr. Gehlot said. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary too took a dig at Mr. Sibal and reminded the former Law Minister that he should take some time out to visit the Delhi Pradesh Congress Commitee (DPCC) office as he was a former Lok Sabha MP from Delhi. “For our democracy to survive, Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late,” said Congress MP Vivek Tankha, coming to Mr. Sibal’s defence.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi sees bid to scuttle K-FON project||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said Central agencies should stop holding the brief for private corporates intent on scuttling ambitious State projects such as the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON). K-FON, which promised high-bandwidth Internet connectivity to homes and businesses at a reasonable rate, has caused private Internet service providers to see red. The political interests of the Opposition have dovetailed with the business concerns of the service providers. Both powers have conspired to scuttle K-FON using Central agencies as a front, Mr. Vijayan said. The Chief Minister’s attack on the “trespasses by Central agencies on State authority” played out against the backdrop of protests by LDF workers against what the ruling front perceived as a political plot by the BJP and the Congress to unsettle the government and sabotage its development programme using federal law enforcement. CPI(M) charge The State secretariat of the CPI(M) has accused the Central agencies of attempting to hobble the State’s development agenda under the cover of investigating the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. It also accused the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of playing second fiddle to political interests adverse to the State. Mr. Vijayan said Central agencies were “circling over” K-FON as if the scheme was dubious. The government was executing the project through BHEL with KIIFB funds. The entire process was above board and transparent. “What is their (Central agencies) grouse,” he asked. Mr. Vijayan said Central agencies had attempted to sabotage the LIFE Mission project aimed at providing modern housing for the poor. Without any reason, an agency had summoned LIFE Mission documents and attempted to render its officials inert by questioning them recurrently. Mr. Vijayan also mounted a fierce defence of KIIFB. The agency was the vehicle for Kerala's development. It had raised Rs. 50,000 crore from the open market to finance Kerala’s development. Legislators across the aisle have benefited from KIIFB projects. The Opposition had initially mocked the concept as airy and quixotic. “Will any Opposition MLA state he does not want KIIFB projects in his constituency,” Mr. Vijayan asked.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records highest daily death toll||About a fifth (21.84%) of the new COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours has been reported from Delhi (95 deaths), overtaking Maharashtra. Delhi also recorded the second largest surge in new cases and largest number of recoveries (7,606), said data released by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. Delhi, along with Maharashtra (60), West Bengal (51), Punjab (30), Kerala and Karnataka (with 21 each), Uttar Pradesh (18) and Odisha (17) fatalities make up for 79 per cent of the new COVID-19 deaths across the country. A Ministry release said that India continued the unbroken trend of the daily new recoveries, outpacing the daily new additions for the 44th day. “43,851 COVID-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours against 30,548 newly detected cases. This translates to a net reduction of 13,303 in the active caseload which now stands at 4,65,478,” it said. Recovery rate improves The government’s efforts to continue maintaining high levels of comprehensive testing had resulted in bringing down the net positivity to sustained low levels, it noted. “The recovery rate has improved to 93.27% and the total recovered cases stand at 82,49,579,” it stated. After Delhi, Kerala registered the second highest number of recoveries (6,684).
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||More options to file EPF life certificates||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Monday said pensioners of the Employees’ Pension Scheme 1995 could submit their life certificates to continue drawing pension through the Umang app, the EPFO’s regional and district offices, pension disbursing banks and post offices. Earlier, the pensioners would have to submit certificates in November but now they can submit it any time of the year, the EPFO said. “In the current scenario of COVID-19 pandemic, the EPFO has facilitated multiple options for EPS pensioners to submit their digital life certificate.”
17 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Akalis out of NDA, BJP starts preparations in Punjab||BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh on Monday said his party has started preparations on a war footing to contest all 117 seats in the 2022 Punjab Assembly election. Mr. Chugh said the organisational structure at 23,000 polling booths in the State is being strengthened by mobilising BJP workers at the grassroots level. BJP chief J.P. Nadda will virtually inaugurate 10 district offices of the party on November 19 and undertake a three-day tour to the State to take stock of the preparations and galvanise party workers for the forthcoming Assembly poll battle, Mr. Chugh said. He said party leaders led by State unit president Ashwani Sharma will popularise 160 public welfare schemes launched by the Modi government in Punjab and apprise people of the progress made in the State. Nearly two months ago, Shiromani Akali Dal, an old ally of the BJP, had quit the NDA over the Centre’s farm legislations. As per the seat-sharing formula between both parties, the BJP used to field its candidates on three of the 13 parliamentary seats and 23 of 117 Assembly constituencies in Punjab. The rest were kept for the SAD.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,||Orthodox Church moves HC||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Monday filed a petition in the High Court seeking to initiate contempt of court proceedings against T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, for allegedly filing a false affidavit before the court in the Kothamangalam Marthoman church case. Petition The petition was filed by Fr. Thomas Paul Ramban of the Church. He pointed out that the Additional Chief Secretary had filed an affidavit stating that at the three meetings of religious heads of Orthodox and Jacobite factions called by the Chief Minister, there was an understanding that until a final decision was taken in future meetings, both parties would not insist on the implementation of the court order on the takeover of the Kothamangalam church.
17 November 2020||Srinagar,||Ceasefire violated in Kupwara||The Army on Monday said Pakistan had initiated a ceasefire violation along the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Kupwara in the Tangdhar Sector. ”A befitting response is being given,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said.
17 November 2020||Khammam,||Woman farmer attempts suicide||A woman farmer created a flutter by consuming pesticide in full public view at Bodulabanda village in Nelakondapalli mandal late on Monday afternoon. She made a vain bid to end her life unable to bear alleged pressure exerted by some "local elders" to pay Rs. 6 lakh compensation to the kin of a couple, who died of electrocution while carrying out farm work in the agriculture field taken on lease by the former. The shocking incident took place during the visit of Palair MLA K Upender Reddy to the village in connection with the inaugural ceremony of a paddy procurement centre in the Gram Panchayat. (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Maoists to observe PLGA 20th anniversary for one year||The outlawed Communist Party of India-Maoist’s Central Military Commission (CMC) appealed to all its cadre to celebrate 20th anniversary of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) for one year from this December. Stating that PLGA had been the CPI-Maoist’s ‘wonderful weapon’ in achieving ‘considerable success’ in the ‘Protracted People’s War’ in several States at different levels, the CMC exhorted all the party cadre to undertake a campaign to consolidate it for the next one year. “Celebrate PLGA’s 20th anniversary with revolutionary enthusiasm in a grand way and fight back government’s ‘SAMADHAN’ strategy through self-defensive war,” the CMC said. To run this political, military and organisational campaign efficiently, “we must make a wide propaganda of PLGA success in past two decades among people, party activists and PLGA forces,” the CMC told the party cadre. CMC, the Maoist party’s wing executing military operations, said the party committees, commands and PLGA units of all levels must study the compilations it is going to release soon. These are based on application of rules of Maoist People’s War - Our Experiences, it said. Study camps, classes and discussions must be held on these compilations. This would help the cadre learn tactics of guerrilla war and create ideological clarity. In the process, PLGA should be strengthened to undertake guerrilla war independently, the CMC said. Strategies Discussing the strategies of countering operation ‘SAMADHAN’, it said only by mobilising the vast masses, intensifying class struggle and enhancing mass bases only the PLGA can be strengthened. Since enhancing mass base in the primary act in class struggle, people should be organised in legal, anti-legal platforms, open-secret forms of struggle. Stating that party’s revolutionary movement in the past two decades witnessed setbacks-leaps, ups-downs and twists-turns, it said the first 11 years were positive while the remaining period was not so favourable. Lives of members of the Central Committee to those of local cells were lost in the government’s offensive. “The main reason is the weakness in following rules of guerrilla war and secret methods of functioning,” the CMC noted. Class struggle Shortcomings in changing programme of class struggle and adopting proper tactics too affected the party, it said. “Therefore, we have to prevent losses, protect our forces and enhance our struggle capacity,” it told the party cadre. The CMC made it clear that “they can attack the enemy as part of self-defense tactics, only if they can protect their forces.”
17 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka colleges to resume partially today||Many colleges and universities across Karnataka are gearing up to welcome final year undergraduate and postgraduate students from Tuesday. Managements and faculties are supervising COVID-19 precautionary measures to be taken as per the University Grant Commission (UGC) and the Karnataka government guidelines. This includes testing the teaching and non-teaching staff. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, said they had set up five task forces for the smooth functioning of the university. “The task forces include those for student monitoring, faculty coordination and timely availability of necessary resources, including water,” he said. He also said he had directed all the 300 affiliated colleges to complete practicals for the final year students as soon as possible. “A blend of online and offline classes, along with homework, will be the mantra. With this, we can also reduce the teaching portions, which will also reduce the workload of the faculty,” he said. Mr. Venugopal also said that on the university campus, canteens would be closed and the library would only issue books. Students should compulsorily get sanitisers, masks, water bottles and food. Many colleges have been testing their faculty members as a precautionary measure ahead of reopening on Tuesday. C.B. Annapurnamma, Principal, National College, Basavanagudi, said they had tested over 70 teaching and non-teaching staff. “Out of them, two have tested positive. We are now sanitising the campus,” she said.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Kidnapped girl rescued within 20 hours||A three-year-old girl, who was reportedly kidnapped from the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station by an issueless couple, was rescued within 20 hours from Mahabubnagar, police said. The girl was kidnapped by 31-year-old Sangamoni Shivudu and 30-year-old Sangamoni Parvathamma, both from Mahabubnagar, from MGBS on Saturday night, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar. The accused couple, who went to MGBS to board a bus to their native place, noticed the girl and picked up the girl and came out. “They went towards Ram Mandir, Putlibowli, and made a night halt at Dabeerpura, before boarding a bus to Mahabubnagar the next day, he said. “After getting down at Mahabubnagar bus stand the couple went to the railway station and slept there till evening,” Mr. Kumar said. He said that the kidnappers got married six years ago and migrated to Deshaipeta in Jagtial for livelihood. Each used to earn Rs. 6000 per month.
17 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru RTO officials book 250 cases against private bus operators||Karnataka Transport Department officials carried out drives to book private bus operators for illegally allowing transportation of firecrackers and other goods on passenger buses and on charges of fleecing passengers by collecting exorbitant fares. Around 250 cases were registered against operators in drives taken up at Majestic and other areas in the city.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Army relaxes cap on purchase of four wheelers through CSD||Reversing an earlier decision, the Army issued an order increasing the price cap for purchase of four-wheelers through the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) for military personnel and veterans. Junior Commissioned Officers and other ranks entitled to purchase a car of Rs. 5 lakh can now buy a car of value up to Rs. 7 lakh and Rs. 6 lakh respectively, excluding taxes.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||SC declines bail plea of man held for objectionable remarks against Uddhav||The Supreme Court on Monday declined the bail plea of a man arrested for tweeting objectionable remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, Aditya. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde asked him instead to approach the High Court. “The High Court can also uphold your fundamental rights,” Chief Justice Bobde told Sameet Thakkar, who was arrested on October 24.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Shaheen Bagh activists seek verdict review||Twelve individuals, who took part in the Anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Shaheen Bagh, on Monday sought a review of the Supreme Court judgment which declared the demonstration of dissent as ‘unacceptable’ for blocking a public road. On October 7, a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the protest, considered an iconic dissent mounted by the mothers, children and senior citizens of Shaheen Bagh against the controversial citizenship law, was inconvenient for commuters. The court had said the protesters should express their dissent only in designated areas chosen by the administration. Right to dissent should not hamper the right of movement of the public. Protest should not become a nuisance, the 13-page verdict had said. Though it had upheld the right to peaceful protest against a law, it unequivocally made it clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied, and that too indefinitely. In the review petition, Kazi Fatima and 11 others said the protesters were not even heard by the court. The review asked how the court can restrict expressions of dissent to certain designated areas.
17 November 2020||Srinagar,||Snowfall closes Kashmir’s surface links with country||Widespread snowfall in the past 24 hours in the upper reaches of Kashmir resulted in the closure of three main highways on Monday, and disconnected the Valley’s surface routes with the rest of the country. J&K disaster management authority spokesman Amir Ali said a medium level avalanche warning has been issued for the higher reaches of Kupwara and Bandipora districts in north Kashmir.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||15th Finance Commission submits report to Prime Minister||The 15th Finance Commission on Monday submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi its report on the ratio in which tax is to be divided between the Centre and states over the next five years. The report titled ‘Finance Commission in COVID Times” will be submitted to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday. The Commission is a constitutional body that gives suggestions on Centre-State financial relations.
17 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||RSS-Cong. agenda to sabotage KIIFB: Isaac||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is behind the move to sabotage the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and hinder State’s development, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was speaking to reporters here on Monday. Dr. Isaac said RSS leader Ram Madhav had given the green signal for legal action against KIIFB. “A meeting took place at Ramanilayam in Thrissur. Following this, a Swadeshi Jagaran Manch leader filed a case against KIIFB in the High Court. KPCC general secretary Mathew Kuzhalnadan is representing the Swadeshi Jagaran Manch in the court. The case against KIIFB is part of a larger conspiracy. We should not allow this gang to destroy Kerala,” the Minister said, adding that the joint agenda of the BJP and the Congress to destroy KIIFB is coming to light each passing day. Slams Kuzhalnadan Dr. Isaac slammed Mr. Kuzhalnadan’s argument that he took up the case as part of his profession. The Minister challenged the Congress leader to reveal the details of corruption in KIIFB. The Minister said KIIFB was formed based on a law passed by the State Assembly. “The person who filed the case against KIIFB says that his only interest is academic. The law point is whether KIIFB is a statutory body or a corporate body. The KIIF Act clearly says ‘the board shall be a body corporate’. But that is not enough,” he said. “The Reserve Bank of India, Comptroller and Auditor General of India and London Stock Exchange have been made a party to the case to get his academic doubts cleared. It’s ridiculous,” he added. An official release said the State Finance Audit Report based on the income and expenditure of the State government for 2018-19 was forwarded to the Kerala government by the CAG on November 6. As per the Constitution, the release said, the State Finance Audit Report has to be forwarded to the Governor for placing it in the Assembly.  Denies charge Meanwhile, Mr. Kuzhalnadan denied the government’s allegation that he filed a case challenging the constitutional validity of KIIFB at the behest of the BJP. At a press conference in the State capital, Mr. Kuzhalnadan challenged Dr. Isaac to prove his insinuation against him.
17 November 2020||Srinagar,||Gujjars, Bakarwals’ illegal eviction pushing them to the wall: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti visited the nomads of south Kashmir, whose hutments were demolished by the authorities recently, and accused the Centre of pushing the Gujjars and Bakarwals to the wall. “A sinister agenda is being pursued against the peace-loving communities of Gujjars and Bakarwals under the garb of new land laws. They have been protecting forests for centuries and are being evicted illegally,” she said.
17 November 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Steps to take while driving in the rain||With the onset of north-east monsoon, the Ariyalur District Police have advised the general public to adhere to safety measures to prevent rain-related accidents. The district police have reached out to the travelling public through its official Facebook account, detailing a series of safety measures. One of the simple measures spelt out by the law enforcers to vehicle users was to keep the headlight on when lighting was poor during rains. This would enable vehicle users to have a better view besides helping those coming in the opposite direction to easily identify the oncoming vehicle. The police have advised the drivers of four-wheelers and heavy goods vehicles to check the windscreen wipers to ascertain if they functioned properly prior to setting out on a journey. The drivers would have a better view during monsoon only if the windscreen wipers functioned properly. If the driver felt that the vehicle was skidding on the road during rain, it was advisable not to use the accelerator and try to bring the vehicle under control instead. Another guideline required the vehicle users to drive at a lesser speed when there was a downpour since the danger of accidents was more during monsoon as compared to other seasons. It was better to avoid riding a two-wheeler on a road filled with stagnant water after heavy rains. Yet another instruction urged vehicle users to avoid going closer to heavy goods carriers and to maintain a safe 10-metre distance. This would also help them to avoid getting splashed with stagnated water on the road. Vehicle users must also ensure that they drive the vehicle in such a manner that the stagnated water does not get splashed on pedestrians. They were also advised to remain careful while proceeding on speed breakers during heavy rains. Extreme caution should be taken while approaching curves on roads and while taking a turn. Applying sudden brake would result in losing control over the vehicle, which, in turn, could lead to accidents. Vehicle users were asked to completely avoid speaking over mobile phone while driving as this could divert their attention. The Facebook post appealed to the vehicle users to strictly adhere to these simple measures to prevent accidents and ensure safe journey. Since the chances of two-wheeler and four-wheeler accidents during rainy season was more, the district police have spelt out these safety measures by taking the social media route with a view to preventing accidents, said the Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur, V. R. Srinivasan.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls are out, city records 39.40 lakh voters||The number of electors in the 16 Assembly constituencies of Chennai district has reduced from 39.46 lakh to 39.40 lakh, according to the draft electoral rolls released by Corporation Commissioner and District Electoral Officer G. Prakash. On Monday, civic officials resumed distribution of Electoral Photo Identity Cards to residents in various neighbourhoods after the draft electoral rolls were released. “At least 4.1 lakh electoral photo Identity cards were distributed in the 16 Assembly constituencies. We will distribute 25,000 more cards in a few days,” said an official. According to the data released by the District Electoral Office, Velachery, has the largest number of voters with more than 3.06 lakh residents on the rolls. Harbour constituency (1.73 lakh) has the lowest number of electors. The number of electors in R.K. Nagar is 2.53 lakh, Perambur 3.01 lakh, Kolathur 2.73 lakh, Villivakkam 2.52 lakh, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar 2.12 lakh, Egmore 1.86 lakh, Royapuram 1.84 lakh, Chepauk Tiruvallikeni 2.29 lakh, Thousand Lights 2.37 lakh, Anna Nagar 2.78 lakh, Virugambakkam 2.79 lakh, Saidapet 2.74 lakh, T. Nagar 2.35 lakh, and Mylapore 2.62 lakh. Special camps for inclusion of names on the rolls will be held in the city on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13. Residents are requested to submit forms for inclusion, deletion and change of address from November 16 to December 15. According to the draft electoral rolls, civic officials have deleted 20,167 names from the rolls during the period from February 15 to October 31. Many residents have complained to civic officials about the delay in issuance of EPIC after submission of forms. Officials said the residents who submitted forms after November 16 will get the cards only after January 20.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infections dip marginally; 1,725 fresh cases, 17 deaths reported||The daily count of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu stayed below the 2,000-mark for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, dipping further to 1,725. The total number of cases reported so far stood at 7,59,916. As many as 2,384 persons were discharged and 17 deaths were recorded. The total number of recoveries and deaths stood at 7,32,656 (96.41%) and 11,495 (1.51%), respectively. There were 15,765 active cases as of Monday. Chennai (497), Coimbatore (174) and Chengalpattu (118) were the only three districts to report more than 100 fresh cases. Five other districts — Tiruvallur (83), Kancheepuram (79), Salem (74), Tiruppur (69) and Erode (64) — reported more than 50 cases. Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, and Ariyalur reported less than 10 cases. The medical bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department said two people who had returned from Andhra Pradesh and two others who had returned from Delhi by flight had also tested positive. Of the 17 people reported dead, all but one had co-morbidities, the bulletin said. The one who had no co-morbidities was a 58-year-old man from Karur district, who had tested positive on November 1. He was hospitalised 14 days later and died within four hours of admission. Twelve of the remaining 16 persons were aged 60 and above. The oldest was an 83-year-old man from Kancheepuram district, who had hypertension and diabetes. He tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday and was hospitalised on Saturday. He died 30 minutes after hospitalisation. Nine of the 17 deaths took place in private institutions, the bulletin said. The number of persons tested continued to dip for the fourth consecutive day to 62,982 on Monday. However, the test positivity rate remained roughly the same, at 2.74%.  Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, and Ariyalur reported less than 10 cases
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. forms panel to study revamp of cooperative agency||The plight of the Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Agriculture and Rural Development Bank (TNCSARDB) having become only a provider of jewel loans has compelled the State government to consider revamping the agency, which was originally meant for facilitating long-term loans to farmers. Officials of the cooperative sector recall that after the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) imposed “stringent conditions” for re-financing in 2004, the core function of the TNCSARDB came to a halt. The institution, which till then made available resources to 180 Primary Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Banks (PCARDB) for lending to the farm sector for activities such as land purchase and construction of and deepening of wells, has become the lender of jewel loans. During 2019-20, the jewel loans to the tune of over Rs. 330 crore were given. For over 15 years, the apex bank has been supporting the PCARDBs with its funds. As an acknowledgement of the chronic problem, the government decided to form a committee of experts and stakeholders to go into the revamp and other matters, including the merger of the long-term credit structure with the short term, the officials explain. The move was also a sequel to the suggestion made by S. Selvaraj, NABARD Chief General Manager (CGM), at his meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in August, citing the constitution of high-level committees by the Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Punjab governments to re-organise the long-term cooperative credit structure. An order issued last week by the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department named S. Nagoor Ali Jinnah, former NABARD CGM and an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Ahmedabad, as the chairman of the panel. Among the committee’s members are M.S. Sriram, Professor, IIM-Bengaluru, and M. Ravikumar, former IAS officer. Apart from the Finance Department’s nominee, the committee comprises the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the NABARD CGM, the presidents of the State Apex Cooperative Bank and Thanjavur Central Cooperative Bank and the Managing Directors of the State Apex Cooperative Bank and the TNCSARDB. The panel will go into the working of the TNCSARDB in the last 10 years and examine the “sustainable viability” of the institution, keeping in mind the experience gained in other States, and explore various sources of funding and lending by the bank. Dismissing the talk of failure of the merger of long-term cooperative structure with the short term in respect of Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Selvaraj, who worked in the neighbouring State for a year before coming to Tamil Nadu, points out that the Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Bank bagged even an all-India award for 2018-19. “There might have been administrative issues initially, but now, if you look at the organisation’s functioning, its business level has gone up and performance has improved,” he says, hoping for a similar turnaround in Tamil Nadu.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police chief sounds out officers||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has asked the Deputy Commissioners of Police, Ambattur and St.Thomas Mount, to be ready to handle any emergency and ensure that there will be no law and order issue if water has to be discharged from the Chembarambakkam lake. In a note, Mr. Aggarwal said, “The water level in Chembarambakkam, located in the Kundrathur police station limits, touched 20.16 feet on Sunday evening. As the level is likely to reach 22 feet, there is a chance of surplus water release from the lake at any time. When the surplus water is released on the Adyar, it may affect people living on the banks at Thiruneermalai, Kundrathur, Vazhuthalambedu, Natham, Thirumudivakkam, Sirukalathur, Manappakkam and other places.” M.S. Jaffar Sait, Director-General of Police, Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, said control rooms with additional personnel would function round the clock in Chennai and other districts. The personnel are in a state of preparedness with emergency equipment, including motor boats, life jackets, ropes to rescue marooned people and animals and motors for pumping out water. Additional measures are in place in the flood-prone areas that have been identified based on the experience of the previous years. Personnel have been provided with electric saws to remove fallen trees. As many as 620 volunteers trained in rescue operations have been kept ready. “As the Chembarambakkam lake is going to reach its full capacity owing to a continuous inflow, water may be released from the lake. To handle such circumstances, men from the commando team with rubber boats, ropes and rescue equipment are stationed at the Egmore and Tambaram fire stations,” Mr. Sait said. Public may contact the control room at 101 or dial 9445086080 in case of being stranded in rains and flooding. Rescue teams will be sent out immediately.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu electorate stands at 6.10 crore||According to the draft rolls published on Monday by the Election Commission of India, following a special summary revision, the total electorate in Tamil Nadu stands at 6.10 crore, including 3.09 crore women, 3.01 crore men and 6,385 persons of the third gender. The Sholinganallur Assembly constituency has the largest electorate, with 6.55 lakh persons on the rolls, and Kilvelur has the smallest electorate, with 1.73 lakh persons. There are about 13.75 lakh persons on the draft rolls who are over 80 years of age. A total of 2.08 lakh persons have entered the rolls for the first time. Chennai district has 39.40 lakh persons, the highest among the 37 districts. The draft rolls have been published in all the districts in the designated locations (mostly polling station locations that are school buildings). They have also been posted on the website elections.tn.gov.in. Copies of the rolls would be handed over to the recognised political parties by the District Election Officers, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said in an official release. Special campaigns would be conducted on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13 at the designated locations (generally the polling stations). “Forms for inclusion/deletion/ modification/ transposition of entries in the electoral rolls will be available at the designated locations. Filled-in forms can be submitted there,” the release said. During the claims and objection period between November 16 and December 15 of the special summary revision, an elector or an eligible citizen, who wants to get enrolled or to make deletion/correction/ transposition in the existing entry, may submit form 6, 7, 8, or 8A to the Booth Level Officer or Electoral Registration Officer/Assistant Electoral Registration Officer’s office on any working day or the Booth Level Officers on special camp days at the respective polling stations or the designated officer at the designated location on any working day. “Online filing is also possible by going to the websites www.nvsp.in, https://voterportal.eci.gov.in and VOTER HELPLINE Mobile App. Persons who will be completing 18 years of age on 01.01.2021 and the persons whose names are not included in the electoral rolls can apply for inclusion in Form 6,” the release said. If a person shifted his/her place of ordinary residence outside the constituency in which he/she was registered as an elector, he/she should apply in Form 6. In case a person shifts his/her place of ordinary residence from one place to another within the same constituency, the application should be made in Form 8A. For correction of particulars of a person entered in the roll, one should apply in Form-8. “For obtaining the replacement EPIC on shifting/correction/loss/mutilation/destruction, an application has to be made in Form-001 in the taluk/zonal office,” the release said.  A total of 2.08 lakh persons have entered the rolls for the first time. Chennai district has 39.40 lakh persons, the highest among the 37 districts
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renovation in phases on the cards for Chennai airport rest rooms||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to renovate 10 toilets in the departure and arrival halls of the domestic terminal. The AAI officials said contracts for the work would be awarded shortly and the work would begin in a few weeks. It would be be done in a phased manner so that passengers would not have put to inconvenience. It may take six to eight months to complete the work, sources said and added that the real challenge was the maintenance of rest rooms. Though some passengers still were not too happy with the maintenance of toilets here, the AAI officials said they had a mechanism to check the complaints and fix the issues immediately. “There are no complaints now and we are keeping the records to prove it. We are working with short deadlines and complaints are resolved at the earliest. Passengers can see the improvement in how the toilets are maintained now,” another official said. The international terminal’s rest rooms will not be renovated now as regular operations had not resumed.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cong. identifying seats for T.N. polls, says Dinesh Gundu Rao||The Congress party will be realistic about the seats it will contest in Tamil Nadu as part of the DMK-led alliance, but doesn’t foresee any problems in the discussions, Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, said. The party has started the process of identifying seats where it would be strong and has good candidates. “We are looking at it from a critical, practical angle. We are looking at it, constituency by constituency, and are being realistic about it. That alliance should be able to win is more important than any other consideration,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu, on Monday .  “The Bihar results didn’t go our way. But Tamil Nadu is different. Here, we have an alliance with the DMK that is well tested and we fought the last Parliamentary and Assembly polls together. In Bihar, in the Lok Sabha polls, it was a total washout for our alliance, but in T.N. the Secular Progressive Alliance swept the State. The alliance has worked well on the ground and enjoys the support of the people. That is going to continue,” Mr. Rao said. He said the Congress would be able to strengthen the DMK and other parties in the alliance where margins might become smaller. “In about 100 seats, we will be able to help the DMK in close contests,” he said. When asked about the party’s seat sharing hopes in the current situation, he reiterated that the party would be realistic. Seat-sharing arrangement should be based on a realistic approach, the Congress’ strengths and vote share of parties. “We will try to convince our partners and have a fair and transparent discussion. There shouldn’t be any unnecessary bargaining,” he said. Mr. Rao further said the Congress would work to make DMK president M.K. Stalin the Chief Minister as he had supported Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for the Prime Ministerial job during the Lok Sabha polls. Mr. Gandhi’s presence, he said, would be required during the campaigning in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and the party was working on an extensive programme for him and that the plans were currently being discussed.  We will try to convince our partners and have a fair and transparent discussion
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Merit list for government school students brings cheer among candidates||With the State government releasing the merit list and kick-starting the process of counselling for admission to medical and dental colleges, a special merit list was also released this year — for students of government schools who qualified in the NEET and would be eligible for seats under the new 7.5% reservation policy. Four students from Chennai, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur districts have found a place among the top 10 ranks under the 7.5% quota for MBBS admissions in 2020-21. S. Dhivyadarshini, who scored 620 marks in the NEET and secured the third rank, said she hopes to study in Madras Medical College. “While I had attended coaching classes for my previous NEET attempts, I realised that self-study worked better for me this year. The last one year, I studied by myself...,” she said. During the lockdown, there were medical students and doctors who reached out to aspirants and helped them. “We had WhatsApp groups where we could get our doubts clarified, and this helped with the last leg of preparations,” said the medical aspirant who studied in the Government Higher Secondary School, Arumbakkam. C. Sivaranjani of Thiruvallur secured the sixth rank. She said preparations keeping in mind a time and schedule helped her crack the NEET on her second attempt. She had studied in Jaigopal Garodia Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Thiruvallur. Ranked seventh on the merit list, S.M. Suryalakshmi said she was hoping to get into the Madras Medical College. “I am definitely going to pursue PG after completing MBBS...,” said the aspirant, who studied at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Porur. U. Indiradevi, who scored 523 marks and secured the eighth rank, said being clear about the concepts and consistent preparation helped her crack the NEET. “NEET aspirants should go through questions from the previous years in particular and practise them. I found this to be helpful after my previous attempt,” she said. The daughter of a weaver, Indiradevi had studied earlier in the Government Higher Secondary School, Ayyangarkulam, Kancheepuram. She hopes to specialise in ophthalmology. In Tiruchi, eight of the 24 students of government schools who cleared the NEET in the district figure on the list. Of them, four had cleared the NEET in the second attempt. Among the toppers were four girls and four boys. Three of them were from the Government Higher Secondary School, Manachanallur, and one each from the government schools at Lalgudi, Sevalpatti, Tiruppanjili, Thandalaiputhur and T. Murugapatti. Hari Krishnan S., who scored 423 marks and bagged the 38th rank, said his father, who works at a grocery store in the city, was his biggest supporter. “My entire preparation was guided by the students of NIT-T. They helped me focus on subjects I had difficulty with and at weekends, they made arrangements for us to stay on the NIT-T campus so that we could access their library and meet the trainers,” he said. Of the 21 students from Madurai, S. Kanish Kumar, ranked 78th, is a repeater who studied at the Government Higher Secondary School at M. Puliyankulam. N. Karthickraja, also a repeater, studied at the Government Higher Secondary School at M. Subbulapuram. He has secured a State rank of 102. S. Seethalakshmi, a repeater who studied at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Mahaboopalayam, has secured a State rank of 151. G. Ramya from Salem, ranked 10th, was elated. Ramya, who completed Class 12 a year ago and repeated the NEET after undergoing coaching at a private centre at Namakkal, scored 513. She studied at the Government Higher Secondary School at K. Morur in Kadayampatti. K. Boopathi from Erode, ranked fifth, has scored 559. He is the son of daily wage earners. R. Srijan from Erode, who scored 710 marks, topped the State list for the regular quota.  While I had attended coaching classes for my previous NEET attempts, I realised that self-study worked better for me this yearS. Dhivyadarshini
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six workers return from Romania with tales of severe hardships||Six construction workers from Tamil Nadu, who were recruited for painting work in Romania and remained stranded for one year, returned to the city with tales of personal hardship. The six said they were hired for painting work through a private recruitment agency and assured a salary of Rs. 40,000 a month. But they were made to do odd cleaning jobs. They were removed from their jobs within two months of joining a construction site and were left homeless and penniless. The labourers, who survived doing odd jobs, were finally rescued and brought to the State, thanks to the efforts of Pon Kumar, president of the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Central Union. Mr. Kumar, who was previously chairman of the TN Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, said the six labourers were brought back after representations were made to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and the Romanian Embassy. The six workers hailed from different parts of the State including Poonamallee, Chidambaram, Needamangalam, Thanjavur and Thoothukudi. M. Udayakumar, a native of Thoothukudi, pouring out his woes, said after they were removed from the jobs they took refuge in the refugee camp of the Indian Embassy where they were provided food and shelter. He said after four months the embassy officials, citing their inability to help them return to Tamil Nadu, asked them to leave. Somehow the group survived by doing some odd jobs and from a shelter provided by a good Samaritan in Romania before Mr. Kumar took up the case. The six workers, who reached New Delhi on November 8 and were in quarantine due to the COVID-19 pandemic, thanked Rajeev Sharma, Regional Policy Officer of Building and Wood Workers International, for sponsoring them with the train tickets to reach home.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for robbing aspiring news reader||The Thoraipakkam police have arrested a couple who robbed a young woman of jewellery by posing as recruiters for a private television channel. The police said the victim, Minimol, 27, from Parakkavattuvillai in Kanniyakumari, was staying with her friends in Guindy. She recently came across an advertisement on an online portal for a news reader’s post. She contacted the advertiser, and was told that a woman would pick her up as the screen test would be conducted at a hotel in Thoraipakkam. She was advised to wear jewellery for the test. She met the woman in T. Nagar and went with her to the hotel. She was then led by an unidentified man to a room, where the couple pretended to conduct an interview for the job. They told her to remove her jewellery and use the bathroom to wash her face, on the pretext of applying make-up for the test. While Ms. Minimol was in the bathroom, the couple locked the door from outside and fled with the jewellery. The hotel manager, who used a spare key to enter the room as the TV volume was very high, found Ms. Minimol locked up. Realising that she had been cheated, she lodged a complaint. The police traced the suspects and identified them as Raven Bistro, 30, of Theni district, and Deepa alias Shenbagavalli, 38, of Thiruvanmiyur. They were arrested in Palavakkam on Saturday. Inquiries revealed that Shenbagavalli got separated from her husband and married Raven Bistro, the manager of a popular non-vegetarian restaurant.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two die after car falls into pit near Walajabad||Two elderly persons died after the car by which they were travelling from Kancheepuram skidded due to rain and fell into a roadside pit near Walajabad on Monday. Three others who were injured have been admitted in a private hospital. The police said Srinath, 33, a cashier of a private bank, was a resident at Sainagar, West Tambaram. He was accompanied by his wife Iswarya, 30, their two-year-old son Anandaraj, his father-in-law Rajan, 60, and mother-in-law Kanagam, 55, on his visit to the temples in Kancheepuram. They were returning in their car on Sunday night. Srinath who was driving the car, found it difficult to drive on the road which was flooded with rainwater and with poor visibility. He lost control over the vehicle which skidded off the road and hit a tree on the roadside and fell into a pit. Passersby who noticed the accident alerted Walajabad police. They were rushed to Government General Hospital, Kancheepuram,where the doctors declared Rajan and Kanagam as brought dead while the injured were taken to a private hospital, said the police.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||428 cases filed for violating time slots in Chennai||The city police have booked 428 cases against people for bursting crackers beyond the stipulated timings. Following a Supreme Court order, the Tamil Nadu government fixed time slots for residents to burst crackers during Deepavali: between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Police inspectors monitored compliance of the order in their regions. Cases were booked against violators. The west zone, comprising the Anna Nagar, Ambattur and Pulianthope police districts, accounted for the highest number of 239 cases. It was followed by the south zone with 95 cases, the east zone with 57 cases and the north zone with 37 cases. The violators were booked under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the City Police Act. Fines were collected, a senior police officer said. Child dies An accident caused by the bursting of firecrackers resulted in the death of a child in Chennai. One child was critically injured and is undergoing treatment at the Government Kilapuk Medical College Hospital. On Saturday and Sunday, the hospital treated 14 persons in the outpatient department. U. Sri Vignesh, from Thirumazhisai, injured his right hand when he tried to examine a cracker that had not burst. “I bought him a box of firecrackers. Yesterday [on Saturday], he was lighting them, and one of them did not go off. So he picked it up. But it burst all of a sudden, injuring his right hand,” said his father Uthamaraj, a casual labourer. At Kilpauk Medical College, an X-ray was taken and Sri Vignesh’s injury was cleaned and bandaged. The boy has been asked to return on Tuesday for further procedure.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM wants Chennai back as Haj embarkation point||As the Haj Committee of India dropped Chennai as one of the embarkation points for Haj 2021, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to designate the city again as an embarkation point. The Haj Committee of India had said that owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of embarkation points had been reduced from 21 to 10 for Haj 2021, and Chennai was not on the list. The Haj pilgrims from Tamil Nadu have been assigned Kochi. Logistical challenge In his letter, Mr. Palaniswami said, “It will be logistically challenging for Haj pilgrims, who are mostly senior citizens, to travel from various locations in the State of Tamil Nadu to Kochi for boarding the flight. These pilgrims have represented to me about the hardship and difficulties they are likely to face while embarking on the Haj pilgrimage from Kochi.” He assured the Prime Minister that the State government would follow the prescribed COVID-19 protocol to ensure the safety of the pilgrims while sending them from Chennai. “Keeping in mind the hardship and inconvenience caused to the pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, I request that Chennai be designated as an embarkation point for Haj 2021, as in earlier years,” he said. Every year, more than 4,500 Haj pilgrims from Tamil Nadu and neighbouring States proceed to Saudi Arabia from the embarkation point in Chennai. “Direct flights were operated from Chennai to Jeddah and back since 1987, benefiting the pilgrims of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” Mr. Palaniswami recalled.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO officials booked for irregularities in funds disbursement||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against unknown officials of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on the charge of abusing their position in the disbursement of funds to St. John’s Employees Welfare Society, Thoothukudi, for a housing scheme under the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana. The allegation is that during 2017-19, the suspected officials of the EPFO, Tirunelveli, entered into a criminal conspiracy with G. Thomas, president, St. John Employees Welfare Society, by releasing the provident fund amount that was allegedly misused. Going by the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana, provident fund subscribers having more than three years of membership could avail themselves of 90% of the employees’ and employers’ contribution with interest for the purchase of plot and house, construction of house, additional construction of house and repayment of loan. A society should be formed to make such claims and funds unutilised should be returned to the employee’s account with a 2% penal interest from the date of disbursement. Accordingly, St. John’s Freight System Ltd. formed St. John’s Employees’ Welfare Society and a sum of Rs. 1.84 crore was credited to its account for the purchase of land and construction of houses for 141 employees. In its First Information Report, the CBI said the fund was sanctioned despite the proceedings for default on payment of provident fund contribution was pending against Mr. Thomas. The procedures prescribed under the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme, 1952, was not complied with at the time of sanction. The amount sanctioned was misused by Mr. Thomas, and no plot was allotted to the members of the society. The unutilised money was not returned to the employees’ provident fund account. Besides Section 120-B (Criminal conspiracy) and 406 (Criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code, the investigating agency invoked provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the accused persons.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||INI-CET: CM seeks more exam centres within T.N.||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention for re-alloting exam centres within Tamil Nadu for students, who are to appear in the Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI CET) on November 20. Some of them have been allotted examination centres in Chittoor and Nellore districts in Andhra Pradesh. ‘Not well connected’ “I would like to point out that examination centres like Madanapalle in Chittoor district and Nellore in Nellore district are not well connected from various locations in Tamil Nadu. They are 175 to 250 km away from students’ home towns. This has caused tremendous and avoidable stress during the examination time to the aspiring medical students,” Mr. Palaniswami said in his letter to Mr. Modi. The Chief Minister has requested the Prime Minister to intervene in the matter and direct the Union Health Ministry to allot to students the examination centres of their choice by creating additional centres within Tamil Nadu. Admission The INI-CET for admission to postgraduate courses such as MD, MS, DM (6 yrs), MCh (6 yrs) in the institutes like the All India Institutes of Medical Science (AIIMS), Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer), Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research at Chandigarh and NIMHANS at Bengaluru, is scheduled to be held on November 20.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands Minister’s resignation||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday demanded the cancellation of the quarry contract given to son of Vanur MLA Chakrapani and the resignation of Law, Justice, Prisons and Mines Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, who awarded the contract in violation of rules. In a statement here, Mr. Stalin said irregularities in awarding contracts to public servants and their relatives were continuing in the AIADMK government. He said the contract awarded to Prabhu, the son of Mr. Chakrapani in Thiruvakkarai, came to limelight after an accident took place in the quarry. “But the police, coming under pressure, have suppressed the fact that the quarry belonged to the MLA’s son. The first information report says that it is owned by Thiruvakkarai Prabhu,” Mr. Stalin pointed out. Alleging that the Minister had violated the rule that government contracts and works should not be awarded to public servants and their relatives, Mr. Stalin said action should be taken against Mr. Shanmugam and Mr. Chakrapani. “The MLA should be disqualified for getting a contract for his son. The DVAC should suo motu take action against the Minister,” he said. High-level meet The high-level executive committee meeting of the DMK will be held on November 23 at Anna Arivalayam. Party general secretary Duraimurgan said the meeting to be chaired by party president M.K. Stalin would discuss organisation-related work in view of the forthcoming Assembly polls.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||In various gold smuggling cases at Chennai airport, Chennai Air Customs seized 1.85 kg of gold estimated at Rs. 97.7 lakh. On Sunday, four passengers, Mohamathu Tharig, 36, Syed Mohamed Paris, 26, both of Ramanathapuram, and Sikkandar Masthan, 36, and Rahuman Khan, 31, both of Chennai, who had arrived by a flight from Dubai, were detained. On questioning, the officials learnt that they had concealed 12 bundles of gold paste weighing 1.93 kg in their rectums; later when the paste was extracted, officials recovered 1.61 kg of gold estimated at Rs. 84.4 lakh. Dhasthageer, 34, hailing from Ramanathapuram, who arrived from Dubai, was arrested. Officials seized 243 g gold from him.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of four children retrieved at Kasimedu||A Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) rescue team on Monday retrieved bodies of four children who drowned in the sea on Sunday evening when they were playing near the Kasimedu Fishing Harbour. From early morning on Monday, personnel from Fire Stations at Royapuram, Thiruvotriyur, swimmers from Marina Rescue Team, Indian Coast Guard and fishermen were conducting search and rescue operations. District Fire Officer K. Rajesh Kannan and Deputy Commissioner of Police G. Subbulakshmi monitored the rescue operation. On Sunday evening, three families had gone with their children to the beach. While the parents were sitting on shore, Durga, 17, daughter of Soundarajan; Vishnu, 14, and Margaret, 13 and Martin 13, twins, were playing in the water. To the shock of their parents, the four children were dragged into the sea by strong waves. Arulraj, 19, a relative of one of the victims, jumped into the water to save them. However, all five went missing and were untraceable. Later, the body of Arulraj was washed ashore. After long search, the rescue teams retrieved the bodies of four children.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand gap in transplantations needs to be addressed: Tamilisai||The Governor of Telangana, Tamilisai Soundararajan, on Monday highlighted the need to increase the number of renal transplantations in India to address the gap in the demand. Releasing the “Handbook of Renal Transplantations in Developing Countries” through video-conferencing at a function organised by Madras Medical Mission (MMM) hospital here, Dr. Soundararajan said that though there were 2.5 lakh people who needed kidney transplants annually, only around 10,000 transplants were happening in the country. According to a statement issued by the hospital, the handbook was the initiative of Georgi Abraham, Director - Nephrology, MMM, and Anusha Rohit, Head, Microbiology, and a senior consultant at the hospital. Stating that the book was a timely intervention, Dr. Soundararajan said that it would be hugely helpful for the next generation of caregivers. “Most of our medical books have foreign authors and it’s a matter of pride that such a comprehensive book has been authored primarily by the Indian medical fraternity,” she said
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami congratulates Nitish Kumar||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday extended greetings to Janata Dal (United) leader Nitish Kumar on having assumed charge as Bihar Chief Minister. “I congratulate you on your assumption of charge as the Chief Minister of Bihar and wish you a successful tenure,” Mr. Palaniswami said in his message to Mr. Nitish Kumar after he took oath as Chief Minister.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM seeks enhanced relief for families of firefighters||Makkal Needhi Maiam on Sunday demanded that the State government enhance the monetary relief to the families of the two firefighters who died fighting flames at a textile shop in Madurai, to Rs. 1 crore each, and give a government job to their kin, on compassionate grounds. Party workers’ wing secretary K.A. Ponnusamy said the relief for the two injured fighters too should be increased to Rs. 25 lakh each. Meanwhile, PMK founder S. Ramadoss urged the State to provide a relief of Rs. 25 lakh to the families of the three persons who died in an LPG cylinder explosion and Rs. 10 lakh to those injured in the incident in Arani, Tiruvannamalai district.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC Chief Justice discharged||Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Amreshwar Pratap Sahi was discharged from hospital on Monday, 10 days after admission. The Chief Justice had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on November 6 with suspected symptoms of COVID-19. He later tested positive for the infection. Hospital Dean E. Theranirajan said his parameters had returned to normal, and he had been breathing without oxygen support for three days. “He has been advised rest for 10 days before resuming duties,” the dean added.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gnanadesikan hospitalised||B.S. Gnanadesikan, senior vice-president of the Tamil Maanila Congress, has been admitted to Apollo Hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. “He is under constant supervision and high-quality care is being provided to him,” TMC president G.K. Vasan said. Mr. Vasan said Mr. Gnanadesikan was admitted a few days ago with breathing difficulty and was being treated for lung infection. “They also ran tests that showed he is COVID-19-positive,” he said.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan Eye Care founder A.M. Arun dead||A.M. Arun, who took over his family’s single pharmacy shop in Tiruchi and built it into one of India’s largest network of eye care hospitals under Vasan Healthcare Group, passed away on Monday. He was 52. The cause of his death is still unclear. According to reports, Dr. Arun was declared dead on arrival by doctors at Kauvery Hospital in the morning. The body was then sent to Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital at Omandurar Government Estate for an autopsy. In 1991, Dr. Arun took over the reins of the family’s pharmacy business, ‘Vasan Medical Hall’, in Tiruchi. In 2002, he made a foray into the eye care business by opening the first eye care hospital in Tiruchi. Soon after, Vasan expanded its presence with over 100 hospitals across the southern States. However, the rapid rise of the group came to an abrupt halt as it got enmeshed in charges of money laundering and foreign exchange violations. The allegations were followed by Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate raids at several Vasan Healthcare hospitals.  Insolvency proceedings Amid tax evasion controversies and deteriorating finances, the National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai, in 2017, ordered commencement of insolvency proceedings against the eye care network, based on a petition filed by one of its suppliers — Alcon Laboratories. However, the Madras High Court stayed the proceedings. In October 2019, a Division Bench vacated the stay, and the case was back at the NCLT. However, the proceedings were further delayed by disputes related to the claims and the right to voting share of the members of the committee of creditors, among others. Once a prized unicorn valued at over $1 billion, Vasan Eye Care is now looking for potential bidders for its assets.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan refugee held for murder of TV actor||The city police on Monday arrested a Sri Lankan refugee for allegedly murdering a television serial actor, also a refugee from a camp in Virudhunagar district. Selvarathinam, 41, was staying in MGR Nagar and tried his luck in the film industry. He played a minor role in a TV serial Thenmozhi BA. Being a Sri Lankan refugee, he had left his wife and children in the camp in Virudhunagar district. The police said Selvarathinam had an affair with the wife of Vijayakumar, who was also a refugee in the same camp. Vijayakumar hatched a plan to murder Selvarathinam and came all the way from Virudhunagar on Sunday morning. He waited at a tea shop where Selvarathinam had his tea and attacked him with a knife. After killing him, Vijayakumar washed his weapon in the rain and put it in his bag. He left for Tambaram and then boarded a bus to Virudhunagar. A special team investigating the case arrested Vijayakumar in Virudhunagar bus stand on Sunday evening when he got down from the bus. He was brought to Chennai and lodged in prison.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sipcot gets clearance for e-vehicle park at Manallur||The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (Sipcot) has obtained environmental clearance for the development of an industrial park at Manallur and Soorapoondi villages in Gummidipoondi, Tiruvallur district. According to sources, the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MoEF & CC) gave the clearance last week. Spread over 691.587 acres, the tentative project cost is around Rs. 250 crore. A senior official said that an electric vehicle park would come up within this premises and a land parcel of 300 acres has been earmarked for it. “Enquiries have already started coming in from players in the e-vehicle space,” the official said. “The industrial park is planned with 90% e-vehicles and industries pertaining to auto components,”he added. Sipcot has also identified another 1,200 acre of land near this industrial park. “The land has been handed over to us [by the Collector] and we will soon conduct a public hearing. This is a poramboke land,” the Sipcot official said. This is expected to be developed in a phased manner over the next five to seven years. Sipcot is also in the process of establishing new industrial parks across Tamil Nadu in places including Manaparai, Thoothukudi Phase II, Manakudi, Thindivanam, Nemili and Sakkarakottai.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK high-level meeting on November 23||The high-level executive committee meeting of the DMK will be held on November 23 at Anna Arivalayam. Party general secretary Duraimurgan said the meeting to be chaired by party president M.K. Stalin would discuss organisation-related work in view of the forthcoming Assembly polls.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls released in districts||The number of women voters in Coimbatore district was higher than men by over 33,000, according to the draft electoral roll released by the district administration on Monday. District Collector K. Rajamani, who is also the District Election Officer, released the draft electoral roll at the Collectorate in the presence of representatives of various political parties. According to a release, there are 29,70,733 voters in the 10 Assembly constituencies of the district. Among the voters, 15,02,142 were women, 14,68,222 men and 369 were third gender voters. With 4,44,016 voters, Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency had the highest electorate and Valaparai had the lowest with 2,01,655 voters in Coimbatore district, as per the draft roll. Forms for enrolment, deletion, correction and transposition in the electoral roll will be available at all the polling stations, revenue divisional offices and taluk offices till December 15. Special camps for submission of these forms will be held at all the polling stations on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13. The forms could also be submitted online through the websitewww.nvsp.inor through the ‘Voter Help Line’ mobile application. The final electoral roll will be released on January 20, 2021, according to the release. TIRUPPUR District Collector and District Election Officer K. Vijayakarthikeyan released the draft electoral roll at the Collectorate. A release said that Tiruppur district had eight Assembly constituencies. In these constituencies, 23,03,842 voters were present, of which 11,60,809 were women, 11,42,775 men and 258 were third gender voters. As per the draft electoral roll, Palladam had the highest electorate in the district with 3,75,838 voters while Madathukulam had the lowest with 2,44,418 voters. Tiruppur district had 2,493 polling stations, the release said. UDHAGAMANDALAM Names of more than 7,200 voters were deleted and 2,300 were added in the latest draft electoral rolls released by the Nilgiris Collector. According to a press release, 7,255 voters were deleted from the electoral rolls and 2,317 were added. In the Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Gudalur Assembly constituencies, the final tally of voters stands at 5,71,753, with women outnumbering men by 2,96,196 voters. There are 2,75,545 male voters and 12 voters from the third gender.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Winter visitor Black baza spotted near Chadivayal||When a group of 13 nature enthusiasts from Coimbatore embarked on a birding trip to Chadivayal jungles on Sunday, little did they expect to chance upon an unusual visitor. Among the 40-odd birds spotted on the trail, one bird stood out with a black overall and white breast band separated by a narrow black stripe from the variable chestnut band on the belly – Black baza ( Aviceda leuphotes ). R. Mohammed Saleem of the Environment Conservation Group, who led the group, spotted the bird first, an individual on its flight. “It did not take much time for me to identify the bird as I had spotted the bird from the same forest area in December 2016. As we walked further, another individual was seen perching on a tree,” he said. Prasath Selvaraj, an independent researcher, and Varun Suraj, a class XII student, managed to photograph the bird. A black crest is another distinctive feature of the small raptor that feeds on insects, beetles, lizards and small birds among others. As per records, Black baza is normally found in the forests of eastern Himalayas, Northeast India, China and Southeast Asia. They winter the south of the Peninsula and are seen in small groups. “Black baza is widely seen in places such as Thattekkad and Thekkady in Kerala during the winter. The ones seen in Coimbatore region could also be the ones migrating in the winter,” said Mr. Saleem. Other sightings of Black baza with photographic records in Coimbatore region include the one by two members of environmental organization Osai at the Anamalai Tiger Reserve in December 2015 and by a birder at Kovai Courtallam in January 2019 which has been listed in eBird’s Coimbatore checklist.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ICAR-SBI team wins award||Scientists from ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute (ICAR-SBI), Coimbatore recently won the first prize in the National Water Awards-2019 by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, a release said. The team comprising K. Hari, D. Puthira Prathap, P. Murali, A. Rameshsundar and B. Singaravelu received the award for their work on ‘Soil Moisture Indicator (SMI) and its Application in Irrigation Water Management.’ SMI is a device which helps the farmers to assess soil moisture levels while scheduling irrigations and aids in saving of irrigation water. Director of ICAR-SBI Bakshi Ram congratulated the team and noted that 12 firms have been granted licence for commercial production of the device.
17 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for murder||The R.S. Puram police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old man at Kamarajapuram early on Saturday morning. The police said that S. Guna and R. Rajesh, both aged 21, and hailing from Kavundampalayam area, were arrested late on Sunday for the murder of R. Janarthanan, a resident of Shastri Street, near Thudiyalur. The police are on the lookout for another accused named Mari, also from Kavundampalayam. According to the police, Janarthanan had come to Kamarajapura to celebrate Deepavali late on Friday. The three accused came to the area around 12.45 a.m. on Saturday and stabbed Janarthanan to death due to previous enmity. They escaped from the place in a two-wheeler. Guna and Rajesh were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
17 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Herbal garden comes up on Coimbatore Central Prison premises||A herbal garden spread over half an acre is the new addition to the landscape on the Coimbatore Central Prison campus. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range), inaugurated the herbal garden on Monday. According to prison authorities, the garden has 120 herbal plants of 40 varieties ranging from Keezhanalli to Adathodai at present. The collection will be increased gradually. Prison Superintendent R. Krishnaraj said the administration had plans to expand the herbal garden based on the outcome of the plants that were under care now. “Four prisoners will take care of the herbal garden. The agricultural officer of the open prison has given them training,” he said.  Rabbit farm Mr. Shanmuga Sundaram also launched the sale of rabbits that were reared in the rabbit farm of the central prison. The prison had started a rabbit farm a few months ago. There are around 80 kittens were available for sale, he said. “A pair of kittens will be sold for Rs. 500 to Rs. 600. Interested persons can contact the prison bazaar on Dr. Nanjappa Road,” said Mr. Krishnaraj. Apart from kittens, the prison authorities will also sell grown male rabbits based on availability.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetrivel Yatra’ to continue as scheduled: Murugan||The ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ organised by the BJP’s State unit will continue as scheduled, said BJP State president L. Murugan here on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said the yatra was paused for the Deepavali festival and will resume on Tuesday when it will cover Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram. The yatra will reach Coimbatore on November 22, he said. On the BJP leaders courting arrest during the yatra, he said that the police and the State government must take action on all those who violate the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Denying allegations that the yatra is a political initiative, he claimed that its purpose was to console those who were offended by the Kanda Shasti Kavacham controversy. To a question about AIADMK’s mouthpiece Namadhu Amma criticising the yatra, Mr. Murugan said that he did not get a chance to read it. The visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Chennai on November 21 will boost the morale of the party workers in the State, Mr. Murugan said. As many as 120 members, including industrialists joined the BJP in Coimbatore, he added.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One killed as car ploughs through roadside crowd at Aliyar||An eight-year-old girl was killed and six others were injured when a car ploughed through a roadside crowd outside Aliyar dam on Pollachi-Valparai road on Monday. The deceased has been identified as B. Varsha from Iduvai in Tiruppur district. The injured were her brother Sabari (10), father Bhuvaneswaran (40) and mother Priya (30) and three others V. Elakkiya (22) from Iduvai in Tiruppur, M. Yuvaraj (28) from Salem and his wife Dhurga (28). Varsha and the injured were among people who were walking on the side of the road outside Aliyar dam, a place which is crowded on holidays. Car loses control According to the police, N. Ramesh (41) from Pattambi of Palakkad district in Kerala drove the car which ploughed through the crowd after he lost its control.  Hospitalised The six injured were taken to the Government Hospital Pollachi. Among them, Sabari, Bhuvaneswaran, Elakkiya and Dhurga were referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetrivel Yatra’ to continue, says BJP||The ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ will continue as scheduled, said State BJP president L. Murugan in Coimbatore on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said the yatra was paused for the Deepavali festival. It would resume on Tuesday and cover Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram. The yatra would reach Coimbatore on November 22, he said. On the BJP leaders courting arrest during the yatra, he said the police and the State government must take action against all those who violated the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Denying allegations that the Vetrivel Yatra was a political initiative, he claimed that its purpose was to “console” those who were offended by the Kanda Shasti Kavacham controversy, explain the policies of the Centre and honour the COVID-19 frontline workers in the State.
17 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner inspects works||Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected various works under way in West and Central Zones on Monday and urged officials to complete them at the earliest. According to a release, he inspected the model road works on D.B. Road, which is being carried out under the Smart Cities Mission at the cost of Rs. 24.36 crore in the West Zone. Mr. Pandian met with the residents of Union Office Road in Kavundampalayam and urged them to separate the household wastes as biodegradable and non-biodegradable. Masks distributed He also distributed masks after reviewing the COVID-19 precautionary measures in the area, the release said. The Corporation Commissioner warned the private chicken shop owners on Union Office Road not to dump wastes near the roads. Mr. Pandian also inspected the works for construction of storm water drains on Race Course Road in Central Zone on Monday, the release said.
17 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral list released for Cuddalore and Villupuram districts||The draft electoral rolls for Cuddalore district released on Monday showed a decline of about 17,796 voters as the names of more than 25,000 people were deleted and 7,000 added. As per the draft electoral roll released by Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, the final tally of voters in Cuddalore district stood at 20,82,840 — 10,28,380 men, 10,54,308 women and 152 others — compared to 21,00,636 voters in the final electoral roll released on February 14, 2020. Women voters outnumbered men by 25,928 in the Assembly constituencies of Thittakudi (Reserved), Virudhachalam, Panruti, Cuddalore, Kurunjipadi, Bhuvanagiri and Chidambaram. Only in Neyveli and Kattumannarkovil, men outnumbered women. During the summary revision, 7,486 inclusions and 25,282 deletions were made. The deletions were made from the list on account of deaths, shifting and duplicate entries. Voters could verify their names on the rolls displayed at the designated locations, Mr. Sakhamuri said and called upon the people to make use of special camps to be held on November 21 and 22, December 12 and 13. The final rolls would be published on January 20, 2021. Villupuram district Villupuram district registered a fall of 14,624 voters compared to the number in the voters’ list released in February. While there were 16,48,361 voters in the draft list released by Collector A. Annadurai, the same was 16,62,985 in February. As many as 3,682 voters were added. The final tally of voters in Villupuram district stood at 16,48,361 voters — 81,75,19 men and 83,06,44 women and 198 others. As per the draft roll, women outnumber men in Gingee, Tindivanam (Reserved), Vanur (Reserved), Villupuram and Vikravandi Assembly segments. Men outnumbered women only in Mailam and Tirukovilur.
17 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul has 18.16 lakh voters||Releasing the draft electoral rolls, Collector M Vijayalakshmi on Monday said that 18,16, 281 voters were registered in the special summary revision conducted in the seven Assembly Constituencies. Flanked by the representatives from the registered political parties and senior officials from the revenue and the election wing, the Collector said that the district had seven Assembly Constituencies, namely, Palani, Oddanchatram, Athur, Nilakottai, Natham, Dindigul and Vedasandur. The Collector said that persons turning 18 years, with 1.1.2021 as the qualifying date, shall register with the officers in the designated polling stations. As per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India, special campaigns would be held on November 21 and 22, December 12 and 13 during which period the public can utilise for inclusion,deletion, modification and transposition of entries in the voter list. The claims and objections in the electoral rolls can be done from Nov 16 to December 15 by filling in Forms 6, 7,8 and 8A and submitted with the respective Block Level Officers, Electoral Registration Officers or Assistant Electoral Registration Officers. For better clarity, applicants can upload color photographs in the prescribed space given in the application form. Similarly, Indian citizens living abroad can also register their names in Form 6A either by post or in person. In the case of sending the form through post, they should send a photocopy of their passport duly self-attested, she added. District Revenue Officer R. Govindaraj and other officials were present at the time of release of the electoral rolls. Palani has 2,69,714 total voters including, 1,32,220 men, 1,37,463 women, 31 others.; Oddanchatram: total 2,33,683; 1,14,058 men, 1,19,603 women and 22 others.; Athur: total 2,81,980; 1,35,977 men, 1,45.981 women, 22 others.; Nilakottai: total 2,34,493; 1,15,337 men, 1,19,151 women and 5 others.; Natham: total 2,74,145; 1,34,167 men, 1,39,934 women, and 44 others.; Dindigul total 2,66,784; 1,29,781 men, 1,36,959 women and 44 others.; and Vedasandur total 2,55,482; 1,25,295 men, 1,30,187 women and NIL others. The total number is 18,16,281; 8,86,835 men, 9,29,278 women and 168 others.
17 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Seven GRI researchers among top 2% scientists’||Seven researchers from Gandhigram Rural Institute- Deemed to be University have figured among the top 2% scientists across the world, according to an analysis compiled by researchers from Stanford University. According to a press release from the Institute the seven researchers who figured in the list were: P.Balasubramaniam, an eminent scientist working in the field of fuzzy logic and neural networks; K. Ramachandran, an expert in the field of dye sensitised solar cells fabrication and characterisation, who had served as an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Physics at the Institute; M.G.Sethuraman from the Department of Chemistry working in the area of surface protection coatings and super hydrophobic materials; S.Meenakshi, an expert in the field of Defluoridation and removal of heavy metal ions using bio-polymeric composite materials; S. Abraham John, who is working on synthesising nano materials for sensor applications; K. Marimuthu, who is focussing on luminescence studies on glass materials for photonic applications particularly for the white light applications and radiation shielding materials; and G. Sivarajan, an expert in the field of materials for bio-imaging applications. The Chancellor of the Gandhigram Rural Institute K. M. Annamalai congratulated the researchers who brought laurels to the institute by their efforts and contribution in the field of research. The Vice-Chancellor (in-charge) B.Subburaj and Registrar V.P.R. Sivakumar congratulated the researchers on winning laurels to the institute for their achievement.
17 November 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmer held for elephant’s death||A farmer was arrested in connection with the electrocution of a male elephant near Udedurgam reserve forest. The 40-year-old elephant was found dead on Sunday, and an autopsy had revealed electrocution. A special team was formed to inquire into the death. Two farmers of Kavipuram village here were found to have been responsible for the electrocution. The accused Narayanappa (45) and Venkatesappa (60) had electrified their farm fence,which caused the death of the elephant. Narayanappa was arrested, while the second accused was absconding.
17 November 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||NITPY conducts workshop on Water Quality Management for Aquaculture||A national workshop on Water Quality Management for Aquaculture was conducted by the National Institute of Technology - Puducherry (NITPY) through online mode on Monday, to infuse into fisheries sector the benefit accruing from Internet of Things (IoT) platform. The workshop organised by the Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering was addressed by experts from ICAR - Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, Marine Products Exports Development Authority, and Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture. Inaugurating the national conference, G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, said such programmes envisaging dissemination of latest technical know-how were the need of the hour for ramping up the scale of production through inland fisheries, as in advanced countries. The inaugural session of the workshop was also addressed by Rashmi Sharma, Scientist, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, and G. Aghila, Professor and Registrar In-Charge of NITPY. Funded by the Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development (SEED) Division of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, the programme was a component of a project titled ‘Design and Development of IoT Based Low Cost Water Quality Monitoring and Reporting System for Aquaculture’, NITPY Director K. Sankaranarayanasamy said. The topics covered included prospects of aquaculture diversification in India, advances in shrimp farming, engineering technologies for Aquaculture and inland fisheries, and Internet of Things-based Water Quality Monitoring System for Acquaculture.
17 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Women voters outnumber men in Madurai district||Women voters outnumbered men in nine out of the 10 Assembly constituencies of Madurai district by 39,321, according to the draft electoral roll released by Collector T. Anbalagan here on Monday. The 10 Assembly constituencies in Madurai district are: Melur, Madurai East, Sholavandan, Madurai North, Madurai South, Madurai Central, Madurai West, Tirupparankundram, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti. The total number of voters from all 10 constituencies is 26,07,693 - 12,84,099 men, 13,23,420 women and 174 persons from the third gender. Melur has 2,38,010 voters - 1,17,387 men, 1,20,620 women and three persons from the third gender. Madurai East has 3,14,248 voters - 1,54,437 men, 1,59,772 women and 39 persons from the third gender. Sholavandan has 2,11,054 voters - 1,04,218 men, 1,06,827 women and nine persons from the third gender. Madurai North has 2,37,677 voters - 1,16,314 men, 1,21,329 women and 34 persons from the third gender. There are a total of 2,24,625 voters in Madurai South constituency, consisting of 1,10,615 men, 1,13,990 women and 20 persons from the third gender. Madurai Central has 2,35,782 voters - 1,15,214 men, 1,20,552 women and 16 persons from the third gender. Madurai West has 2,95,960 voters - 1,46,162 men, 1,49,793 women and five persons from the third gender. There are 3,06,534 voters in Tirupparankundram constituency - 1,50,886 men, 1,55,619 women and 29 persons from the third gender. Tirumangalam has 2,68,939 voters - 1,31,048 men, 1,37,884 women and seven persons from the third gender. Usilampatti has 2,74,864 voters - 1,37,818 men, 1,37,034 women and 12 persons from the third gender. Women voters outnumbered men in all constituencies in the district except Usilampatti constituency. There has been a decline of 35,612 voters in the final tally of voters in Madurai district when compared to 26,43,305 voters in the final electoral roll released on February 14, 2020. The Collector said that residents can view the draft electoral rolls at Tahsildar offices and Madurai Corporation Zonal offices till December 15 to make additions and deletions to the existing draft rolls. Special camps will be held on November 21, 22 and December 12 and 13 where people will get assistance to fill the forms. The final electoral list will be published on January 20, 2021, said the Collector. Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan was present.  Chance to change Additions and deletions to the draft rolls can be made till December 15  Special camps will be held on November 21, 22 and December 12 and 13  Final electoral list will be published on January 20, 2021
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Heavy downpour batters Madurai||The city received heavy downpour for over two hours on Monday evening resulting in many areas, particularly the streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, getting inundated. Water stagnation posed much hardship and danger to road users. There was ankle-deep water on East Chithirai Street following the rains, which caused severe inconvenience to the devotees, said Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association. Following flooding on South Masi Street, all vehicles, including cars, had a difficult time to ride through it. “The four Masi streets have been dug up by Madurai Corporation for the Smart City project. If the authorities do not take steps to finish the road works on time, the rains will compound the problems of road users,” Mr. Tayub said. Similarly, other streets in the centre of the city, including Town Hall Road-West Veli Street junction, opposite the Madurai railway junction and Periyar bus stand were also flooded. “The problem is there is no proper infrastructure to help the water recede after a heavy rain. Vehicle users faced severe inconvenience riding on the water-logged roads,” said P. Subash Chandra Bose, a trader. Apart from the incomplete roadworks, indiscriminate disposal of waste by traders and the public, especially following the Deepavali celebration, has also led to water stagnation, said Nitesh Kothari, a textile trader. He urged the Corporation authorities to address the issue on a war-footing.
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||21 government school students from Madurai in rank list under 7.5% quota||As many as 21 government school students from Madurai district have secured a place in the provisional rank list for MBBS and BDS seats available for government school students under the 7.5% horizontal reservation. Among them, S. Kanish Kumar, a repeater who had studied at Government Higher Secondary School at M. Puliyankulam, had secured a State rank of 78, according to the rank list which was released on Monday. N. Karthickraja, a repeater who had studied at Government Higher Secondary School at M. Subbulapuram, has secured the State rank of 102. S. Seethalakshmi, another repeater who had studied at Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Mahaboobpalayam in Madurai, has secured a State rank of 151. B. Pavithra, a student of N.S.S.B Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School in Palanganatham, has secured the State rank of 209. S. Vennila Devi, the district co-ordinator for government-sponsored NEET training, said most of these students belonged to Most Backward Classes. Candidates belonging to denotified communities and Scheduled Caste have also secured a place in the rank list. “It cannot be ascertained yet as to how many students will secure medical or dental seats. A clear picture will emerge only after the completion of the counselling,” she said. Counselling for medical and dental seats in Tamil Nadu begins on Wednesday with the first session being devoted to special categories followed by seats reserved for government school students.
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench dismisses petition filed by police aspirant||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by a police aspirant since he had suppressed the registration of a criminal case against him. The court was hearing the petition filed by Loordhu Packiyam from Thoothukudi who sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Board to issue him the appointment order to the Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade. The petitioner had cleared the entrance examination and had participated in the certificate verification and physical endurance test. During verification it was found that a criminal case was registered against him for voluntarily causing hurt.  Acquitted He was subsequently acquitted on the basis of compromise. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the verification of character and antecedents for Police Services was of paramount importance. The application form of the petitioner reveals that as if no criminal case was ever registered against him. If at all a criminal case was registered even in an earlier occasion, the particulars have to be given, the High Court Bench said.
17 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacked wrong persons in bid to avenge 2019 murder||Madurai City police have picked up a few suspects in connection with the murder of G. Muruganandam (21) near St. Mary’s Church on Sunday. Initial probe revealed that a gang of five persons wanted to murder one Manikandan to avenge the murder of an advocate, M.S. Pandian, who was the son-in-law of former Corporation zonal chairman V.K. Gurusamy. Pandian was murdered in April 2019 on the polling day of Lok Sabha election. Police sources said both the deceased, Muruganandam, and the injured, P. Muniyasamy (25) of Kamarajapuram, were not involved in any crimes. But, they were friendly with Manikandan. When they were talking with Manikandan and one Dinesh, the armed gang, said to have been led by one Bavvu alias Palanimurugan of Gurusamy gang, tried to attack Manikandan. While the others escaped, Muruganandam and Muniyasamy were caught. The police seized a car in which the gang escaped after committing the crime. Five weapons were also seized. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad said the police were on the lookout for some more suspects.
17 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘IAS officers disobeying court orders should be imprisoned’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to issue a government order/circular to ensure that authorities follow the guidelines for disposal of applications under the Tamil Nadu Patta Passbook Act, 1983. If the authority was an IAS officer and had disobeyed the orders of the court, then he or she should be punished with imprisonment. Imprisonment should be primary and imposition of fine under the Contempt of Courts Act would be secondary, the court said. Hearing the petition filed by Mathavadiyan who sought a direction to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Tenkasi, to dispose of his application, Justice S. Vaidyanathan observed that of late several cases were filed before the court seeking directions to the authorities concerned to dispose of applications filed under the Patta Passbook Act. If the applications were disposed of within the prescribed time by the authorities concerned, the parties need not approach the court. ‘Why order required’ It was not known why an order of the court was required for the authorities to do their job, he observed. If an application was filed under Section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Patta Passbook Act, 1983, for modification of entries in the patta, it should be decided within 120 days from the date of receipt of the application. If an appeal was filed under Section 12 of the Act, the authority must ensure that it was disposed of within 90 days from the date of filing of appeal. Similarly, a revision application filed against the order of the appellate authority should be decided within 60 days. The authorities, while deciding the issue under the provisions of the Patta Passbook Act, should afford an opportunity of hearing to the parties concerned and decide the matter in accordance with law. ‘Time limit must’ The time limit under the Act must be strictly adhered to, the court said. If the authorities concerned failed to follow the provisions of the Act, they must face departmental proceedings, the court said, and directed the State government to issue a government order/circular fixing time limits for disposal of the applications.
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||On High Court order, Kasi Dharmam temple land inspected||In order to ascertain whether a compound wall, that was demolished, had existed within the land belonging to a temple in Kasi Dharmam in Tenkasi district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court appointed an Advocate Commissioner. Pursuant to the orders of the court, Advocate Commissioner M. Vijaya Rathinam visited the property on Monday and will be filing a report to the court on the inspection. Since there was a dispute with regard to the existence of the compound wall and a water pipeline in the land, Justice R. Mahadevan appointed the advocate commissioner to inspect the property along with the local surveyor and Village Administrative Officer. The temple had filed a suit before the Principal District Munsif, Tenkasi seeking a direction to the authorities to reconstruct the compound wall that they had demolished and to shift the water pipeline from the property to the panchayat union road.
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 37-year-old man, M. Muthukumaran, of Vellaripatti was hacked to death at his farm under Melur police station limits on Monday. Police said that Muthukumaran, who was the south Madurai district secretary of South Indian Forward Bloc, was sleeping in his farm when he was killed.
17 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered near Melur||A 37-year-old man, M. Muthukumaran, of Vellaripatti was hacked to death at his farm under Melur police station limits in the small hours of Monday. Police said that Muthukumaran, who was the south Madurai district secretary of South Indian Forward Bloc, was sleeping in his farm. He was accompanied by his brother-in-law Kodeeswaran. Suddenly, at around 1 a.m., an armed gang barged into the farm and started attacking them. However, Kodeeswaran escaped from the scene. The police suspect that some of the friends of Muthukumaran could be behind the murder as the deceased had objected to them using his farm for consuming liquor. Melur police are on the lookout for the perpetrators of murder.
17 November 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Madurai’s daily case count falls below 30||Madurai on Monday recorded 28 new COVID-19 positive cases, which took the total number of cases in the district to 19,349. A total of 44 people were discharged, and the district has 346 active cases. Three COVID-19-related fatalities were recorded in the district, with which its death toll rose to 432. While two deaths were recorded at private hospitals, one death was recorded at Government Rajaji Hospital. While admitting 26 new cases on Monday, Kanniyakumari lost one patient to the viral infection to have an overall death toll of 250. The district, which has registered an overall case tally of 15,438, now has 210 active cases after 24 people were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli added 16 fresh cases to its total case count, which now reached 14,620, even as 30 people were discharged from hospitals to leave 260 active cases. With the addition of 11 cases, Dindigul’s case count went up to 10,066. There were 20 discharges from hospitals in the district. Virudhunagar reported 10 fresh cases, which raised the overall tally of cases to 15,692. After the discharge of 16 people, the district has 88 active cases. The death toll remains at 225. Theni too recorded 10 new cases. The district, which has an overall tally of 16,449, witnessed the discharge of five persons. The number of fresh infections in Thoothukudi district fell sharply to seven from 33 recorded on Sunday. The district, which has a tally of 15,474, with 231 active cases, marked the discharge of 50 people. Sivaganga’s daily case count also stood at seven, which pushed the total number of positive cases in the district to 6,156. Hospitals in the district registered the discharge of 17 people. Five persons tested positive in Ramanathapuram, which has a tally of 6,129. There were 17 discharges reported in the district. Tenkasi registered two new cases and two discharges. The district’s infection tally rose to 7,939, with 73 active cases.
17 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen keep off sea||In view of the rough sea conditions, fishermen in Nagapattinam district did not venture for fishing on Monday. Thousands of boats were found lined up on the shores at Akkaraipettai, Keechankuppam, Nagore, Tranquebar, Pazhayar and many other fishing villages as windy conditions had led to monstrous waves. The bad weather for the last few days has not been conducive for fishing, according to the fishermen in the region.
17 November 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Sewage water stagnates on Vaigai South Bank Road||A stench of nauseating sewage permeates the air as one takes a ride on Vaigai South Bank Road at Ismailpuram. Huge pools of sewage have been stagnant for the past six months along the retaining wall which has been constructed by Madurai Corporation as part of the Smart City project, complain residents. P. Kaliappan of Ismailpuram says the area has been plagued with a faulty drainage system for many decades. “The sewage from the area is usually pumped to Santhaipettai pumping station. Earlier, sewage used to be directly discharged into the Vaigai whenever the pumping station was overloaded. But, since the construction of the retaining wall, sewage could not be discharged into the river, resulting in sewage stagnation along the wall,” he says. The stagnated sewage has proved to be a breeding spot for mosquitoes, causing severe inconvenience to the residents, says S. Amuthavalli, a shopkeeper along the stretch. Water hyacinth, an invasive aquatic weed that usually thrives on contaminated water, has wildly grown on the Vaigai near Obula Padithurai. On Monday afternoon, froth and foam floated near the sluice of the check dam constructed near Albert Victor bridge. Mr. Kaliappan says a huge volume of froth floated on the river a couple of days before Deepavali. “The residents as well as the civic body authorities indiscriminately discharge sewage into the river,” he says. Huge mounds of garbage are found piled up on the South Bank Road. A. Govindaraj, another resident, says many people dump household garbage outside the dumper bins. “The Corporation workers also do not come regularly to collect the waste from these spots,” he complains. With the widening of the Vaigai South Bank Road, the entire stretch is riddled with potholes. “It will be better if the officials take up temporary patchwork on the road,” says Mr. Govindarajan. City Engineer S. Arasu says there is a proposal to construct a new underground drainage system in the area. Other issues in the area will also be addressed immediately, he says.
17 November 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Two injured as cinema hall owner opens fire on them||A cinema hall owner here was arrested under charges of Indian Arms Act and IPC sections after he allegedly opened fire from his licensed weapon in which two persons suffered multiple injuries on Monday. Police said that Natarajan owned a cinema hall on Appar Street in the temple town. He had a vacant plot on the same street. Adjacent to his property, a farmer identified as Illangovan had 12 cents of vacant plot. It is said that there was some dispute between the two over the boundary. When Illangovan came to the site with two of his relatives identified as Palanisami and Subramani to fence the property, Natarajan arrived and a wordy altercation snowballed during the conversation. Suddenly, Natarajan, who had allegedly hidden his gun, opened fire on the the trio in which Illangovan ran to safety, while Palanisami and Subramani suffered bullet injuries. After informing the police, Illangovan took his relatives to the Government Hospital. Fearing trouble, Natarajan had reportedly escaped from the spot. However, within about a short spell, a team led by DSP Siva secured the cinema hall owner. Meanwhile, the relatives of the injured had gathered at the GH. Tension prevailed in the area. The doctors, after a preliminary examination, advised to shift one of the injured to a private hospital in Madurai. A senior police officer, who was supervising the investigations, said that the CCTV footage in the locality was examined. Though the dispute appeared to be the motive, a discreet probe was on with Natarajan. The weapon had a license, the officer added. DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M.S. Muthusamy visited the GH here and enquired with the doctors about the condition of the patients. In a brief interaction, he told reporters that the police have booked cases against the accused under IPC Sections 294 (b), 307 r/w 27 (1) Arms Act by the Palani Town Police Station.
17 November 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Cinema hall owner in Palani opens fire, injures two||A cinema hall owner here was arrested after he allegedly opened fire with his licensed weapon injuring two persons on Monday. The Police said Natarajan owned a cinema hall in Appar Street in the temple town. He had a vacant plot on the same street. Adjacent to his property, a farmer, identified as Illangovan, had 12 cents of vacant plot. There was some dispute between the two over the boundary. When Illangovan came to the site with two of his relatives Palanisami and Subramani to fence the property, Natarajan arrived and a verbal altercation followed. Suddenly, Natarajan opened fire against the trio, following which Palanisami and Subramani suffered bullet injuries. Illangovan ran to safety, the police said. After informing the police, Illangovan rushed to the spot and took his relatives to the Government Hospital for treatment. Fearing trouble, Natarajan escaped from the spot. However, a team led by DSP Siva, secured him. Meanwhile, relatives of the injured gathered at the GH and tension prevailed. The doctors, after a preliminary examination, advised them to shift one of the injured to a private hospital in Coimbatore. A senior police officer, who was supervising the investigation, said that the CCTV footage in the locality was examined.
17 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minimalistic works from Auroville Film Institute make a splash at Swiss festival||Four minimalist short films produced by aspirant directors, led by the Auroville Film Institute, have made the cut at a film festival affiliated with the University of Lausanne, Switzerland. The selected films were screened between November 9 and 15 at University of Lausanne’s CineMasala festival, organised for the researchers and aficionados of history, religions and languages of South Asia. The entries were Swanand Kottewar’s Haalat (The state of Being), Daydreaming by Sanket Ray, In the Shadows by Vedangi Kalzunkar and Leftovers by Annika Ambar.  Haalat deals with silence, nothingness and a lost sense of time as it grapples with feelings of anxieties and mixed hopes for an uncertain future. Daydreaming revolves around the musings of an artist on himself during confinement. Leftover , shot in the kitchen, describes a relationship between mother and daughter as she shares recipes and “In the shadows” unfolds as a poem on the social distance between the middle class and the disadvantaged class accentuated during confinement. Over the past months of the pandemic, Auroville Film Institute had conducted eight online filmmaking workshops with over 200 participants producing over 80 short films. While some of the participants pursued careers in the cinema industry, the majority of the aspirants were following a passion and represented as diverse fields as psychology, engineering, teaching, dance and yoga. The films were entirely shot in a Work from Home mode due to the restrictive environment around the pandemic that also occasioned a reflective, introspective phase in participants. Online workshop ‘Film your thoughts in times of lockdown’, the AFI’s first online workshop began as a way to interpose one’s self with surroundings. “It was a way to reclaim our own agency over the media infiltrating our personal space and psyche, a way to express the pandemic as we ourselves experienced it, what we thought, how we felt inside. Above all, it was a way to connect with others in these times of distress and loneliness,” said Richa Hushing, documentary filmmaker, who, along with Rrivu Laha, co-founded AFI. From rough cut to final edited version, the films became chronicles of inner journeys in these extraordinary times. “There is a marked authenticity and affectionate touch to the narratives, as if they are notes from personal diaries trustfully shared with friends. Some of these films are already earning accolades internationally,” Ms. Hushing said. Highly intuitive According to AFI, despite being online, the Auroville Film Institute workshop was highly intuitive and interactive. “Making a film from fragments to whole felt like I was breathing for the first time! For this I’ll always appreciate Auroville!” shared Annika, a sociology student from Delhi, whose Leftovers marked her debut. “It’s a matter of pride that most are first-time filmmakers coming from diverse backgrounds such as academicians, administrators, artists, architects or scientists who seriously wish to learn filmmaking as a language, an art form that can help express themselves better,” said Ms. Laha. For SVS Deverapalli, a psychologist who participated in one of the online workshops, they represented an attempt to make a film with the minimal, make the learner break unwritten rigidities, while Shobhit Kasbi, an engineer, felt that the venture travelled beyond filmmaking and “connected to the growing person inside you. It was meaningful that the workshop was placed in the context of a philosophical exploration, not merely technical training, said Deepa Kiran, an educationist and story-teller. “Many of our courses, especially the ones in lockdown we conducted on a voluntary payment scheme. Even the courses which have stipulated fees, we have a number of scholarships to ensure that those truly interested and deserving are not left out because of financial stress,” Ms. Hushing said.
17 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Only 13 fresh COVID-19 cases in U.T.||Fresh COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory of Puducherry dropped to 13 from 1,755 tests, as infection rate touched a new low of less than 1% and active cases remained below the 1,000-mark on Monday. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 0.74%, the case fatality rate at 1.67% and the recovery rate at 95.84%. With 95 patients discharged from hospitals during the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered patients stood at 34,827. The cumulative death toll in the Union Territory is 608, the overall case load is 36,337 and the number of active cases stands at 902 — 265 at hospitals and 637 in home isolation. Puducherry accounted for 12 of the fresh cases, with one case reported in Mahe. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said that sustaining the intensive information, education and communication campaign, enforcement and testing till the Pongal festival would be the strategy to maintain the low positivity and taper down the cases. Joint enforcement activities would continue in the identified hot-spot areas of Rainbow Nagar, Sultanpet, Villianur and Murungapakkam, she said. With the onset of the northeast monsoon, the District Collector has been tasked with convening weekly coordination meetings with the Public Works, Local Administration and Rural Development Departments for concerted preventive work against COVID-19 and dengue. Employees of malls, shops, textile shops and sweet stalls will be subjected to testing. The Town and Country Planning Department will frame a vacant land policy to ensure proper maintenance of plots that are breeding grounds for mosquitoes and poisonous insects/reptiles. Meanwhile, the Covid War Room has finalised the roster and topics of messaging by the PHC medical officers on the community radio. Over four weeks, the broadcast will focus on activities undertaken to prevent the contagion, the importance of testing and highlighting symptoms, the need for early hospitalisation and seeking medical advice and the role and responsibility of the public in the fight against the pandemic. According to the Lt. Governor, research would be encouraged by postgraduate students of IGMCRI, JIPMER and private medical colleges on the various verticals of COVID-19 management for documentation of the ‘Puducherry model’ of bringing the pandemic under control.
17 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. geared up for monsoon: Namassivayam||The government has taken flood-mitigation and other measures in view of the onset of the northeast monsoon, PWD Minister A. Namassivayam said on Monday. The Minister, who chaired an inter-departmental consultative meeting, said the Public Works Department, the Local Administration Department and the Municipalities of Puducherry and Oulgaret were consulted on the measures that needed to be put in place to cope with rains. All canals in Puducherry had been dredged. In case of any blockage, repairs would be undertaken immediately. Control rooms had been set up for the public to report problems, Mr. Namassivayam said. Puducherry had so far received 78.5 cm of rainfall, and measures were in place to prevent hardships once the monsoon strengthened in the next few days, he said. Additionally, generators were on standby in all reservoirs to provide uninterrupted drinking water in the event of a power outage. The PWD had also kept the equipment ready to remove fallen trees as quickly as possible. The public could immediately report any damage to the control rooms in each area. Officials were instructed to attend to distress calls expeditiously. Roads in some places were in disrepair, and they would be repaired only after the rains subsided, Mr. Namassivayam said.
17 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Nirmal Kumar Surana gets new role in BJP||BJP’s Karnataka unit vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana has been put in charge of Puducherry, V. Saminathan MLA said on Monday. Mr. Saminathan told journalists that the appointment, which was announced by president J.P. Nadda, would provide more visibility to the party in Puducherry. Referring to the BJP’s strong performance in the Bihar Assembly election and various byelections, Mr. Saminathan said it vindicated the performance of the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Modi wave was still intact, he said, and it would be felt in the next Assembly election here. Rally planned The party would face the election due next year on the slogan, ‘One party governance at the Centre and in the State’. The BJP would take out a rally from the Swadeshi Cotton Mills and picket the Education Department here on Wednesday, demanding the implementation of the National Education Policy in the Union Territory, the constitution of a separate Board of Education for Puducherry and the introduction of the CBSE syllabus across all schools, Mr. Saminathan said. Mr. Nadda has scheduled a video conference with party functionaries for December.
17 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||7,671 new voters added in Ramanathapuram district||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver released the draft electoral rolls for the four Assembly Constituencies here on Monday. Releasing the list in the presence of senior officials and representatives from registered political parties, the Collector said that there were four Assembly Constituencies, namely: Paramakudi, Thiruvadanai, Ramanathapuram and Mudukalathur. Interestingly, men voters outnumbered women in Thiruvadanai and Mudukalathur Assembly constituencies. Between February 14 and October 31, the district had received 7,671 new applications and added them to the voter list, while deleted 5,857 names from the electoral rolls after due verification. District Revenue Officer A Sivakami, Sub-Collector N.O. Sukaputra, RDO T. Thangavel and other officials from the election wing were present at the Collectorate. Total voters in Paramakudi: 2,48,517 -- men 1,23,498, women 1,25,006 and others 13; total voters in Thiruvadanai: 2,84,417 -- men 1,42,432, women 1,41,963 and others 22.; total voters in Ramanathapuram: 3,00,855 -- men 1,49,456, women 1,51,378 and others 21; total voters in Mudukalathur: 3,04,594, -- men 1,52,628, women 1,51,959 and others 7. The total is 11,38,383 -- men 5,68,014, women 5,70,306 and others 63.
17 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Home Guards selection camp held||A selection camp to fill up vacancies in the Home Guards was held at the Armed Reserve ground at Linemedu here on Monday. Salem District Home Guards Area Commander Periyasamy, Deputy Area Commander R. Dikshitha, SI M.Rajendran supervised the selection process. According to officials, 46 male and six female candidates were selected to fill up 52 vacancies in the force. The selected candidates will undergo a 45-day training and then deployed for duty five days a week on a rotational basis. According to Home Guards officials, the force has a total strength of 278, including 49 women and 229 men.
17 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||House burgled||Unidentified persons broke into a house at Kondalampatti here and decamped with 20 sovereigns gold jewellery and land documents during the early hours of Monday. According to police, Saravana Kumar runs a farm near Sithanur here and his parents were staying in the house. The elderly couple had left for Sithanur on Friday. On their return on Monday, they found the door broken open and valuables missing. Kondalampatti police have registered a case
17 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||11,58,073 voters in Sivaganga||Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy has released the draft electoral rolls of the four Assembly Constituencies in the district here on Monday. The district has Karaikudi, Tirupathur, Sivaganga and Manamadurai Assembly Constituencies. According to the draft rolls, there are 11,58,073 voters, including 5,70,681 men, 5,87,330 women and 62 others. The Collector released the draft electoral rolls in the presence of DRO K. Latha, RDOs Muthukazhuvan and Surendran, representatives from the registered political parties from Sivaganga district. Karaikudi has a total of 3,09,795 voters, including men 1,52,707, women 1,57,044 and others 44. Tirupathur has a total of 1,42,343 voters, including men 1,42,343, women 1,46,981 and others 11 Sivaganga has a total of 2,91,000 voters, including men 1,43,238, women 1,47,760 and others 2 Manamadurai has a total of 2,67,943 voters, including men 1,32,393, women 1,35,454 and others 5. Theni Collector M Pallavi Baldev has released the draft electoral rolls here on Monday. The district has 10,93,489 voters, including 5,37,988 men, 5,55,329 women and 172 others. Between February and October, the district had received 11184 applications out of which 9,106 were accepted/added, while 2,078 were rejected/deleted. During the release of the draft electoral rolls, the Collector also said that as per the ECI guidelines, special campaigns to enrol eligible applicants in the voter list would be held on November 21 and 22, December 12 and 13 at the respective polling stations from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The District Revenue Officer K. Ramesh, RDOs M Sivasubramanian and R Niraimathi, representatives from various registered political parties from the district participated. Total voters in Andipatti: 269833, including men 1,33,659, women 1,36,149 and others 25.; total voters in Periyakulam: 2,74,990, including men 1,35,225, women 1,39,667 and others 98.; total voters in Bodinayakkanur: 2,69,810, including men 1,32,584, women 1,37,208, and others 18.; total voters in Cumbum: 2,78,856, including men 1,36,520, women 1,42,305, and others: 31. The totel number are 10,93,489 voters, including men 5,37,988, women 5,55,329, and others 172.
17 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||T.N. should set up panel to protect fireworks industry: MP||Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has urged the State government to set up a high-level committee to ensure the sustenance and development of fireworks industry in Sivakasi. Talking to reporters, he said that Tamil Nadu government should show the same interest it has been showing for the development of knitting industry of Tiruppur. Stating that the century-old fireworks industry was providing the livelihood of arid Sivakasi, he said the industry had the potential to bring huge foreign exchange by way of exporting its goods. The Congress MP was highly critical of those who were trying to malign the image of fireworks industry by spreading false information that child labourers were involved in the industry. Some “English-speaking” people were trying to thwart the Indian fireworks’ attempt to compete with Chinese fireworks industry in the global market. Claiming that the industry has suffered a huge loss due to ban on bursting crackers during Deepavali by various State Governments, he said those Governments should compensate the traders for their loss. The Congress Whip in Lok Sabha, Mr. Tagore dismissed that Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Tamil Nadu will bring about political changes. “The Home Minister has visited Tamil Nadu 12 times in the past and nothing has changed and he has not even kept his promises. The people of Tamil Nadu know that Bharatiya Janata Party was against the interest of Tamils,” he said.
17 November 2020||Special Correspondent CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Roads in urban local bodies to be restored at a cost of Rs. 1,000 cr.||The Tamil Nadu government has accorded in-principle approval for taking up urgently required road works for about Rs. 1,000 crore through pooled financing raised as a loan through banks and financial institutions on behalf of the urban local bodies. “The loan shall be repaid by the urban local bodies. It is also ordered that individual Detailed Project Reports submitted by the urban local bodies will be considered and approved by the Project Sanctioning Committee for Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Fund (TURIF),” a G.O. issued in this regard stated. Limited provision The Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA) had earlier pointed out that the provision made in the Water Supply and Under Ground Sewerage System Scheme was only to restore the cut portion of the roads and not for relaying the entire stretch. “Due to that, the roads are not restored fully under scheme funds,” it underlined. Plight of local bodies In spite of repairing of these roads under various schemes, roads of about 11,000 km needed to be mended in urban local bodies,” stated the CMA who also contended that the urban local bodies were facing severe financial crunch due to cut in grants, withholding of general property tax revision, exemption of lease rent for two months during the COVID-19 lockdown.  The CMA had requested the government to accord approval for special roads programme for these urban local bodies through grants or loans from financial institutions to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore (in the first phase) which were damaged by Corporations, Municipalities, town panchayats.
17 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to insure their crop in time||The Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has urged farmers to insure their crop in advance to avoid last-minute rush and stress. In a statement, the Association secretary, Sundara Vimalanathan cautioned the farmers that uploading of necessary documents and payment of insurance premium at the last minute might lead to server breakdown and a tense situation. Farmers have to obtain necessary certificates from the officials in time to comply with the requirements of online submission of documents well before December 15, the last date. Citing the directive issued by District Collector M. Govinda Rao in this regard, Mr. Sundara Vimalanathan urged the officials to issue the cultivation certificates to the farmers without delay. In his instructions to the village administrative officers, the Collector had directed the VAOs to mention the year of cultivation as ‘fasili 1430’ in the cultivation certificates without fail and not to issue such certificates for the crop which had not been cultivated. Further, he had also directed the VAOs to be careful while issuing cultivation certificate to the landholdings held as joint landholdings. While dealing with such applications, separate certificates should be issued in the names of individual landholders, mentioning the extent of the area they had cultivated since it would help avoid issuance of cultivation certificates for the entire acres mentioned in the single survey number twice but in different names. Meanwhile, sources said 19,858 farmers have insured various crops raised by them during kharif 2020-21 (summer/kuruvai crop) season in Thanjavur district. During the current rabi (samba/thaladi) season it was expected that around 1.25 lakh hectares in the district would be brought under cultivation. During the last kharif season (2019-20) Rs. 6.68 crore was disbursed as crop loss compensation to 6851 farmers who have insured the crop they had raised during that season. Further, the process of disbursement of crop loss compensation to the tune of Rs. 67.281 crore to 1,50,384 farmers in Thanjavur district, who had insured their crop in 2019-20 rabi season, has commenced. During this rabi season where the crop insurance has been made voluntary exercise, the farmers can get their crop insured for an amount of Rs. 32,550 per acre by remitting a premium of Rs. 489, official sources said.
17 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Cash , jewellery stolen||Six sovereign gold jewellery and Rs. 3,500 cash were stolen from a house in Manakarambai near Thanjavur. The complainant, Balaji, an officer in the Commercial Taxes Department, who had left his residence on November 14 to call on his wife, Suganthi at Kumbakonam, found the valuables stolen on his return on Sunday. The front door of the house was found broken open and gold jewellery and cash missing from the cupboard. The Naducauvery Police have registered a case.
17 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy downpour in Thoothukudi; Collector visits affected areas||The 4-hour-long downpour that created pools at several places and the inundation of already battered roads crippled normal life in the port town on Monday. After heavy rains on Sunday, the district of Thoothukudi experienced widespread rainfall on Monday also. The rain that started at 9 a.m. battered the town for about 4 hours to cause water stagnation in several places. The coastal town that experienced 31 mm rainfall till 8 a.m., recorded 122 mm rainfall between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. The rainwater entered 20 houses in the ground floor of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board Colony in Anna Nagar while the streets witnessed knee-deep water stagnation. Similarly, rainwater stagnated along all the streets of Caldwell Colony, Marakkudi Street, Lions Town, Anna Nagar, P and T Colony, Poobalarayarpuram Lourdhammalpuram, St. Mary’s Colony, Rajapandi Nagar and Chidambara Nagar forced the residents remain indoors. District Collector K. Senthil Raj, who visited a few rain-hit areas on Monday, said the stagnant water at 36 low-lying areas following the downpour would be pumped out using heavy pumps. The Corporation, besides deploying 40 pumps in this work, had also posted the teams to monitor the work round-the-clock. Twenty relief camps had been set-up with food, drinking water, medical assistance and other basic facilities to take care of the people evacuated from the low-lying areas, the Collector said. After inspecting the water stagnating at Tamil Nadu Housing Board Colony in Anna Nagar and along the Thoothukudi District Medical College Hospital Road, Dr. Senthil ordered the deployment of additional pumps for pumping out the rainwater. “Apart from the 40 pumps deployed now, 100 motors have been kept ready by the Corporation. The public may contact 1077 / 0461 – 2340101 / 94864 54714 (WhatsApp) to seek assistance,” said Dr. Senthil, who inspected the Puckle Channel from the western end to Terespuram to ascertain if the rainwater being pumped into the channel is properly flowing towards the sea. He also visited S.S. Pillai Market, Krishnarajapuram, Selvavinayagapuram, entire stretch between Vijay Wearhouse to Periyapallam Odai, Madathur Main Road, Judges’ Quarters and Sivanthaakulam Road. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh, City Health Officer Arun Kumar and City Engineer Sermakani accompanied the Collector. In Udangudi, residents of Subramaniapuram are complaining that the rainwater which was already stagnating along all the streets have started entering their houses after the downpour on Monday. Rainfall in the district: Tiruchendur – 14, Kaayalpattinam – 52, Kulasekarapattinam – 35, Vilaaththikulam – 21, Kaadalkudi – 13, Vaippaar – 47, Soorankudi – 20, Kovilpatti – 73, Kazhugumalai – 28, Kayathar – 47, Kadambur – 70, Ottapidaaram – 36, Maniyaachi – 34, Vedanaththam – 15, Keezha Arasadi – 4, Ettaiyapuram – 55, Sattankulam – 64, Srivaikundam – 49 and Thoothukudi – 122.
17 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Investors’ plea to Collector||The PACL PGF Investors’ Welfare Association has appealed to Collector K. Senthil Raj to stop the registration of lands with fake documents as these lands had been marked by a Supreme Court-appointed Committee for selling it to repay the investments to the rightful investors. Utilizing a portion of the total investments to the tune of Rs. 49,100 crore made in PACL by 5.75 crore investors, the promoters had purchased 20,000 acres in Thoothukudi district. After the Security Exchange Board of India had banned the operations of PACL as its investment norms were against the regulations of SEBI, the Supreme Court of India appointed Justice Lodha Committee to inquire the operations of PACL. As the Committee recommended that the lands purchased by the PACL across the country should be sold to pay back the investments to the rightful investors, the Supreme Court directed the Chief Secretaries of 23 States and the Collectors of the districts where the PACL had purchased vast tracts of lands to restrain the company from selling the lands. However, the lands of PACL in Therkku Kaaraseri, Savarimangalam and Kurippankulam, all in Thoothukudi district, were being sold to using fake documents and the minerals in these lands were being quarried illegally.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls released in central districts||There are 22,60,439 voters in Tiruchi district encompassing 10,99,977 males, 11,60,256 females and 206 transgenders. A total of 6,448 new voters comprising 2,974 males, 3,468 females and six transgenders find a place in the draft electoral rolls for 2021. As many as 43,115 names - 21,897 males, 21,209 females and nine transgenders - have been deleted from the old voter list due to deaths, cahnge of address and repeat enumeration. Grievances pertaining to addition and deletion to the electoral rolls would be rectified till December 15 by Designated Location Officers. Special camps for the purpose will be conducted on November 21 and 22 and on December 12 and 1 for the purpose, District Collector S. Sivarasu said, after releasing the draft electoral rolls in the presence of the representatives of political parties and senior officials. Karur District Collector S. Malarvizhi released the draft electoral rolls for the district encompassing the assembly segments of Karur, Aravakurichi, Krishnarayapuram (reserved) and Kulithalai. As per the electoral rolls, there are 8,79,082 voters in the district comprising 4,25,560 males, 4,53,454 females and 68 transgenders. Those who attain 18 years of age as on January 1, 2021, will be enrolled as new voters during the month-long exercise for making additions and deletions, the Collector said. Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari released the draft electoral rolls of Pudukottai district for 2021 in the presence of recognised political parties at the District Collectorate here. As per the draft rolls, the total number of voters in the district were 13,10,068 with male voters accounting for 6,48,773; female voters being 6,61,231 and 64 third genders. As many as 3,122 voters were newly added and 8,552 others were removed during the revision held from February 14 to October 31, an official release said. The release further said the time for receiving applications seeking addition of names, deletion and correction in the entries in the electoral rolls has been provided till December 15 and special campaigns would be conducted at the 928 designated polling stations on November 21, 22, December 12 and 13 in this regard for the benefit of the electorate. The final electoral rolls for 2021 would be released on January 20 next year, the release added. Perambalur The draft electoral rolls of Perambalur district was released by Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya at the Collectorate in the presence of recognised political parties. The total number of voters falling under the Perambalur (Reserved) and Kunnam assembly constituencies in the district as per the draft rolls were 5, 56, 332 with male accounting for 2,73, 468; female voters being 2,82,829 and 35 third genders. The district accounts for a total number of 652 polling stations in the two assembly constituencies. Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna released the draft electoral rolls of Ariyalur district in the presence of the recognised political parties at the District Collectorate. The district accounts for Ariyalur and Jayamkondam assembly constituencies. As per the draft rolls, the total number of voters in the district were 5, 11, 627 with male voters accounting for 2,54,807; female voters being 2,56, 813 and seven third genders, an official press release said. Thanjavur There are 20,06,215 voters in eight Assembly segments in Thanjavur district as per the draft electoral rolls released by the District Collector Govinda Rao on Monday. The voters in Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Papanasam, Thiruvaiyaru, Orathanadu, Pattukottai and Peravurani assembly segments comprise 9,80,016 males, 10,26,069 females and 130 transgenders. Tiruvarur District Collector V. Santha released the draft electoral roll with 10,15,555 voters, in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties. The district encompasses Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Nannilam and Thiruthuraipoondi assembly segments. As per the draft electoral roll, there were 5,00,344 males, 5,15,171 females and 40 transgenders. Six out of 12 Assembly Constituencies in Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts had single-digit enrolment of transgenders in the draft electoral rolls. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam district, Collector Pravin P. Nair released the draft electoral rolls depicting a total of 13,04,747 voters in Nagapattinam, Sirkazhi, Mayiladuthurai, Poompuhar, Kilvelur, and Vedaranyam assembly segments. The electorate comprise 6,42,617 males, 6,62,089 females, and 41 transgenders.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases on the wane||The central districts on Monday recorded a further drop in COVID-19 cases with 137 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Perambalur reported no new cases for the viral infection for the first time over the last few months. The only death reported was in Karur district. A 58-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, and respiratory failure died of the viral infection in Coimbatore. Meanwhile, a total of 34 patients tested positive in Thanjavur among which were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. All other districts reported cases below 30 on Monday. In Tiruchi, 26 persons tested positive, indicating a further dip in fresh cases, while in Tiruvarur 23 patients tested positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of four patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Monday. In Karur, 22 patients, including residents from Thanthonrimalai, Gandhi Nagar tested positive. Inter-district travellers, too, tested positive. In Nagapattinam, 17 patients tested positive while in Pudukottai, 12 fresh cases were reported. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses also tested positive. A total of three patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, no new cases were reported.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Child-friendly corners come up at 10 police stations||Child-friendly corners featuring play and learning material have been established at 10 police stations in Tiruchi range, comprising of Tiruchi, Karur, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. The initiative undertaken in all-women police stations by Deputy-Insepctor General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya, with the support of International Justice Mission, an NGO, envisages projection of police stations as safe places for women and children. “They must feel comfortable walking into any station and recording their complaint without any reservation,” the DIG said. Focus has been on all-women police stations where noticeable changes could be observed after a healthier environment was created, said M. Devasitham, Head, Strategic Development, International Justice Mission (IJM). “When the child is taken care of, the parent can concentrate on the counselling sessions. Positive results have been recorded,” he said. The experiment will be extended to Law and Order police stations shortly, he said. Under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, it is important to ensure that a right environment is created, and police officers handle cases with the right attitude after adequate training in child-related issues. Similar guidelines were also issued by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) in 2017. Ten police stations, two each within the five districts in Tiruchi range were identified and special areas with play materials, educational games, notebooks, colouring books and toys have been created. “We have even included diapers, a kettle to heat water or milk for the children,” said Mr. Devasitham. All the ten child-friendly corners were inaugurated by R.G. Anand, Member, NCPCR, the DIG, and other senior police officials. Ten children with a history of conflict with law were given educational aid on the occasion.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||26-year-old ends life||A 26-year-old man, son of the owner of a prominent sweet outlet in the city, reportedly ended his life by hanging in his house at Thennur on Monday. Police said the victim B. Mukthinath resorted to the extreme step when his parents had gone to a temple. The man was to get married in a few days.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body schedules fever camps||The Tiruchi Corporation on Monday announced the schedule of fever camps to be held over the week to trace and detect cases of COVID-19 in the city. On Tuesday, fever camps will be held at Saveriyar Kovil Street, at the anganwadi centres in Mallikaipuram, Periyamilaguparai, Shanmugha Nagar, Sangeetha Puram, Anna Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Venus Street, Sagayamadha Kovil Street, Ramachandra Nagar, South Pillayar Kovil Street. On Wednesday, camps will be held at Pakkali Street, Sangilliyandapuram, R. C. School, Saraswathi Bala Mandir Matric High School, Tiruvalluvar Street, Melachintamani, Ponneripuram, Das Nagar, Fort Station Road and Malaikovil. On Thursday, the camps will be conducted at Keezhapudur anganwadi centre, Varaganeri, Bird's Road, Shanmugha Nagar, Ponnurangapuram, Ayyapa Nagar, Kamaraj Nagar, Goodshed Road. On Friday, Sri Yadhukula Sangam Middle School , RMS Colony, Ramakrishnan Nagar, Saradha Nagar, Sunnambukara Street and R S Puram Park will be covered. On Saturday, the camps will be conducted at Adaikala Matha Kovil Street, Melapandamangalam, Kottapattu, Varaganeri Bazaar, Holy Cross School, Barathidasan Street, Nayakkan Street and Ambedkar Nagar.
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam on Monday stood at 94.49 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 9,435 cusecs and the discharge was 3,000 cusecs
17 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery stolen from locked house||Gold jewellery weighing 18 sovereigns and Rs. 10,000 in cash were reported stolen from a locked house belonging to a petty shop owner at Omshakthi Nagar in Kollidam police station limits near here. The theft had occurred when the shop owner Periyasamy (60) had left for Sathanur village along with his family to celebrate Deepavali festival. The crime came to light after Periyasamy returned home on Sunday evening. The locks of the front door were found broken open and valuables stolen. The Kollidam Police have registered a case and are investigating.
17 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls released||The district has 13,16,762 voters, including 6,45,494 men, 6,71,179 women and 80 other voters as per the district’s draft electoral roll was released here on Monday ahead of the Assembly elections to be held before May 2021. Of this, electors in the age group of 18 – 19 or first-time voters are 8,489 and remaining voters are 13,08,273, said Collector V. Vishnu while releasing the draft electoral roll in the presence of representatives of political parties. When the draft electoral roll was released on February 14 last, the district had 13,30,118 voters including 6,52,154 men, 6,77,888 women and 76 other voters. As applications were received for addition / deletion of voters and correction of names / address of the voters between February 15 and October 31 last, 5,008 voters – 2,365 men, 2,626 women and 17 others - were added. At the same time, 18,364 voters – 10,660 dead, 3,039 double entries and 4,665 shifted electorate – were deleted from the voters’ list, leaving the electorate strength of 13,16,762 now. “Since the draft electoral roll will be on display at Offices of Revenue Divisional Officers, taluk offices, polling stations, village panchayat offices and residents’ welfare associations in the Corporation limits, the voters may check their names and addresses,” said Mr. Vishnu, who also flagged off voters’ awareness vehicle from the Collectorate. When asked about the voters of the same family living in a house being accommodated in different booths, Mr. Vishnu said it would be rectified through ‘booth rationalization’ on getting representations from the aggrieved electorate. DMK’s Tirunelveli city district secretary Abdul Wahab said the poll officials, while receiving applications for deletion of voters, should ask the person submitting the application to submit the copy of the death certificate of the person whose name is to be deleted from the voters’ list. “Since there is room for mass deletions of names, the officials should accept the applications for deletion of names only if the applications are submitted along with the death certificates. Pressing this demand, the DMK has already submitted a petition with the Chief Electoral Officer,” Mr. Wahab said. Reiterating these views, S. Kasi Viswanathan, district secretary of CPI, said the application for shifting of voters should be endorsed by the Revenue Inspector or the Village Administrative Officer concerned. He also suggested that a 24 X 7 complaint cell should be created at the Collectorate to receive complaints pertaining to the discrepancies in the electoral roll and render appropriate remedy. Tirunelveli city district president of Congress K. Sankarapandian said all the Forms required for addition, deletion and shifting of voters should be made available in adequate numbers in the places where the electoral roll updation is made. Special camps for submitting applications for addition, deletion and shifting of names will be held on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13 in all polling stations across the district. Due to the pandemic, the applicants may also submit their application online throughwww.nvsp.inalong with supporting documents. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthilraj released the draft electoral roll that shows that the district houses 14,44,432 voters including 7,07,905 men, 7,36,397 women and 130 other electorate. In the earlier electoral roll released on February 14 last, the district had 14,50,689 voters. While 3,518 voters were added to the electoral roll during the continuous revision between February 14 and October 31 last, 9,775 persons were deleted. Tenkasi The draft electoral roll for Tenkasi district, which was released by Collector G.S. Sameeran showed that the district has 12,91,681 voters including 6,34,450 men, 6,57,191 women and 40 other voters. When the draft electoral roll was released on February 14 last, the district had 13,03,438 voters, including 6,40,488 men, 6,62,764 women and 55 other electorate. During the revision, 15,065 voters were deleted while 3,438 new voters were enrolled.  Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district has 15,20,935 voters, including 7,63,148 men, 7,57,598 women and 189 other voters, according to the draft electoral roll released by Collector M. Aravind in Nagercoil on Monday. As per the draft electoral roll released on February 14 last, the district had 15,29,159 voters including 7,67,360 men, 7,61,613 women and 186 other voters. During the revision of electoral roll, 3,599 names were added while 11,823 persons were deleted. Barring Kanniyakumari, women voters outnumber the men voters in other southern districts viz. Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts.
17 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Advocate Commissioner inspects Tirunelveli bus stand||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Advocate Commissioner and his team on Monday inspected the Tirunelveli junction bus stand under construction in connection with the case pertaining to the alleged sale of river sand lifted from this construction site. As the reconstruction of Tirunelveli Junction bus-stand was commenced under the Smart City programme on an outlay of Rs. 78.99 crore, soil was removed for the basement parking lot. Accusing the officials of lifting the river sand worth several crores of rupees from this pit dug for the basement parking area and selling it illegally for a premium, former councillor Sudalaikannu of Tirunelveli Town filed a public interest litigation in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. His contention is that the huge quantity of river sand deposited by the Tamirabharani beneath the bus terminus several centuries ago had been plundered in the guise of reconstruction of the bus-stand and sold to make several crores of rupees. However, the Corporation, the nodal agency executing the projects under ‘Smart City’ programme, says that it was clayey soil not suitable for construction purposes, as being alleged by the petitioner. When the case came up for hearing, the Bench directed Advocate Commissioner K. Kalaiyarasan, formerly Joint Director of Geology and Mining and also advocate, to inspect the spot to ascertain the veracity of the allegations made by the petitioner and submit his report. Subsequently, Mr. Kalaiyarasan visited the spot on Monday and told the reporters that the geological formations under the earth’s crust at the site would be examined scientifically by digging bores. “We’ll collect through the bores the samples of the sand, minerals, rocks etc. deposited at this site over the years in different layers. The samples will be sent to different laboratories for analyses to ascertain its quality. Based on this scientific analysis, the court will take the final call,” he said. Though the Advocate Commissioner had originally planned to dig the bores on Monday, incessant drizzle thwarted the plans and hence it may take a day or two to complete this exercise so that the Commission’s report could be submitted before the Court by November 20, as mandated.
17 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||134 mm of rainfall in Papanasam dam area||The district received the first widespread rainfall of this northeast monsoon season on Monday, much to the cheers of the residents, especially the farmers, who are desperately waiting to start to their ‘pisanam’ paddy season operations. After intermittent mild drizzle in the night, the sky that remained overcast since morning began to rain suddenly after 9 a.m. While places like the Collectorate, Vannarpet, Murugankurichi, Samathanapuram, High Ground, Palayamkottai bus-stand, Tirunelveli Junction and Tirunelveli Town experienced downpour for about an hour since 10.30 a.m., the southern parts of Palayamkottai experienced only moderate drizzle that stopped completely after 1.30 p.m. The downpour created pools along S.N. High Road, Tirunelveli Junction, Vannarpet, Murugankurichi, Samathanapuram traffic island and near old police control room to hamper the smooth flow of vehicular traffic. After registering only 23 mm rainfall till 8 a.m. on Monday, the Papanasam dam received 134 mm rainfall between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., which is likely to considerably jack-up the dam level on Tuesday. Almost all parts of the district experienced good rainfall on Monday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Rainfall recorded in the district till 8 a.m. was (in mm): Ambasamudram 24, Papanasam dam 23, Cheranmahadevi 15, Manimuthar dam 13, Servalar dam and Radhapuram 9 each, Nambiyar dam 7, Kodumudiyar dam and Nanguneri 5 each, Tirunelveli 4.20 and Palayamkottai 4. In Tenkasi, normal life was badly hit on Monday following incessant rainfall that drenched almost every part of the district. Places like Alangulam, Pavoorchathram, Tenkasi and Kadayanallur witnessed downpour on Monday. Almost all the dams, after witnessing good rainfall in the catchment areas, have started receiving decent influx of water, much to the jubilation of the farming community. Rainfall recorded in the district (in mm): Gadana dam 19, Ramanadhi dam 8, Tenkasi 5.40, Gundar dam 5, Shencottai and Sivagiri 2 each and Karuppanadhi dam 1. The coastal district of Kanniyakumari which usually would get significant rainfall during the southwest and northeast monsoons did not record torrential rainfall on Monday. Though the rainfall was widespread, only Kottaaram alone received 29 mm rainfall while all other places did not witness decent precipitation. Rainfall recorded at various places in the district was (in mm): Kannimar 10, Kottaaram 29, Adaiyamadai and Mayiladi 9 each, Aralvaimozhi 8, Boothapandi 6, Kaliyal, Nagercoi, Mullankinavilai and Pechipparai dam 5 each, Chittar I, Kurunthancode, Surulacode, Colachel, Anaikidangu, Mukkadal dam and Mambazhathuraiyar 4 each, Kuzhithurai, Kozhiporevilai and Perunchaani dam 3 each, Balamore and Puthen dam 2 each and Thuckalay 1.
17 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||530 kg banned tobacco products seized in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur City Police seized banned tobacco products weighing around 530 kg from a private grocery store in Rayapuram and arrested two persons on Monday. Store searched Based on a tip-off, a police team from Tiruppur North police station led by Inspector V. Ganesan searched the premises of the grocery store at around 11 a.m. The team found different types of banned tobacco products in bags and cardboard boxes, which weighed around 530 kg in total, according to the police. Workers held After seizing the items, the police arrested two men namely V. Thangaraj (37) and K. Mathankumar (21) who were working in the grocery store. Investigations are under way to ascertain from where they purchased the products, the police said. The two accused were booked under section 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit and offence) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act. They were remanded in judicial custody. This is the second instance within two weeks in Tiruppur district where the police seized large quantities of banned tobacco products. On November 5, the Tiruppur District Police seized nearly 3.5 tonnes of banned tobacco products from a private godown near Palladam. The seized products were worth Rs. 10.6 lakh. The police also seized a three-wheeler mini truck which was allegedly used by the accused to transport the items.
17 November 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 anti-socials rounded up||Over 1,000 anti-social elements and history-sheeters were arrested in Tiruvarur district in a special drive on the eve of Deepavali. According to police the special drive was undertaken on November 14 and 15 to ensure smooth and crime-free Deepavali celebrations in the district. A total of 284 bootlegging cases, and 384 cases pertaining to sale of banned tobacco products were registered. Also, 350 cases of drunken driving were booked, police added.
17 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Male leopard found dead inside well||A four-year-old male leopard died by drowning after getting stuck in a well belonging to the local panchayat in Masakkal panchayat near Kattabettu on Monday morning. Officials said that they had received information that a leopard had been found dead inside the well and rushed to the spot to investigate. After confirming that the animal had died during the night due to drowning, the forest department extricated the remains from the well and a postmortem was conducted. The well was being used to supply drinking water to local residents, but had not been used for the last few days, and the carcass of the leopard was only spotted on Monday. Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris division), K. Saravanakumar, along with other forest department staff and members of NGOs oversaw the postmortem which was conducted by Rajesh Kumar, a veterinary assistant surgeon posted at the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). Following the postmortem, the carcass of the leopard was destroyed. Mr. Saravanakumar said that the well had belonged to the panchayat and that following the incident, local officials were called and a meeting was held with the panchayat. Activists have long called for action against local residents as well as local civic bodies that do not cover open wells. Over the last few years, many gaurs have died after falling inside open wells in the district. Following the incident, Mr. Saravanakumar said that panchayat officials were directed to cover up the well with steel grates to prevent such an incident from recurring. Mr. Saravanakumar added that forest rangers have been directing local farmers and residents to cover up open wells as part of their routine work. He said that other such open wells will be identified and their owners, be it private property owners or local bodies, will be directed to close them to prevent animals from falling inside.
17 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry constable ends life in Tindivanam||A constable attached to the Grand Bazaar police station in Puducherry ended his life on Monday. According to the police, S. Sadasivam, 35, of Kamaraj Nagar in Puducherry was found lying unconscious in a farm at Thalakanikuppam near Tindivanam. He was rushed to the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) where doctors declared him dead. The police said Sadasivam, who was with the Puducherry Armed Police (PAP), was transferred to the Grand Bazaar police station recently. The Brammadesam police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
17 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||4,186 new voters in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district has added 4,186 new voters and deleted 7,354 voters during the continuous updation of electoral roll 2020. Total number of voters in the district has come down to 16,27,128 in draft electoral list released here on Monday from 16,30,296 voters in the final roll as on February 14, 2020. Collector R. Kannan released the draft voter list in the presence of District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, and Sub-Collector, Sivakasi C. Dinesh Kumar. Representatives of various political parties received the copies of the voter list. Among the voters were 7,93,864 men and 8,33,081 women. Women voters outnumbered the men voters in all the seven Assembly constituencies. The number of transgender voters is 183, with Virudhunagar assembly segment having the highest number of 47 transgenders. Among the seven Assembly constituencies, Sivakasi Assembly segment has got the highest number of voters 2,54,012 voters and Tiruchuli Assembly constituency has got the lowest number of voters of 2,16,122. Special summary revision of voter list would be taken up till December 12, 2020. All those who would complete 18 years on with January 1, 2021, can include their names. The applications for inclusion, deletion and correction can be given to the respective polling booth, taluk offices, Revenue Divisional Offices and at the Collectorate. Special camps for receiving the applications will be held on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13, a statement said.  Constituency details  Rajapalayam has got 2,34,377 voters – 1,14,381 men and 1,19, 969 women and 27 others.; Srivilliputtur has got 2,43,887 voters – 1,18,920 men, 1,24,935 woman and 32 others.; Sattur has got 2,42,150 voters – 1,17,758 men, 1,24,367 women and 25 others.; Sivakasi has got 2,54,012 voters – 1,23,711 men, 1,30,275 women and 26 others.; Virudhunagar has got 2,18,115 voters – 1,06,829 men, 1,11,239 women and 47 others.; Aruppukottai has got 2,18,465 voters – 1,06,086 men, 1,12,363 women and 16 others.; Tiruchuli has got 2,16,122 voters – 1,06,179 men, 1,09,933 women and 10 others.
17 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Virudhunagar district||It rained cats and dogs across Virudhunagar district on Monday. Though it disrupted normal life, rainwater did not cause any damage in the district. The rain that started in the morning continued till late in the evening. After intermittent heavy downpours, the district reported steady drizzle throughout the day. Though the heavy showers kept the two-wheeler riders off the road for most part of the day, the continuous rainfall put the residents of Rajapalayam to a lot of hardships as the roads dug up for construction of underground drainage were filled with rainwater. Rainfall reported in the district in the last 24 hours till 6 a.m. on Monday: Sattur 19 mm, Sivakasi 12, Aruppukottai 8, Vembakottai 5, Virudhunagar 3.50, Kariyapatti 2.20 and Pilavakkal 2.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls released in districts||Draft electoral rolls were released for special summary revision in Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts by the respective District Collectors on Monday. In Salem, District Collector S.A. Raman released the draft roll in presence of recognised political parties. The 11 Assembly constituencies in Salem have registered a total of 29,615,68 voters -- 14,79,280 male, 14,82,124 female, and 164 transgender voters, a press release said. In Namakkal, District Collector K. Megraj released the draft roll. The six Assembly constituencies in Namakkal district have registered a total of 14,25,883 voters -- 6,96,023 male, 7,29,720 female, and 140 transgender voters. A total of 3,380 voters have been added and 2,944 voters have been removed from the list, a release said. In Erode, District Collector S.Kathiravan released the draft electoral roll and District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha received the copy. The eight Assembly constituencies in Erode have registered a total of 19,16,809 voters -- 9,36,022 male, 9,80,414 female, 95 transgenders and 278 servicemen. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V.Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy released the draft electoral roll. The six Assembly constituencies in Krishnagiri district have registered a total of 15,65,544 voters -- 241 transgenders, 7,74,160 female, and 7,91143 male voters. The draft electoral roll is displayed for public perusal at the RDO’s office in Hosur and Krishnagiri, taluk offices, Municipal Commissioner’s office in Krishnagiri, Hosur Corporation and 1,863 booths. Those seeking to include, delete names or make revisions to their voter id may submit applications on Form 6,7, 8 and 8 A respectively. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S.P. Karthika released the draft electoral rolls. The five Assembly constituencies have registered a total of 12,35,534 voters -- 138 transgenders, 6,08,064 female, and 6,27,332 male voters. The draft electoral roll has 4,608 new voters and 2,127 deletions. The draft electoral roll is displayed for public perusal at the office of the Revenue Divisional Officer in Dharmapuri and Harur, all the taluk offices, at Municipal Commissioner’s offices. According to officials, applications for inclusion, deletion and edits in the draft rolls would be collected till December 15 at respective poll stations, tahsildhar offices, Municipality and Corporation offices, RDO offices. Applicants can also apply through the websitewww.nvsp.inand voter helpline mobile application. Special drives According to a release, special drives would be conducted on November 21,22 and December 12,13 at all polling stations in the districts. The final draft would be released on January 20. Public can also make changes to their voter details by logging ontowww.elections.tn.gov.inand voice their complaints through the 24-hour toll-free helpline 1950.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 174 new cases||As many as 174 persons from Coimbatore district tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The number of patients under institutional care stood at 883. The Health Department said that the district's death toll increased to 587 with the death of a 76-year-old patient at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday. According to the department, 181 persons from Coimbatore district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 69 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking its overall tally to 14,368 cases. The district did not report any deaths, according to the bulletin. Out of 14,368 cases, 13,448 have recovered and 720 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 200 deaths in total. As many as 115 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals on Monday. A total of 74 positive cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said, 46 cases were indigenous, including 28 in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 40 cases were reported. Eight patients have returned from other places, officials said. In Erode, 64 indigenous cases were reported. Krishnagiri recorded 26 new cases and 48 persons were discharged on Monday. Dharmapuri recorded 10 cases and 11 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 19 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,130. The death toll in the district stood at 41 on Sunday, while the district administration said that 195 people are undergoing treatment.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for medical, dental admissions to kick off tomorrow||In the management category, 2,100 seats are available in MBBS and 1,760 in BDS. Of these, 86 seats in MBBS and 80 in BDS are reserved for government school students. A total of MBBS 306 seats are reserved for NRI candidates. Of the 24,712 applications received, 23,707 were found eligible. As many as 15,885 candidates from the State board, 7,366 candidates from the CBSE/SSCE stream and 285 students of the ISCE stream have applied. A total of 171 candidates from other boards are also on the list. For the government quota seats, the DME had received 972 applications, of which 951 were eligible. While three candidates were listed under the Other Category, four were under the ST category. The most number of applicants were under the Backward Class category — 332 — and 327 under the Most Backward Class/Denotified Communities. Among the applicants, 9,596 are from the current year and 14,111 are those who passed Class 12 before 2019-20. The DME has set aside 80 seats for persons with disabilities under the 5% reservation. A total of 412 seats have been reserved for sportspersons and 448 seats for wards of ex-servicemen. Srijan R, of Tiruppur, has topped the State’s merit list with a score of 710 in NEET. Mohanaprabha Ravichandran of Namakkal is ranked second with a score of 705, while G. Swetha of Chennai is ranked third with 701. Among the government school students under the special reservation, Jeevithkumar R. of Theni district is ranked first, with a score of 664. Anbarasan S. of Kallakurichi, with a score of 646, and Dhivyadharshini S. of Chennai, with a score of 620, are ranked second and third. Gunasekaran R. of Vellore, who has scored 562, is ranked fourth. He is an Adi Dravida student who studied at the Government Adi Dravidar Higher Secondary School at T.T. Mottur. In the management category, the first two ranks have been bagged by students from Kerala. Jai Murhekar of Chennai is ranked third with a score of 691.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With reverence||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Blight on the cityscape||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Looming threat||
17 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||226 people test positive in Alappuzha district||The district logged 226 COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 220 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of three persons remains unknown. Other States Two persons who came from other States and one from abroad were also diagnosed with the disease. The 226 cases include 44 reported from Alappuzha, 14 from Cherthala, 13 from Thrikkunnappuzha, and 12 from Veliyanad. Meanwhile, 658 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,089. Parts of ward 5 in Karuvatta and ward 16 in Punnapra South grama panchayat in the district were declared as containment zones by the authorities.  658 people who were undergoing treatment in the district test negative
17 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||NDA candidates for Alappuzha panchayat||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has announced its candidates for the Alappuzha district panchayat election. The BJP will contest in 20 seats and Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) in three seats. BJP candidates  The BJP candidates are Sreedevi Vipin (Poochakkal), M.S. Gopalakrishnan (Pallippuram), P. Vijeesh Kumar (Kanjikuzhy), R. Unnikrishnan (Aryad), Jaisappan Mathai (Champakulam), Bindu Vinayan (Veliyanad), R. Rajani (Pallippad), Bindu Sivarajan (Chennithala), G. Prameela (Mannar), S. Soumya (Mulakuzha), Smitha Omanakuttan (Venmony), Ponnamma Surendran (Nooranad), S. Harigovind (Krishnapuram), Sanjeev Gopalakrishnan (Pathiyoor), M. Mahesh Kumar (Muthukulam), K. Sreekumar (Karuvatta), Susmita Joby (Ambalappuzha), Asha Rudrani (Punnapra), Prathiba Jayekar (Mararikulam), and Aparna Sebastian (Manakodam). BDJS candidates The BDJS will field K.M. Manilal from Aroor, Biju Plavilayil from Bharanikavu, and T. Ajayan from Vayalar.  Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) in three seats in the district panchayat elections
17 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||25 kg of ganja seized||In a major haul, the police on Monday seized 25 kg of ganja from a car and arrested three persons at Pathirappally here. The arrested have been identified as Anandu, 24, Arun ,24, and Rahul, 27. Both Anandu and Arun hail from Chengannur, while Rahul is a native of Pathanamthitta. K.P. Vinod, circle inspector, Alappuzha North police, said that the contraband was being transported to Chengannur from Vishakhapatnam.
17 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bodies of women retrieved||The bodies of two young women who jumped into the Muvattupuzha river from the Murinjapuzha bridge on the Vaikom-Ernakulam road on Saturday evening were retrieved on Monday. The police officers dentified the deceased women as Amrita Ani, 21, of Edayam, Kollam, and Arya G. Ashok, 21, of Ayoor, Kollam. Close friends The two women, who were said to be close friends, went missing from Kollam on November 13. The women had allegedly jumped into the water on Saturday evening. The bodies of the women were found floating in the Muvattupuzha river in the area around Poochakkal and Perumbalam in Alappuzha district. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)
17 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ensure compensation to landslip-hit farmers: Minister||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has written to the Idukki District Collector directing him that proper compensation be given to farmers who sustained losses following a recent landslip on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway, which was said to have been caused by unscientific road-widening works. The compensation should be levied from the contractor. Thirty farmers had suffered losses and acres of cardamom plantations were destroyed in a major landslip on August 7. Though the contractor offered Rs. 5 lakh an acre as compensation to the affected farmers, the latter sought Rs. 10 lakh an acre. The district administration will take a final decision on the matter. Five months Five months since the landslip, uncertainty prevails over resuming the road-widening works on the Gap Road stretch. The work had been suspended after a landslip on June 17. A report submitted by the Devikulam Subcollector said that unscientific road-widening works had caused the series of landslips in the region. In the landslips, nearly 200 m of the road stretch was swept away and 15 acres of cardamom cultivation was destroyed. The Rs. 268.2-crore work on the Munnar-Bodimettu stretch was started in 2017.
17 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Temporary ban on cutting eucalyptus trees||Cutting eucalyptus tree in the Anchunadu valley, including Vattavada village, has been banned temporarily after it was noticed that farmers were reluctant in removing tree stumps that may result in the regrowth of the trees. District Collector H. Dinesan has issued the latest order. The order allowing the farmers to cut trees in Anchunadu was issued recently with a view to extending the area of farming, as farmers widely cultivate eucalyptus that they consider more profitable and less labour-intensive. According to Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan, the government granted permission to cut down trees recently with a view to removing eucalyptus trees and using the land for farming. The order directed that tree stumps and roots should be destroyed. However, the farmers did not remove the tree stumps. The Collector directed village officials not to issue new tree cutting passes in the region. New tree cutting passes would be issued only after verification, said Mr. Prem Krishnan.
17 November 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Border facilitation centres wound up||The Wayanad district administration has decided to end the functioning of border facilitation centres on Kerala-Karnataka borders in the wake of Central and State governments announcing relaxations in norms for crossing inter-State borders. Three such centres had been set up at Muthanga, Thopletty and Bavaly to check travellers as part of containing the spread of COVID-19, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. Sectoral magistrates will also not function in the district as the district administration withdrew Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code on Sunday. As many as 26 gazetted officers had been appointed as sectoral officers with the powers of special executive magistrate to monitor the COVID situation and ensure compliance with protocol.
17 November 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||170 file papers in Wayanad||As many as 170 candidates filed their nomination papers for the upcoming local body polls in the district on Monday. These include 11 nomination papers to the Wayanad district panchayat, three each to the Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery municipalities, seven to three block panchayats and 146 papers to 19 grama panchayats.
17 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Gold capsules abandoned at airport||Air Customs Department officials at the Kannur international airport on Monday found four capsules containing a compound of gold abandoned inside a temporary structure erected for a duty-free shop at the airport. Officials said the four capsules together weighed 674 gram and were worth Rs. 35 lakh. The Customs is trying to identify the carrier with the help of CCTV visuals, the officials said.
17 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Private bus services in Kochi to be streamlined||Even as the steep fall in passenger patronage has led to a bulk of private buses in the Greater Kochi area remaining non-operational, bus operators have arrayed themselves under the banner of a Smart Bus consortium, to modernise and streamline their services in a phased manner by optimal use of digital technology. This will initially cover 200 of the 1,000 private buses that operate in the region. “The technological upgradation is being carried out by roping in buses from all the seven limited liability partnership (LLP) companies that represent the 1,000 buses. Already, most of the 200 buses accept digital payment of fare using the Kochi-1 platform. Passengers who opt for this get 5% discount,” said George Joseph, a city-based bus operator. The process to extend the facility to all buses is under way. An initiative to install CCTV and enable live tracking of buses too is on. These buses will be discernible by stickers pasted on them. The upgraded buses will hopefully be launched this month, he added. The innovative project won the Urban Mobility India Award instituted by the Ministry of Urban Development for the best city-bus service in 2019. The upgradation process suffered delay due to the pandemic situation. Technical help for the shift to digital mode is being offered by the city-based Technovia Infosolutions. Its CEO Nishant Ravindran spoke of how GPS-enabled buses could be tracked by operators using a mobile app named ‘Onedi’ (short for ‘one digital’). “They thus get to know real-time aspects like ticketing position, up-to-date collection figures, driving pattern [where rash driving, if any, can be detected), fuel efficiency etc. These buses will also have a front-facing CCTV camera and one facing the interiors. Apart from getting real-time feed, it will come in handy in case of accidents, especially so the data can be stored for up to 15 days,” he explained. The app also makes accounting easy and prevents cash pilferage by unscrupulous bus crew. An LED passenger information system has already been installed in 150 buses, where news, updates from the Motor Vehicles Department, and advertisements can be screened. “We are also readying an app using which passengers can track the location of buses, which will help them plan their trip better and prevent wastage of time. It will be launched by January 2021,” Mr Ravindran said.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Thanthonni Thuruth witnesses severe flooding||Flooding of their homes at night during high tide at this time of the year is not new to the residents of Thanthonni Thuruth. But they were in for a shock on Sunday night, when nearly 80% of the 63 families, with about 250 members in total, found their homes flooded, with the water rising at an alarming rate. There was the scourge of the pandemic on one side and the sea was being equally ruthless, rued Reji T.S., an islander who is a temporary employee with the Kerala State Electricity Board. The tidal waves lashed at the 110-acre island, just about a km from the Marine Drive and to the north of the Goshree bridges, around 11 p.m. and the water ingress continued till about 3.30 a.m. on Monday. “Using our canoes, we moved a good number of people, mostly children and women, to the GIDA (Goshree Islands Development Authority) premises. A few youngsters stayed behind to watch over the aged who were seated on raised, makeshift platforms. The flooding has been on for the past few days and this is likely to be there for a few more days,” said Mr. Reji. CRZ norms When the islanders met District Collector S. Suhas, also GIDA secretary, on Monday, he said their demand for an outer bund to check water ingress would be taken up on a war footing, according to Mr. Reji. But the glitch, he said, was that the island being a Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) area, environmental clearance was needed. “This is what is believed to have held up the demand all these years.” The islanders, whose only access to the mainland is by small canoes or the occasional ferry operated by the State Water Transport Department, had last week protested by aligning their canoes across the waters for a bridge to connect the place to the mainland. Green clearance Ansa James, outgoing councillor of Thattazham ward comprising the island, said funds to the tune of Rs. 6 crore had been sanctioned some six years ago, but environmental clearance was not forthcoming. “It would now require a fresh estimate, but I’m sure GIDA has the funds and the islanders’ demand for an outer bund is not a made-up one,” she said. On Sunday night, there was flooding across Kochi’s estuaries and islands. “But almost every other island is linked to the mainland now, with an escape route. We have none and that is what frightens us,” said Mr. Reji. “There’s another generation growing up on the island and the only way to protect their future is to protest,” he added.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Uncertainty plagues bypass project||Even two years after an alignment was finalised, little work has been done to realise the 46-km-long Kundannoor-Angamaly bypass, despite vehicles jostling for space on the Aroor-Edapally NH Bypass and the Edapally-Angamaly NH 66 corridor. NHAI sources said that a Detailed Project Report (DPR) was not yet ready for the access-controlled greenfield NH bypass project. The agency had in 2019 insisted that the State government must bear half the cost to acquire around 300 hectares of land needed for the corridor, citing that the cost of land acquisition in Kerala was almost four times that in other States. It contended that this had resulted in the compensation for land exceeding the construction cost of NHs in Kerala. The initial deadline to begin the land acquisition process for the project was December 2018. An alignment that began 2 km north of Angamaly on NH 66 and ended 1.5 km south of Kundannoor on NH 66 Bypass, passing through Perumbavoor and Thripunithura, had been shortlisted in February 2018. This was finalised following a presentation of three probable alignments that were made before the then District Collector and five MLAs. The State government had given in-principle approval for the alignment. Benny Behanan and Hibi Eden, then MLAs, had met Nithin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways in 2019 and apprised him of the urgency to hew out the new corridor, considering the worsening congestion on NH corridors within the city where intra-city/district, inter-district and inter-State vehicles jostled for space. “I met the Director of NHAI in-charge of Kerala in this connection,” Mr. Behanan said. Mr. Eden, who raised a submission on the project in the Lok Sabha said that every effort would be made to realise the project through the greenfield alignment. The alignment passes through three Parliament constituencies. The NHAI’s pre-condition that the State government must pool in with half the expense for land acquisition was not raised during the meeting to finalise the alignment, until the end of 2019. Even as the State government was game to provide 25% of the cost of acquiring land for the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod NH development, it has made it clear that NHAI will not be permitted to collect toll for Kollam and Alappuzha NH Bypasses, since it had provided half the project cost.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold, silver worth Rs. 1.5 cr. stolen from jewellery shop||The city police are investigating a case in which gold and silver worth about Rs. 1.5 crore were stolen from a jewellery shop in Kalamassery in the early hours of Monday. It is reported that the thieves got into the jewellery shop near Eloor, in the early hours of Monday. The thieves drilled through the wall of a nearby barber shop to get into the showroom and then used gas cutters to break open the safes, which contained the gold and silver. The theft was noticed by some workers of a nearby shop on Monday morning. They informed the showroom owner, who lives in Muppathadam, near Aluva, immediately. The nearby barber shop was open on Sunday and closed as usual in the evening. Police officials investigating the case said they were looking at CCTV footage of the area to find a clue to the burglary. The owner of the jewellery said he had been working without any outside help or any assistant as it was a small shop.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In Angamaly, it’s a battle of prestige||A keen tussle is on the cards for Angamaly municipality as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) projects the development plank for a second term amidst efforts by the United Democratic Front (UDF) to wrest back its traditional stronghold citing sluggish growth and poor infrastructural development during the CPI(M)-led rule over the last five years. The Left camp exuded confidence that the series of developmental initiatives would help them reach out to the voters while the Congress-led Opposition is alleging that the ruling council could not match the kind of progress achieved by the UDF in its previous councils. M.A. Gracy, the outgoing chairperson, claimed that the civic body held the distinction of having completed the first apartment project under the government’s LIFE Mission initiative. “We had given funds for constructing 650 homes to beneficiaries who had their own land,” she said. Taluk hospital Stating that the health sector was a major focus area, Ms. Gracy said the Angamaly taluk hospital witnessed major growth in the last five years. The development of the administrative block, maternity wards, operation theatre and the building for dialysis treatment were some of the achievements. “We also won appreciation for improving facilities for cancer treatment under the Aardram project,” she said. Among other projects, Ms. Gracy highlighted the upgrade of Mahakavi G. Memorial Government Higher Secondary School at Nayathodu, rejuvenation of ponds, formation of Haritha Karma Sena and allocation of one acre land for the construction of town hall. She admitted that the slaughterhouse project and biodegradable waste management project did not take off as expected. Land acquisition Reetha Paul, Opposition leader representing the Congress, alleged that the LDF council could not acquire land for implementing various developmental projects. The delay in the commissioning of the town hall was as an example for the inordinate delay in ensuring adequate land for developmental work, she said. Ms. Paul said the condition of many roads had turned worse as the contractors refused to undertake works due to the delay in release of funds for regular maintenance. Except for laying interlocking bricks, there was no major effort to restore the roads to their original condition, she added. Waste management The Opposition also blamed the LDF for its failure to resolve the issue of biodegradable waste management as the civic body continued to depend on Brahmapuram for dumping waste. Waste dumping was rampant in many places, including waterbodies like the Manjalithodu, it has been alleged.
17 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waterfront walkway on the cards on Container Road||Buoyed by the huge patronage enjoyed by the over 2-km waterfront walkway stretching from Kannanghat Bridge to Mattancherry BOT Bridge on Alexander Parambithara Road, the Cochin Port Trust (CPT) is working on a proposal to develop a similar walkway along Container Road, facing the backwaters and the 6-km railway bridge that hovers at a distance. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and CPT are the key stakeholders who own the 16-km road. “A walkway can be built from the area the road takes off from Bolghatty Island, extending northward by a few kilometres. Even without a walkway, hundreds of people throng the area during evenings to get a glimpse of the sunset. This despite the premises remaining weed-infested. A walkway will also clear the stretch of haphazardly-parked container lorries,” port sources said. Water sport This and the walkway on Alexander Parambithara Bridge can also become arenas for water sport activities. It will also prevent dumping of waste into the backwaters. A preliminary discussion in this regard was held with Hibi Eden, MP, they added. A lengthy walkway with a scenic view can be built here using funds from the ministries of Tourism, Road Transport and Highways and Shipping. MP funds and CSR funds of prominent public sector units in the district too can be used for this. The project will cost approximately Rs. 5 crore a km. A 1-km-long walkway could be readied in phase one, and the rest will follow, Mr. Eden said. A tentative proposal for a walkway-cum-cycle track and a 3-D design of it are ready, it is learnt. Haphazard parking of container lorries on the ill-lit stretch has often been causing accidents, including fatal ones.  Hundreds of people throng the area during evenings to get a glimpse of the sunset. A walkway will also clear the stretch of haphazardly-parked container lorries.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Efforts to create a clean environment dominate Eloor||A clean environment dominates the air in Eloor as elections to the local bodies are around the corner once again. “We have created an environment in which people are able to take care of the waste in households in their own premises. Eloor is now clean Eloor now when compared with the town five years ago,” says Usha Gopinath, CPI(M) leader and outgoing chairperson of the municipality. She said that the biggest achievement of the outgoing council was that it was able to create a culture of people taking care of the waste that originated on their premises. She said that biopots and biobins as well as bio gas plants were set up in houses to help people to handle the waste from households without burdening the public system. At the same time, the Green Army or the Haritha Karma Sena had been empowered to collect waste, to segregate it and to dispose of it in a healthy and sustainable manner. Shajahan Kavalakkal, an election contestant, said that the municipal authorities had not addressed the issues related to the floods in 2018 and 2019. Both years saw dozens of homes being flooded but issues such as silting of the water bodies and drain systems had not been addressed and they remained a big problem for the people. He said that the closure of several industrial units, including PSUs, had left many people jobless. This had led to restlessness among the youth, he said. A. D. Sujil, a CPI(M) councillor, said that the municipal authorities had been able to create a culture of sustainable waste treatment. He said that the municipality, home to hundreds of industrial units, was now a cleaner place than it was earlier. Purushan Eloor, an environmental activist, said that the political parties, now seeking power in the municipal council, should give importance to cleaning up the Kuzhikanadamthodu, which had been at the centre of a controversy on environmental pollution. He said that the segment of the river Periyar, which flowed through the municipality, needed to be cleaned of the release of waste from industrial units in the area.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||279 fresh cases in district as testing dips||The number of new COVID-19 cases in the district fell to 279 on Monday, the lowest figure since mid-September. Testing dipped to 2,288 samples on Monday, from over 6,000 on Friday, 5,053 on Saturday and 3,825 samples on Sunday. Seven health workers tested positive for the virus and the source of infection of 75 people remains untraced. 30 cases in Maradu Maradu has reported a spike in cases with 30 people testing positive. Positive cases of the infection were also reported from Kunnathunad, Perumbavoor, and Kalamassery. The district registered 503 recoveries on Monday. A total of 29,905 people remain in quarantine and the active case load stands at 9,560.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Congress to support BJP rebel in Thripunithura||The Congress has announced unconditional support to V.R. Vijayakumar, estranged BJP leader who is contesting the local body polls in the Thripunithura municipality as an independent candidate from the Ambalam ward (No.38). Mr. Vijayakumar, former mandalam president of the BJP in Thripunithura and opposition leader in the outgoing council, is taking on BJP candidate and sitting councillor of Ambalam ward, Radhika Varma, and CPI(M)’s R.V. Vasudevan. 10 candidates Mr. Vijayakumar is part of a newly-formed V4Thripunithura group under whose banner 10 candidates, all formerly members the BJP, are contesting independently. A.V. Baiju, another outgoing councillor of the BJP, is contesting as part of the V4Thripunithura formation from the Panackal ward. ‘Raw deal’ Accusing the BJP of meting out a raw deal to the old guard and the workers who had been with the party, which put up a stellar performance in Thripunithura by clinching 13 wards in the 2015 local body polls, Mr. Vijayakumar said he was open to receiving anyone’s support. Mr. Baiju said while Mr. Vijayakumar had been with the BJP for decades, he (Mr. Baiju) was relatively a fresher and he had chosen to stand with Mr. Vijayakumar after seeing the way the ordinary workers had been treated within the party. Seena Suresh, an outgoing BJP councillor, is the convener of the new formation. “Our aim is to bring development to Thripunithura,” says Mr. Vijayakumar. Sreekuttan Thundathil, mandalam president of the BJP, however, said that Mr. Vijayakumar and several others were still part of the BJP and the party was open to hold discussions with them. “They have to take the initiative and issues like false cases against senior leaders would have to be addressed if the discussions should make any headway,” he said.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stir against privatisation bid||The combine of Kochi Refineries Workers’ Association and Cochin Refineries’ Employees Association have demanded that the move to privatise Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) should be abandoned. The employees’ unions demanded that the management of the company should also consider wage and salary hike in keeping with other public sector companies. The employees have launched a protest action raising these demands at the entrance gate of the refinery.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Recharging facility for e-vehicles||Taking ahead the cause of e-mobility, the KSEB has readied a recharging facility for e-vehicles near the Palarivattom metro station, where motorists can opt for an array of options. The facility, readied as a pilot project, can be utilised free of cost for three months. Fast charging can be done in which a vehicle can be fully recharged in 40 minutes. The initiative has not been officially inaugurated.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to recast reservation||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Election Commission to recast the reservation for offices of presidents and chairpersons for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities and women following the principles of rotation. Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque passed the directive while allowing a petition filed by Aboobacker Kanniyan of Manjeri and others challenging the legality of the consecutive or successive reservation for the offices of chairpersons and presidents in local bodies. The court observed that successive reservation to the offices of the chairpersons and presidents overlooking the constitutional directives was illegal and unsustainable. Denying aspirations It would deny the aspirations of the candidates of non-reserved categories to occupy the offices of presidents or chairpersons. By insisting on following the principles of rotation, the Constitution intended to avoid reverse discrimination. The failure to follow rotation would deny equality of opportunity.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IUML alleges exclusion of 126 names from Corpn. voters’ list||The Kochi Niyojaka Mandalam Committee of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has alleged that the names of several legitimate voters in the Chakkamadom division of the Kochi Corporation had been left out of the final voters’ list. The names of 126 people were omitted from the final list published last week, said Yunus P. A., secretary of the committee. Of these, at least 65 voters whose names were in the draft voters’ list, had been excluded without any clear reason, he said. The names were excluded from two booths in division nine, Chakkamadom, which has a little over 4,000 voters. “The names of a few first-time voters who had registered appeared in the draft list but were not included in the final list. But their family members are on the list,” Mr. Yunus said. In one instance, seven members of a single household had been left out of the list though they had voted in the 2019 general election and the 2015 local body elections, he said. “The removal of names en masse from the final list without any prior intimation suggests it could be politically motivated,” he said. The committee has written to the Chief Electoral Officer and the District Collector, asking for the right to vote to be restored at least to legitimate voters excluded from the final list.
17 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC rejects bail plea of former SP||The High Court on Monday dismissed an anticipatory bail filed by former Idukki SP K.B. Venugopal in the case relating to the custodial death of Rajkumar at the Nedumkandam police station. The CBI submitted that as Mr. Venugopal was the supervisory officer he should have ensured that illegal custody and torturing of accused did not take place in stations under his jurisdiction.
17 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam logs 191 new cases of infection||The district reported 191 new COVID-19 cases, 654 recoveries, and two deaths on Monday. Those people who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 185 contact cases and six health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 42-year-old Thevannur resident and 56-year-old Sadanandapuram resident are due to COVID-19. Health workers who contracted the virus include four Ummannur residents and two others from Edamulakkal and Mayyand. Under observation The district currently has 18,462 persons under observation. The total number of samples collected is 4,08,294. While 1,672 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department in the district has traced 1,02,111 primary and 7,745 secondary contacts of the persons who tested positive.
17 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Poll times to see tighter COVID curbs||With the district in the election mode, the district administration has tightened the restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during electioneering. Though Kottayam District Collector M. Anjana has decided not to extend the curfew imposed on the district under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as part of the pandemic prevention initiatives, the restrictions on the ground level are slated to continue. “The functional period of monitoring teams headed by sector magistrates, appointed to ensure compliance with the curfew and the COVID-19 preventive measures, has expired. But the incident commanders will continue to oversee the prevention-related restrictions while quick response teams will be on duty in all centres,” Ms. Anjana said. So far, the authorities have initiated action against 31,494 persons in connection with violations of the COVID-19 prevention directives. Meanwhile, a district-level monitoring cell has been formed to address the disputes relating to the local body polls and to take immediate action on complaints of violation of the code of conduct. The cell, having the District Collector as its chairperson, comprises the Deputy Director of Panchayats, the District Police Chief, the Deputy Collector of Elections, and the District Information Officer. Anti-defacement squads As part of implementing the election code of conduct, anti-defacement squads have been formed in the district and taluks. The squads will inspect notices, banners, boards, posters, graffiti, announcements and public meetings. Campaigns through social media too will be monitored. The squads, having the tahsildar as taluk level nodal officer, will be coordinated by Additional District Magistrate Anil Oommen at the district level.
17 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||165 cases in Kottayam||As many as 165 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. According to officials, all but eight persons contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 26 children and 25 persons above 60 years of age. With 20 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases followed by Changanassery with 16 cases. With 683 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,108 active cases.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tracking social media could be a tricky affair||Social media platforms will have a major role in the electioneering for the local body polls this time in view of the pandemic situation. Monitoring its content to check the spread of misinformation and ensure adherence to the model code of conduct, however, could be a tricky affair for the State Election Commission (SEC). The poll panel recently advised political parties to use social media for campaigning in a bid to reduce social contact. There seems to be a broad agreement between political parties and social media platforms on the guidelines to be followed as well. These guidelines, however, are just an understanding between these parties, but never a legal document, which is binding on all, according to legal experts. No regulation They point out that in the social media world, anyone can create content that will be spread across the globe within seconds. There appears to be no system in place to regulate what is being circulated through closed systems such as WhatsApp, which is the largest social media network here, bigger than even Facebook. WhatsApp is also perceived to be a major source of information whose credibility and source of origin could not be tracked easily. It could be difficult to monitor the flow of misleading data being circulated through this platform, both through individual accounts and groups. Some of the admins of WhatsApp groups may not be even based in Kerala too, which may pose jurisdictional problems for authorities. A challenge Also, the placing of issue-based advertisements, on critical problems that can swing the votes either for or against a candidate, could also pose a challenge, say information technology experts. The guidelines by the poll panel do not cover this aspect, they say. During the last Lok Sabha polls, the Election Commission of India had launched a web application to help voters flag violation of the poll code. However, it had been pointed out then itself that the app did not have facility to upload URL links.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 402 fresh cases||Kozhikode recorded 402 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, of which 390 were local transmission of the infection. Five health workers were among the infected. The source of infection could not be traced in six cases. One patient returned from abroad and five came from other States. Meanwhile, 556 people were cured of the disease and discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Monday. The district has 8,147 active cases. There are now 26,352 people under observation. In Wayanad A total of 37 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. There were also 68 recoveries. Of the new cases, 36 patients were infected through local contact and a person came from abroad. The district has so far reported 8,811 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 7,808 have recovered. The total number of active cases is 942. As many as 12,274 persons are under observation.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to reopen beaches in city, Beypore||As the Kozhikode district administration remains indecisive on the reopening of beaches in the city and Beypore, stakeholders have appealed to the administration to take into consideration the plight of street vendors who have been reeling under poverty for the past eight eight months. The Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry staged a protest at the Kozhikode beach on Sunday drawing attention to the plight of 102 vendors and demanded immediate reopening of beaches for them to survive. “The district administration can implement COVID protocol at the beach easily as there is a lot of space and physical distancing is practical. There just needs to be tight vigil,” said Hashim Kadakkalakam of the Chamber. Street vendors have allegedly been neglected by the government as well as voluntary organisations all these months. Many of the bunk shops that were left on the beach at the beginning of the lockdown in March have now been damaged while some have gone missing. Vendors, who have been struggling to make ends meet, cleaned up the remaining bunks recently as the beach was thrown open to the public on November 12, only to be closed down two days later. The beach was closed down as huge crowds started arriving on the first day itself and the authorities could not ensure that COVID protocol was being followed. “We cannot blame the public for this. Cooped up in their houses without any entertainment for eight months, they were frustrated, and the beach being the easiest outlet, they used it,” Mr. Hashim said. He pointed out that market places and malls had been opened, and asked why beaches could not be opened in a controlled manner. “The District Collector had no qualms flagging off a rally of around 40 people at the beach on Saturday, when Section 144 was in place. Why this double standard?” he asked. Chamber president Subair Kolakkadan presided over the protest.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode District Literacy Mission to use ICT tools for teaching courses||Considering the pandemic situation and the challenges in conducting contact classes, the District Literacy Mission has decided to explore the possibilities of Information and Communications Technology-based teaching for its learners under various equivalency courses. The support of trained preraks  who are skilled in handling e-learning tools and applications will be used for experimenting with the new method. According to project coordinators, the preraks in various panchayats will be able to use the new media effectively for handling classes for their learners. They are now getting all support from the District Institute of Education and Training to get themselves familiarised with e-learning tools and its scope in conducting sessions for the learners. Many of them have already completed their first-phase training in handling online classes for the learners. They are also familiar with the online submission of various forms, downloading of learning modules, editing of visuals and pictures and the use of mobile technology for better interactive learning. Setting up of digital learning centres are also under consideration as part of the new e-learning strategy. The virtual classes under consideration will be able to reach out to those who have already enrolled under the traditional literacy classes, equivalency courses and social literacy programmes. There are also efforts by the authorities to extend special attention to backward segments and tribal hamlets. Literacy Mission officials say there are also proposals for ensuring better participation of youths trained in ICT for supporting the e-learning initiatives. Educated youths from backward communities will be designated as regional coordinators for ensuring better support to the underprivileged learners. Along with increasing the number of smart class rooms for covering more learners, the support of various local bodies and sponsors will be sought to supply e-learning tools including computers and mobile phones to the needy segments. Tribal areas will get special considerations in the drive. According to a State-level coordinator, the local bodies are likely to set apart a special fund for the ICT-enabled learning projects of Literacy Mission. Many promising changes are on the cards with the takeover of administration by the newly elected local representatives and the groundwork for the same has already been done by the district-level units, he said.
17 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF candidate list for corporation still incomplete||The United Democratic Front (UDF) was unable to come up with its second list of candidates to the Kozhikode Corporation Council on Monday, as was announced earlier. Sources at the District Congress Committee office said that the leadership of the front had not been able to settle on suitable candidates in some of the seats and that the final list will be brought out on Tuesday. The front had announced a list of 45 candidates on Sunday and planned to announce the candidates for the remaining 30 seats in the corporation on Monday, amidst protests from some party workers. Of the 45, 26 are Congress candidates while 19 are Muslim League (IUML) candidates. The League will get five more seats in the next allotment. Meanwhile, the front may support independent candidates in five seats. There has been discontent among party workers regarding handing over some strong Congress seats to the JD(U). The UDF which had won 34 seats in the corporation in 2010, had a deadly fall in 2015, in which it had to be content with 13 seats (Congress and IUML combined) while the LDF snatched some of its loyal seats and BJP, which never had more than one seat in the council before 2015, won 7 seats.
17 November 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Soumitra commemorated||The Rasmi Film Society here commemorated actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who died in Kolkata on Sunday. Presiding over the function, poet Manambur Rajanbabu said that Soumitra was a class apart in acting. Rasmi secretary Anil K. Kuruppan, V.M. Suresh Kumar, G.K. Rammohan, V.M. Manoj, Haneef Rajaji, and S. Sanjay spoke.
17 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Congress to contest in 22 divisions||The United Democratic Front (UDF) announced its candidates for the district panchayat here on Monday. Congress district president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, announced the names of the UDF candidates to all 30 divisions of the district panchayat. While the Congress will contest in 22 seats, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) will contest in five seats, and the Janata Dal, the Kerala Congress (M) and the Communist Marxist Party (CMP) will contest in one seat each. Mostly youngsters All but two of the candidates are new faces, and mostly youngsters. K.M. Febin and E. Kammukutty Haji will seek re-election. Among the youngsters in the fray is KSU district president K.S. Ajayaghosh (Parali). Youth Congress State general secretary O.K. Farook (Sreekrishnapuram), Mohammed Rafi (Kadampazhipuram), Uma Maheswari (Attappady), Bindu Manikandan (Kanhirapuzha), P.S. Unnikrishnan (Kongad), Maneesh Santhosh (Malampuzha), K.I. Kumari (Puthusseri), Sumati Aruna Prasad (Kozhinjampara), C. Vijayakumari (Meenakshipuram), C. Premnavas (Koduvayur), Sarada Thulasidas (Kollengode), M. Pradeep (Nemmara), K.M. Febin (Alathur), Arsali Nisam (Tharoor), A. Jayaram (Kodunthirapully), V.R. Bhasi (Kottayi), P. Rajesh (Vaniyamkulam), M. Savitri (Chalisseri), Ayishabi (Nagalasseri), E. Kammukutty Haji (Tiruvegapura) and Mini Sarovaram (Kulukkallur) are the other Congress candidates. Muslim Youth League district president Gafoor Kolkalathil (Thenkara), M. Mehabi (Alanallur), Vanitha League district secretary Shamla Shoukath (Lakkidi Perur), IUML district secretary Mohammedali Mattathadam (Perumudiyur), and Faseela Jamal (Chalavara) are the IUML candidates. CMP’s K. Aravindakshan will contest from the Puthupariyaram division, Janata Dal’s Bindu from Pallassana, and Kerala Congress (M)’s K.J. Lisamma will contest from the Kizhakkanchery division.
17 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Curbs will not rob elections of colour||Despite the COVID-19-induced restrictions on gatherings and rallies, electioneering for the local body elections is set to be colourful. The inflow of campaign materials from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Gujarat indicates that the electioneering will not be subdued as expected. Such is the demand that wholesalers dealing in election materials are struggling to meet it. Flags and custom-made masks continue to top the popularity chart. Shawls and festoons made of cheap cloth too have a steady market. Crowns and turbans, made of bright fabric, are exclusive to areas close to the Tamil Nadu border. “The Tamil influence is manifest in several areas in bordering panchayats such as Muthalamada, Perumatti, Kozhinjampara, and Puthusseri,” said Ataur Rahman, a Tamil businessman living here. Siva A. Das of Das & Das, a leading wholesale supplier of campaign materials in the State, said there was much pressure to make available flags and other materials on time. According to Mr. Das, the highest demand is for the CPI(M) flag. Flags of many sizes Mr. Das says 30x20 inch flags made of a cheap cloth called ‘loto’ sell in thousands. “They are sold at Rs. 15 apiece. But their rate is slightly higher in some parts of Kerala,” he said. In Alappuzha, for example, this flag is sold for Rs. 20. But in Kunnamkulam, this flag costs only Rs. 15. Mr. Das has stocked special size flags too. A 10x15 ft flag made out of 15 metres of cloth will cost Rs. 750. Bulk orders have been placed with suppliers from Sivakasi, Coimbatore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Tirupati and Surat. “COVID-19 may force us to stay indoors. But electioneering is bound to continue with gusto with these election materials,” said K. Hamza, a dealer from Malappuram.
17 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Public opinion survey lays the base for poll battle in Anakkara||Conducting public opinion surveys ahead of elections is rare in local bodies in the State. Anakkara grama panchayat on the northwest side of Palakkad district bordering Malappuram last month witnessed a public opinion survey on the initiative of a group of youngsters of the Muslim Youth League. The survey, Nammude Anakkara Janabhipraya Jagarana Yatra, was conducted days before political parties had geared themselves up for the elections.         The 11-day survey covered almost all sections of opinion leaders in society, including experts in various fields, former people’s representatives, teachers in service and retired, doctors, engineers, farmers, labourers, ASHA workers, Anganvadi teachers, volunteers, cultural leaders, clubs, palliative volunteers, students and the youth. Muslim Youth League volunteers approached all sections of people by maintaining COVID-19 protocol and took note of their opinions, ideas and concerns of development. The volunteers also reached out to the expatriate community of Anakkara through online meetings. Responses Basheer Kumbidi, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary in Anakkara panchayat, said the survey evoked amazing responses from the masses. “It has helped us to formulate an election manifesto based on the requirements and demands of the people of this panchayat,” he said. Anakkara enjoys an enviable cultural legacy in the State by producing such great personalities as Jnanpith laureate M.T. Vasudevan Nair, freedom fighter Captain Lakshmi, former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president A.V. Kuttimalu Amma, Indian Union Muslim League founding leader P.K. Moideenkutty, Achuthan Kudallur and C. Koyakutty Musliar. The Panniyoor temple, believed to have been constructed by Parasuraman, and Malamalkavu Ayyappa temple too are in Anakkara panchayat. Both these temples have many myths surrounding them. Rudran Namboothiri, former superintendent of the Panniyoor temple, suggested that the potentials of pilgrim tourism be explored by connecting the places of cultural legacy in Anakkara. Jabbar Anakkara, agricultural scientist, suggested that efforts be made to attract the youth to agriculture. Local people in the panchayat were excited about the survey. Abdurahman K., a trader in the panchayat, said it was a first-time experience for them. “We hope it will have some positive results over and above the political affiliations of the people,” he said.
17 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A subdued start to Sabarimala season||On Monday, the day on which the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrim season began, the premises of the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple wore a near-deserted look. As per estimates, 683 devotees trekked up the hill from Pampa to the Sannidhanam till 2 p.m. on Monday. Pilgrims were allowed to enter Pampa from the early hours of the day and the entry was closed at the Nilackal base camp by 7 p.m. Pampa-Triveni was relatively silent throughout the day. Barring the officials on duty, only a handful of pilgrims could be spotted there. Enough time “It has been a very good beginning. The devotees were happy as they had adequate time to complete the darshan,” said M. Manoj, Sabarimala Special Commissioner and District Judge. “Considering that about 60 pilgrims would climb the holy steps every minute on a day of moderate rush, 1,000 devotees are what the temple used to receive every 15-20 minutes,” he said, adding that it had been convenient for the authorities to manage the crowd. Priests only Besides the implementation of the COVID-19 protocols, the authorities have put the Sopanam enclosure of the Ayyappa temple in a bio-secure bubble, where only the priests on duty and the temple manager are permitted to enter. “All persons, including VIP guests, will have to stand outside this spot,” officials said. Three test positive Meanwhile, three more persons, including a police officer on duty, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at Sabarimala. According to health officials, those tested positive on the day are a Tamil Nadu native who was employed with the Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sangham, a pilgrim from Tamil Nadu and a policeman on duty. “The first two persons, a 29-year-old Kancheepuram native and a 39- year-old Thiruvannamalai native, tested positive during an antigen test at Nilackal and they were shifted to a COVID first-line treatment centre,” said an official. “The police officer had been permitted entry to the Sannidhanam as he had tested negative in an antigen test. But as his RT-PCR test results returned positive, he was immediately brought down on an ambulance,” he added.
17 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||40 fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta recorded a sharp decline with just 40 persons testing positive for the virus infection on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 32 persons contracted the virus through local contact while three persons landed from abroad. Of the local cases, the contact source of 11 persons was yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta municipality reported five cases, followed by Pallickal with three cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed two more lives in the district, taking the total number of deaths to 104. The deceased were identified as a 78-year-old Vadasserikara native, and a 71-year-old Adoor native. There deaths, however, are yet to be included in the Statewide list. With 154 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,743 active COVID-19 cases.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,682 file nomination papers in district||As many as 2,682 candidates filed their nomination papers in the district on Monday for the upcoming local body elections, the district administration said. As many as 2,060 nominations were filed for the elections to the three-tier panchayats, while 177 nominations were filed for the block panchayat polls and 41 for the district panchayat polls. For the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation elections, 156 candidates filed their nominations while 248 candidates filed nominations for the elections to the four municipalities in the district. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa reminded candidates to strictly adhere to the election code of conduct during their campaigns. Vehicles, including two-wheelers, should be used for the campaign purposes after obtaining the due authorisation from the returning officers concerned, she said. The permits should be displayed on the front of the vehicle. Vehicle authorised for the use of one candidate cannot be used by another candidate. Use of loudspeakers is banned between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. Public meetings and rallies also are banned during this period. Loudspeakers should be used only after obtaining the permission of the police, the Collector said. Owners of licensed weapons should surrender them at the police stations, the Collector said.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM urges candidates to observe protocols||Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has appealed to all candidates participating in the local body elections and who have actively begun their campaigning, to maintain utmost caution and observe all COVID-19 protocols so that there are minimal chances of an increased COVID-19 transmission in the State post-elections. At a media briefing here on Monday, he reminded candidates to desist from shaking hands with people, hugging and other such physical gestures, especially meeting the elderly, as they would be going to different houses in a single day, heightening the risk of possible disease transmission. ‘No’ to crowding Rallies and roadshows which encourage crowding and close mingling between people should be avoided at all costs. However, public meetings may be held, maintaining the restrictions in the number of people that can gather and ensuring physical distancing, he said. All directives issued by the Election Commission with regard to campaigning during COVID-19 times should be followed Mr. Vijayan said that while the State’s COVID-19 case graph was indeed beginning to show a dip and the number of new cases had begun to decrease, any laxity in the current vigil can easily cause the case graph to spike again, as has happened in the U.S. and Europe. He claimed that the strategies adopted by the State till date for disease containment and control has been right on track. Weekly averages in new cases and recoveries show that the case graph is beginning to dip in the State. The active case pool in the State, which had 97,417 patients at the peak, has come down to 70,000 and there was also a reduction in the number of critically ill patients, he claimed. ‘Continue vigil’ The vigil must be continued throughout the election period so that the case graph does not rise post-elections. The Chief Minister said that the State had come in for much appreciation for the manner of its COVID-19 containment and the huge role played by local bodies in disease containment, in the annual report of the Reserve Bank of India, ‘State Finances: A study of budgets of 2020-21.’  ‘Follow directives of Election Commission during campaigning’ Any laxity will cause the COVID-19 case graph to spike, says CM
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tunnels’ revival clears the way for waterway||The 60.5-km Akkulam-Kollam waterway stretch will be navigable soon with the revival of two tunnels at Varkala. With this, inland water transport will be possible on the Akkulam-Kottapuram stretch of the 633-km West Coast Canal (WCC), the main arterial waterway in the State, traversing through 11 districts. For the Inland Navigation Department, the prime challenge was the revival of the 722-metre Sivagiri tunnel and the 350-metre Chilakoor tunnel on the Akkulam-Kollam stretch. Dredging taken up The Sivagiri tunnel, completed in 1880, is the only one of its kind in Asia. Concrete lining, provided between 1934 and 1942, had peeled off at several places and the tunnel was out of bounds for inland water transport. Dredging and reinforcement work were taken up to make the stretch navigable as part of the plan to extend the National Waterway III up to Kovalam. Boats will be able to move along the Sivagiri and Chilakoor tunnels as both have a diameter of 4.7 metres. Project officials say boats need only three-metre width to cruise along the tunnel. Works near both the approaches of the tunnel are to be completed. Trial run Though the formal commissioning of the Akkulam-Kollam stretch will take place only after the current local body elections, the authorities are planning to commence trial run of a 24-seater indigenously manufactured solar boat procured by the Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) soon. The government has also given the approval for the rehabilitation of 60 families residing in the fringes of the T.S. Canal at Varkala through the Punargeham project of the Fisheries Department. Each family will be given Rs. 10 lakh, which includes Rs. 6 lakh for purchase of land and Rs. 4 lakh for building house. The families will also get Rs. 5,000 as rent for six months from land acquisition or till the compensation is paid, official sources said. The Kerala Waterways and Infrastructure Ltd. (KWIL), the special purpose vehicle created by the government, is in charge of the ongoing rejuvenation of the adjacent16.5-km stretch of the waterway from Kovalam to Akkulam that includes the Parvathy Puthanar.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Move to increase Peppara storage||With the 75-mld water treatment plant at Aruvikkara expected to be commissioned soon, the spotlight is back on the long-standing demand of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) that the storage level in the Peppara dam be increased. Increasing the permitted storage level to at least 109.5 metres from the present 107.5 metres is vital for the State capital to enjoy the full benefit of the 75-mld (million litres a day) plant and to meet the ever-increasing water requirements, say KWA officials. The Peppara dam has a full reservoir level (FRL) of 110.5 metres. Although the KWA proposal is scarcely a new one, it had found little backing previously since it entails submergence of forestland. The State-run water utility, which has renewed its efforts to obtain clearance, is in the process of filing the application before the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). Being constructed under the AMRUT scheme at Aruvikkara, the plant is expected to be ready by December this year. This will take the KWA’s capability to pump water to the capital city to approximately 375 mld. But an adequate reserve storage for the dry/drought months can be guaranteed only if the storage at Peppara is increased to at least 109.5 metres, according to KWA officials. “'This requirement may not become immediately visible after the 75 mld plant is commissioned because we plan to temporarily shut down the existing 86-mld plant and the 72-mld plant at Aruvikkara for rehabilitation works once the new plant is operational. But the requirement will become quite evident within a year or so when all the plants are up and running,” a senior KWA official said. Moreover, increasing the storage level at Peppara also guarantees the capital city a buffer supply during droughts. In 2017 the water level in Peppara had dipped to such an alarming level that the KWA was forced to rig temporary pumping facilities in the Neyyar reservoir to feed the city regions. Built for city The Peppara dam was built for meeting the water requirements of the capital city and its suburbs. The first phase was completed in the 1980s with a storage level of 104.5 metres. Although the Phase II development of the dam took the FRL to 110.5 metres, the actual storage was subsequently enhanced only to a maximum of 107.5 metres.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15 NIIST scientists on Stanford list||Fifteen scientists from the CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here figure in the top 2% scientists list prepared by Stanford University, the NIIST said on Monday. The list includes, from the NIIST, its director A. Ajayaghosh, renowned in the area of chemistry, and five of the former NIIST directors. One of the scientists, Ashok Pandey, who is currently at CSIR-IITR Lucknow, is among the top ten in the subfield biotechnology. In PLOS Biology The list published in October in PLOS Biology, a reputed scientific journal, is based on the citation matrices and counts the life-time contributions made by scientists from 1960-2019 and their single-year contributions based on 2019 data. The following is the NIIST list: A. Ajayaghosh, Director CSIR-NIIST; Ashok Pandey, former head, Biotechnology Division, currently at CSIT-IITR, Lucknow; Pradeep Rohatgi, former director, currently at University of Wisconsin, Milawaukee, US; Sebastian Mailadil, former head, Materials Division; Vijay Nair, former director; Gangan Prathap, former director; Suresh Cherumuttathu H., senior principal scientist, Chemical Sciences and Technology Division; Pillai C.K.S., former Chief Scientist; Emilia Abraham, former Chief Scientist; K.G. Satyanarayana, former director; M. L. P. Reddy, former head, Material Sciences and Technology Division; the late Darshan Ranganathan; Rajeev Kumar Sukumaran, head, Microbial Processes and Technology Division; B.C. Pai, former Director; and, Sathy Chandrasekhar, former head, Material Sciences and Technology Division. Dr. A. Ajayaghosh said the recognition of NIIST scientists in the global top 2% list is of great pride to the institute. Quality on show It shows the quality of research at the institute, and commitment of CSIR-NIIST towards advancement of Science and Technology, he said. Among the 1,59,683 scientists and academicians enlisted worldwide, about 1,500 are from India.  Among 1,59,683 scientists and academicians enlisted worldwide, about 1,500 are from India.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case doubling time rises to 59 days||As on every Monday, Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph dipped in response to the dip in testing, to register 2,710 new cases when 25,141 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. However, test positivity remained more or less in the same range as the past week and touched 10.78% on Monday. The State reported more recoveries than new cases on the day, with 6,567 patients leaving hospitals . The active case pool further dwindled to 70,925 cases, while the recoveries rose to 4,54,774 cases. The cumulative case burden now stands at 5,27,708 cases. The weekly averages show that the State’s COVID-19 case graph could be beginning to dip. From 48,346 cases reported in the first week of November, the case load in the second week of November dipped to 40,592. However, testing too went down from 4,03,374 tests in November first week to 3,74,534 tests in the second week. The case doubling time has gone up from 45 days in the first week of the month to 59 days in the week ending November 14, indicating that the pace of disease transmission has slowed down in the State. 19 deaths On Monday, the State added 19 more deaths to its official list of COVID deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 1,888. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for five deaths, Ernakulam and Kannur four each, Kollam two, while Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad reported one death each. The State puts the number of critically ill COVID-19 patients being treated in ICUs at 921, with 216 requiring ventilator support. 39 health workers Of the new cases reported on Monday, 2,655 cases are locally acquired infections with the source of infection remaining untraced in 269 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 39. Among districts, Malappuram reported 496 cases, Kozhikode 402, Ernakulam 279, Thrissur 228, Alappuzha 226, Thiruvananthapuram 204, Kollam 191, Palakkad 185, Kottayam 165, Kannur 110, Idukki 83, Kasaragod 64, Pathanamthitta 40 and Wayanad 37 cases.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technological varsity to seek explanation from 82 teachers||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technology University (KTU) will seek explanation from 82 teachers for discrepancies in evaluating answer scripts. The Syndicate which met on Monday also decided to initiate proceedings against some teachers for erring in the revaluation process, marking the first instance of action being taken through a review mechanism introduced after the moderation mark controversy last year. The issue cropped up during the conduct of the seventh semester BTech examinations for which 2,08,226 answer scripts were evaluated. The subsequent revaluation of 24,854 answer sheets led to 24% of the applicants clearing the examination after failing initially. Besides, 34.4% received higher grades after revaluation. Fee refund Notably, 2,617 students were eligible for a refund of revaluation fee as stipulated by the university if there is a difference of 15 marks or more after revaluation. While variations of more than 40 marks were found in 30 answer sheets, 250 sheets had differences of over 30 marks. The difference in marks awarded was more than 25 in 627 answer scripts. The university served notices on 57 teachers for discrepancies of over 15 marks in over 15% of the answer scripts evaluated by them. Later, 25 answer scripts were taken up for another round of valuation through the conditional review system introduced this year for students who failed in both valuation and revaluation. Explanations have been sought from the 25 teachers whose evaluation threw up variations of 10 marks or more. The review process enabled applicants to secure pass marks in 18 answer scripts. The Syndicate also decided to form supervisory committees, headed by principals and comprising senior faculty members, at the district-level for the proper conduct of examinations. The panels will conduct surprise visits at all examination centres. Norm for setting questions Only teachers with three years of experience of more will be allowed to set question papers. The university also decided to rope in teachers from other universities and national institutes of technology to prepare at least 20% of question papers in each semester. The university decided to seek a probe by the cyber police into the leak of question papers of a third semester supplementary examination last month. An appellate committee headed by principals will come into being in colleges to hear the grievances of teachers regarding disciplinary actions. The Syndicate also decided to recruit non-teaching staff from other universities.  24% of revaluation applicants cleared the BTech seventh semester examination after failing initially
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll panel’s guide to a green election||The State could end up with more than 5,700 tonnes of waste if plastic and other disposable materials are used in the upcoming local body polls, according to a handbook on ‘green election’ prepared by the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Suchitwa Mission. The handbook, which seeks to clarify doubts regarding the green protocol for the upcoming elections, was released here on Monday by State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran. In December, elections will be held in 21,865 wards in 1,199 local bodies (excluding Mattannur municipality) in three phases. If plastics and disposable materials are indeed used by over one lakh projected number of candidates, the State could end up with 5,776 tonnes of waste, which could include 1,800 tonnes of banners and hoardings, 1,400 tonnes of flags and festoons, 1,234 tonnes of plastic water bottles, and 1,342 tonnes of disposable cups, plates, plastic covers and products, according to a rough estimate included in the handbook. The State Election Commission has already urged political parties and candidates to use campaign materials made of cloth, bamboo and other biodegradable/recyclable materials. The use of flex, thermocol and plastics should be completely avoided, even in the form of plastic cords used for keeping banners and boards in place, according to the commission. Use of garlands and flowers made of plastic, for receiving the candidates, too should be avoided, the handbook advises political parties and candidates. Banana leaves, for instance, can be used to pack food during the election campaigns instead of plastic containers, the 32-page handbook says. The use of plastics should also be avoided in election committee offices and in polling booths on election day. Political parties and candidates can approach Haritha Keralam Mission and Suchitwa Keralam Mission offices across the State for assistance regarding the green protocol.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC bus falls into gorge, many passengers injured||Several passengers were injured after a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus fell into a gorge near the Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam border on Monday. Headed to Kollam The incident occurred along the National Highway 66 at Kadampattukonam, near Kallambalam, around 7 a.m. when the bus, attached to the Nedumangad KSRTC depot, was headed to Kollam. Driver Abhilash T. apparently lost control of the vehicle after hitting a culvert, leading the KSRTC bus to skid off the road to fall into the gorge. While all 22 passengers were admitted to the Parippally Government Medical College Hospital soon after they were rescued, six of them sustained considerable injuries. However, none of them was in a critical condition. Senior officials of the KSRTC rushed to the spot on hearing news of the accident to expedite the rescue operation. The public transport utility company has also instituted a probe into the incident.  Driver apparently lost control of the vehicle after hitting a culvert, leading the bus to skid off the road
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||204 test positive in capital||The district reported its lowest COVID-19 count in several months on Monday as 204 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the last 24 hours. The fall in daily caseload is largely due to the slump in testing as only 2,374 people were subjected to COVID-19 tests. The COVID-19 test positivity rate stood at 8.59. The death toll reached 499 with five more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included a 39-year-old man who hailed from Varkala, an 84-year-old man who hailed from Kulathummal, a 60-year-old man who hailed from Chirayinkeezhu, an 82-year-old man who hailed from Chullimanoor and a 50-year-old woman who hailed from Madavoor. With 310 COVID-19 patients recovering from their illness, the number of active cases in Thiruvananthapuram were 6,229. Barring one imported case, all of the other fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission. The sources of infection in 33 cases are yet to be ascertained. Six health workers were also among those infected. The district administration ordered 1,392 people to go into quarantine on the day. With this, the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms has gone up to 25,084 in houses and 177 in various institutions spread across the district.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||INL firm on Siraj’s candidature||The Manikyavilakam ward of the city Corporation continues to be a thorn in the flesh for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) which had announced candidates for all wards much in advance. The LDF constituent party Indian National League (INL) has refused to change its candidate Poonthura Siraj, former vice president of the People's Democratic Party (PDP) who recently joined them, even though the CPI(M) had on Sunday conveyed its displeasure at his candidature and demanded that the INL look for an alternative. Stay away The INL district committee has decided that Mr. Siraj would be their candidate. If the CPI(M) continues to oppose, the INL will stay away from contesting. “Today, we had a talk with the CPI(M) leadership. We told them that if we are contesting Siraj would be the candidate. We were allocated only the Manikyavilakam ward in the Corporation. When we initially announced our district treasurer Kasim as the candidate, we were told that a candidate with a wider public acceptance should be found. That is why we zeroed in on Poonthura Siraj, who had earlier served many terms in the Corporation council. So, now if they are telling us to find another candidate, we cannot agree to that,” said J.Thamrook, INL district president, on Monday. Meanwhile, the United Democratic Front (UDF), which has been struggling to finalise candidates in five wards due to the presence of multiple contenders, announced its list of candidates on Monday evening, despite local-level opposition to some of the candidates. The Congress has fielded its candidates R.Anitha in Thampanoor, Edavakkode Ashokan in Edavakkode and Subair in Manikavilakam. In the Pattom ward, the previously announced candidate Goureesapattom Mohanan has been replaced with Charachira Rajeevan, after the former tested positive for COVID-19. In the Valiyavila ward, Kerala Congress (Jacob) has fielded T.Thara, while in Poonthura Kerala Congress (M) Joseph group has fielded Sruthimol Xavier. There has been much protest from the local leadership against the choice of candidates both in Edavakkode and Thampanoor. In Edavakkode, the Medical College and Edavakkode mandalam presidents had convened a meeting of Congress workers in protest against the District Congress Committee's decision to field Edavakkode Ashokan. The DCC had rejected the candidate proposed by the ward committee, leading to protests. Dispute In the Thampanoor ward, there was a dispute over the candidature of Ms.Anitha, whose name was suggested by a former councillor, which was opposed by the constituency committee, which had its own choice of a candidate. The dispute later led to a fight, in which a leader got injured too.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SHRC reprimands senior police officer||Kerala State Human Rights Commission chairman Antony Dominic reprimanded the Nedumangad Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP) for treating a complaint against the Neyyar Dam Sub Inspector (SI) lightly and assigning the investigation to the officer in question. The stern view came while the considering a complaint submitted by Kuttichal native C. Vijayan who accused the Neyyar Dam SI of colluding with eight others to foist a false case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against him. He also alleged that the officer failed to act on a complaint that he, his wife and brother had registered against the opposite party for purportedly assaulting them. Dim view Taking the dim view of the Nedumangad DySP’s ‘irresponsible act,’ the Commission instructed the officer to adopt necessary steps to investigate the allegations levelled against the Neyyar Dam SI.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF accuses Isaac of breach of privilege||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has accused Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac of breach of parliamentary privilege. In a complaint to the Committee of Privileges and Ethics of the State Assembly, Congress MLA V.D. Satheesan accused Dr. Isaac of infringing on the rights of the House by prematurely revealing details of the process of the audit of the accounts of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for 2018-19 by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). Ideally, Dr. Isaac should have dwelt on the report only after the government tabled it in the Assembly. However, he revealed parts of the draft report to media. Mr. Satheesan said that by Dr. Isaac’s account, the CAG had slammed the issuance of masala bonds as anti-Constitutional. By extending State guarantee to the bid to raise funds from foreign investors by issuing instruments of debts, the government had violated the provisions of Article 293 (1) of the Constitution, the CAG had reportedly stated in its draft report. He requested Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan to take immediate cognisance of his grievance and issue a notice to Dr. Isaac.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain likely in some districts till tomorrow||Several central and northern Kerala districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till Wednesday with the northeast monsoon exhibiting signs of a build-up. Isolated heavy rainfall is expected in the districts of Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki in central Kerala and Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad in north Kerala on Tuesday and Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put these districts on yellow alert on both days. As per the latest IMD update, the other districts can expect light to moderate rainfall this week. Lakshadweep, where a yellow alert has been sounded, is expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Tuesday. This year the northeast monsoon officially set in over Kerala on October 28, but has remained weak thus far. In its extended range forecast for the region, the IMD has forecast a low probability of low pressure areas forming in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. During the October 1-November 16 period, Kerala has recorded 34% deficiency in rainfall. Among the districts, only Kannur and Kasaragod have reported normal rainfall, while all other districts have reported a shortfall.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TVM comes out with first list of 12 candidates||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a newly formed apolitical group for the overall development of the State capital, has announced the first list of 12 candidates for contesting the elections to the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation. The candidates’ list was announced to coincide with the opening of the Central election office of the TVM near Pulimoodu. TVM president S. N. Raghuchandran Nair and the general secretary, M. S. Venugopal spoke. “This is a launch pad and an indicator that we are serious about the pressing needs and development of the capital region. This is apolitical platform and development is the sole agenda behind floating the TVM and contesting the elections,” Mr. Nair said After obtaining the applications, the TVM research team conducted a field survey regarding credentials of the candidates to shortlist the applicants. Social and voluntary workers, leaders who can make a change, office-bearers of residents’ associations and those have clout in the localities were selected. The response to applications was overwhelming as hundreds of applications were received and selecting the candidates as per the aims and objectives of the TVM is a challenge. “We have decided not to field candidates in all the 100 wards. But, the second list of candidates will be released soon”, Mr. Venugopal said. List The wards and the candidates: Beemapally East - Maheenkannu; Chala - Usha Satheesh; Kesavadasapuram - Wilson George; Kannamoola - Yamuna (Ganga); Kinavoor - Sheeja Varghese; Kudapanakunnu - P. Hariharan; Kuravankonam - L. V. Ajithkumar; Poojappura - Vishnu S. Ambadi; Punchakary - L. Sathyan; Sreekanteswaram - P. R. Sreelal; Thirumala - Lailamma Oommen; Vazhuthacaud - V. S. Suresh Babu.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Directive to form anti-defacement squads||The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed District Collectors to form anti-defacement squads to ensure that political parties and candidates engage in lawful electioneering activities for the upcoming local body polls. In each district, one squad should be headed by an Assistant Collector or Subcollector or a Deputy Collector who is not a returning officer. Another squad, at the taluk level, should be headed by a tahsildar or an officer of gazetted rank. The squads will examine the legality of notices, banners, boards, posters, poll graffiti, mike announcements, meetings and social media campaigns undertaken by the parties and candidates. Green protocol The squads will ensure compliance with the circular issued by the commission on green protocol for the elections. The commission has banned the use of plastic, PVC and other non-biodegradable materials in the election campaigns. Unauthorised activities related to the campaigns will be immediately stopped. Unauthorised posters and boards will be removed. The commission has urged political parties and candidates to comply with the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and Kerala Municipality Act requirement that pamphlets and posters for the elections should mention the name of the printer and the publisher.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Media need a fact-check system: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has mooted a fact-check system to verify reports appearing in media. At a seminar organised by the Kerala Media Academy on Monday, he said many of the media reports were fabricated stories. He said biased reporting by the media had led to half truths and lies in many cases. He lashed out at attempts to espouse right-wing extremism while claiming to be objective. He urged journalists to think of an independent fact-check system to keep a tab on the veracity of news.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police bar man from city limits for six months||A 34-year-old man accused in several cases in the Thumba police station limits has been barred from entering the City police limits for six months, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Shibi, 34, of Kulathur, Attipra, has been barred from entering the City police limits under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, Mr. Upadhyay said. Shibi is accused in cases pertaining to assault and attempt to murder, according to the police.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Exam postponed||The second semester ICT practical examination of the D.El.Ed course scheduled to be held on November 26 has been postponed to November 30, according to a press note issued by the Pareeksha Bhavan.
17 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth arrested for smuggling liquor||The Vizhinjam police arrested a 23-year-old youth for smuggling foreign liquor. The accused was identified as Lijin, alias Unni, of Puthiyathura, Karimkulam. He was transporting the liquor on his scooter when he was arrested by a police team led by Vizhinjam SHO S.B. Praveen.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Human rights panel lashes out at hospitals for denial of treatment||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission on Monday came down heavily on hospitals in the State for denying medical care to some patients in the name of COVID treatment. Citing an incident in which a patient was denied cataract surgery at both the Kozhikode District General Hospital and the Kozhikode Government Medical College, judicial member of the Commission P. Mohanadas pointed out that denying critical treatment and surgeries in the name of COVID-19 was against the government order in this regard, as well as violation of basic rights provided by the Constitution. The Commission has sought a report on the incident from the Health Secretary, the District Medical Officer and the Superintendent of the Government Medical College within two weeks. In another case in which a private hospital in Kannur denied treatment to a patient who was in critical condition due to low blood count, the Commission has sought report from the Revenue Divisional Officer, the District Medical Officer, the District Social Justice Officer, the Inspector of Police, and the Chief Medical Officer of the hospital within two weeks. The incident took place on November 3. Geeta, a teacher, was denied treatment after Blood Donors Kerala president and complainant V.P. Sajith rushed her to the hospital. As per the complaint, the treatment was initially delayed due to the COVID-19 test. When COVID test turned negative, she was asked for Aadhaar card. The hospital later told that she could be admitted only if the patient had close relatives. The patient, who had no close relative in the district, was finally admitted to the hospital after other’s intervention. The Commission said that only if the Kerala Clinical Establishment Registration and Regulation Act passed by the Assembly is implemented in the State, the exploitation and negative attitude of private hospitals against patients can be prevented.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Operators keen to retrofit CNG, LNG kits in buses||In their eagerness to resume services, which were halted in March, in a feasible manner, private bus operators have demanded that the State government provide subsidy to convert to compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) as fuel source and also Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) loans at low interest rate. Around 400 of the total 1,000 buses that operated in city and mofussil routes are keen to retrofit CNG/LNG kits to rein in operational cost, since the non-fossil fuels cost 25% to 30% less than diesel. Even as they increased fuel efficiency by approximately 25%, they caused less wear and tear and polluted much lesser than diesel-run buses, according to bus operators. Low patronage “Less than 250 of the total 1,000 private buses that operated in the city are in service now due to low patronage. The State government must enable bus operators to avail loans from KIIFB at 4% interest rate. It must also incentivise retrofitment of kits of alternative fuels by providing 30% subsidy, routed through KMTA [Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority],” said K.M. Navas of Kochi Smart Bus Consortium, a conclave of seven bus companies that own the 1,000 buses. At Puthuvype While the city has half a dozen CNG-vending outlets, the sole LNG outlet remains confined to Puthuvype, where the LNG terminal is located. Faced with depleting revenue, bus operators have for long been demanding opening of LNG outlets in the city as well. Sources associated with the LNG terminal said the “send out” from the Rs. 4,000-crore terminal was around 15% and the State government earned Rs. 400 crore as VAT from this. “It can perform optimally if buses opt for LNG as fuel and if the government mandates that factories in the State rely on the gas rather than polluting fuels and furnace oils. Petrol vehicles can lessen fuel expense by over 40% and diesel vehicles by over 20% if they shift to CNG or LNG,” said the sources. The LNG terminal had rolled out a pair of LNG-run buses to ferry its employees. The 32-seater buses are getting fuel efficiency of 6 km per kg, it is learnt. ‘Cost-effective’ City buses that run on CNG are a cost effective option, since those which run 250 km daily save on fuel bill by Rs. 1,250, according to Geo John Palatty, managing director of Metro Fuels, Edappally, which retrofitted CNG kits in a pair of private buses recently. LNG was a good option for buses that operated 500 km or more daily, he added.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Totally masked||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Resistance amid pandemic||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Surprise rain||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Test vote||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking up the baton of service||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No light yet at the end of the tunnel||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety drive||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Losing popularity||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Still a long way to go||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Amply sheltered||
17 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will bail out garment workers, promises Labour Minister||State Labour Minister Gummanuri Jayaram said the government would come to the rescue of the workers employed in the garments manufacturing units, near Hindupur, in the district and termed it unfortunate that minimum wages were not being paid to them during and post pandemic. After participating in the conclusion of the Praja Chaitanya Padayatra, Mr. Jayaram told The Hindu on Monday that the State government had not constituted the Minimum Wages Advisory Board and the Chairman was yet to he appointed. When his attention was drawn to the 4,000 women agitating for the past six days seeking minimum wages, and if the State government would intervene in the issue, the Minister said: “It has been a difficult time for the garment manufacturing units due to dwindling demand from European markets, but the State government had sent its Joint Commissioner of Labour to deal with the situation.” Karnataka pays more “The State government will come to the rescue of the workers in all aspects,” he said. In Karnataka, the minimum wages were Rs. 12,000, while in Andhra Pradesh the basic pay as per the G.O. No. 324 of September 8, 2018, was Rs. 6,211 (basic) and living allowance (or DA) added to that, but the employees here get a net amount of between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 6,000. The India Designs Garment Company and Nisha Designs Garments Company workers in the Parigi mandal close to Hindupur, have been agitating to enhance the minimum wages by Rs. 5,000, but during tripartite talks on November 14, the management representatives had said that they were not able to pay for next three months.
17 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s rule was riddled with scams, alleges MLA||Anantapur urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy has come down heavily on the Telugu Desam Party terming its rule as full of corruption and scams. Speaking at the concluding day’s meeting of the Praja Chaitanya Padayatra on Monday, Mr. Reddy pointed out that the Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government, in contrast, has been focussing only on people’s welfare. Irrigation water While former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had made several promises to the people of the State, he did not fulfil any of them. Just before elections, he resorted to high-decibel publicity related to large projects, which never materialised and the farmers’ dream of getting at least a drop of irrigation water in most of the ayacut in Rayalaseema remained unfulfilled, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy observed. Janmabhoomi committees totally destroyed the government service delivery mechanism, but that was corrected by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy by appointing village secretariat staff and volunteers for population of 50, he said. At Uravakonda At Uravakonda town, State R&B Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana and Labour Minister Gummanur Jayaram participated in a public meeting after walking a km as part of the Praja Chaitanya Padayatra and criticised the TDP leaders for not waiving loans of the DWCRA Self-Help Group members and not handing over the TIDCO houses to the beneficiaries, who had paid money for that. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav and party leader Y. Visweswara Reddy spoke about the door-delivery of various schemes launched and taking the administration closer to the people.
17 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes Chittoor, parched streams back to life||Heavy rain lashed the district on Monday, with Vadamalapeta mandal recording the highest of 96 mm and B.Kothakota mandal receiving the lowest of 5 mm rainfall. The rain covered all 66 mandals of the district registering 2041.6 mm in total. It was downpour in Srikalahasti, Pichatur, Nagalapuram, Puttur and Nagari mandals between Sunday night and Monday morning. A number of streams down the Nagalapuram hills were overflowing. The western mandals in Madanapalle revenue division too witnessed good rainfall for a single day. The sudden downpour led to cascading waters at Saddikulla Madugu water body at the foot of Nagalapuram hills. People of several villages gathered here to enjoy the scene. The youth said the streams had remained parched for the last five years, even after receiving a glimmer of showers this year since June. The Sunday night’s rain was so heavy in the forested terrain that several streams came back to life. ‘Death trap’ Following heavy inflows in the Saddikulla Madugu water body, which is notorious for high number of casualties during rainy season, the forest personnel from Satyavedu range had to be on toes all the time to prevent tourists from venturing deep into the forests. All round the year, the location attracts hundreds of youth from Chennai, who enter the water body in the forests evading the vigil of the forest and police personnel. During the last one decade, the officials had launched several rescue operations here. Meanwhile, the Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijay Kumar told The Hindu that despite downpour in the district, there was no any crop damage as the kharif season was over, and rabi yet to begin.
17 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘MGNREGA works will speed up’||Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government is committed to ensuring completion of the important works under the MGNREGA schemes all over the State by March 2021. Speaking to the mediapersons after a review meeting with the MGNREGA allied departments at Tirupati on Monday, the Minister said top priority was accorded to complete construction of buildings related to the Secretariats, Rythu Barosa Kendram, bulk milk chilling centres and wellness centres. He said that the Chief minister had allocated Rs. 10 crore to each assembly constituency to carry out these works, while another Rs. 5 crore would be provided to those constituencies which show expediency in completing the works. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that once these works were completed, it would be useful to the agrarian sector, apart from providing access to the farmers in availing the benefits quickly such as fertilizers and seeds, and marketing facilities for their crops. Referring to the contract works in the previous government, the Minister said payment of arrears would soon be made for those works which had completed the vigilance enquiry, while some others were still under enquiry or with courts.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Ranji player held for impersonation||A former Ranji cricketer who duped gullible people by impersonating a personal assistant of IT and Industries Minister K. T. Rama Rao was arrested by the Hyderabad police on Sunday night. On credible information the sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) apprehended Budumuru Nagaraju (25) from Yavvaripet village of Polaki Mandal in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. Extortion “By impersonating as Tirupathi Reddy, PA to KT Rama Rao, he was trying to extort money from the management of a drugs and pharmaceuticals company,” Task Force DCP (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao said. He said that the accused informed the company that the Pollution Control Board was going to issue closure notice to their factory and demanded Rs. 15 lakh to help them. The accused was earlier involved in seven cases at various police stations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.
17 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure implementation of Telugu as official language’||Andhra Pradesh Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad has directed the East Godavari district officials to ensure implementation of Telugu language in the administrative work. At a meeting with the district officials here on Monday, Mr. Lakshmi Prasad reviewed implementation of Telugu language in communication and documentation of the official files and lauded a few departments for effective implementation of Telugu. “The Tahsildar offices at Kunavaram, Gannavaram and Y. Ramavaram have implemented Telugu as the administrative language,” said Mr. Lakshmi Prasad, adding a few departments such as Mines and Geology and Higher Education were found completely ignoring the Telugu language in their day-to-day administration. “We have been told by the officials at various levels of administration that they are habituated to English language in documentation due to difficulty in finding suitable words in Telugu,. Such situation arises due to lack of command over Telugu language,” said Mr. Lakshmi Prasad. Dictionaries “The commission has published 50,000 copies of dictionaries, translating English words pertaining to the administration into Telugu language to help the government officials to use the correct word in Telugu,” said Mr. Lakshmi Prasad. Each district will be given 1000 copies for distribution among the departments for reference. Commission members Moduguda Papireddy, Sheik Mastan, Chandu Subba Rao and Sarat Jyotsna Rani were present.
17 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam temple teems with devotees||Religious fervour marked the beginning of Karthika Masam in Kurnool and Anantapur districts with people making a beeline for the Siva temples before dawn and some even bursting crackers. All temples were tastefully decorated and in the post-pandemic scenario people dressed in their best, came wearing face masks. At Srisailam, performing puja or ‘darshan’ of the presiding deities Bhramarambha and Mallikarjuna Swamy has been special this year in Karthika Masam with COVID-19 protocols being implemented stringently. ‘Karthika Deeparadhana’ is the special attraction at the temple and women did not miss the opportunity to perform the ritual at a specially allocated place. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao told The Hindu that while the ‘darshan’ was provided with prior booking of the slots, temple premises was open from 5.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. and again from 5.30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Special arrangements were made for the Karthika Deeparchana and rituals related to the Karthika Masam at Nagulakatta and Gangadhara Mandapam opposite Krishnadevaraya Gopuram on the temple premises. Social distancing was strictly observed with temple employees specially tasked with this duty to ensure none suffered in the queue lines. Annaprasadam Milk was provided to the needy devotees and ‘annaprasadam’ was served from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and the footfall on Monday was more than the average in the post-COVID time in the past two months. The laddu ‘prasadam’ is also being sold at nine counters in view of the large number of devotees converging on the temple.
17 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Storage goes up in reservoirs as wet spell resumes in Prakasam||Moderate to heavy rain lashed south coastal Andhra Pradesh as northeast monsoon turned active on Monday, resulting in water-logged roads, clogged drains, interrupting traffic in Nellore, Kavali and Ongole. Many colonies in Kavali, Bogole, Sullerpeta, Lecturers’ Colony, Magunta Layout Buchireddipalem and Manubolu in Nellore district were in a sheet of water. Residents living in low-lying areas close to Penna river, including Janardhana Reddy colony and Jayalalitha nagar, faced troubles. Manubolu in Nellore district registered a maximum rainfall of 115.4 mm followed by Podalakur(99.2 mm), Venkatachalam(98.6mm), Vidavalur (94.6 mm), Kaluvoya(89.6 mm), Kondapuram(88.2 mm), Alur(79.6 mm), Maripadu (75.8mm) and Kovur(69 mm). Excess rainfall The enhanced rainfall activity will continue for the next 24 hours under the influence of two easterly waves, a weather bulletin released by India Meteorological Department said. Nellore district recorded 8% excess rainfall this month, a release from the Chief Planning Office said. The wet spell, abated for a brief while during Deepavali, resumed also in the neighbouring district of Prakasam on Monday. Storage level in major reservoirs including Somasila and Kandaleru in Nellore district and Gundalakamma in Prakasam district improved further, brightening the prospects of good yield of rabi crop. The irrigation authorities maintained that the storage level in Kandaleru reservoir at 60.42 tmcft and let out 3,905 cusecs following an inflow of 6,603. The level in Somasila reservoir went up to 76.28 following copious rains in the catchment areas of the reservoir. The authorities discharged 6,281 cusecs of water following an inflow of 10,216. In Prakasam district, Lingasamudram received maximum rainfall of 86 mm followed by Gudlur(67.8 mm), Kandukur(65.4mm), Ulavapadu(63.4 mm), V.V.Palem(57.8mm), Singrayakonda(46.4 mm) and Ongole(10 mm).
17 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay pending fines in two days, SP tells vehicle users||Prakasam police on Monday warned of stern action against those riders who had not paid fines imposed on them for traffic rule violations. Hefty fines would also be imposed against violators of traffic rules in view of the increasing number of road accidents, said Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. Traffic police imposed a fine of over 4.62 crore against more than 1.51 lakh vehicle users during the year. However, 68,943 of them had not cleared fine amount to the tune of Rs. 2.48 crore. The SP gave two days time for them to pay the penalty either at the relevant Mee Seva or AP Online Centres. The riders should carry all documents pertaining to their vehicles. Two-wheeler users should compulsorily wear a helmet and strictly abide by the rules, failing which hefty fines would be imposed on them, the SP said. He also warned that legal action would be taken against those who had occupied roads in Ongole. The police urged the denizens to use the Locked-House Monitoring System service to ensure safety and security to their valuables while going out of station.
17 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases, fatalities dip further in South Coastal Andhra||The health situation improved further in south coastal Andhra as the COVID-19 cases declined as also fatalities. The death toll remained unchanged at 576 in Prakasam district as it recorded zero deaths in the last 24 hours. With one patient succumbing the viral disease, the toll marginally rose to 491 in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government. Recoveries clocked in the last 24 hours were thrice the number of fresh cases in the region. New cases recorded a new low of 50, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 1,23,451 during the period. As many as 158 persons were recuperated, bringing down the caseload further to little over 2,000. So far, 1,20,851 persons have returned home on recovery. With just 36 fresh cases, the total number of positive cases went up slightly to 60,987 in Prakasam district in a span of 24 hours. The number of active cases dipped to 675 as 87 persons were cured of the disease. In Nellore district, only 14 persons got infected during the period, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 62,464. With 71 patients getting cured of the disease, the number of active cases came down to a mere 1,349. The district recorded a healthy recovery rate of 97.84%. Holding a video conference, Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu patted the functionaries at the grassroots level as the district came within the first places in the State in bringing down the cases. He exhorted them to maintain a constant vigil so that the health situation continued to be well under control.
17 November 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for separate district for Rampa Agency mounts||The Rampa Zilla Sadhana Samithi (RZSS) on Monday launched a signature campaign demanding a separate district with headquarters at Rampachodavaram in East Godavari district. The one-week campaign being conducted by the samithi received overwhelming response from the local tribal communities.  Grievances registered “On Monday alone, at least 300 locals, mostly women, put their signature. They belong to different parts of Rampa Agency and many of them came to Rampachodavaram to register their grievances during the weekly programme conducted on the premises of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) office,” said RZSS convener Balu Akkisa. “We have already completed the village-level awareness meetings, explaining the need for raising the voice for separate district with headquarters in Rampachodavaram, consisting of tribal pockets in Rampa and Chintoor agencies. The people have realised the challenges to be faced in the event of inclusion of Rampa Agency in the Araku district,” said Mr. Balu Akkisa, also a human rights activist. The signature campaign would focus on collecting the signature from the people of different walks of life in the East Godavari Agency, which shares border with Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. The members of the RZSS would meet the government employees, students, village elders and others as part of the campaign. “By November-end, the documents of the signature campaign will be submitted to the East Godavari District Collector and office of the Chief Minister for consideration of creating the Rampa district from the Araku parliament segment,” said Mr. Balu Akkisa. Samithi media convener Ch. Nagavara Kiran, active members B. Satyanarayana, M. Anji Reddy, Ch. Venkateswara Rao, and Yusuf Khan are actively taking part in the campaign.
17 November 2020||Special Correspondent Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Naidu CM reaches Tirumala||The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Edappadi Palaniswami accompanied by his family members arrived at the abode of Lord Venkateswara on a two-day pilgrimage on Monday. On his arrival at the Sri Krishna guest house, he was accorded a warm reception by TTD authorities. After a brief stay, he paid a visit to the temple of Lord Varaha Swamy in accordance with the tradition. He will spend the night here and offer prayers at the main temple in the small hours of Tuesday.
17 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Books on ‘Kalingandhra kalam yodhulu’, Ambedkar released||Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Vice-Chancellor Koona Ramjee said on Monday that many freedom fighters and great personalities, including Mahatma Gandhi and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had proved their talent as journalists and editors in spite of many hurdles for freedom of press. Speaking after formally releasing the books ‘Ambedkar as a journalist’ penned by Sangisetti Srinivas and ‘Kalam Yodhulu of Kalingandhra Region’ written by Gunta Leela Varaprasada Rao at a function organised on the university premises to mark National Press Day, Dr. Ramjee urged the budding journalists to browse newspapers launched by Dr. Ambedkar. Writer Bendalam Krishna Rao said that Dr. Ambedkar had faced many difficulties for publication of his own articles before launching his own newspapers such as Janata, Samata, Bahishkrit Bharat and others. Sikkolu Book Trust founder Duppala Ravikumar lauded assistant professor Leela Varaprasad’s initiative in collecting of data of great journalists of the Kalingandhra region. Srikakulam District Public Relations Officer Locharla Ramesh, Srikakulam Media Federation convener Sasanapu Joginaidu said that media in India had been facing many challenges. They said the press would continue to play vital role in making people to understand the government policies and issues facing the world. Assistant professors R. Tirupati Rao, Y.D. Ramdas, and P. Padma were present.
17 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPDO suspended||Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas suspended Veeraghattam Mandal Parishad Development Officer G. Pyditalli as she reportedly failed to get displayed the list of beneficiaries of YSR Cheyutha and YSR Kapunestam during the visit of Praveen Prakash, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister. Srikakulam District Revenue Officer B. Dayanidhi said that the suspension orders were issued after conducting preliminary inquiry. Mr. Praveen Prakash recently visited Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts to review the implementation of government schemes.
17 November 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navaratnalu: women major beneficiaries, says Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Monday claimed that women were major beneficiaries from various welfare programmes implemented under Navaratnalu. On Monday, hundreds of women joined the ‘padayatra’ which was taken out in Ramachandrapuram town marking the completion of three years of ‘padayatra by Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna led the ‘padayatra’.
17 November 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. student arrested, 8 kg ganja seized||The Peddapuram police on Monday arrested a final year student of a local engineering college and seized 8 kg ganja from him in East Godavari district. Peddapuram Circle Inspector K.N.V. Jayakumar said that D. Kripal, hailing from Gujarat, was arrested while he was waiting for students from other colleges to collect ganja from him at Durgah Centre at Peddapuram. “Kripal has been reportedly engaged in the ganja sale by establishing a circle of consumers. We are trying to find out from where the ganja was procured,” Mr. Jayakumar said. Recently, Kripal vacated the college hostel and staying in a rented house in the town. “The authorities of the engineering college where Kripal is studying, have been informed before the arrest. We are trying to find out other students involved in the trade. A case has been registered against Kripal,” said Mr. Jayakumar.
17 November 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU pensioners see red as payment gets delayed||Retired professors and non-teaching staff of Andhra University are up in arms against the varsity and the State government, as they have not received their pension yet. In AU, there are about 700 retired professors and around 2,000 former non-teaching staff who are entitled to pension, every month. As per the norms, they receive their pension by the first week at the most every month. But in this month two weeks have passed and they are yet to get their due. “Many of us have huge medical bills to pay and receiving the pension on time helps us. And this month the delay has been abnormal,” said former Vice-Chancellor K.V. Ramana. According to Thimma Reddy, former professor of Anthropology Department, AU, and president of AU Retired Teaching Staff Association, all former teachers of other universities have received their pension. G. Ravi Kumar, general secretary of non-teaching staff of all universities in the State, said that the pension component of AU is around Rs. 11 to Rs. 12 crore per month and is the highest among all universities in the State. “We have taken up the matter with the State government and hope that things will be rectified in a day or two,” he said. Prof. Thimma Reddy pointed out that ever since paying the salaries and pension from the block grant was disbanded, issues have been cropping up. AU used to receive a block grant of around Rs. 267 crore from the State government to care of the salary and pension component. But the actual salary and pension bill comes to around Rs. 360 crore. The remaining Rs. 100 crore is met through internal funding and revenues. But this system was stopped by the State government a few months ago and the salary and pension was transferred to the Comprehensive Finance Management System (CFMS). Wherein the money is transferred to one head of account in the treasury and from where it is disbursed. “We have been missing the deadline, ever since AU was linked to the CFMS,” said Mr. Apparao, president of AU Retired Non-Teaching Staff Association. The move to stop block grant and transfer the salary and pension component to CFMS was taken by the government in December 2018 and the university has nothing to do with it, said Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy. “The system has been working well so far and this was for the first time that there has been such a delay. It is learnt that due to some technical glitches and number of festive holidays coming in between, the payment has been delayed and hope that things will be on track in a couple of days,” he said.
17 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushpayagam at Tirumala Balaji temple on Nov. 21||The annual Pushpayagam festival will be organised at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on November 21. Ankurarpanam will be performed on the previous evening. Several quintals of flowers of varied hues will be used in the festival that will be organised in the afternoon preceded by Snapana Thirumanjanam in the morning. Inscriptions authenticate the festival to be in vogue since 15th century and is organised seeking the blessings of the Almighty for the prosperity of the nation. The festival during the rule of various kings was observed on the seventh day of the annual Brahmotsavams till it was discontinued in the later years. It was restored in 1980 by the TTD. In view of the annual fete, the TTD has dispensed with the performance of Kalyanotsavams, Unjal seva and Arjitha Brahmotsavams on the festival day and Sahasra Deepalankara seva the preceding evening. Puja at Kapileswara temple Chittoor Staff Reporter adds: On the occasion of the auspicious first Monday of the Karthika month, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) organised special pujas at Sri Kapileswara Swamy temple in Tirupati. A TTD press release said the special pujas included Sankalpam, Kalasha Puja and Ganapati Puja to commence with. Other rituals were also held for Sri Uma Maheshwara on the eve of Karthika Diksha. Vedic scholar Sri Rani Sadasivamurthy of National Sanskrit University gave a discourse on the significance of Karthika month and the benefits of Sivarchana. Senior TTD officials were present. Documents handed over The merger ceremony of Sri Varada Venkateswara temple of Alattur village in Karvetinagaram mandal of Chittoor district with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) was conducted on Monday morning in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, according to a release. Mr. Narayanaswamy said that the ancient temple had become part of the TTD. Under the stewardship of TTD chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, the TTD had taken up a project of constructing Srivari temples in SC, ST and BC colonies. The Assistant Commissioner of Endowment Department Chandramouli handed over the documents of the Alattur temple to TTD officials. The temple would be managed by the Sri Kodandaramaswami Group of temples in TTD. Senior TTD officials were present at the event.
17 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Doodh Duronto’ crosses yet another milestone||The dairy-rich Chittoor district crossed yet another significant milestone when four crore litres of milk from the region was transported to meet the needs of the national capital, New Delhi. Taking note of paucity of milk witnessed in New Delhi during the lockdown, the South Central Railway’s Guntakal Division introduced the ‘Doodh Duronto’, and ran special trains from the Renigunta Junction to Hazrat Nizamuddin. Of the 5 metric tonnes of freight registered till November 11 this fiscal by the division, Doodh Duronto’s contribution was 4 crore litres. Earlier, milk was sent through tankers attached to regular express trains. As several trains remained cancelled during the COVID-19 pandemic, the SCR came up with the novel idea of running a special train with milk tankers to tide over the crisis. Another significant decision was to run the train on a par with the regular express trains, which resulted in the train covering the 2,300 km in 34 hours. The milk transported to Delhi was collected by the unit of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) from more than 3,000 assembling points spread over 13,000 villages in and around Chittoor district. With the huge response, the train, which was introduced on March 26 to be run on alternate days, became a daily train from July 15. Every trip covers 2.4 lakh litres and the train has covered 167 trips so far.
17 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free services at BIRRD||Renowned Orthoscopic surgeon will attend patients suffering from various ortho-related ailments between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. at BIRRD in Tirupati on November 18. For appointment, call 9840210902.
17 November 2020||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Of Uppada and the weaving skills of girls||It has been the sheer sweat and skill of the girls from the fishermen community in the villages of Uppada coast in East Godavari district for the past three and a half decades that makes the saris with jamdani technique very famous and the choice of many. During the 17th century, the Uppada saris were woven by the local handloom weavers with jamdani technique with pure cotton, gold or silver zari, only to be worn by the royal families of Pithapuram, Bobbili, and Venkatagiri in Andhra Pradesh. The rulers even restricted the weavers from selling the saris to the common people. In jamdani technique of handloom weaving, the motif appears same on front and reverse side of the sari and it is woven by hand. In 1985, Weavers Service Centre (Vijayawada) revived the jamdani technique when it was on the brink of extinction. Later, the production of the jadmani saris began to gain momentum, with requirement of a great number of weavers mastered in the exquisite technique. “More than 200 girls weaving the jamdani saris are from our community, which comprises above 80% of the total workforce, producing the famed jamdani saris in the industry. The highest monthly wages is Rs. 8,000 each for those with more than seven years of experience,” an 18-year-old V. Sireesha from the fishermen community, Uppada village, has told The Hindu . At 11, she dropped out from school to be groomed in the jamdani technique and now gets Rs. 7,500 monthly wages. She weaves the saris ranging from the cost of Rs. 7,500 to above Rs. 1 lakh. Fourteen-year-old Chodipilli Chinnari of the same community says: “At the age of 9 years, I joined the work and groomed by the master weavers. By January next, I will gain five years of experience. The girls in the age group of 8-20 years are generally preferred for the job as they work fast on the yarn.” Less pay more work “We are being paid the fixed monthly wages irrespective of the sari cost or size of the motifs. Two girls are deployed for each loom. The maximum weaving duration is 45 days for weaving the sari of highest worth more than Rs. 1 lakh. The timings are from 6.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. However, one could leave the loom if the day work is done early,” says Ms. Sireesha. She attends the work along with her elder sister. According to Vanka Korlamma, mother of 20-year-old Vanka Ratnam, from the same village, until a few years ago, the number of girls from our community engaged in the weaving was above 1,000. The number came down slowly as many quit the weaving to join the aqua processing plants that pay highest wages. “Our girls continue the work until they get married and quit soon after it. This has been the practice for over a few decades in our community,” says Ms. Korlamma.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP writes letter to NHRC, ST panel over attack on tribal||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has written letters to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes and National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), seeking a detailed inquiry into the case of alleged kidnapping and false implication of Banavath Yalamanda Naik, a tribal, by the local police. TDP politburo member Varla Ramaiah, in the letters on Monday, claimed that Yalamanda Naik was targeted for he protested against illegal occupation of farmers’ lands by the Saraswati Company. During these protests, he was vocal in media and other forums against the ruling party MLA Pinneli Ramakrishna Reddy, he said. “Yalamanda Naik was kidnapped by anti-social elements, in connivance with a sub-inspector (SI) from his house at around 3 a.m. on November 2. He was whisked away into the vehicle and was beaten. The ruling party henchmen plotted to kill Yalamanda Naik and threw his body in the Nagarjunasagar,” alleged Mr. Ramaiah. ‘Suppressing the dissent’ Yalamanda Naik, a supporter of TDP, has been facing severe pressure from the ruling YSRCP leaders to join them. After refusing umpteen number of requests, he and his family members were threatened by the local YSRCP leaders with dire consequences, said Mr. Ramaiah. “The political and democratic climate in Andhra Pradesh is vitiated as the ruling party is using all kinds illegal means to suppress opposition parties and dissent. Your quick and prompt action would not only go a long way in restoring the dwindling faith over the constitution, but also would help in creating harmony between various communities,” the TDP leader said. Concomitantly, there is a necessity to initiate action against the erring officials so as to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future, he added.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu names Panabaka for Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday named Panabaka Lakshmi as the party nominee for the coming Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection. During a video conference with the party leaders of Tirupati, Mr. Naidu called upon the party leaders and cadres to strive hard for the party victory in the bypoll. The rampant corruption of the YSR Congress Party should be exposed before people while explaining the development brought during the previous regime, he said. The TDP had brought a lot of development projects in Tirupati, he said. Capital issue He alleged that the YSRCP government failed on Amaravati capital issue and Polavaram project works. Heh said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not talking about the Special Category Status. He said during the TDP’s five-year rule, Sri City SEZ recorded three times more development. Over 185 industries were brought to the State under the TDP regime. In the last one-and-a-half years, the YSRCP could not bring a single industry or company and the lands given by the TDP to Amara Raja Infratech were taken back, Mr. Naidu said, adding that no industrialist would dare to enter the State after seeing the vindictive politics of the YSRCP. He alleged that ever since coming to power, the only focus of the YSRCP leaders was committing unchecked atrocities on the dissenting voices.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judicial probe into Gurunath Reddy’s murder sought||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC M. Ravindranath Reddy has demanded a judicial probe into the alleged irregularities in handing over the compensation to the families which were displaced to facilitate the Gandikota reservoir project. Addressing the media on Monday, Mr. Ravindranath Reddyalleged that the persons not eligible were falsely included in the list of evacuees. “The compensation money was misused and pocketed by the ruling party MLA and the officials. Gurunath Reddy was murdered because he had questioned the corruption in identification of the evacuees for disbursal of resettlement compensation,” said Mr. Ravindranath Reddy. A probe by a sitting judge should be ordered into the gruesome murder of Gurunath Reddy, he said. Grama Sabha It may be recalled that the officials held a Grama Sabha to verify the details of the evacuees in the wake of allegations made by Gurunath Reddy. Clashes took place in which several persons were injured.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman farmer alleges cheating by landlord, police inaction||A woman farmer, Lakshmi Narasimhan, of Bengaluru who took up aquaculture at Nandiwada in Krishna district alleged that the land owner had deceived her and stole the produce worth about Rs. 5 crore. Despite registering a case under SC (POA) Act, the police did not act against the accused and were even supporting him, she charged, and appealed to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure justice to her. Addressing reporters here on Monday, Ms. Narasimhan said she took 147 acres on lease from an aqua trader of Eluru for four years and paid the lease amount through bank and in cash. However, the land owner had forcibly shifted shrimp stocks of about 200 tonnes to his processing unit in April this year. Though a complaint had been lodged with the Nandiwada police, no case had been registered yet. The accused was booked only after she had met the DGP, alleged Ms. Narasimhan, a native of Pedana mandal who migrated to Bengaluru. Probe on, say police When contacted, the Krishna district police said following complaints two cases had been registered against N. Ramakrishna, N. Balaji and others on charges of theft, cheating, threatening and abusing Ms. Narasimhan in the name of caste. The cases are under investigation, they said.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will clear pending salary, DA arrears soon, says employees’ JAC||A delegation of Andhra Pradesh Amaravati Employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) led by its chairman Bopparaju Venkateswarlu and secretary Y.V. Rao met government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Monday and sought steps for resolving the issues faced by the employees. They said in a release that the JAC informed Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy that 50% of the salaries for April and May which were stopped due to the COVID-19, were supposed to be paid with the November salaries. But, the payment was not made. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy spoke to Finance Secretary K.V.V. Satyanarayana about it and the latter assured that the government would clear both the salary dues for employees and DA arrears for the pensioners in two tranches, for which G.Os would be issued in a few days. Three DA instalments are due to the employees and pensioners. The total outstanding payments would be made by the end of December. The JAC thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for making sincere efforts for opting out of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and for regularising the services of contract employees. The JAC leaders later called on Mr. Satyanarayana and got a positive response to their demands.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arjas Steel to acquire Modern Group’s biz||Speciality steel manufacturer Arjas Steel Private Limited has announced that a definitive agreement has been signed between its wholly owned subsidiary Arjas Modern Steel Private Limited and Modern Steel Ltd for acquiring 100% of the steel, heat treatment and auto component businesses of Modern Steels Ltd. The deal will be fully consummated when all closing formalities are completed, according to a company release. The strategic partnership with Arjas Steel will allow Modern Group to focus on its core auto component business while enabling Arjas Steel to have added capabilities in north India to serve its customers in a more effective manner. Through gradual investments and efficiency improvements, Arjas Steel aims at stabilising, modernising and expanding production at Arjas Modern Steel. “The deal gives Arjas Steel a manufacturing platform in north India and enables us to serve our customers better,” observed Sridhar Krishnamoorthy, Managing Director of Arjas Steel Private Limited.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meat shops sealed||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials sealed two unauthorised meat shops that were selling beef in Kedareswarapeta and Pezzonipeta on Monday. Veterinary Assistant Surgeon Dr. Ravi Chand and Health Officer Dr. Sridevi inspected the areas and found that the two shops were established without any permissions from the civic body, The shops were sealed a fine was imposed on the owners. Dr. Ravi Chand urged the public to not encourage unauthorised shops and inform VMC about such activities.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancer screening campaign in villages soon||Machilipatnam MP Vallabbhaneni Balashowry said that a large-scale cancer screening campaign would be taken up in rural areas through a mobile screening centre (bus) in collaboration with the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) in the coming two years. Mr. Balashowry held a meeting with District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and other officials at Bandar government hospital on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that BEL has agreed to provide the screening bus, worth Rs. 3.5 crore, with all facilities upon his request considering the increasing number of cancer cases being detected in Avanigadda, Pamarru, Pedana and other areas in the parliamentary constituency. Mr. Balashowry said that soon the bus would be sent to Machilipatnam and it will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said that BEL would take care of the maintenance of the screening bus for the first year and it will be handed over to the district administration later. The district administration will draw funds from the MPLADs towards the maintenance of the bus, he said. He said that the bus consists of medical equipment for ultrasound, x-ray, mammography, colposcopy and others to diagnose cancer in addition to staff members including doctors, paramedics, technicians and drivers. The bus will visit all the villages in the Machilipatnam parliamentary constituency and all the public will be screened for cancer, he said.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on fuel from plastic waste in December||The Andhra Chamber of Commerce is going to organise a webinar on the production of fuel from plastic waste in the first week of December. In a release, Chamber’s Vijayawada chapter president Mallineni Rajaiah invited young entrepreneurs, engineering students in final and others interested in the subject to take part in the webinar by registering on or before November 25. He said the Chamber can be reached at andhrachambervijaywada@gmail.com or 9440318748 via WhatsApp. He said a representative from Hyderabad’s Hydroxy Systems Pvt. Ltd will analyse the key factors of the industry.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry goes up in flames||Tension mounted in Bhavanipuram area when a lorry loaded with tyres went up in flames on the main road near the APSRTC Workshop on Monday. No one was injured in the mishap. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and put off flames.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police get custody of suspect||The court on Monday granted three days police custody of B. Nagendra Babu, suspect in the murder case of Vankayalapati Divya Tejaswani (22), who was found dead at her residence in the Machavaram police station limits, in the city on October 15. The Disha Mahila Police, who are investigating the case, filed a petition in the court seeking five-day custody of Nagendra Babu. The court, however, granted custody from November 18 to 20. A resident of Kristirajupuram in the city, Tejaswani was pursuing engineering in a private college at Bhimavaram in West Godavari. She was murdered at her residence and multiple stab injuries were found on her body. Her alleged boy friend, Nagendra Babu, who too is a resident of Vijayawada, was also found in the same room with bleeding injuries. Police arrested the suspect on November 6, after he got discharged from Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH). The girl’s parents alleged that Nagendra Babu was harassing Tejaswini on the pretext of love and brutally killed her. However, the suspect said that he married Tejaswini, with whom he had friendship for a few years. As her parents rejected for their marriage, they decided to end their lives in a suicide pact and stabbed themselves, he told the police. Jagan’s directive Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who enquired about the murder of the student, directed the Disha Mahila Police to take up the case. Police said they would complete investigation and file charge sheet in the court, within 21 days. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita visited Divya Tejaswini’s house, consoled the victim’s parents. The government had sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia to the bereaved family members. Tejaswini’s parents complained that Nagendra Babu fabricated the ‘suicide pact’ story after killing their daughter brutally. They demanded the government take stern action against the youth.
17 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotee injured at temple||A woman devotee suffered injuries when the top portion of the dwajastambham at Shivalyam fell down, at Satyanarayanapuram in the city on Monday. According to the devotees and other eye witnesses, the ‘sikharam’ fell on the devotees while they were performing ‘deeparadhana’ in view of Toli Kartika Somavaram. However, a major mishap was averted as there was no rush at the dwajastambham when the ‘sikharam’ fell down. The injured was rushed to hospital and her condition is stated to be stable. Temple authorities said the ‘sikharam’ was made some 50 years ago and it got damaged and fell down. The devastanam management closed the temple immediately and started ‘Samprokshana’ (cleansing process). “Satyanarayanapuram Shivalayam is a historic shrine. Thousands of devotees visit the temple during Kaartika Maasam and the incident created panic among the pilgrims. We request the devastanam management to repair the dwajastambham and arrange ‘sikharam’ immediately,” said a devotee, who had a narrow escape.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curriculum revised after consulting experts, says AICTE Chairman||All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE) revised the technical and higher education curriculum by involving experts from academia and industry, particularly in new areas like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Block Chain, Robotics, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality said AICTE Chairman Anil D Sahasrabudhe here on Monday. He was delivering the inaugural address, online, for a Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘Cloud Technologies’ jointly organised by AICTE Training and Learning Academy (ATAL) and GITAM Deemed to be University’s Computer Science Engineering Department. He said that AICTE has also been actively pursuing national initiative for technical teachers training. He informed that the newly-established Indian Knowledge System (IKS) division will work on creating awareness and carrying out research on rich heritage of India and its traditions. He said that the AICTE is planning to organise Toy Hackthon to encourage Indian innovators. AICTE Vice-Chairman M.P. Poonia said that AICTE Training And Learning (ATAL) Academy has been implementing the Faculty Development Programme (FDP) in the nine key emerging areas. He said that AICTE initiated online internship portal for the benefit of Indian students with the help of public and private participation. He hoped that the Indian industry will also join hands with the AICTE to offer internships to train better human resources. Cyient Executive Chairman B.V. Mohan Reddy observed that the present pandemic has brought several challenges to teaching community. He suggested that every teacher must be equipped with new technologies to attract students for better delivery of subject. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna spoke.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City’s air, noise pollution levels dip this Deepavali||The use of green crackers and restricted timings for bursting of crackers resulted in a significant decline in the air and noise pollution levels on Deepavali day this year compared to last year in the city. The air quality and ambient noise level was monitored by the AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) on November 9 and again on Deepavali day (November 14) in Visakhapatnam urban and rural areas. The ambient noise level was monitored at six locations and ambient air quality at nine locations, according to a statement issued by the APPCB on Monday. The AP Pollution Control Board had also conducted air quality monitoring for the parameters PM 10, PM 2.5, SO2 and NO 2 at nine locations during pre-Deepavali and on Deepavali day in 2019. The percentage increase of PM10 from pre-Deepavali day to Deepavali day ranged from 16.13% to 73.68% and the percentage increase of PM2.5 from pre-Deepavali day to Deepavali day ranged from 52.31% to 84.40% in 2019. This year, the parameters PM10, PM2.5, SO2, NO2 were recorded at nine locations during pre-Deepavali day and on Deepavali day. As per the results, the percentage increase of PM10 from pre-Deepavali to Deepavali day is ranging from 5.30% to 24.54% and the percentage increase of PM2.5 from pre-Deepavali day to Deepavali day is ranging from 1.72% to 25% which is far less than previous year. The values of SO2 and NO2 also increased on Deepavali day this year when compared to the values on pre-Deepavali day. However, the values observed on both the days are well within the standards. Awareness campaign The APPCB gave the slogan ‘Intinta deepalu veligiddam, shabda mariyu vayu kalushya rahitha deepavalini jarupukundam’ through FM radio channels to create awareness among the public on lighting lamps to celebrate Deepavali and to prevent noise and air pollution.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 youth rescued from Yarada Beach||Three youths, who were trapped between huge rocks in Yarada Beach in Visakhapatnam on Sunday evening, were rescued by a team of expert swimmers, fire brigade, revenue and police personnel, on Sunday night. According to the police, a group of seven youth in their early twenties had gone to the beach on Sunday evening. Of them, Konda Navin (20), Beesetti Yashwant (20) and K. Shravan (20) took advantage of the low tide and climbed onto huge rocks in the water, which are located close to the shore. Meanwhile, there was a high tide and the youth were stranded on the rocks, giving tense moments to people on the beach and the rescuers. Based on information, the police and rescue party reached the beach. And after a Herculean task and with the support of expert swimmers, the youth were rescued at around 1 a.m. on Monday. The rescued youngsters said that they were trapped on the rocks as they had no scope to reach the shore due to the high tide. The police advised the beach visitors not to venture into the waters, as the rip current is high and there is a danger of drowning, especially during this part of the year. A few days ago, two naval personnel had drowned in the beach and during high tide the water swells by about 2 metres close to the shore. The rescue effort was coordinated by New Port Police Station.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet decries hike in fees for transport services||The participants at a roundtable, demanded withdrawal of G.O. no. 21, brought out by the State government, which will result in a hefty hike in the fee for services by the AP Transport Department and hefty penalties for violation of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act. The meet was organised under the auspices of the CITU at the Public Library here on Monday. The speakers said that the Union government had brought out the 894 notification, hiking the challan rates for driving licence, vehicle registration, issue of Fitness Certificate (FC), transfer of ownership, finance endorsement and third party insurance, and toll gate charges. Driving a two-wheeler without helmet and pillion riding without a helmet would also result in imposition of hefty penalties. The participants noted that the transport sector was in a crisis during the last eight months due to the pandemic. They ridiculed the Central and the State governments for the hefty hike in fee and penalties as a ‘Dasara gift’ to transport operators, drivers and motorists. They called upon all motorists to participate in the all India strike on November 26, being organised to oppose the ‘anti-worker’ and ‘anti-people’ policies of the Centre. The meeting decided to withdraw all vehicles from the roads on November 26 and take out a rally from the DRM’s Office Junction at Dondaparthy.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Magisterial inquiry on November 20||Magisterial inquiry into the circumstances that led to the death of convict prisoner Vechalapu Govinda Rao (31) son of Suryanarayana, resident of Cheepuruvalasa village, Kothavalasa, Vizianagaram district, will be conducted on November 20, at 11 a.m. in Revenue Divisional Officer’s office, Collectorate building. The prisoner died on March 22, this year, while undergoing treatment, at KGH. Inquiry will also be held in the case of Suravarapu Rama Shankar (41) son of Ramana and resident of Siddabathulavari Street, Vizianagaram, on the same day at 12 noon. The prisoner died on June 24, this year, while undergoing treatment at KGH.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanchaita made chief of group of temples in E.G.||Sanchaiata Gajapati Raju, Chairperson of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam, Simhachalam, and MANSAS Trust, has been made chairperson of 104 temples in East Godavari. The decision was taken following a representation made by Ms. Sanchaiata on October 27 that her father Ananda Gajapati Raju was chairman of 104 temples, as he was the founder family member. She also said in the representation that since she has been the legal heir of Ananda Gajapati Raju, she should also be recognised as founder family member to other temples. The Commissioner of Endowments has issued a directive on October 29 to temples, the income of which was less than Rs. 2 lakh per annum to take steps to recognise Ms. Sanchaiata as family founder member. Former Union Minister and former chairperson of MANSAS Trust Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju strongly objected to her appointment as chairperson of temples.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New gym opens at Waltair Railway Stadium||A new gym christened ‘Cover Drive Gym’ was commissioned by Shalini Shrivastava, president, East Coast Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, Waltair, in presence of Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, Divisional Railway Manager and Oresident, ECoRSA, at Waltair Railway Stadium, here, on Monday. Spread over 2,700 square metres, the gym offers a variety of services including Cross Fit, Yoga, Spinning, Body Command and Aerobics. The gym is equipped with all the options available for sportspersons to pursue their health and fitness goals. This fitness club provides air conditioned spacious environment with best hi-tech machines among other amenities. This facility was set up with support of Container Corporation of India under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Mr. Shrivastava hoped that the gym with its state-of-the-art equipment would help in producing world class sportsmen. M. Yelvender Yadav, General Manager and Cluster Head of CONCOR, Visakhapatnam, spoke. Akshay Saxena, ADRM (infra), P. Ramachandra Rao, ADRM (Operations), Joint Sports Officer, ECoRSA Mahesh Maddireddy, Senior Divisional Engineer (HQ) K Prabhakar Rao, Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer MSN Murthy, Senior Divisional Signal & Telecome Engineer Santosh Kumar Dewangan and General Secretary, ECoRSA, Waltair, M.S.V. Nagesh were among those who participated.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EPDCL gets new Finance Director||D. Chandram, a 2012 batch IRAS officer, has taken charge as Director (Finance) in the Board of APEPDCL, here on Monday. He earlier worked as Deputy Financial Advisor Chief Accounts Officer, in South Eastern Railway, Kolkata, and as a Senior Divisional Finance Manager, at Ranchi, Jharkhand. Mr. Chandram is a native of Cheedipudi in Saravakota mandal of Srikakulam district.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cold weather increases risk of epileptic seizures’||The dip in temperature is a cause for worry for people suffering from neuro-related ailments as cold weather increases the risk of epileptic seizures. Sudden and excessive electrical discharges in the brain causes recurrent seizures or ‘fits’ as it is commonly known. Epilepsy is the fourth common neurological disorder or ailment that can adversely affects people of any age group. The ailment is characterised by unpredictable or untimely seizures, which could lead to other health complications. An awareness programme, organised by Medicover Hospitals, on the eve of National Epilepsy Day on Monday, K. Satya Rao, senior consultant interventional neurologist, said that a sudden drop in temperature increases the risk of epileptic seizures. People with pre-existing neurological conditions must ensuremedical support was within reach.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Open paddy procurement centres by Nov. 20’||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has directed the officials concerned to open paddy procurement centres all over the district by November 20. He held a meeting with the officials of Civil Supplies, Agriculture, DRDA, ITDA, DCCB and Marketing Departments at the Collectorate here on Monday. He told the officials that the State government was keen on procuring the produce of small and marginal farmers at remunerative prices. The staff of the Rythu Bharosa Kendrams (RBKs) should be properly trained in this regard. Agriculture Assistants or Horticulture Assistants should be available at the procurement centres, he said. He said that the officials should invite the local people’s representatives for the procurement process. Publicity campaigns should be held locally to make people aware of the procurement. District Manager (Civil Supplies) Venkataramana said that there were 150 procurement centres in the district. These include some under the purview of the ITDA.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to open today||The State government issued permission to Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) to open from Tuesday. The zoo will be open to visitors following the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and as per the standard operating procedures issued by Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi. Visitors will have an option to book tickets in the online platform of IGZP websitewww.vizagzoo.com. According to zoo curator Nandani Salaria, it is advisable to buy tickets online., as it would reduce the contact between visitors and the zoo staff. No outside food will be allowed inside the zoo.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 25 new COVID cases, 2 deaths||The district recorded the lowest number of COVID-19 cases since July, here on Monday. The number of positive cases recorded was 25, which was the lowest since July 1, taking the total count to 57,832. “We have recorded about 1,000 to 1,200 cases on a daily basis in July and August and it dropped to 500 to 1,000 cases in September. In October, it dropped to 100 to 500 cases and in November it has dropped below 100. The decrease has been gradual,” said District COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar.  The district also recorded two deaths, taking the toll to 496, since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, this year. The number of discharges on Monday was 60, taking the total number of discharges to 55,934. The number of active cases as on Monday evening was 1,402. As on Monday, very active clusters in the district were 6, active clusters 19, dormant 294 and de-notified clusters were 627.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag girl makes into record books||Dhruvika Aaryana, a student of Class II of Ralla Bella International School, has made it to the Indian Book of Records for winning several awards in national competitions in various fields. The certificate of excellence was presented to Dhruvika on October 31. G.V.N.R.S.S.V. Vara Prasad, advocate, Supreme Court, adjudicated the record in Hyderabad.
17 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children’s Day conducted at Cancer Hospital||Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital has successfully performed Bone Marrow Transplantation (BMT) treatment on nine children in the first year of its inception.The hospital conducted Children’s Day on Monday with games and songs for children, who have conquered cancer. As many as 30 children participated in the programme.
17 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok objects to Sanchaita’s appointment||Former Union Minister and former chairperson of MANSAS Trust Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Monday strongly objected to the appointment of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, first daughter of his brother Pusapati Ananda Gajapathi Raju as chairperson of group of temples of East Godavari district. Andhra Pradesh Endowments Department issued orders, making Ms. Sanchaita as chairperson of various temples including Ganapathi temple-Kotipalli, Mutyalamma temple-Kotipalli, Ranganayaka Swamy temple of Veeravallipalem and others. Speaking to the media here, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju charged that the government was issuing orders at midnight to put people in the dark with regard to its decisions. He alleged that the government was trying to grab valuable lands of the temples as well as MANSAS Trust with its 'controversial’ decisions.
17 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP takes part in Girijana Mitra||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari has urged the tribal people not to ignore the studies of their children as the government is providing all facilities for them to pursue higher education. As part of the community policing, the SP attended as chief guest for Girijana Mitra programme organised at Savarakotapadu of Gummalakshmipuram mandal in Vizianagaram district on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, she said that the Indian Constitution ensured reservation and other facilities for the tribal people. Earlier, the villagers welcomed Ms. Rajakumari in a traditional way and lauded the police department’s service in the AP-Odisha border region.
17 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special prayers offered at Siva temples||In spite of COVID-19 threat, hundreds of devotees offered special prayers at Lord Siva temples on auspicious Monday with the beginning of holy month Karthikam. Elaborate arrangements Famous Pasupathinadeswara Swamy temple witnessed heavy rush of devotees from early hours. Sarada Seva Sangham trustees G. Srinivasa Rao, G. Shivakumar, and Ch. Sridhar made elaborate arrangements for devotees who came from different parts of the district to offer special prayers to the presiding deity along with Dwadasa Jyotirilangams on the temple premises. Special prayers Mr. Shivakumar said that all the devotees were allowed to the temple premises after wearing masks and sanitising hands. Umarudra Koteswara Alayam, Shiva Balaji temple, Srimukhalingam, and Endla Mallikarjuna Swamy temple wore festive look with the offering of special prayers to Lord Siva. Siva Balaji temple trustee Gunta Tulasirao said that special puja was performed, seeking the divine blessings to overcome the pandemic of COVID-19.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draft electoral rolls for State published||Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand announced the publication of draft electoral rolls on Monday as per the mandate given by the Election Commission of India and stated that claims and objections thereof would be received till December 15. After their disposal, the final electoral rolls would be published on January 15. Electors/eligible citizens who will be attaining 18 years as on January 1, 2021 and have missed enrolment on earlier occasions can file their applications for enrolment, objections and corrections from November 16 to December 15. Applications can also be filed on http://www.nvsp.in The total number of electors as on November 16, 2020 is 4,00,79,025 (male 1,97,91,797, female 2,02,83,145 and third gender 4,083). The total number of overseas electors is 7,126 (male 5,610, female 1,514 and third gender 2). The total number of service electors is 66,649 (male 64,558 and female 2,091) and the total number of electors in 18-19 age group is 1,03,336. The number of new electors added after Special Summary Revision of Electoral Rolls (SSR) is 3,26,824 (male 1,60,298, female 1,66,427 and third gender 99). The total number of electors including NRI and service electors as on November 16 is 4,01,45,674. The net change of electors from the final SSR-2020 to draft SSR-2021 (as on Nov. 16) is 1,41,631. The number of added electors is 3,26,824 and deleted ones 1,85,193.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive fervour||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s colourful||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spreading the message||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Month of illumination||
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trying his luck||
17 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Preparations for hearings on expansion of two SCCL mines||Hectic preparations are under way for the environmental public hearings for the expansion projects of the two existing coal mines - Venkateshkhani-7 (VK-7 incline) underground mine and Gouthamkhani Opencast Project (GKOC) of the government-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) to be held in Kothagudem on November 24 and 27 respectively. The two existing coal mining projects fall under the “Violation Category” due to excess coal production without the requisite Environmental Clearance (EC) as mandated by the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures, sources said. The regional office of the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) is scheduled to conduct the separate public hearings at the Government Polytechnic College in the coal town on November 24 and 27 respectively. The SCCL had earlier approached the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) for obtaining environmental clearance for the VK7 underground mine as per the Ministry’s circular, dated March 14, 2017, on EC violations, sources said. The State-owned mining giant has readied a project proposal for conversion of the more than six decade old VK-7 underground mine into an opencast project to enhance coal production by optimally harnessing advanced technology and modern equipment with an annual capacity of 0.843 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA). The SCCL has also lined up another proposal for expansion of Gouthamkhani Opencast Project (GKOC) to enhance its production capacity from the present 2.0 MTPA to 4.0 MTPA. Meanwhile, SCCL General Manager, Kothagudem Area Ch Narasimha Rao addressed an awareness meeting on the ensuing public hearings, slated for the last week of this month, in Kothagudem on Monday. Leaders of the recognised trade unions and the elected representatives concerned of the villages in the Kothagudem coal belt region attended the meeting. He outlined the growth plans of the SCCL and highlighted the imperative need for ramping up coal production to meet the burgeoning demand for coal from the coal consuming industries mainly the thermal power stations with futuristic perspective. He apprised them of the afforestation drive and other environmental protection measures being taken by the company management while spearheading the production endeavour with utmost safety.
17 November 2020||FASALWADI (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Ryots of fine variety paddy in trouble||K Venkatesham Goud is a farmer of this village on the outskirts the district headquarter town. He has about four acres of land. Abiding to the suggestion given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and agriculture officers, he cultivated fine variety (Sanna Rakalu) paddy on three acres of land. The officials have also informed him that there would be good demand for the fine variety and that he can expect good returns. After harvesting the crop this month, Venkatesham Goud is facing a completely different situation. There are no buyers for his crop. He does not know what to do and where to go. This is not the case of only Mr. Venkatesham Goud but several other farmers as well - numbering in thousands. “I was forced to pay Rs. 600 for each of the labour whereas their charges were less in the previous season. For tilling alone, I paid Rs. 45,000,” Mr. Venkatesham Goud told The Hindu . In Sangareddy district alone, about 30,000 acres of fine variety was cultivated followed by about one lakh acres in Medak district. Farmers have to struggle a lot for cultivating fine variety, compared with the normal variety. “Sanna Rakalu needs more attention as it is susceptible to pests and diseases. In addition, the yield is less. It will also take another 20 days time for harvesting. Farmers need to invest more and hence they demand more,” said an agriculture officer on condition of anonymity adding that the government has not yet taken any decision on purchasing of fine variety. “Farmers are in serious trouble. They have incurred heavy loss as the crop was hit by pests and yield was less. Farmers are demanding a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs. 2,500 per quintal. How can the government escape from its responsibility, which urged farmers to sow fine variety of paddy?” questions G. Jayaraj, district secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Green Channel’ is a crucial lifeline||You must have chanced upon an ambulance with blaring siren zooming away on roads cleared of traffic. The reason they are provided a seamless ride is to preserve the heart or lungs kept in cold boxes. Usage of the abbreviation ASAP (As Soon As Possible) is apt in this situation. Specialist doctors who conduct organ transplantations said that success rate of the surgeries increases if the organs reach a recipient at the earliest. And, it also helps avoid wastage of organs — whose importance is best understood by a person who has been waiting for it for years. In-charge of Telangana government’s Jeevandan Cadaver Transplantation Programme Dr G Swarnalatha said that around 5,000 people in the State are waiting for various organs. Organs are harvested from patients who are declared brain-dead. Family members of the patients are counselled about the importance of the donation. After completing the due process, organs are harvested from the donor patients. To receive an organ, one has to register with the Jeevandan. Ischemia Time is defined as the time period after blood supply is stopped to an organ and restored. Cold Ischemia Time is the duration from when blood supply is stopped and the organ taken out of box filled with ice. “The Cold Ischemia Time varies from organ to organ. For liver, it is up to eight to twelve hours. But the success rate of transplantation increases if you keep a short Cold Ischemia Time, usually less than six hours in case of liver. Green Channel is of help in these situations,” said Dr CH Madhusudhan, professor and head of Surgical Gastroenterology department and Liver Transplantation Unit, Osmania General Hospital. Programme Director at KIMS Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation, Dr Attawar Sandeep said that ischemia time for heart is a maximum of six hours. “The heart starts deteriorating after the ischemia time, unless some surgical modifications are made in the transplantation procedure,” he said. Dr Sandeep said that if risk of transplantation is 5%, long ischemia time increases the percentage of negative outcomes.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC query on steps to protect Waqf land||Taking an exception to the response of Waqf board Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Qasim over alleged encroachment of Waqf properties, Telangana High Court on Monday directed the State government to explain what steps it had taken to protect Waqf properties. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a couple of PIL petitions over alleged failure of Waqf board in checking encroachment of Muslim graveyards, directed the Municipal Administration principal secretary to file a report within three weeks. The bench also instructed the government to explain to the court during the next hearing about the action taken against Waqf board Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Qasim for his negligence over protection of Waqf properties. When the pleas came up for hearing, the bench sought to know from the CEO, who was present at the hearing, as to why only five First Information Reports (FIRs) were lodged when there were 86 complaints of illegal encroachments of Waqf properties. The bench wondered what prevented the Waqf board CEO from taking the complaints to its logical end. If police decline to issue FIRs maintaining the complaints were of civil nature, how would the officials remain quiet, the bench asked. The bench asked the CEO if he did not know the basics of Criminal Procedure Code. To the dismay of the bench, the CEO said he was not familiar with those provisions. Expressing anger over the failure of the CEO in protecting Waqf properties, the bench remarked that it was better to replace the CEO with another officer. The bench remarked it was not correct to assign the responsibilities of protecting properties to an incapable officer. If the Station House Officers of police stations declined to register criminal cases on alleged encroachments of graveyards, the CEO should have taken up the matter with higher-ups of the police department. If police refuse to act upon the issue, the Waqf board officials can lodge private complaints in magistrate courts, the bench said. The CEO should have taken opinion of the Waqf board counsel if he was unaware of the law on the matter. The Waqf board counsel told the bench that issues like inadequate staff members came in the way of protecting the properties. But the bench brushed aside that argument that even courts were not fully equipped with staff but yet they were discharging their duties. The pleas were posted to next Monday for hearing.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||When Hyderabad traffic police rose to the occasion||How much time will it take for you to travel a distance of 36.8 km from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad to Secunderabad in rush hours? It will be not less than two hours. But a few days ago, Hyderabad and Cyberabad police ensured it took less than 28 minutes to cover the same distance. Yes, roads were cleared of traffic to transport something special and important - a pair of lungs. The live organ was airlifted from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu for transplant at a corporate hospital in Secunderabad. The busy route was covered in less than 28 minutes as the traffic police of both the Commisisonerates provided ‘Green Channel’ for the ambulance transporting the live organ. People are familiar with traffic police halting all vehicles on all the lanes and bylanes when the President, Vice-President, Prime Minister, Governor or Chief Minister pass by. The only exception of stopping vehicles is made while transporting vital organs of the human body for transplantation. A ‘Green Channel’ is established to transport the organs from one hospital to another, or from airport to hospital, in the shortest possible time to save the precious life of patients waiting for organ transplant in the operation theatres, Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar told The Hindu . Explaining how the system functions, he said that the hospital management informs him or Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) about the organ to be transported, who in turn alerts the ground staff on the designated route to facilitate hassle free movement of ambulances on the busiest roads even during peak hours. This year alone, the traffic police have facilitated transportation of live organs, including heart, kidneys and liver, 13 times, while last year they helped to transport human body parts 15 times and in 2018 the number was seven. “It is all about coordination between hospitals and us. We always consider it as a good Samaritan act,” the chief of Hyderabad traffic police said, adding that they are at the service of people round-the-clock throughout the year. The traffic police took the initiative on a large scale after Mr. Kumar took charge in March 2018. “Earlier too traffic police used to facilitate transportation of the organs, but not on such a large scale during peak hours,” an officer said.  “It is all about coordination between hospitals and the traffic police. We always consider it as a good Samaritan act.” Anil Kumar , Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic)
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘India yet to achieve 100 % literacy rate’||Even after 73 years of attaining freedom, India has not yet achieved 100 % literacy rates and there is a need for concerted efforts from all the stakeholders to promote literacy and achieve the goal of having a fully literate society, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu said on Monday. “I am glad that the new education policy proposed by the government of India not only focuses on improving quality of education, but also seeks to develop character, inculcate scientific temper, promote creativity, spirit of service, equip students to meet 21st century challenges,” he said after inaugurating the Amenities Centre at the University of Hyderabad. Mr. Naidu said that he had gone through the education policy in detail and it is holistic, very comprehensive and very meaningful. “It provides scope to our higher education institutions to scale new heights and to be counted among the best in the world. I am happy that the new education policy proposed a National Research Foundation as well,” he said. Further, Mr. Naidu said that the country’s youth must be trained and motivated to create employment and entrepreneurial opportunities and make India a global hub of trained human resources. “They (youngsters), comprising 65 % of the country’s population, have to be constructive not obstructive; we need to be positive and not negative; positivity of mind, thoughts and actions will make you strong and stable. The youth must join the forces of growth and shun negativity,” he said. Like all the other sectors, the education sector has also faced unprecedented disruption in the wake of COVID-19 and has brought forth new challenges before both teachers and students, Mr. Naidu said. “And now we know that it is important to integrate technology to support teaching and learning. There is a need to study and adopt the best practices, like that of UoH,” he added. University Vice-Chancellor Professor Appa Rao Podile also spoke.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘My victory will inspire BJP to do well in GHMC polls’||Newly-elected BJP MLA from Dubbak M. Raghunandan Rao on Monday expressed confidence that the citizens of the twin cities will vote for his party candidates in the forthcoming GHMC elections and get rid of the TRS-Majlis combine for development of the capital. “My victory has enthused many people and given them the confidence that TRS is not invincible. People here should realise the conspiracy of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of handing over the Mayor's reigns to Owaisi’s party, who in turn will remove the distinction between old and new city,” he claimed. Participating in a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by the Telangana Journalists Union (TJU), Mr. Rao accused the TRS of planning to “hand over the city to the Majlis party after having given up control of the old city.” He said there is a “danger of Hyderabad going the Kolkata way if it happens”. “We have special plans under the leadership of Bandi Sanjay Kumar. We will bring in our party leaders from other States to ensure we have the support of the migrants from various parts of the country as this is mini-India. We will definitely win as our cadre is inspired by Dubbak victory,” he said. “The indiscriminate distribution of cash through the municipal officials by the TRS leadership for flood relief and rehabilitation will be thoroughly exposed and the officials concerned will be hauled up before the courts for violating the norms of handling cash of more than two lakh rupees. If the government really wanted to ensure justice to the affected families, it would have put the compensation amount directly into the bank accounts,” he added. “Civic infrastructure has crumbled in the six years of TRS rule in the capital and building a few underpasses or flyovers is not sufficient as not a single radial or link road to the Outer Ring Road (ORR) has been built despite Minister K.T. Rama Rao's promises,” he said. Reflecting on his win, Mr. Rao pointed out that he has been fighting elections from Dubbak continuously for the last three years in the last Assembly and Parliament elections but won for the first time in the byelection. “Dubbak is a predominantly rural constituency yet we had managed to wrest a sizable number of votes from the traditional TRS vote bank which is a reflection of the mood of the people despite several hurdles and misuse of the official machinery. There are many like me who fought for separate Telangana but were ignored in the TRS. I appeal to them to join BJP. I was expelled from TRS one midnight without any reason in 2013, however, BJP has taken me into its fold,” he said. The BJP leader claimed his constituency has been neglected for years with all benefits going to the neighbouring VVIP constituencies of Gajwel, Siddipet and Sircilla. “I will fight for proper road and bus connectivity to all the villages of Dubbak. It is through the Central government funds through which works under various schemes are being taken up in gram panchayats, so I will strive to get more funds and also seek implementation of PM Awas Yojana for building houses for the poor in rural areas too,” he said. TJU president K. Prasada Rao presided over the meeting while general secretary B. Swamy also spoke.  I was expelled from TRS one midnight without any reason in 2013, however, BJP has taken me into its fold.   M. Raghunandan Rao, Newly-elected BJP MLA
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Phase III trials for Covaxin begin||Bharat Biotech on Monday said it has commenced phase III trials for Covaxin, the COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It will involve 26,000 volunteers across India, the first phase III efficacy study and the largest clinical trial for a COVID-19 vaccine in the country. The company said this after Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella told a conference, organised by the Indian School of Business (ISB), that the vaccine has entered the phase III trial. The volunteers will receive two intra-muscular injections approximately 28 days apart. They will be randomly assigned to receive Covaxin or placebo. The trial is double blinded, such that the investigators, the participants and the company will not be aware of who is assigned to which group.The vaccine candidate has been evaluated in around 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety. Volunteers who wish to participate in this trial should be adults over 18 years of age, the release said. The phase III study will be conducted at 22 sites across the country. While Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad is the lone site in Telangana; in Andhra Pradesh the trial will be conducted at Guntur Medical College; and King Gorge Hospital, Visakhapatnam.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi Hospital junior doctors’ stir gets backing||The protest taken up by Gandhi Medical College junior doctors gained strength as Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) units from three government medical colleges expressed support to the protest and threatened to boycott elective duties. House Surgeons (MBBS interns), post-graduate students are also called ‘Junior Doctors’. The JUDAs serving in Gandhi Hospital have boycotted duties November 11 demanding that non-COVID services be resumed there. Currently, only COVID-19 patients are admitted at the tertiary care centre. The students said that they are losing out on academics as they are attending only COVID patients. A few days ago, TJUDA members held a meeting to discuss the issue. The association’s president Dr V Naveen said a decision was taken to support the protest. Subsequent to this, TJUDA representatives from Osmania Medical College (OMC), Kakatiya Medical College (KMC), and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) submitted representation to the respective hospital superintendents expressing support to the protest. While RIMS and KMC representatives said that they will boycott elective duties from Wednesday if Gandhi Hospital junior doctors’ demands are not fulfilled, OMC representatives did not specify a date. Meanwhile, Director of Medical Education Dr K. Ramesh Reddy along with Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M. Raja Rao inspected the hospital to plan how COVID and non-COVID patients have to be separated. On November 12, he issued orders directing the superintendent to start non-COVID services before November 21.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||It was a quieter Deepavali with lower pollution this time||It was a quieter Deepavali with lower pollution in comparison to last year, according to the data shared by Telangana State Pollution Control Board. Based on its ambient air quality monitoring stations, the TSPCB revealed that the PM 2.5 or superfine suspended particulate matter level reached 64 ug/m3 and PM 10 levels touched 128 ug/m3. Both the values were marginally above the permissible national ambient air quality standards. In contrast, the PM 2.5 levels had reached 72 ug/m3 and PM 10 value had touched 163.4 ug/m3 during the Deepavali of 2019. The special AAQ monitoring is being done from November 7 till 21 in line with the Central Pollution Control Board directions. The noise levels due to crackers also registered a marginal dip in comparison to 2019 Deepavali, just breaching the permissible standards. In areas categorised as sensitive, the Db levels was 42 (standard 40) while in commercial areas it was 70 (standard 55). While the TSPCB numbers suggest it was a less noisy Deepavali with lower pollution, the numbers are averaged for 24 hours including night time and day time when pollution levels dip due to lower human activity. At 10.30 p.m. on Deepavali night, the monitoring station at Sanathnagar recorded PM 2.5 at 574 ug/m3 matching the pollution levels in parts of north India. It was nearly 10 times the ambient air quality standard of 40-60 ug/m3 set by the Central Pollution Control Board. By 11 p.m., the PM2.5 levels dipped to 366 ug/m3. Short-term exposure to PM2.5 has been linked to higher mortality.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Remove symbols alike car to avoid confusion’||A delegation of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) led by Vice-Chairman of the State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar have met State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi here on Monday and lodged a complaint against several poll symbols that visually resemble the TRS symbol “car”. The delegation that also comprised former Minister and Jadcherla MLA C. Laxma Reddy and MLC M. Srinivas Reddy submitted a representation to the SEC explaining how symbols resembling car on the ballot paper/terminal had led to defeat of the TRS candidates in some instances. They brought to the SEC’s notice that the TRS had lost the recent by-election to Dubbak Assembly Constituency due to “roti maker” symbol that resembled car on the ballot terminal on the electronic voting machines. Similarly, during the 2019 elections to Parliament (Lok Sabha) TRS lost the election to Bhongir parliamentary constituency due to a symbol that resembled car on the ballot terminal on EVMs, they said. The TRS delegation informed the SEC that the party had also lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India in the past on such similar symbols. Mr. Vinod Kumar later stated that the SEC had responded positively to the TRS request to remove the symbols resembling car from the list of poll symbols. He explained how such similar symbols were creating confusion among voters. They had lodged a complaint with SEC to prevent such a situation in the forthcoming elections to GHMC and also requested the election authority to conduct the exercise in free, fair and peaceful manner.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Secretariat construction to start soon||Construction works on the new integrated Secretariat complex are set to commence very soon. The Roads and Buildings Department has prepared the detailed agreement that it should sign with infrastructure development company Shapoorji Pallonji & Company for handing over the existing Secretariat complex and circulated it to the company. Representatives of the Shapoorji Pallonji Group are learnt to be studying the agreement papers to look whether the clauses are in line with the conditions prescribed in the tender document. “Once the company gives its consent, the agreement will be signed. May be in a couple of days,” a senior R&B official told The Hindu . The one year deadline for the completion of works in all respects will kick in from the day the agreement is signed between the R&B Department and the construction company. Mumbai-based Shapoorji Pallonji & Company secured the tender for the construction of the new Secretariat complex outbidding another infra major L&T quoting 4% excess over the estimated value. The company was already handed over the letter of acceptance and it had furnished bank guarantees for the proposed project within the stipulated two weeks. Along with the performance security, the company has to submit plans relating to establishment of concrete batching plant and putting up labour camps. The company, it is learnt, has sought exemptions like allowing works on holidays to enable it meet the deadline. Preliminary works like demarcation of boundaries and marking work areas including the main building have been completed in the last one week. The government had sanctioned Rs. 617 crore for the construction of the integrated Secretariat as against the initial estimated value of Rs. 400 crore.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Masked man breaks open SBI ATM, flees with Rs. 6.5 lakh||A ‘masked-man’ broke open an automated teller machine (ATM) of State Bank of India in Vanasthalipuram’s Sahara Road in the small hours of Monday and made away with Rs. 6.5 lakh in cash, the police said. Vanasthalipuram police said that the incident came to light only after a customer went to the ATM centre to withdraw the money and found the machine open. Soon, he alerted the police, who in turn rushed to the spot and found the machine was cut open and there was no cash in the chest. The offence is expected to have taken place between 2.30 a.m. and 3 a.m. and there is no security guard for the centre. Unfortunately, neither the surveillance cameras, nor the alarm installed at the ATM centre were functioning, Vanasthalipuram Assistant Commissioner of Police M. Shankar told The Hindu . Wearing a mask and gloves, the offender walked into the ATM center with a bag and pulled down the shutter, he said. “Using a gas cutter, he cut open the machine, stuffed the cash in his bag, and left the centre,” the officer said, adding that the entire episode was recorded in a CCTV camera installed in a nearby shop. Police said that the offender had taken away the hard disk connected to a hidden camera, which was kept inside the cash machine. Later, he got into a car parked a few metres away from the spot, however, the CCTV visual is not clear. “Special teams are formed and we are working on the leads,” the officer said.Mr. Shankar said that the maintenance of the ATM center was handed over to a prominent private company by the bank officials. “He might have committed the offence in less than 30 minutes,” the ACP added.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Busts of Vidyasagar Rao unveiled||The role of late irrigation engineer R. Vidyasagar Rao in educating people during the movement for statehood to Telangana on the grave injustice done to the region in sharing of river waters was invaluable, Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy said on Saturday. Speaking after unveiling the busts of the expert on irrigation and water issues on the premises of Jala Soudha, the head office of Irrigation Department, and Engineers Bhavan, both in Errum Manzil, the Minister said Vidyasagar Rao kept highlighting the injustice done to Telangana in the matter of river waters all through his life on any given opportunity. The busts were unveiled commemorating the late engineer on his birthday, November 14, which the State Government had declared and has been officially celebrating as Telangana Irrigation Day. It was due to his detailed explanation of how the due share of water was being denied to Telangana both in the Krishna and Godavari rivers during the combined Andhra Pradesh dispensation, the issue had struck cord with people during the movement. It was he who educated the commoners that there would be account for water too and how it would be measured while in flow and in storage facility (reservoir), Mr. Jagadish Reddy said. Numbers related to flows and volume were on his finger tips and he would reel out figures of water denied to Telangana in the two major river basins by-heart. Late Vidaysagar Rao stood by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, first as a strong ideologue of Telangana during the statehood movement, and later as Advisor to Government on Irrigation. Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajath Kumar, several officials/engineers of the department, several retired engineers attended the event.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Keep criminals away’||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has appealed to the political parties to ensure tickets are not given to candidates with criminal records as it happened during the last GHMC elections where up to 72 candidates had cases against them. “Thirty of the 72 candidates had won last time and the ruling TRS has 13 corporators with criminal records. This is followed by AIMIM with 13 corporators,” FGG secretary said.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Volunteers invited for webcasting GHMC polls||GHMC Commissioner and Election Authority has invited interested candidates to participate in live webcasting of ordinary elections to GHMC council. Volunteers can enrol by visiting GHMC website or MyGHMC app. Student volunteers must come with their laptops on poll day and days before the actual polling, which would be communicated later. They are expected to attend one hour training session which will be communicated in due course and material collection session on the pre-poll day along with the webcasting on the day of polling. Training date on webcasting details will be communicated later. A lump sum honorarium will be paid and a participation certificate will be given.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Car crashes into ambulance, driver, patient dead||An ambulance driver and an elderly patient travelling in the ambulance were killed and two others suffered severe injuries, after a speeding car collided head-on with their emergency vehicle at Kandukur in Rangareddy district here on Monday. The accident took place around 4 p.m. near Kothur gate in Maheshwaram police station limits of Rachakonda Commissionerate. The victims are — Rachamani Anand (28) from Vepuru village Kalwakurthy mandal in Nagarkurnool and Jakula Jangamma (70) of Bolampally village. While the injured are Jakula Manjula (23) and Nune Saiamma (45), according to the police. Police said that the ill-fated ambulance was going towards Amangal when the speeding car coming in the opposite direction dashed against the vehicle. Driver of the other car Kumar too suffered severe injuries. Jangamma was returning home after getting discharged from a hospital in Kothapet. A case was registered and a probe is on.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICRISAT gets nod to use drones for agri research work||The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) moved one step closer to deploying drones for agricultural research activities with the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation giving it a conditional go ahead. “Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) have granted conditional exemption to ICRISAT, Hyderabad, for the deployment of drones for agricultural research activities,” said a release from the Ministry on Monday. Valid for 6 months The conditional exemption is valid for six months from the date of issue of the letter or until the full operationalisation of Digital Sky Platform (Phase-1), whichever is earlier. The exemption will be valid only if all conditions and limitations are strictly adhered to. In case of violation, the exemption shall become null and void, the release said, setting out the conditions and limitations. Joint Secretary to the Ministry Amber Dubey said “drones are poised to play a big role in agriculture sector in India especially in areas like precision agriculture, locust control and improvement in crop yield. The government is encouraging young entrepreneurs and researchers to look at ruggedized low-cost drone solutions for the over 6.6 lakh villages in India.” Further, ICRISAT has to obtain necessary clearances from the Local Administration; Ministry of Defence; Ministry of Home Affairs; Air Defence clearance from Indian Air Force; and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) prior to operation of the Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS).
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Biological E. starts clinical trial of Covid vaccine||Biological E. on Monday said the Phase I/II clinical trial of its COVID-19 subunit vaccine candidate has been initiated in the country. The Hyderabad-based firm made this announcement with US-based biopharmaceuticals Dynavax Technologies Corporation and Baylor College of Medicine, Houston. Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) has given approval. A release from Biological E. said the vaccine candidate includes an antigen in-licensed from BCM Ventures, Baylor College of Medicine’s integrated commercialisation team, along with Dynavax’s advanced adjuvant CpG 1018. BE's Phase I/II clinical trial will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate in about 360 healthy people in the 18 to 65 age group.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple succumb to suicide bid||A 26-year-old woman and her alleged companion, who consumed pesticide at Narsingi on Saturday, died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital on Sunday night, the police said. The victims — Swetha and Sampath — from Sangareddy district, resorted to the extreme step on Saturday. Passers-by on seeing the couple lying unconscious with a pesticide bottle on their side, called the police,who shifted them to OGH, Narsingi police said.  Roshni — Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Preserving harvested organs||After an organ is harvested from a donor, it is kept in preservative solution which freezes cellular and enzyme activity. The organ, along with the solution, is kept in a box filled with ice and transported at the earliest. Since donors and recipients should have a compatible blood group, officials go through recipients in the waiting list and inform those who are compatible. At times, if a suitable recipient is not available in a State, then officials from organ donation programme of the respective State contact their counterparts in Jeevandan to enquire if a compatible recipient is available here. Upon finding one, organs are transported. If organs have to be brought from other States, chartered flights are used as relying on commercial flight timings leads to wastage of Cold Ischemia Time. After organ is flown down to an airport, police establishes a Green Channel to transport it at the earliest to the hospital where recipient is waiting. Apart from the seamless transportation, clear communication between the transplantation specialists team with donors and recipients helps cut down the ischemia time. Professor and head of Surgical Gastroenterology department and Liver Transplantation Unit, Osmania General Hospital, Dr CH Madhusudhan termed this step as crucial to avoid organ wastage. If a team starts operating on recipient after receiving the organ, there might be adverse outcomes. If transplantation cannot proceed on a patient after starting surgery, or if a recipient dies, another recipient is kept ready to avoid wastage of organ. Specialists said that this is a standard practice.  If transplantation cannot proceed or if a recipient dies, another recipient is kept ready to avoid wastage of organ
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five from PHFI among top 2% Indian scientists||Five scientists of Public Health Foundation of India including the president K. Srinath Reddy, vice-president and director of Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Delhi director Sanjay Zodpey, IIPH Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy, distinguished research professor Lalit Dandona and Rakhi Dandona feature in the world ranking of top 2% of Indian scientists. This research was undertaken by Prof. John P. A. Ioannidis, Departments of Medicine, Health Research and Policy, Biomedical Data Science, and Statistics and Meta- Research Innovation Center at Stanford University.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, lodges missing person complaint||A man killed his wife, burnt her body outside their house in Vikarabad and later dumped the remains in Ananthagiri forests earlier this month, police said. However, the offence came to light only on Sunday after the accused, 32-year-old Prabhu, donkey milk seller, confessed his crime to a local ward councillor, who in-turn took him to the police station. Police said that the offence took place on November 5, and a few days later Prabhu lodged a woman missing complaint in Vikarabad.
17 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why is Kishan Reddy silent on TRS graft: Revanth||Alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) have a secret pact, TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy accused Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy of wilfully ignoring the corrupt and illegal practices of the TRS government. It is strange that the BJP is seeking an enquiry into the ‘corruption’ in the distribution of flood relief while it is the party in power at the Centre, he said addressing a press conference here. “Why is Mr. Kishan Reddy not ordering an enquiry when the Disaster Management is under his ministry,” he asked. Stating that IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao had called Mr. Kishan Reddy a gentleman, he claimed this is part of their understanding. “Why is the State government not acting on the Rs. 8 crores, apparently belonging to Mr. Kishan Reddy, seized during the elections by the Task Force,” he asked.
17 November 2020||Khammam,TELANGANA||‘Centre, State pursuing pro-corporate policies’||CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram called upon graduates to elect Left parties' candidate B Jayasaradhi Reddy from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates' Constituency of the State Legislative Council in the forthcoming elections to make people's voice heard and articulate concerns of unemployed youth and others on the floor of the Council. Speaking to reporters along with the CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy, Mr Veerabhadram slammed the ruling dispensations at the Centre and the State for allegedly pursuing pro-corporate policies leaving farmers, workers, unemployed youths and the underprivileged distraught.
17 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BJP has no ideology, says Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has alleged that BJP has been trying to gain politically by Goebbelsian campaign and it was not in favour of the public. He said that both the national parties have failed to meet the aspirations of the people of Telangana. Participating in party workers meeting held at Patancheru along with MLA G. Mahipal Reddy on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that BJP has taken up false campaign and the party workers must refute it on every platform. “No progress has taken place in Patancheru area in the last 70 years during the tenure of Congress and the BJP. We have promised water and are providing water to every household at an estimated cost of Rs. 251 crore. We are offering round-the-clock quality power. There is no closure of industries and labour has been getting additional revenue. Medical devices park was already established at Sultanpur followed by IT Park at Osman Nagar and LED Park at Shivanagar. These industries are providing employment to youth,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that a market yard was established at Patancheru at cost of Rs. 10 crore. He has called upon the party workers to move door-to-door and refute the campaign of BJP on social media platforms. MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran, MLC Farooq Hussain, former minister V. Sunitha Lakshma Reddy, former MLA Chinta Prabhakar were present.
17 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Police search for rowdy sheeter who fired into air||Tension prevailed for sometime at Govindapur on the outskirts of Mogudampally mandal near Zaheerabad when a rowdy sheeter opened fire in the air to terrorize people in a land dispute. Police pressed three teams to arrest the rowdy sheeter, who was an accused in a murder case in the past. According to DSP, Zaheerabad, Shankar Reddy one Kamal Kishore Pallod of Zaheerabad owns about 31 acres of land at Jeedigadd Tanda on the outskirts of Govidapur in survey number 104 and 105. On Monday he engaged 15 labour to set boundaries for his land with cement pillars. One Ali Akbar and Asad of Zaheerabad, having land in survey number 109, rushed to the village and entered into heated argument with Kamal Kishore and tried to attack him. Further, Mr. Ali Akbar phoned rowdy sheeter Layeeq from Zaheerbad, who reached the spot with knives and a firearm. The rowdy sheeter fired six rounds into the air terrorising the people there. Learning of the illegal firing of the firearm, police rushed to the spot and arrested Mr. Ali Akbar and Mr. Asad. Mr. Shankar Reddy said that three teams were formed to arrest Layeeq. A rowdy sheet was opened against Layeeq and he was an accused in a murder case in 2018.
17 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Complete highway works at the earliest: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to speed up works and complete them in time. Participating in a meeting along with Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy, MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran and others here on Monday, Mr. Rao said that Nanded Akola Road must be complete at the earliest in addition to improving the existing roads, completing by-pass roads and drain works. Officials were also directed to repair the roads damaged due to recent rains. Meanwhile, the revenue divisional officials were directed to pay compensation for the houses damaged and the cattle killed due to lightning.
17 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||CM to inaugurate new Collectorate soon||Collector P Venkatarami Reddy said that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will shortly inaugurate Collectorate, new Commissionarate and double bedroom houses at Narsapur. Mr. Venkatarami Reddy along with other officials visited the Collectorate, Commissionarate and double bedroom houses and inspected the progress. He directed the officials to make arrangements for inauguration within two days and complete the works without fail.
17 November 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Suryapet police bring home kidnapped boy safely||The five-year-old boy who was kidnapped from Bhagat Singh Nagar in the town, in the thick of Diwali celebrations on Saturday evening, was brought home safely on Monday by Suryapet police. The kidnap case investigation that started with a random phone call clue, movie-inspired ransom and street-smart kidnapper drama, followed by a top-secret police operation ensured success within 24 hours. Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran on Monday handed over the boy to his parents Naga Lakshmi and Mahesh at the district police office, before addressing the press. The five-year-old went missing around 7.30 p.m. on Saturday, after his mother gave him a Rs. 50 note and sent to the nearby kirana store for getting oil for lamps and a matchbox. Soon, only his little bicycle was found around the street corner and the parents filed a a missing person’s complaint and till the next morning coordinated searches continued. According to Mr. Bhaaskaran, the first and the only clue was the unidentified person’s call to a ladies’ tailor, located behind the boy’s house, at around 9 a.m. on Sunday. “The accused, during their reconnaissance of the area, were smart enough to collect phone numbers from to-let boards and business flexies in the colony. All their eight calls, except one, were made from phones of passersby or auto-rickshaw drivers, followed by number deletion and blocking. The only call from their personal phone was for ransom collection, which established their location as Miryalaguda. But the actual location, of the person with the boy, as per CCTV footage was Hyderabad,” he explained. The Suryapet police, wrote the investigation script and also directed the screenplay, with Mahesh, the boy’s father as the actor in the foreground.  Ransom negotiation “Ransom negotiation started at Rs. 10 lakh and was finalised for Rs. 7 lakh. As the boy’s safety was utmost priority, we made the father to listen from his son in every call, and also to insist that the ransom collection and handing over of the boy should be at the same location,” Mr. Bhaaskaran said, explaining the plot. At around 3.30 p.m., the father left the ‘cash bag’ as per kidnapper’s specification in Miryalaguda, and the boy was taken from a nearby government school. Immediately, the police who were observing from a distance arrested one of the kidnappers near the site, and the two others who had escaped to their home in Macherla in Guntur, were arrested there on Monday morning. Mr. Bhaskaran said the arrested three were looking to make a quick buck, and the boy was not a specific choice. The Superintendent of Police appreciated his various teams that moved with a clockwork precision in rescuing the boy safely. The boy’s parents thanked Suryapet police.
17 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||Nikita’s murder was premeditated: police||The prime accused in the Nikita murder case had done a recce of the victim’s house and college on at least four occasions before he shot her outside Aggarwal College on October 26, according to the chargesheet submitted by Faridabad Police. “The mobile location of the accused, Tausif, shows he was present near Nikita’s house on October 10. It also show that he was present near her house and college on October 18, 22 and 24. It proves the murder was premeditated and preplanned,” said the complainant’s lawyer Adal Singh Rawat, quoting the chargesheet The 700-page chargesheet has listed 64 witnesses, including 10 private witnesses and two dozen policemen. Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has already directed that the hearing in the case should be conducted on a day-to-day basis.
17 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram reserves 75% ICU beds for COVID-19||The Gurugram administration on Monday ordered reservation of 50% beds in general category and 75% beds in ICU/Ventilator category in public and private hospitals for COVID-19 patients in view of the sudden spike in infections. The number of beds available under the general category and ICU/ventilator category is expected to increase by around 800 and 300, respectively. As of now, 2,100 beds are reserved in various Gurugram hospitals, including 1,649 beds for isolation. The total reserved ICU beds and ventilators are 312 and 139, respectively. Of these, 1,001 isolation beds, 119 ICU beds and 63 ventilators are unoccupied. Chief Medical Officer (Gurugram) Virender Yadav said the new order will increase beds under general category to about 2,500 and ICU beds/ventilators to 700. “Around 5% of patients need hospitalisation and 2% need critical care,” said Mr. Yadav. As per the latest health bulletin, Gurugram has 5,749 active cases and 244 people have died so far.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||All quiet on campus||With Delhi University (DU) switching to online admissions and classes this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the usually bustling Vishwavidyalaya metro station wears a deserted look, the lanes of the now sparsely populated North Campus are empty, the once jam-packed canteens are closed and the popular hangout spaces are quiet.  The campus, which is usually abuzz with activity in the run-up to a new session as excited newcomers mill around with their guardians, is eerily silent. DU released its first cut-off list on October 10 and the admissions began two days later. Classes are scheduled to begin from November 18 but many new students rue that the pandemic has delayed their experience of “campus life” and first day of college. Campus magic Speaking about the “magic of campus”, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College student Riddhi Mukherjee said: “With the board exams being cut short, admissions to colleges were postponed for months and no classes were held on campus. This year has been fairly difficult for us. I have always wanted to go to LSR and I have heard so much about the magic of campus, the societies and the cafes. My dream of getting admission in LSR has come true but everything has been put on hold, along with moving to another city and living independently for the first time.” Students also seemed disappointed with the possibility of freshers’ welcome events not taking place or going online. “Our seniors and teachers are trying to help us feel at home, organising online activities and having a welcome week online, which is really nice. All in all, it is bittersweet to enter the next chapter of our lives in this way,” said Ms. Mukherjee. Simran Anand, who will join the BA (Programme) course at Ramjas College, said: “I was looking forward to having a good campus life in DU. We have been told that there is a possibility that a freshers event may be held online but we do not know what will materialise.” Students also rued missing out on youth festivals and joining various cultural societies that colleges in DU offer. Aahuti Singh, a resident of Chandigarh who has taken admission in Vivekananda College, said: “The first day is always exciting, especially coming to a new environment. I was really looking forward to the freshers party, meeting the faculty and joining the dance society. But with the ongoing pandemic it is probably a good idea not to visit the campus immediately.” Rayan Chakrabarti, who has joined the English Department at St. Stephen’s College, said: “The expectations started going down during the board exams itself as the situation became quite turbulent. I applied to DU hoping to meet and interact with people from various backgrounds. I am disheartened as I will not be able to go to campus and participate in festivals. I was looking forward to being a part of the poetry, debate and music society apart from the Gandhi-Ambedkar society.” Admission glitches Some students also complained of certain glitches during the admission process like non-redressal of grievances. “During the admissions the nodal officers were not responsive. At times, the webinars would end abruptly. Honestly, we are still quite confused about certain procedures such as selection of subjects, among other things. Visiting colleges is definitely a better option, which we unfortunately missed out this year,” said Ms. Anand. The junction opposite Patel Chest Institute, which boasts a row of shops frequented by students, especially during exam times, also wears a deserted look with shopkeepers saying they have suffered major losses. Umesh Tyagi, who has been running a photocopy shop in the area for the last 18 years, said: “The situation has never been this difficult. Our shops would always be buzzing with students, but now we are in a situation where we are having to pay rent from our savings. This is the exam season when our shops used to be packed with students, but now we are down to almost no income. At this point luck is all we are depending on.” Ramjas college professor Tanvir Aeijaz said, “The university is crying at the moment because what is a university without its students and teachers.” “Even though it is much easier to take classes from home, that is not what teaching is about. You need people and interactions. There is always second-guessing in teaching and one needs to see the reactions of the students. Online classes are a setback to teaching and certainly a demotivating factor. Students are not happy. Often, students discuss lectures after classes. They are unable to do that this anymore. The university is emptier than it is even during the vacation period as hostels are also vacant,” he added.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Surface winds, dip in farm fires help improve Delhi’s air quality||The air quality of Delhi improved to “poor” category on Monday from “severe” category a day earlier, due to better surface winds and less effect in Delhi of stubble burning in the neighbouring States. The air quality of Gurugram and Noida also improved to the “poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Anti-pollution drive Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia along with Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday launched the second phase of the “Red light on, Gaadi off” campaign. “People flouting a ban on bursting firecrackers were negligible in Delhi, but in the neighbouring States there were massive bursting of firecrackers,” Mr. Sisodia said. The second phase of the campaign will run from November 16 to November 30. “According to our survey, nearly 1 lakh people per day switched off their engines and participated in the red light campaign. Looking at the situation and the massive participation of the people, the Delhi government is launching the second phase of this campaign from today,” Mr. Rai said. “The AQI is likely to improve and the ‘poor’ category is forecast for tomorrow. AQI is forecast to marginally deteriorate and stay in the ‘very poor’ category on November 18 and 19,” said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The AQI (Air Quality Index) of Delhi was 221 on Monday and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 246 and 243 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 pm bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. Satellites’ inability The stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions of Delhi 282, but in reality, it could be an underestimate due to the inability of satellites to identify spots under cloudy conditions, SAFAR said. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 1% on Monday.
17 November 2020||new delhi,||Centre forms 10 teams to inspect private hospitals||The Centre has constituted 10 multidisciplinary teams to inspect about 114 private hospitals that are treating COVID-19 patients in the national capital and check compliance with various directions issued by it and the Delhi government to contain the spread of the virus. A Union Home Ministry order on Monday said the teams will start their visits immediately and submit reports within two days. The teams were set up as per decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday. Meanwhile, at least 75 doctors and 250 paramedics from the paramilitary forces are on their way to Delhi, which is facing a spike in coronavirus cases. Arrangements are also being made to enhance the number of oxygen beds at the 10,000- bed Chhatarpur Covid Care Centre. Hospitals under the municipalities of Delhi will also be converted into dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. Around 88% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment in the city were occupied by Monday night and 89.6% of ICU beds without ventilators were full, as per government data. GTB Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital did not have any ICU beds available. Of the total 16,677 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 53.6% were occupied. There were also complaints of people finding it difficult to find COVID-19 beds in private hospitals. With lesser number of tests, Delhi reported 3,797 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 4,89,202 on Monday. The death toll has reached 7,713 with 99 more fatalities. Of the total cases, 4,41,361 people have recovered and there are 40,128 active cases. The positivity rate was 12.3% and the overall positivity rate till now is 8.9%. (With PTI inputs)
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Number of hotspots in Delhi likely to rise||The total number of containment zones in the city is close to breaching the 10,000-mark amid the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in the Capital. The number is expected to rise rapidly over the coming days due to a significant increase in testing. According to Revenue Department records, till November 15, as many as 9,333 containment zones have been delineated in Delhi since the pandemic began. As many as 4,903 such zones have been decontained, scaling down procedures are under way at 1,603 while 2,827 such areas fall under the ‘active category’, leaving as many as 4,430 containment zones across the city. Out of the 11 districts in Delhi, the South-West, South, West and South-East districts account for the maximum number of containment zones with 740, 700, 568 and 505 such areas in their respective jurisdiction — or 2,513 zones in total. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, following a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday, announced that testing for COVID would be increased from around 60,000 to 1.25-2 lakh. Though it has acknowledged that the city is witnessing a third wave of infections, the Delhi government said that both daily cases as well as number of deaths are expected to recede over the coming days. Official records state that 8,999 of the total zones were created after June 21 when the government acknowledged that the city was in the grips of a second wave of COVID infections.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court rejects bail plea of Delhi riots accused||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of a man who was arrested for his alleged involvement in rioting and vandalising a place of worship and burning houses of a particular community during the north-east Delhi riots in February. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted that in both the cases, the applicant, Johny Singh, has not only been categorically identified by the complainants, but he has also been categorically identified by other eyewitnesses. The court also remarked that public witnesses in the case are residents of the same locality and “if released on bail at this stage, the possibility of applicant threatening or intimidating them cannot be ruled out”. Two separate FIRs “I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant in both the aforesaid matters,” the court said. Mr. Singh is facing two different FIRs in connection with the riots. In the first case registered at Khajuri Khas police station, he is accused of vandalising, robbery and burning of houses. In the other FIR, he is also named amongst the persons involved in destruction of ‘Fatima Masjid’. The counsel representing Mr. Singh said his client has been falsely implicated in both cases and that there is no CCTV footage to back the allegations. He contended that Mr. Singh was a victim and his house was severely damaged during the riots. The special public prosecutor said that videos showing the burning of ‘Fatima Masjid’ have been received and are being analysed.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU begins phased entry of students||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday started welcoming back its final-year PhD research scholars who were residing in the hostels before the lockdown as a part of its phased reopening process. Declaration form The entry has been allowed for those students in particular who need to enter campus for access to laboratories and to submit their PhD thesis on or before December 31 or June 30, the university said. Dean of Students Sudheer Pratap Singh, said that upon arrival, the students will need to fill up and submit a self-declaration form available with the JNU security and get a pass issued for their entry into the closed campus. No gathering The university said that no social gathering will be allowed in the hostel and all social distancing norms must be followed.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU defers special list for UG courses||Delhi University has postponed the admission process for a few categories until further notice as several officials have been affected by COVID-19. Spot admissions to entrance-based courses and the special cut-off list are among the categories that have been delayed. In a statement, DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said: “Many of the university departments and officials have been affected by COVID-19. Due to this, spot admission to UG entrance-based courses and special cut-off for UG merit-based courses have been deferred till further notice.” ‘Vacant seats on Nov. 18’ “However, as announced earlier, the University of Delhi shall display the course-wise and category-wise vacant seats in each college on November 18,” Mr. Gupta said. Classes for undergraduate courses are set to begin from November 18. The university, which began the admission process on October 10 with the announcement of the first cut-off list, was scheduled to announce a special list depending on the number of vacant seats. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the admission process has been moved completely online and the university has released five cut-off lists for merit-based undergraduate courses.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||No bail for yoga teacher accused of harassment||The Delhi High Court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of a yoga teacher, who is facing charges of sexually harassing a minor girl, noting that there was at least three complaints against him where women have made allegations of abusive and inappropriate conduct. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also took into account the fact that investigation has not yet concluded and the man “does have the propensity to influence the investigation”. The case relates to the complaint of a 17-year-old girl who had alleged that on May 14, while she was studying in her house, Swami Ganeshanand had clicked four to five photographs of her and made obscene gestures towards her. Mr. Ganeshanand claimed that the complaint registered against him was false. However, the High Court was informed that there are two other FIRs which have been registered against him by other women, residing in the same neighbourhood.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||A year after Anaj Mandi fire, fourth accused held||Nearly a year after a massive fire at a four-story building in north Delhi’s Anaj Mandi claimed the lives of 45 people, the fourth accused in the case has been arrested, the police said on Monday. The building’s owner Rehan, manager Furkaan and another man named Mohammad Suhail were arrested earlier. The fourth accused, Mohammad Imraan, who is Rehan’s brother and partly owns the building, was nabbed on Saturday. Mr. Imraan had been absconding since the day of the incident and was carrying a reward of Rs. 50,000. Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) B.K. Singh said, “On Saturday, our team received information that Mr. Imraan would be coming to Delhi to attend a family function. A trap was laid and he was apprehended in Azadpur.” He has been taken into five days police remand. On December 8 last year, a fire had ripped through the building housing illegal manufacturing units. The blaze claimed 45 lives, including nine minors. Almost all the deceased were migrant labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to man held in riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man, arrested in connection with alleged rioting and theft during the north-east Delhi riots, noting that there were no call detail records (CDR) to establish that he was available at the site on the particular day. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait granted bail to Saiyad Iftikhar keeping in view that he has been in judicial custody since he was arrested by the Delhi police on April 11. The High Court directed Mr. Iftikhar not to directly or indirectly influence any witness or tamper with the evidence. The police had arrested Mr. Iftikhar for the alleged offences of rioting, theft and causing mischief by fire or explosive substance with an intent to destroy a house under the IPC. The case was lodged against him at Bhajanpura police station. Poor eyesight The court noted in its order that it was not in dispute that Mr. Iftikhar’s eyesight is weak, having a power of minus 3.75 and when he was arrested he was wearing spectacles. The petitioner was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage along with co accused Ali Hasan but the admitted fact is that in CCTV footage, Mr. Iftikhar is not wearing spectacles. “The alleged incident is dated February 24. Thus, it cannot be believed that a person having such poor eyesight would have clear vision at night without spectacles. Moreover, CDR is not on record, whereby it could have been established that the petitioner was available at the site,” the court said in its order.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Two stab man to death afters being told not to drink liquor||A 42-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by two men after the former scolded them for eating and drinking near his residence in Jahangirpuri, the police said on Monday. The deceased identified as Rajesh runs an eatery near his residence, they said. According to police, the incident took place on late Sunday after a quarrel broke out between Rajesh and two other men when he scolded them for eating and consuming alcohol near his residence. The quarrel escalated and one of them took out a knife and stabbed Rajesh before fleeing from the spot. The injured Rajesh was then rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, where he died during the course of treatment, a senior police officer said. The officer said that even on earlier occasions, the victim and the accused duo have quarrelled over the same matter but despite being warned by him, the two men continued their activities. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said “We have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and arrested two men in connection with the incident.” CCTV cameras at the crime scene was examined and the two accused — Rajkumar (22) and Deepak (23), were subsequently arrested, the officer said. “The accused disclosed that they used to eat and drink near the victim’s house and for this reason, the victim used to scold them. The last two days, the victim had also beaten them up,” the DCP said.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Temperature likely to fall to single digits||The western disturbance that helped blow away pollutants a day after Deepavali did not bring any further rain to the Capital on Monday but managed to bring down the maximum temperature and raise the minimum temperature that has been below normal for several days. Due to an overcast sky, the maximum temperature recorded in the city was 25.8 degrees Celsius which was two degrees below normal. The minimum temperature settled at 16 degrees Celsius which was two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature this year has been below normal due to a lack of cloud cover, the MeT Department has said. However, relief from the cold night temperature was only temporary as the minimum temperature is expected to fall to single digits by November 19 as the withdrawal of the western disturbance is likely to cause a change in the wind direction which will bring cold winds from the hills.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Be cautious while probing rape cases’||In an order issued by the Legal Cell of Delhi Police, all investigating officers (IO) have been asked to be cautious while investigating cases of sexual offences in the wake of instances of honey trapping. The order, signed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Legal Cell) Rajesh Deo, stated that cases have emerged in which a complainant reported rape against one or more persons and during probe it emerged that it was a case of ‘honey trapping’.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for ‘raping’ minor||A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 25-year-old man in Outer North Delhi’s Narela, a day after Deepavali on Sunday. The accused has been arrested, the police said.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin - BJP||Terming Home Minister Amit Shah as Delhi’s sankatmochak (troubleshooter), the BJP opposition on Monday said the senior leader was working day and night to keep Delhiites safe while Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was busy “serving corona to Delhiites”.
17 November 2020||Mumbai,||At 2,535, Maharashtra logs lowest daily count in over five months||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally rose to 17,49,777 with the addition of 2,535 fresh cases on Monday, the lowest daily count in more than five months, the State health department and officials said. With 60 deaths, the State’s fatality count rose to 46,034, the department said. The fresh tally of 2,535 cases was the lowest single- day spike since June first week, an official said. The department said of the 60 deaths, 27 were from the past 48 hours and while four occurred last week. The remaining 29 deaths were from the period before the last week, it said. A total of 3,001 patients were discharged from hospitals, which took the number of recovered persons to 16,18,380, the department said. Mumbai reported the highest single-day cases in the State with a tally of 409. Of the new deaths, 12 were from Mumbai, while Nashik district, including Nashik and Malegaon cities, recorded seven deaths due to the virus. Out of the total 2,535 new cases, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which consists of the metropolis and its satellite towns, accounted for 791. The MMR has till now reported 6,07,073 cases and 18,347 deaths. Recovery rate The country’s financial capital alone has witnessed 2,70,119 cases and 10,585 deaths till now. The recovery rate in the State is 92.49% while the fatality rate is 2.63%, the department said. Currently, 7,48,226 people are in home quarantine and 5,395 in institutional quarantine. There are 84,386 active cases in the State at present.
17 November 2020||Mumbai,||After eight months, religious places reopen for devotees in Maharashtra||After remaining shut for nearly eight months, places of religious worship reopened in Maharashtra on Monday with COVID-19 prevention protocols in place. Devotees were seen visiting Siddhivinayak temple and the Haji Ali Dargah in Mumbai, and some of the other prominent religious places in the State. The reopening of the places of worship coincided with the Diwali ‘Padwa’. Early in the morning, devotees were seen visiting Lord Vitthal’s temple at Pandharpur in Solapur, Saibaba’s shrine in Shirdi, Goddess Tulja Bhavani’s temple in Osmanabad and the Siddhivinayak temple and the Haji Ali Dargah in Mumbai. The Siddhivinayak Temple Trust’s chairman, Aadesh Bandekar, on Sunday said only 1,000 devotees will be allowed inside the temple every day in staggered time slots to be booked through a mobile phone application. Mr. Bandekar said, .“We have received good response today...we are letting in 100 people per hour [to ensure physical distancing]. Body temperatures and QR codes of devotees are being checked. The temples access barrier is being opened only if a devotee is wearing mask. A proper system is being followed,” he said. The temple trust will review the situation after two days and may allow more devotees to have darshan of Lord Ganesh based on the assessment, he added. He also urged senior citizens, pregnant women and children to take care of themselves given the situation. “Senior citizens can download our mobile app, they can get darshan of Bappa live 24X7...hence, they should not hurry [into visiting the temple]. Bappa is there to take care of you, but take care of yourselves,” he said. As per the SOPs released by the State government, religious places located out of COVID-19 containment zones have been allowed to reopen as per the timings decided by authorities, and devotees will be allowed inside in a staggered manner. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced reopening of the places of worship but also cautioned people, saying it cannot be forgotten that the “demon of coronavirus” still persists and called for following discipline.
17 November 2020||Mumbai,||Navy officer who served during WW II dies at 97||Vice Admiral John Thomas Goslin Pereira (retd), Indian Navy’s former Chief of Materials, died here on Monday, his family said. The 97-year-old was among the last surviving naval officers who served during the Second World War. Vice Admiral Pereira, who had settled at the Uran coastal town in adjoining Raigad district after his retirement in 1979, died in the small hours at naval hospital INSH Asvini in south Mumbai. Born in February 1923 at Kannur in Kerala, he was commissioned in the Royal Navy on May 1, 1944. Vice Adm Pereira joined the Royal Naval College Dartmouth, U.K. as a cadet in 1939, and graduated from the Royal Naval Engineering College Plymouth in Mechanical and Marine Engineering. A year later he completed his post-graduation from Royal Naval College Greenwich, UK, in Advanced Engineering and Design Propulsion Systems. He was among the 15 selected from India for an Industrial Management Course conducted by France in Paris. During his four-decade-long career in the Navy, he held with distinction many important appointments both ashore and at sea. He had also directed the R&D work for the Navy. He served in Mumbai’s Naval Dockyard, first as the Industrial Manager and later as the Admiral Superintendent, and was instrumental in creating the shipyards Production Planning and Control Department.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Raid on illegal mining unit, 17 boats destroyed||A raid was conducted at an illegal sand mining unit in Maharashtra’s Pune on Monday following which the police destroyed 17 boats engaged in sand extraction from the Bhima basin, an official said. The raid was conducted following a tip-off stating that some people were running an illegal sand extraction unit in the Bhima basin, said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Rahul Dhas. “Nine fibre boats, eight suction boats, a backhoe machine and 30 brass sand extracted from the river basin, collectively worth Rs. 2.36 crore, were seized. A driver has been detained,” he said.
17 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden seeks window on vaccine plans||President-elect Joe Biden’s scientific advisers plan to meet with vaccine makers in coming days even as a stalled presidential transition keeps them out of the loop on government plans to inoculate all Americans against COVID-19. President Donald Trump’s refusal to accept that he lost the election means that the Biden team lacks a clear picture of the groundwork within the government for a mass vaccination campaign that will last the better part of next year, says Mr. Biden’s chief of staff, Ron Klain. “We now have the possibility... of a vaccine starting perhaps in December or January,” Mr. Klain said. “There are people at HHS making plans to implement that vaccine. Our experts need to talk to those people as soon as possible so nothing drops in this change of power we’re going to have on January 20th.” Fauci’s outreach A lack of coordination between outgoing and incoming administrations would be especially problematic in a worsening public health crisis, said the government’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci. “Of course it would be better if we could start working with them,” said Dr. Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, who has been through multiple presidential transitions during 36 years of government service. The President-elect’s outreach to vaccine manufacturers comes as the coronavirus pandemic in the U.S. has entered perhaps its most dangerous phase. The seven-day rolling average for new daily cases stood at 1,48,725 on Sunday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That means the U.S. is adding about 1 million new cases a week. Deaths averaged 1,103 a day as of Sunday, a 33% increase over two weeks. Pfizer’s announcement that preliminary data indicate its vaccine is 90% effective lifted financial markets last week and gave people worldwide hope that an end to the pandemic will be coming. On Monday, another company, Moderna, said its vaccine appears to be 94.5% effective, according to preliminary data. “We’re going to start those consultations this week,” said Mr. Klain, including Pfizer and other pharmaceutical companies. But in some ways the more critical issue is getting a detailed understanding of distribution plans being finalised by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Pentagon. “We need to be talking to them as quickly as possible,” Mr. Klain said. “It’s great to have a vaccine, but vaccines don’t save lives- vaccinations save lives. And that means you’ve got to get that vaccine into people’s arms all over this country. It’s a giant logistical project.” Dr. Fauci stressed the arrival of vaccines won’t be like flipping a switch to return to normal life. The first doses will become available for people in high-risk groups later this year. He said Americans will have to keep up preventive measures, such as wearing masks, observing social distancing well into next year.
17 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to unveil crucial budget today amid virus||Sri Lanka’s ruling Rajapaksa administration will present its maiden Budget on Tuesday, amid a relentless second wave of COVID-19 that hit the island nation last month. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, also the Minister of Finance, will unveil the Budget for the year 2021 in Parliament, and the final vote — after its third reading — is scheduled on December 10. The Budget assumes significance, coming amid a devastating global pandemic. Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves are under enormous strain in the wake of mounting external debt — the government recently repaid $4.2 billion for this year — while its export and tourism sectors, and worker remittances from abroad, have been severely impacted. The budget comes a year after President Gotabaya Rajapaksa rose to power, promising his voters development and prosperity, and at a time when analysts have warned of a GDP contraction of possibly up to 10%, a low that the country did not experience even during its civil war years. Meanwhile, the plight of Sri Lanka’s working people has come to the fore. Not only because of the cluster that broke out at a garment factory near Colombo last month, putting the lives and jobs of several thousand workers at risk, but also because the threat of joblessness looms larger than before. Worker organisations are desperately looking for some respite in the budget, to help them cope. According to Anton Marcus, joint secretary, Free Trade Zones and General Services Employees Union — representing workers from most of Sri Lanka’s garment factories — some 20,000 workers of the 300,000 employed companies affiliated to Sri Lanka’s Board of Investment have already lost their jobs. “There is a fear of even higher rates of joblessness in the coming months. So about 10 major unions have got together and submitted a proposal for an unemployment benefit insurance scheme. The budget will tell us if the government has taken it into consideration,” he told The Hindu . Concerns on job security Chamila Thushari, of Da Bindu Collective, an organisation working with women employed in the Free Trade Zones, too emphasised the need for the budget to address widespread concerns about job security. “It is very important that the government substantially widens social security. It is essential to allocate money to provide these workers with a cash assistance and essential goods in these bleak times.” It is not just the garment sector workers who are worried. The over 100,000 workers in tea estates, another vital, foreign exchange- earning sector, are faced with heightened poverty and uncertainty since the pandemic hit. “In January, just ahead of Pongal festival, President Rajapaksa promised to raise their wages to LKR 1,000 a day (roughly Rs. 400). The demand for 1,000 rupees is now five years old and it is yet to be met. The pandemic has meant fewer days of work and even lesser wages [than the 700 they currently get],” said C. Ganesalingam, convenor of the Movement for Plantation People’s Land Rights. Further, with many hill country youth employed in capital Colombo losing their jobs and returning to the estates, the number of people to feed in each family has increased. “Some families tell us that they have two instead of three meals a day.” “The pandemic has spared no one. But we have to see how it affects a community that has been neglected and marginalised for several decades. Only a comprehensive policy can help them in the long run. It must factor in job creation, say by ensuring access to agriculture sector, setting up small industries, housing needs, education infrastructure, better health and safety for workers,” he added.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||High praise for Manmohan Singh in Barack Obama’s new memoir||In the first of his two-part memoir, A Promised Land, former U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at length about his interest in India, Mahatma Gandhi’s life and his relationship with former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh whom he calls a man of “uncommon wisdom and decency”. Mr. Obama says he had developed a “warm and productive” relationship with Mr. Singh, describing their interactions in New Delhi on Mr. Obama’s first visit there in November 2010. “A gentle, soft-spoken economist in his seventies, with a white beard and a turban that were the marks of his Sikh faith but to the Western eye lent him the air of a holy man, he had been India’s finance minister in the 1990s, managing to lift millions of people from poverty. For the duration of his tenure as Prime Minister, I would find Singh to be wise, thoughtful, and scrupulously honest,” he writes. “While he [ Mr. Singh] could be cautious in foreign policy, unwilling to get out too far ahead of an Indian bureaucracy that was historically suspicious of U.S. intentions, our time together confirmed my initial impression of him as a man of uncommon wisdom and decency; and during my visit to the capital city of New Delhi, we reached agreements to strengthen U.S. cooperation on counterterrorism, global health, nuclear security, and trade,” Mr. Obama says. ‘A special place’ The former U.S. President writes that his first trip to India was in 2010 but that the place had always “held a special place in my [his] imagination.” He says this is possibly due to its “sheer size” with a sixth of humanity and 2,000 distinct ethnic groups and over 700 languages. Or, he speculates, it could be because he had listened to the Mahabharata and Ramayana during his childhood in Indonesia, or his interest in Eastern religions or because a group of Indian and Pakistani friends in college taught him how to cook ‘dal’ and ‘kheema’, and introduced him to Bollywood movies. Mr. Obama writes at length about Gandhiji’s life and his legacy, including the inspiration U.S. Civil Rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. drew from Gandhiji’s philosophy. He describes a visit with former First Lady Michelle Obama to Mani Bhavan, where Gandhiji used to stay when in Mumbai [then Bombay]. While Mr. Obama says in many respects India counted as a success story, he is not all praise for the country. He talks about the striking inequality between the rich and poor and says “violence, both public and private” continued to be “an all-too pervasive part of Indian life.” “What I couldn’t tell was whether [Manmohan] Singh’s rise to power represented the future of India’s democracy or merely an aberration,” Mr. Obama says.  Mumbai attacks Mr. Singh’s “restraint” against Pakistan after the November 2011 attacks in Mumbai had cost him politically, Mr. Obama writes. “He [Mr. Singh] feared that rising anti-Muslim sentiment had strengthened the influence of India’s main opposition party, the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” Mr. Obama writes, going on to quote Mr. Singh: “‘In uncertain times, Mr. President,’ the Prime Minister said, ‘the call of religious and ethnic solidarity can be intoxicating. And it’s not so hard for politicians to exploit that, in India or anywhere else.’” Mr. Obama describes the rise of “illiberalism” in wealthy nations. “…If I was seeing it even in the United States with the Tea Party — how could India be immune?” The former President’s descriptions of individuals throughout the book, often include a physical description — this applies to both men and women (for instance, on former French President Nicolas Sarkozy: “he looked like a figure out of a Toulouse-Lautrec painting.”). Mr. Obama describes his meetings with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi during his trip to India. “Both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi sat at our dinner table that night. She was a striking woman in her sixties, dressed in a traditional sari, with dark, probing eyes and a quiet, regal presence,” he writes. Ms. Gandhi listened more than she spoke he says, attributing her power to “a shrewd and forceful intelligence”. Mr. Gandhi’s, however, does not fare quite as well in Mr. Obama’s writings. “As for Rahul, he seemed smart and earnest, his good looks resembling his mother’s. He offered up his thoughts on the future of progressive politics, occasionally pausing to probe me on the details of my 2008 campaign,” Mr. Obama says. “But there was a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” The book takes us to 2011, towards the end of Mr. Obama’s first term. Presumably, it is for this reason, the author does not discuss Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who became Prime Minister in 2014 and hosted Mr. Obama in New Delhi at the Republic Day celebrations.
17 November 2020||Islamabad,||Imran’s party in the lead in Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly poll||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) on Monday won eight of 23 constituencies and was leading in one seat in the legislative assembly polls in Gilgit-Baltistan, prompting Opposition parties to dub the election as “stolen.” India has slammed Pakistan for its decision to hold elections in Gilgit-Baltistan and said any action to alter the status of the militarily-occupied region has no legal basis. Media projections Elections were held on 23 seats of the third legislative Assembly on Sunday amidst tight security due to the threat of militancy. Unofficial results compiled by the various media outlets showed that PTI won at least 8 seats and was ahead in one, but it was still well short of majority to form the government. However, it was in a position to form the government as 6-7 independent candidates also won. Geo TV reported that PTI won 8 seats, independent candidates 7, Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) 3, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) 2, Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl (JIU-F) and Majlis Wahdatul Muslimeen (MWM) 1 seat each. However, Dunya TV reported that PTI won 9 seats, independents 7, PPP 4, PML-N 2 and MWM 1 seat. The official results were still not known as election authorities may take some time to announce the final outcome. Both the Opposition parties PPP and PML-N have alleged poll rigging by the ruling PTI. Commenting on the unofficial results, PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari alleged that the “election was stolen“. “Our candidates were asked to leave PPP and join PTI,” Mr. Bilawal said while addressing a protest rally at Gilgit’s DC Chowk against the alleged rigging in the elections. “The people of this region will not allow you to steal their votes,” he said. PML-N also rejected the election results, saying the party would protest against them. Polling was due on 24 seats but it was postponed on one seat after the death of one of the contestants.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s behind the conflict between Ethiopian govt. and Tigray rebels?||Ethiopia’s Nobel Prize winning Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed started a military operation in the rebellious Tigray region earlier this month. Mr. Abiy has said it would be a limited campaign focusing on the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the militia-cum-political party that runs the northern region. However, almost two weeks into the conflict, Ethiopia risks falling into an ethnic civil war with regional implications. Who is TPLF? The TPLF was founded in 1975 as a resistance army of the Tigrayan people against the military dictatorship, which was called the Derg. The leftist Derg, which was established in 1974, would change its title in 1987 but practically remained in power till it was ousted by the armed rebels in 1991. The TPLF played a crucial role in ousting the junta and they were welcomed as national heroes in 1991. TPLF leader Meles Zenawi took over as the interim President in 1991 and became the first elected Prime Minister in 1995. He is largely seen as the architect of the country’s ethno-federal system and remained in power till 2012. But over the years, the government led by the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), a coalition put together by Mr. Zenawi, was accused of being increasingly authoritarian and there were frequent mass protests in the regions. Though the EPRDF contains regional political parties such as the Amhara Democratic Party, the Oromo Democratic Party and the Southern Ethiopian People’s Democratic Movement, the TPLF remained the dominant political force. In 2018, the EPRDF chose Mr. Abiy, a former military intelligence officer, to lead the government amid growing protests and a political deadlock.  Rise of Abiy  Though the EPRDF provided a stable rule with high economic growth for 17 years, there was mounting criticism against the country’s ethno-federal arrangement. The Tigray people make up roughly 6% of the population, while the Oromos have a 34% share and the Amharas 27%. While the TPLF controlled the levers of power through the EPRDF, the Oromos alleged marginalisation. As Prime Minister, Mr. Abiy took a host of steps to cut the outsized influence of the TPLF in the government. He purged TPLF functionaries from key government posts, released political prisoners (jailed by the TPLF-led government) and promised freer media. He reached out to Eritrea, a sworn enemy of the TPLF, which shares a long border with the Tigray region. Mr. Abiy, the country’s first Oromo leader, claimed that his actions are not driven by ethnic calculations but rather aimed at addressing the historic power imbalance in the country and making peace with the neighbours. But the TPLF saw his moves as hostile. War begins The tensions were building up for a while. When Mr. Abiy formed a new political coalition, the Prosperity Party, all constituents of the EPRDF, except the TPLF, joined the new platform. The TPLF saw the formation of a new party as an attempt by Mr. Abiy to consolidate more power in hands. The party’s leadership shifted from Addis Ababa to Mekele, the Tigray regional capital. In August, when Mr. Abiy’s government decided to postpone parliamentary elections, citing COVID-19, the TPLF openly challenged the decision. They accused the Prime Minister of power grab and went ahead holding elections in the region in defiance of the federal government. Then on November 3, TPLF militants attacked a federal military command in the Tigray region and captured military hardware and equipment, prompting Mr. Abiy to declare the military operation. Geopolitical angle Mr. Abiy’s outreach to Eritrea had outraged the TPLF, which had fought a prolonged war with the Eritrean government along the Tigray border. The TPLF now accuses Eritrea of backing Mr. Abiy’s offensive. On Sunday, the rebels fired rockets into Eritrea from Tigray, threatening a wider regional war in the Horn of Africa. Tigray rebels also fired rockets into the neighbouring Amhara region. Even if Mr. Abiy is serious about keeping the operation short, it could spill out of control, given the underlying complexities of the conflict. The TPLF’s old guard cut their teeth in the resistance against the Derg and they have thousands of fighters under their command. Also, the Tigray region shares a border with Sudan. The TPLF enjoyed good relations with Sudan’s ousted dictator Omar Bashir. Sudan has a border dispute with Ethiopia. If Sudan’s new rulers (the transition government includes civilian and military leaders) keep the old links with the TPLF active and the border open for the rebels, the conflict could go on. If it does, it could derail Mr. Abiy’s reform agenda at home as well as the diplomatic agenda abroad.
17 November 2020||Pennsylvania,||Trump campaign retreats from key claim in Pennsylvania suit||Ahead of a Tuesday hearing in the case, President Donald Trump’s campaign dropped the allegation that hundreds of thousands of mail-in and absentee ballots — 6,82,479, to be precise — were illegally processed without its representatives watching. The campaign’s revised lawsuit, filed in federal court on Sunday, maintains the aim of blocking Pennsylvania from certifying a victory for Mr. Biden in the State, and it maintains its claim that Democratic voters were treated more favourably than Republican voters. The campaign still contends in the lawsuit that hundreds of thousands of ballots weren’t properly processed. The Trump campaign isn’t making that claim on the hundreds of thousands of mail-in and absentee ballots, however. Instead, it targets the practice of giving voters an opportunity to fix mail-in ballots that were going to be disqualified for a technicality. It contends some Democratic-run counties allowed voters to do that, while Republican counties did not, arguing Democratic voters were treated more favourably.
17 November 2020||Islamabad,||Islamabad blocked off over anti-France protest||Pakistan authorities sealed off a major road into Islamabad for a second day on Monday as a far-right religious party held fresh anti-France protests. Around a thousand protesters gathered at the roadblock preventing them from entering the capital, a day after 5,000 people rallied in neighbouring Rawalpindi. Authorities have suspended mobile phone services in Islamabad and surrounding areas since early Sunday to prevent rally organisers from coordinating, apart from some brief intervals when coverage appeared to resume. Commuters faced lengthy delays on alternative routes into the city. Pakistan has seen small and scattered protests in recent weeks after French President Emmanuel Macron condemned the beheading of a teacher by an extremist at a school near Paris. The teacher had shown cartoons of Muhammed — forbidden under Islam’s ban on depictions of the prophet — during a class on free speech. Mr. Macron’s response triggered anger across the Islamic world, with tens of thousands in Pakistan, neighbouring Iran and other Muslim countries in South Asia flooding the streets and organising anti-French boycotts.
17 November 2020||Washington,||It is time for Trump to concede, says Obama||It’s time for U.S. President Donald Trump to concede to President-elect Joe Biden, as there is no scenario to reverse the outcome of the election, his predecessor Barack Obama has said. Mr. Trump, who is refusing to concede, has 232 electoral college votes. He has challenged the election results in various States, including Pennsylvania, Nevada, Michigan, Georgia and Arizona. He had demanded a recount in Wisconsin.  Mr. Biden has 306 of the 538 electoral college votes. Absolutely, Mr. Obama told 60 Minutes of the CBNS News in an interview aired on Sunday when asked if in his view, it is time for Mr. Trump to concede. “Well, I mean, I think it was time for him to concede probably — the day after the election — or at the latest, two days after the election. When you look at the numbers objectively, Joe Biden will have won handily. There is no scenario in which any of those States would turn the other way, and certainly not enough to reverse the outcome of the election, Mr. Obama said.
17 November 2020||LONDON,||U.K. PM in self-isolation after contact tests positive||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Monday he is “fit as a butcher’s dog” and firmly in control of the government, despite having to self-isolate because a contact has tested positive for the coronavirus. Mr. Johnson, who is trying to suppress a new surge in coronavirus infections, quell turmoil within his Conservative Party and secure a trade deal with the European Union, said on Twitter that he had no COVID-19 symptoms. He said he would continue to govern using “Zoom and other electronic communication.” Mr. Johnson met with a small group of Conservative lawmakers for about 35 minutes on Thursday. One, Lee Anderson, later developed coronavirus symptoms and tested positive. Mr. Johnson said he was contacted by the national test-and-trace system on Sunday and was following its order to self-isolate for 14 days even though he is “bursting with antibodies” after recovering from the virus earlier in the year. “It doesn’t matter that we were all doing social distancing, it doesn’t matter that I’m fit as a butcher’s dog, feel great - so many people do in my circumstances,” he said.
17 November 2020||Washington,||We will not give up cartoons, asserts Macron||French President Emmanuel Macron has called The New York Times media correspondent to criticise English-language coverage of France’s stance on Islamic extremism after recent attacks, arguing it amounts to “legitimising” violence. “So when I see, in that context, several newspapers which I believe are from countries that share our values... when I see them legitimising this violence, and saying that the heart of the problem is that France is racist and Islamophobic, then I say the founding principles have been lost.” In his column, Ben Smith said the French President had argued “foreign media failed to understand ‘laicite,’” or secularism, a pillar of French policy and society. “We will not give up cartoons,” he vowed.
17 November 2020||BEIRUT,||Syria’s longtime Foreign Minister al-Moallem dies at age 79||Syria’s longtime Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem, a career diplomat who became one of the country’s most prominent faces to the outside world during the uprising against President Bashar Assad, died on Monday. He was 79. Al-Moallem, who served as Ambassador to Washington for nine years, starting in 1990 during Syria’s on-and-off peace talks with Israel, was a close confidant of Mr. Assad. He was known for his loyalty.AP
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The right lessons from Pulwama and Balakot||The ghost of Pulwama and Balakot ( picture ) has been exorcised nearly 20 months after the twin events happened (2019). In Pakistan, former Speaker and Opposition MP, Sardar Ayaz Sadiq, alleged in the Pakistan National Assembly last month that the PTI government, fearing an imminent missile strike from India, had capitulated and released the captured Indian fighter pilot, Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman. The allegation was denied by the Pakistan government and the all-powerful military, and even Mr. Sadiq partially backtracked within a day, but it brought the spotlight back on an incident where the two nuclear-armed neighbours were threatening a military escalation. Overtaken by politics The revival of the focus on Pulwama and Balakot provides us with an opportunity for an honest appraisal of the incident. Unfortunately, this happened in the midst of the Bihar election campaign, and in a throwback to the parliamentary polls last year, an event of strategic importance was only seen through the narrow political prism of its electoral utility for the ruling party. The events of February 2019 need to be extricated from the electoral straitjacket to draw the right lessons. Mr. Sadiq was referring to a meeting held by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi with parliamentary leaders of other political parties on February 27 last year, where he discussed the threat of an Indian missile attack that night. A day earlier, the Indian Air Force (IAF) had targeted a seminary at Balakot in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, avenging the suicide car bomb in Pulwama 12 days earlier that led to the death of 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel. On the morning of February 27, the Pakistan Air Force attempted its riposte in Jammu and Kashmir, and in the ensuing aerial combat, Wg. Cdr. Abhinandan was captured by the Pakistan military. On February 28, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan announced in Parliament that he was releasing the Indian fighter pilot and sending him back home “as a peace gesture”. Aspects about Pulwama The full details of backroom happenings between the suicide car bombing of February 14 and Wg. Cdr. Abhinandan’s return on March 1 are not publicly available but 20 months later, there is definitely greater clarity. Even though a video of the suicide bomber was released by the Jaish-e-Muhammad, there have been constant whispers about certain aspects of the Pulwama terror attack. Those questions have not been answered satisfactorily, even after the 13,800-page National Investigation Agency charge sheet was filed in August and a Pakistani Minister, Fawad Chaudhry, last month claimed, and immediately backtracked from his country’s involvement in the suicide bombing. The responsibility for the intelligence failure, violation of standard operating procedures by security forces and the possible involvement of disgraced Jammu and Kashmir police officer, Davinder Singh, remain unexamined. Davinder Singh was posted in Pulwama from May 2017 to August 2018, and was caught transporting two absconding militants to Delhi in his private car earlier this January. He had earlier been named by Afzal Guru, who was hanged in 2013, as a key go-between in the 2001 terrorist attack on the Parliament. The conduct of the forces If there are some unanswered questions about Pulwama suicide bombing, the questions about the Balakot air strike have, more or less, been answered by foreign governments and international media. Those answers are unflattering to the professional image of the IAF: from actually hitting the designated targets to providing proof of the destruction, the IAF is seen to have lost the battle of the narrative to its Pakistani counterpart — not that a fumbling and bumbling Pakistan military was anywhere near perfect, making ridiculous claims. The performance of the IAF in aerial combat the next day, where it claims to have shot down a Pakistan Air Force F-16 fighter jet, has been received with scepticism in most western capitals. Wg. Cdr. Abhinandan’s defiant behaviour in Pakistani custody deserved the praise that came his way, but the fact remains that the IAF came second best that morning, as it lost a fighter aircraft and the pilot ended in Pakistani custody. That day, the IAF also shot down its own helicopter in friendly fire, close to Srinagar. It cast a shadow on the IAF’s report card of those days, but what made it worse were the IAF’s efforts to prevent any media reportage of the fratricide incident before the Lok Sabha elections were over. It was not just dishonest on the part of a professionally respected force but a partisan act in support of one political party. In a healthy democracy, apolitical armed forces are supposed to follow the elected government’s lawful orders but do not work to further the partisan aims of the ruling party — that would be more in tune with China, where the armed forces are loyal to the Communist Party and not the Chinese state. Military veterans and nationalist commentators, quick to take offence to any perceived slights on behalf of the uniformed, have conveniently ignored this grave misdemeanour of the IAF during an election campaign. Unless corrected, this would set a wrong precedent for the armed forces and its senior leadership. Two decades ago, the then Army Chief, General V.P. Malik, had lodged a strong complaint with Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during the Kargil war about the use of the images of three service chiefs on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election posters. While the crumbling of institutions like Parliament, the judiciary and the media in recent years has earned a lot of attention, scholars have been shy of making robust enquiries about the conduct of the armed forces, an institution even more critical to the health of Indian democracy. Claims, facts and the audience Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat claimed on November 6 that the Balakot strike had sent a strong message that Pakistan no longer enjoys impunity of pushing terrorists into India under the nuclear bogey, and a new Indian template to deal with terror has injected uncertainty in Pakistan. It is a claim which does not hold against the facts on the ground this year, as senior Indian Army officers regularly claim that Pakistan is pushing militants into the Kashmir Valley and has hundreds of militants ready to be pushed across the Line of Control (LoC) at launchpads. Neither the surgical strike of 2016 nor the Balakot air strike have infused deterrence or altered Pakistan’s policies, whether in the Kashmiri hinterland or on the LoC, where Indian security forces personnel continue to lose their lives. However, the Balakot air strike was definitely a punitive move, a tactical act, which demonstrated India’s willingness to cross the threshold of using air power against Pakistan, that too on its mainland. The target audience, as evident in hindsight, was largely domestic — the voters at the polling booth, who responded approvingly. Gravity of the crisis The real focus from February 27 last year should be on the Indian threat and Pakistani counter-threat of firing missiles at each other, an escalatory move that could have taken the conflict into uncharted territory. That the situation was serious is recognised from the urgent interventions by the United States, the United Kingdom and others that night who pressed on both the governments to step back. Narendra Modi’s election campaign speech about the incident, claiming that nuclear weapons were not kept for Diwali, points to the gravity of the crisis. That the two countries could deescalate so quickly is a positive sign but the fact that any miscreant with a few kilos of explosive and an old car can bring these two nuclear weapon states to the brink of war should leave us worried. The current shenanigans in Pakistan’s Parliament should warn us of those dangers and force us to think of ways to minimise them, instead of the usual dose of more bravado and boastful utterances from our political leadership. Sushant Singh is a Senior Fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Andhra Pradesh’s capital conundrums||Andhra Pradesh is witnessing a ‘Game of Thrones’-like gritty politics involving capital cities. Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy’s YSRCP government proposed a three-capital plan in the previous session of the Assembly. As per the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020, the State will have Visakhapatnam, Amaravati and Kurnool respectively as the executive, legislative and judicial capitals of the State. The matter has become contentious along political party lines and the Bill is facing myriad legal and procedural challenges. The proposal is set to replace the ambitious plan of the previous government, led by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), of building Amaravati as a world-class greenfield capital city. The proposed three-capital plan claims to produce decentralised growth, but will it achieve the goal? After the State’s bifurcation in 2014, the then Chief Minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu of the TDP, never missed an opportunity to create a hype around the project. And his own ambitious attempt to make it work with the land-pooling model captured everybody’s attention. The project remained in news, thanks to dissent from protesting farmers, environmental activists and the mirage of hyped investments in the city. A fait accompli It is necessary to acknowledge the origins of the three-capital plan. The attribution to similar plans in South Africa and elsewhere can be shallow, though these might have influenced the thinking of the K.C. Sivaramakrishnan (KCS) Committee that made recommendations along similar lines. However, the KCS committee’s own origins can explain this thinking. The committee was constituted in the aftermath of a bifurcation driven by an agitation legitimised and politicised by regional imbalances in development. The Terms of Reference (ToR) for the committee explicitly stress the overall development of backward regions in the State. They refer to the existing uneven development: the backward north-coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts compared to the central coastal districts. The ToR also stress least disturbance to agricultural lands. Decentralised development has thus become a fait accompli for the committee to recommend, especially in the backdrop of the coruscating sub-nationalism that was running high at the time. Given his proclivities for mega-scale thinking, Mr. Naidu, as the first CM after the bifurcation, had little patience for this moderate path of rebuilding a new State. As someone who flaunted Hyderabad’s growth as a ‘world-class’ city under his rule, Mr. Naidu saw in 2014 an opportunity to build yet another ‘world-class’ city. He put his entire might in envisioning Amaravati. Mr. Naidu’s obsession with a ‘world-class’ capital, combined with the neglect of a coherent development agenda, seems to have cost the TDP. The YSRCP is now riding on this discontent. Though the YSRCP government’s rationalisation of the three-capital plan leans on the KCS committee’s recommendations, there is a difference between the two. While the government’s formula of three capitals — calling them judicial, legislative and executive capitals — appears to be an imported idea, perhaps inspired by the South African example, the KCS committee stressed distributed development through decentralised governance. The essence of the ‘distributed development’ concept was to make deliberate efforts to spatially deconcentrate executive power, driven by region-specific economic activities. For instance, while discussing the Vizag region’s suitability, the committee recommends having government offices relevant to local economic potential, such as for ports, shipping, fisheries and industry, in Visakhapatnam. Further, the panel recommended developing the Visakhapatnam region as a high-tech zone. In a similar manner, it recommends developing the ‘Rayalaseema Arc’, building on the Hyderabad-Kurnool-Anantpur-Bengaluru highway, and the ‘Kalahasti Spine’, using the potential of Nadikudi-Kalahasti railway line. Distinct challenges There may be other reasons for the functionally organised, multiple-capital plan. But the key principle of ‘distributed development’ must not be lost in executing it. The following points may help in ensuring that. First, the multi-capital plan is beset with difficult challenges for the government’s functioning. Running legislative business with most of the secretariat located 400 km away can lead to logistic nightmares and inefficiencies, especially in the absence of efficient infrastructure. Andhra Pradesh can learn from Maharashtra’s experience of running Winter Sessions in Nagpur, aimed essentially at placating regional sentiments. International experiences — including that of South Africa — of deconcentrating executive power by shifting capitals to address regional sentiments do not inspire confidence either. However, Andhra Pradesh has the advantage of a clean slate and does not have to move an existing capital. Thus, the success of distributed development depends on a well-developed infrastructural network linking the growth centres. Andhra Pradesh lacks these linkages now, and sooner the State focuses on these preconditions the better for it. A re-invigorated focus on projects like the Chennai-Visakhapatnam Industrial Corridor is important. Second, infrastructure development within cities — the proposed growth centres — is critical. The KCS committee stressed this extensively. Visakhapatnam, as the executive capital, will experience much stress. The basis cannot be just the availability of land and built-up area, but also the ability to cope with such an intense development. Visakhapatnam, in spite of its excellent and natural advantages, is woefully lacking in its infrastructure. It could not even deliver a functional Bus Rapid Transit system, even with the availability of resources. Third, it is necessary to be conscious of the dynamics set off by these plans, with weak institutions to regulate growth. Unbridled real estate interests can co-opt local State institutions and sabotage environmental interests. The KCS committee warns about the environmental impact of such intensification and densification in cities, with a special reference to Visakhapatnam. The recent environmental disasters, including the LG Polymers gas leak, expose the city’s vulnerabilities. The ongoing processes of preparing the Master Plan and Strategic Plan for the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region are an opportunity to address these challenges. Ad hocism and a casual approach can undo its future potential. Finally, the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020 is thin in details but offers hope in its broad contours of pursuing inclusive development through Zonal Planning and Development Boards. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy now stands at a crossroads: he can either leave the State mired in the alleged “capitalising politics”, or work towards a vibrant and well-governed Andhra Pradesh by pursuing the true spirit of “distributed development”, irrespective of how the functionalised multiple-capital plan plays out. Srinivas Chokkakula is with the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed, a policy framework in step with technology||As technology has evolved in the latter part of the 20th century and the early part of the 21st century, the traditional boundaries between goods and services have blurred. By virtue of Moore’s law, computing capabilities have surged faster than capabilities in traditional industries. These information-based technologies have been widely adopted across a broad range of industries and products that traditionally have not been perceived as electronic or software based. Information is the new currency powering economies. The expansion of computing power has driven the pace of information gathering and analysis. The new currency drives processes and decision-making across a wide array of products and services, making them more efficient and value accretive for consumers. Data is a new currency Let us look at a traditional good, the automobile. A modern automobile has 40% of its component value from electronic-based products and a modern electric vehicle has close to 100 million lines of code, which is more than that used by a Boeing 787 or the Chrome browser. This is a paradigm shift as the amount of “value add” from intangible technology services as opposed to physical objects, even in traditional goods, is being transformed by information. Even if you look at a conventional “metal-based” industrial product, information and electronics are becoming all-pervasive, ensuring that we set boundaries to control quality or the uptime of the equipment. There is increasing digitisation and electronification of industrial activities, products and services, influencing the evolving skill sets in industry. This revolution is taking place across products, as information availability drives efficiency and creates value for customers by providing greater control over the product and its surrounding environment. And, this is what impels customers to value products that have utilised these evolving technologies. Working in silos As governments have focused on improving the lives of people, they have looked at economic development and industry as catalysts to progress. To address the needs of various stakeholders, governments have tended to build specialised departments and designed policies that govern those areas. However, over time, as each of these departments grew, they have tended to operate in silos. This has for most of the 20th century been reasonably successful in driving economic development in countries. The recent developments in technology have, however, blurred standard boundaries that dictate policy framework in most governments. If you take India, industrial promotion policies look at encouraging capital formation from a manufacturing perspective. As technology is driving an increasing share of the value add coming from digitisation and data analytics in products and services across industry segments, there needs to be a way of encouraging capital formation by way of intangibles in traditionally tangible industries. If you look at the automobile industry, policies are governed by the Heavy Industries and the Surface Transport Ministries, respectively. However, increasing electronification and digitisation of the automobile are not covered by industrial policies that govern the Electronics and Information Technology Ministry. Another example involves drones that could serve different sectors, including agriculture, and would require a lot of inter-departmental clearances outside of the Department of Agriculture. There is increasingly a need for inter-departmental cooperation and synergy not only in policy framework but also in deployment. Taking an aggregate view This departmentalisation of policies is facing a challenge from technology that very often blurs the boundaries served by different policies. There is a need to have a holistic view of policies for economic development as technology is becoming a significant enabler in most industries. A change in policy framework regarding economic development that enables various ministries to work together is essential. A sufficiently empowered policy clearing cell could ensure a holistic view on policy across departments of government, at the State and the Centre. In terms of attracting investments, policies have always been driven by subsidies and incentives but increasingly, in a competitive scenario, these are becoming hygiene factors. More significantly, a nourishing ecosystem for industry, including the hard infrastructure and softer areas such as education, skilling, technical institutions, laboratories, testing centres, etc., has to be cultivated. The creation of clusters of companies in adjacent but complementary areas could constitute such an ecosystem that encourages multi and cross-disciplinary learning and spur innovation and economic development. Moreover, this type of ecosphere could also attract investment and capital formation.   There is also the larger issue of a shift of value between manufacturing and services as technology changes. The policy, by and large, promotes and gives incentives for manufacturing, whereas the share of intangibles, even in traditional manufacturing companies, whether it be software, research and development or even servicing of products, are not adequately covered in industrial policies. It is important to include these to encourage innovation and technological development. In this evolving policy framework, it is important that there is close cooperation and alignment between the Centre and State to ensure effective implementation on the ground. Some of these thoughts could help us navigate through an ecosystem that is changing with technology. Srivats Ram is Managing Director, Wheels India Ltd.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Fallen through the cracks||The year 2020 marks the anniversary of two major events concerning the status of women. First, it is nearly fifty years since the Committee on the Status of Women in India (CSWI) submitted the report ‘Towards Equality’ to the United Nations (UN), which focused on women-sensitive policymaking in India, providing a fresh perspective on gender equality. Second, it is the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action, a benchmark for analysing the condition of women and State-led empowerment. Noting these jubilees, this article reviews the position of women’s work in India, the effects of the ongoing pandemic, and the new Indian labour codes in relation to women’s labour. India’s female employment trends do not resonate with its high economic growth, low fertility, and rise in female schooling. Between 2004 and 2018 — unlike the shrinking gender gap in educational attainment — the gender gap in workforce participation yawned, demonstrating one of the lowest labour participation rates for women, which have been consistently declining since 1950. The recently released Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 2018-19 indicates a dramatic fall in absolute employment for men, and more so women, who faced a decline in labour participation rates (from 2011 to 2019) in rural areas from 35.8% to 26.4%, and stagnation in urban areas at around 20.4%. Furthermore, the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report ranks India at 149 among 153 countries in terms of women’s economic participation and opportunity. The  gender wage gap is the highest in Asia, with women 34% below men (for equal qualification and work), according to a 2019 Oxfam report. This stifles women’s labour force participation, despite the guarantees of India’s Equal Remuneration Act, 1976. Women also disproportionately populate India’s informal economy, and are concentrated in low-paid, highly precarious jobs. Research analyst Shiney Chakraborty’s estimates show that agriculture employs nearly 60% of women, who form the bulk of landless labourers in an almost completely informal sector, with no credit access, subsidies, little equipment, and abysmal asset ownership. According to IndiaSpend , only about 13% of women tillers owned their land in 2019. Manufacturing employs (almost completely informally) only around 14% of the female labour force. The service sector sees women disproportionately involved in care-work. According to the National Sample Survey (NSS) 2005, over 60% of the 4.75 million domestic workers are women. COVID-19 fallout In the context of the ongoing pandemic, in India, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showed that 39% of women lost their jobs in April and May compared to 29% of men, corroborating the UN’s fears of COVID-19’s compounding impact on already low-paid and insecurely-employed poor women. Unsurprisingly, India’s strikingly unequal gender division of household work has also worsened during the pandemic. Women spend (an unpaid) three times (as per NSS) or even six times (as per OECD) more time than men in household work. According to the World Health Organization, 70% of the world’s healthcare and social workers are women. In India, women are indispensable as frontline ASHA workers, but they are underpaid and overworked. India recently passed three labour codes, on occupational safety, health and working conditions, on industrial relations, and on social security. The laws are expected to transform labour relations, but they only end up ‘easing business’. The codes acknowledge neither the gender wage gap nor non-payment of wages and bonuses, and ignore informal (mostly women) workers in terms of social security, insurance, provident fund, maternity benefits, or gratuity. Though ‘allowing’ women to work night shifts, there is little focus on accountability and responsibility; even protection from sexual harassment at workplace is missing. Maternity benefits remain unchanged from the 2017 amendment, with an insensitively formulated adoption leave policy that grants leave to women who adopt infants under the age of three months, ignoring that most children are much older at the time of adoption, and offering little incentive to adopt long-awaiting older children. The recent labour codes disregard women’s work conditions. This is, bluntly, women-insensitive labour policy-making, and, all in the middle of a crushing pandemic. Gender cannot be wished away, since every policy and code affects a giant proportion of India’s workforce — both paid and unpaid, acknowledged and unacknowledged. Neethi P. is with the Indian Institute for Human Settlements, Bangalore and teaches on Labour Informality and Women's work
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Unabating attacks on journalists||Isravel Moses, a 26-year-old television journalist who reported on illegal encroachment of land and sale of ganja, was hacked to death in Nallur village in Kanchipuram district of Tamil Nadu on November 8. Four persons who attacked him were later arrested. The same day, another journalist, 35-year-old Syed Adil Wahab, was found brutally murdered in a jungle on the outskirts of Bhopal. Earlier on June 14, 2018, Shujaat Bukhari, a prominent journalist from Kashmir and the Chief Editor of Kashmir Times, was shot dead by three militants in the heart of Srinagar, when he was returning home from office. His manifest views on bringing peace to the Valley did not go well with militants. Such attacks on journalists who dare to expose corruption and misdeeds of anti-social elements, or who do not toe the line of the establishment, have proved to be a threat to journalists the world over. Unfortunately, India has been going down on the World Press Freedom Index during the last few years. In the annual reports of Reporters Without Borders, India has steadily gone down in the global index from a rank of 138 in 2018 to 140 in 2019, and further down to 142 this year. According to the United Nations, “Journalism is one of the most dangerous professions in the world”. Between 2006 and 2019, over 1,200 journalist have been killed the world over. On an average, it is estimated that one journalist is killed every four days. Sadly, in just one out of every ten such cases, the killers get convicted, while the rest go scot-free.  In 2009, as many as 32 journalists were killed in Philippines; ten were killed in Afghanistan in 2016,  and ten journalists were among those killed in a suicide bomb attack in Kabul in April 2018. A report released by an NGO last year states that 40 of the 198 journalists attacked in India between 2014 and 2019 died due to the attack. The killing of journalists is more rampant in smaller towns, while the figures in metro towns are quite low. It is cases like the killing of journalists such as the late Gauri Lankesh in Bengaluru in 2017, that draw much country-wide attention and impel the police to investigate the murder. Low convictions Considering the rising trend in the number of journalists killed each year, the Chairman of the Press Council of India (PCI), Justice Chandramauli Kumar Prasad, counselled the government “to enact a special law for protection of journalists and speedy trial of cases of attacks and assaults”. The PCI’s records indicate that 96% of the cases of attacks on journalists end up without conviction. That there is a need for stringent laws to protect journalists hardly calls for emphasis. Towards this end, Maharashtra has emerged as the first State in the country to enact a law. Under the Maharashtra Media Persons and Media Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2017, any attack on journalists would be non-bailable and cognisable, and would be investigated by an officer not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Conviction under this Act could lead to imprisonment of up to three years and/or fine of up to Rs. 50,000. The attacker will also have to compensate for medical treatment in case of injuries to the journalist and also pay for damage to any equipment. Taking a cue from the Maharashtra law, Chhattisgarh is in the final stages of enacting a law known as Chhattisgarh Protection of Mediapersons Act. It has a wider definition of journalists, covering drivers, and even relatives of journalists. On conviction, the attacker would be liable to be punished under relevant sections of the IPC. But any public servant found guilty of dereliction of duties is liable to be punished with imprisonment of up to one year and/or fine of up to Rs. 10,000. While these two States have taken the initiative to enact laws to protect journalists, other States have to follow. The sooner it is done , the better. M.P. Nathanael retired as Inspector-General of Police, CRPF
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||For Bihar||Nitish Kumar began another term as Chief Minister of Bihar on shaky footing but retaining considerable influence among his core support base. His party, the JD(U), has 31 seats fewer than the BJP in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Even with 74 MLAs among the total NDA tally of 125 in the 243-member Assembly, the BJP had to concede the post of the CM to Mr. Kumar — proof of his indispensability. His command over social groups critical to the alliance remains unimpaired for now, but the inversion of the BJP-JD(U) hierarchy has triggered a new churn that is set to reframe politics in Bihar. The near-death experience of the NDA in the recent election might temper the BJP’s ambitions momentarily, but its plan to claim the pole position in Bihar will inevitably lead to tensions with its partner. By appointing two Deputy Chief Ministers, and displacing former DCM Sushil Modi who was seen as close to Mr. Kumar, the party has set the ball rolling for a more expansive role. The BJP has also kept a lion’s share of ministerial berths and significant portfolios. Two other allies, the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), have four members each, and either party could threaten the survival of the government. Both got a berth each. Mr. Kumar’s measured response to his party’s showing is meaningful. While the changed reality of numbers is visible, the realignment that the BJP will seek remains unmapped. One discernible element of the BJP’s plans is to chart its own routes to Mr. Kumar’s social constituency. This, and issues in government, will require new terms of engagement between him and the BJP. Friction is inherent, but both parties can and should develop a proactive working relationship that optimally pulls in the force of both the Centre and the State governments to plan and execute a rigorous development agenda for Bihar. Repeated electoral defeats must also force the Opposition parties to relook at their mobilisation and organisational strategies. Their role in the opposition should have this larger vision. For the RJD, it is about redesigning its grassroots work to embrace a wider social constituency; for the Congress, the sole focus must be on building an organisational network that takes into account the State’s peculiar social dynamics. In the four years to the next Parliament election, there is ample time for the NDA to advance a new governance mechanism and the Opposition to develop a fresh sense of purpose. The boycott of the swearing-in by the Opposition should have been avoided. Both sides must imbibe the realisation that their responsibilities in Bihar are particularly heavy, considering the State’s daunting development challenges.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Threat or treat||The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was signed into existence on Sunday by 15 countries led by China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and the 10-state ASEAN grouping, creating one of the world’s largest trading blocs. Noticeable by its absence was India, which after seven years of protracted negotiations decided last November to exit the grouping. India had justified its decision as protecting its economy from burgeoning trade deficits with a majority of the 15 RCEP members and had cited the grouping’s refusal to accede to its requests on safeguards as a deal breaker. Those reasons were on the face of it justifiable at the time and were welcomed by industry, trade and farmers’ groups. However, 12 months down the road, India’s opting out appears far more debatable in terms of its economic rationale. With global trade and the economy foundering on the shoals of the COVID-19 pandemic, especially as new infections in Europe and the U.S. prompt fresh restrictions there, the pre-eminence of the east Asian and Pacific countries including China, South Korea, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand serving as a bulwark in containing the pandemic and re-energising economic activity can hardly be understated. Add to this the heightened tariff uncertainty generated by the deadlocked Brexit negotiations between Britain and the E.U., and it becomes evident that India may have missed a vital opportunity. Given that the RCEP members now account for about 30% of the global GDP and a third of the world’s population, the signatory states were emphatic that the timing of the accord presents a unique opportunity to support their economic recovery, inclusive development and job creation even as it helps strengthen regional supply chains. Interestingly, among the ASEAN signatories are several relatively far smaller economies including Vietnam and the Philippines, which not only continue to have their share of disputes with Beijing but also suffer significant trade imbalances with Asia’s largest economy. That these and other larger nations in the grouping have chosen to bury their geopolitical differences with China in order to prioritise what they collectively see as a mutually beneficial trading compact that would benefit their economies over the longer term is the clearest testament to economic realism trumping nationalist politics. Also, the summary of the final agreement shows that the pact does cover and attempt to address issues that India had flagged including rules of origin, trade in services, movement of persons and, crucially, remedies and safeguards. Acknowledging India’s economic heft and value as a market, the RCEP members have not only left the door open should New Delhi reconsider its stance but have also waived a key 18-month cooling period for interested applicants. It would be in India’s interest to dispassionately review its position and embrace openness rather than protectionism.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistan's closest friend (From an editorial)||Air Marshal Nur Khan recently described Communist China as Pakistan’s closest friend and this relationship appears to have been further cemented by President Yahya Khan’s visit to Peking. China is to give Pakistan no less than Rs. 100 crores for its next plan, repayable over 20 years without interest. This is the kind of loan that Pakistan needs in view of its huge external debt which eats up 20 per cent of its exchange earning in debt servicing. The Chinese terms are even more generous than the Russian credit recently promised which is repayable in 12 years. Pakistan has already received a large number of tanks and planes from China and last September, the Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan Navy went to Peking to ask for warships as well. The communique issued on the conclusion of Mr. Yahya Khan’s five-day visit reaffirmed China’s support for the self-determination of Kashmir and for Pakistan’s stand on the Farakka Barrage. However, the Chinese side expressed the hope that Indo-Pakistan problems would be solved peacefully. It is interesting to observe that there was no reference to China’s criticisms of American and Russian policies and that Pakistani support was invited mainly for the holding of an international conference to discuss a total ban on nuclear weapons.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||A day after RCEP, Jaishankar slams trade pacts, globalisation||India has allowed other countries ‘unfair’ trade and manufacturing advantages “in the name of openness”, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar asserted in a speech criticising globalisation on Monday. Speaking just a day after the 15-nation Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was signed, Mr. Jaishankar was particularly scathing of trade agreements. “In the name of openness, we have allowed subsidised products and unfair production advantages from abroad to prevail. And all the while, this was justified by the mantra of an open and globalised economy,” Mr. Jaishankar said at the Deccan Dialogue conference supported by the Ministry of External Affairs. Without directly referring to the RCEP, the trading bloc that India decided to walk out of a year ago, Mr. Jaishankar said that the government had decided to move away from trading arrangements, towards an “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) policy where India could decide the rules and consolidate “comprehensive national power”. “The effect of past trade agreements has been to deindustrialise some sectors. The consequences of future ones would lock us into global commitments, many of them not to our advantage. Those who argue stressing openness and efficiency do not present the full picture,” Mr. Jaishankar said. India was not “turning its back on the world” but strengthening itself. The minister’s comments indicate that India is not considering an offer from RCEP nations to rejoin the group.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||WPI quickens to 8-month high||India’s wholesale price inflation quickened to the highest level in eight months, reaching 1.48% in October 2020 as per provisional data, compared with 0% in October 2019 and 1.32% in September this year. The WPI Food Index inflation slowed from 6.92% in September 2020 to 5.78% in October, 2020, with vegetables inflation cooling down to 25.23% from 36.5% in September. Inflation in potato prices touched 107.7%, while onions registered 8.5% inflation in October. The WPI for August has been revised upwards from 0.16% as reported earlier to 0.41%, as per final data compiled by the Office of the Economic Adviser, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. This revision assumes significance as August marked the first month since March that the WPI clocked positive growth, which was considered a sign of an industrial recovery with producers’ pricing power returning. October’s numbers suggest that this trend has strengthened with manufactured group inflation hitting a 19-month high of 2.1%, and core inflation accelerated to the highest level in 18 months at 1.7%, according to a note by India Ratings and Research.  ‘Not yet a recovery’ “Increase in core inflation suggests improvement in demand conditions, which have improved after [the] COVID-related lockdown was lifted. However, it will be too early to term this as a general recovery; a large part of this is due to festival related demand,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at the rating firm. He termed rising retail food inflation and declining wholesale food inflation ‘a nightmare for policymakers’.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||BPCL gets 3-4 bids; Reliance skips, no big players in race||The government on Monday received ‘multiple’ bids for buying out its stake in India’s second-biggest fuel retailer BPCL. However, billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries as well as supermajors Saudi Aramco, BP and Total did not make a bid. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), which is handling the strategic sale, tweeted that the transaction advisers for the sale of government’s 52.98% in Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd. (BPCL) have reported receiving “multiple expressions of interest.” “The transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by TA,” he said. TA stands for transaction advisor. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted. Neither of them, however, gave the number of bids received or the names of the bidders. Separately, four industry officials said three to four bids have been put in. Reliance Industries, which was considered a potential bidder as BPCL would have added 22% fuel market share to its fledgling retail business and made it the nation’s number one oil refiner. However, it did not put in an expression of interest (EoI) at the close of the deadline on Monday. A clutch of private equity funds and/or pension funds are said to have put in an EoI.
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Airlines may return to pre-COVID levels by Jan.’||Airlines in India are likely to be permitted to operate at the pre-COVID-19 capacity levels by year-end or mid-January, from the existing 70%. “By December 31 or soon thereafter [which] means a week or two weeks thereafter we will back to pre-Covid levels,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. Virtually addressing the Indian School of Business’s Deccan Dialogue, the Minister said he had already urged officials to consider allowing airlines to operate at 80% from the 70% the carriers are permitted now. “Civil aviation in the country was resumed on May 25, a good two months and two days after we had completely locked down [for COVID-19] with 30,000 passengers in a day. Two or three days ago, just before Diwali, we carried 225,000 [passengers],” he said, stressing the need to adhere to the safety protocols and maintain discipline.
17 November 2020||Chennai,||Apollo Tyres to pare capital expenditure||Apollo Tyres Ltd. (ATL), is aiming to lower its capital expenditure during the current fiscal while it focusses on ‘sweating’ the assets, and deleveraging the balance sheet, said a top official. “We are towards the end of our current capex cycle,” said Neeraj Kanwar, vice chairman and MD, during an analysts’ call. “Going forward, the focus would be on sweating the assets and deleveraging the balance sheet,” he added. In the next 2-3 years, ATL would aim to get return-on-capital-employed levels to double digits, he said. As of March, it was 5.3%. For the first half, ATL’s capex was Rs. 600 crore. ATL had earlier planned capex of about Rs. 1,500 crore in FY21 while FY22 was to have seen lower capex. Those plans got swapped due to the COVID situation, he said. Asserting that the third quarter had been bullish so far, he said ATL hit record sales numbers in all categories of tyres, including farm, motorcycle radial, passenger car and truck and bus tyres. Currently, its plants in India were operating at 85%-90% utilisation and the inventory level had declined to 21 days, from 31 days. “We wanted the current year to be tighter on cash since things looked quite bleak as we began the year,” said Gaurav Kumar, CFO, adding that net debt — Rs. 6,000 crore in March — had been reduced to Rs. 4,600 crore by the end of September.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Made-in-China items find favour with 29% buyers’||Chinese products continued to find favour among more than a fourth of Indian households as they offered higher ‘value for money’ even as a majority of respondents chose to skip products made in China, according to a survey. In a survey by LocalCircles, which registered 14,000 responses, 71% respondents said that they “consciously did not buy made-in-China items”, while 29% said they had bought made-in-China products this festival season. Asked what prompted them to choose Chinese products, 66% respondents who purchased made-in-China products said they did so because they found the products offered ‘value for money’, while 13% chose them for their “uniqueness”. “Though 71% consumers did not buy made-in-China products this festive season, many of those who did, ended up doing so because of lower prices,” LocalCircles said in a statement. “With earnings impacted... for many households this year, buying the lowest-cost product was not a choice but the only option.”
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Power demand grew 7.8% in first half of Nov.||India’s power consumption grew 7.8% to 50.15 billion units (BU) in the first half of November this year, signalling a rise in economic activity, as per government data. Power consumption was recorded at 46.52 BU during November 1-15 last year, according to power Ministry data. For all of November last year, power consumption was 93.94 BU. Thus, the extrapolation of half-month data clearly indicates that power consumption may witness year-on-year growth for the third month in a row, according to experts.  Diesel sales in the country fell 5% in the first half of November from a year earlier, industry data showed on Monday, after rising for the first time in eight months in October. However, diesel sales was 7% higher month-on-month. Between November 1 and 15, diesel consumption was 2.86 million tonnes, down from 3.01 million tonnes a year earlier but higher than the 2.65 million tonnes in the first half of October.
17 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘India sees 375 cyberattacks everyday’||Referring to China as a major ‘challenge’ from a cybersecurity perspective for India, National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt. Gen. (retd.) Rajesh Pant on Monday said cyberattacks have gone up multifold in the current environment. “In such unprecedented times, you mentioned two Cs — the challenge of corona and challenge of cyber. Actually, at the perch which I sit, there are 3 Cs. The third ‘C’ of course is on our northern border, which is another challenge that we are facing,” Mr. Pant said at an event organised by HDFC Bank. “There are 4 lakh malware, we find every day. 375 cyberattacks take place,” he added.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Stimulus 3.0 supportive for growth, fiscal impact unclear’||India’s third tranche of stimulus measures should support economic rebound over the coming quarters but the actual fiscal impact is difficult to ascertain, Fitch Solutions said on Monday. The government on November 12 announced another stimulus package, called Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan 3.0, totalling Rs. 2.65 lakh crore. The package included a boost to formal employment, the Production Linked (PLI) Scheme, an increase in the fertiliser subsidy and the rural employment programme MGNREGA. In a report, Fitch Solutions said India’s fiscal deficit is likely to be 7.8% of the GDP in the FY21. “While many of (Stimulus 3.0) scheme should be supportive to India’s economic rebound over the coming quarters, the actual impact on public finances is difficult to ascertain,” Fitch said. The PLI scheme, for instance, spans across a five-year period, and its fiscal impact will likely only be seen from FY2021-22 onwards, it said. Additional expenditure “Estimating using the outright fiscal outlays from this announcement, ‘Stimulus 3.0’ appears to suggest additional expenditure of Rs. 1 lakh crore [0.44% of FY2019/20 GDP],” it said. Moreover, the announcement did not outline any additional borrowing to finance these additional spending, which suggests a reallocation of FY2020/21 budget expenditure plans instead, Fitch added.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||FinMin invites bids from actuarial firms for valuing LIC ahead of IPO||The Finance Ministry on Monday invited bids from actuarial firms for arriving at the embedded value of Life Insurance Corporation ahead of its stake sale. Embedded value is a common valuation measure used to estimate the consolidated value of shareholders’ interest in an insurance company. The last date for submission of bids is December 8.pti
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Mutual funds add 4 lakh folios in Oct; total tally at 9.37 cr||The mutual fund industry has added over 4 lakh investor accounts in October, taking the total tally to 9.37 crore, primarily due to contribution from debt schemes. Data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India show the number of folios with 45 fund houses rose by 4.11 lakh to 9,37,18,991 at the end of last month from 9,33,07,480 at September-end.pti
17 November 2020||Rome,||Italy back in contention among elite||Three years after an embarrassing failure to qualify for the World Cup, Italy is back in contention with the best in Europe. England, meanwhile, is already out of contention for the Nations League finals with one round of matches still to play. An Italy squad badly hit by the coronavirus still managed to beat Poland 2-0 on Sunday, putting the Azzurri in control of its group, while England was beaten 2-0 by top-ranked Belgium.  In all, more than 20 Italy players were unavailable due to the virus and injury. Jorginho converted a penalty for Italy midway through the first half after Andrea Belotti was brought down inside the area. Domenico Berardi added another goal late in the second half after collecting a pass from Lorenzo Insigne. Italy leads Group 1 in League A with nine points. The Netherlands is next with eight points after beating Bosnia 3-1. Poland is still in contention with seven points, while Bosnia trails with two. Dries Mertens scored a superb free kick as Belgium ended England’s hopes of reaching the finals. Belgium took the lead 10 minutes in when Romelu Lukaku set up Youri Tielemans for a deflected shot. Mertens made it 2-0 in the 24th by expertly curling his kick over the English wall — which mostly failed to jump — after Kevin De Bruyne was fouled. Frank de Boer finally has his first win as Netherlands coach after Georginio Wijnaldum scored a swift brace to lead his team to a 3-1 victory over Bosnia-Herzegovina. Wijnaldum, captain in the absence of his injured Liverpool teammate Virgil van Dijk, tapped in from close range in the sixth and 14th minutes to set up the win.  The results:   League A: Group 1: the Netherlands 3 (Wijnaldum 6, 14, Depay 55) bt Bosnia and Herzegovina 1 (Prevljak 63); Italy 2 (Jorginho 27-pen, Berardi 84) bt Poland 0.   Group 2: Denmark 2 (Eriksen 12-pen, 90+2-pen) bt Iceland 1 (Kjartansson 85); Belgium 2 (Tielemans 10, Mertens 24) bt England 0.   League B: Group 1: Austria 2 (Schaub 81, Grbic 87) bt Northern Ireland 1 (Magennis 75); Romania v Norway - postponed.   Group 2: Slovakia 1 (Gregus 32) bt Scotland 0; Czech Republic 1 (Darida 7) bt Israel 0.   Group 3: Turkey 3 (Karaman 26, Under 32, Tosun 52-pen) bt Russia 2 (Cheryshev 11, Kuzyaev 57); Hungary 1 (Kalmar 39) drew with Serbia 1 (Radonjic 17).   Group 4: Bulgaria 1 (Iliev 68) lost to Finland 2 (Pukki 7, Lod 45+1); Wales 1 (Brooks 67) bt Republic of Ireland 0.   League C: Group 2: North Macedonia 2 (Trickovski 29, Stojanovski 68) bt Estonia 1 (Sappinen 52); Georgia 1 (Qazaishvili 65-pen) lost to Armenia 2 (Ghazaryan 33, Adamyan 86).   Group 3: Moldova 0 lost to Greece 2 (Fortounis 32, Bakasetas 41); Slovenia 2 (Kurtic 63, Ilicic 90+4-pen) bt Kosovo 1 (Muriqi 58).   Group 4: Albania 3 (Cikalleshi 16, Ismajli 23, Manaj 63) bt Kazakhstan 1 (Kuat 25); Belarus 2 (Yablonski 5, Ebong 20) bt Lithuania 0.
17 November 2020||Augusta,||Johnson realises childhood Masters dream||Top-ranked Dustin Johnson won the Masters in record-smashing fashion on Sunday, capturing his second Major title with the lowest total score in Augusta National history. In tears The 36-year-old American, known for keeping his cool on the course, was in tears after winning the green jacket only an hour's drive from where he grew up. “It's a dream come true,” a crying Johnson said. “As a kid I always wanted to become a Masters champion. It's just incredible.” Johnson, whose other Major victory came at the 2016 US Open, fired a four-under 68 to finish on a Masters record 20-under 268. That was good enough for a five-stroke triumph over South Korean Im Sung-jae and Australian Cameron Smith with third-ranked American Justin Thomas fourth on 276. Johnson's score in relation to par matched the lowest in Major history and smashed the old 72-hole Masters mark of 18-under 270 set by Tiger Woods in 1997. It was an incredible turnaround for a player who missed his planned Masters tune-ups after contracting COVID-19 last month, returning only last week with a runner-up effort in Houston. Johnson, who began with a four-shot edge, had never converted a 54-hole Major lead into a title, stumbling at the 2010, 2015 and 2018 US Opens and in August's PGA Championship, where he finished runner-up. Johnson is the first reigning World No. 1 to grab the green jacket since Tiger Woods in 2002. Im had the lowest score for any Masters newcomer but couldn't become the first debut winner since 1979. Smith closed on 69, becoming the first Masters player to shoot all four rounds in the 60s. Woods’ nightmare Woods, a five-time Masters winner and 15-time Major champion, found Rae's Creek three times on his way to a septuple-bogey 10 at the par-3 12th, his worst score ever on a Major hole. He responded with birdies on five of the last six holes to close on 76 and finish on 287. Germany's Bernhard Langer, at 63 the oldest to make any Masters cut, shot 71 to finish on 285, one stroke better than US Open champion Bryson DeChambeau, who closed on 73 and never threatened to overpower Augusta, nagged by dizziness.  The scores: 268: Dustin Johnson (65, 70, 65, 68); 273: Im Sung-jae (Kor, 66, 70, 68, 69), Cameron Smith (Aus, 67, 68, 69, 69); 276: Justin Thomas (66, 69, 71, 70); 277: Dylan Frittelli (RSA, 65, 73, 67, 72), Rory McIlroy (NIR, 75, 66, 67, 69).
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘When Virat goes home, Rohit might step up’||Former Australia fast-bowler Glenn McGrath said in a select media interaction on Monday that Virat Kohli’s absence during the Border-Gavaskar series will be an opportunity for Rohit Sharma to realise his full potential as a Test batsman. Excerpts: Virat Kohli will return home after the first Test for the birth of his child. Will that impact India's chances in the four-match series? The birth of your child is a very important time and he wants to be there for it and support his wife. So, I can understand. There is no doubt that it will impact the series for India to lose a player of his quality and class. It's up to the other players to do the heavy lifting. In Kohli's absence, who might the Australian bowlers target? Rohit Sharma is a quality batsman who hasn't achieved at Test level what he should be achieving in my opinion... Maybe when Virat goes home, he might step up. Having said that, you can't just focus on one player. You have [Ajinkya] Rahane, [Cheteshwar] Pujara, [K.L.] Rahul, so there's a quality batting line-up. Once Virat leaves, it will be an opportunity for someone else to put their hand up and make a mark. Maybe that could be Rohit Sharma. How important is the Adelaide Test? India haven't played a Day/Night Test in Australia and it is unique, especially with the sun setting and at night, where it starts favouring the bowlers, primarily the quicks. It is about timing — when you are bowling or batting in those conditions. Virat, to have an impact, needs to come good... the first Test will set the tone — two years ago, [India] won the first game in Adelaide and went on to win the series. What does Jasprit Bumrah need to do to hit the ground running in Australia? Bumrah is a class bowler. He has a lot of mental strength to go along with his skill. He bowls good pace and good areas... his second and third spells are just as quick as his first, so he has got every attribute to be one of the greats. He will be fine — it is about confidence and getting a few overs under your belt ... finding the right length on the slightly quicker wickets. That said, he did pretty well in the IPL, bowled a lot of overs, so he will be confident in his body.  (India's tour of Australia will be telecast live from 8 a.m. on November 27 , on Sony Ten 1, Sony Ten 3 and Sony Six channels)
17 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Not sure Kohli’s absence will be a deciding factor: Cummins||Ever since it was announced last week that Virat Kohli would return to India after the first Test against Australia, it has stolen the headlines across the cricketing globe. Asked to weigh in on the effect of Kohli’s absence on the series, Australia pace wizard Pat Cummins said it “might make a bit of a difference” but it won’t be a deciding factor. Will be missed “As a captain, obviously he’ll be missed, but the Indian cricket side always has some incredible batsmen outside the team just waiting for an opportunity, so maybe that new opportunity will be the beginning of someone else’s career,” Cummins said in a select media interaction on Monday. “It might make a bit of a difference. I am not sure it’s going to be a deciding factor in the series, but to be honest us players haven’t spoken too much about it.” The tour, which starts with the first of three ODIs on November 27 and will be telecast on Sony Six, is being touted as an opportunity for revenge for Australia since India won its first Test series Down Under in 2018-19. Cummins stressed that Australia is eager to “make amends” this time around. “Both teams, I think, are at the top of the Test championship table at the moment. It’s going to be a high-quality series,” he added. The 27-year-old also said Australia was in a better position now compared with the 2018-19 series, which David Warner and Steve Smith missed because they were serving suspensions after the ball-tampering incident in South Africa. Best in the world “If I look back at that series, obviously Smith and Warner [are back], but obviously you’ve got Marnus [Labuschagne] who now is one of the best batters in the world. Trav[is] Head’s had another 20 or 30 games and obviously the bowlers, two years further down the track. Hopefully we’re better equipped than we were a couple of years ago. But India are much the same. They have got the same line-up, same high-quality players, so it’s going to be a great series.”
17 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Habas worried about injuries to players||The various restrictions in place in the bio-security bubble that Indian Super League teams are complying with, has increased the risk of injury to players, feels Antonio Lopez Habas the coach of defending champion ATK Mohun Bagan. As the teams enter their final round of practice schedules prior to the start of the tournament, Habas sounded unsatisfied with his team’s practice, which he felt was hindered by the “several rules” put in place owing to the pandemic. “Honestly, I didn’t get the kind of preparation I needed due to the several rules put in place for the corona situation. The footballers did not get on-field training for the days they needed. There was no opportunity to play practice matches,” Habas said ahead of ATK’s inaugural match against Kerala Blasters on Friday. ‘Not an excuse’ “But this is not an excuse. The situation is almost the same for all the teams. “I am afraid of injuries to the players. “After such a short period of practice, there is a possibility of the footballers getting injured easily,” Habas was quoted in an ATK MB release. ATK Mohun Bagan was among the first teams to start its pre-season in Goa after arriving at the ISL venue in the second week of October. “Playing on a field without spectators affects the footballers’ enthusiasm. “But there is nothing to be done,” said Habas as he gave another reason that could bring down the competition’s intensity.  Habas was mindful of the fact that ATK MB could not beat Kerala Blasters in the two meetings last season but chose not to be influenced by those results. “In football, the result of previous matches remain only as statistics. “I don’t think the impact of last year’s Kerala match will be felt in Friday’s match,” he said. First encounter Interestingly, Habas’ first encounter will be against compatriot Kibu Vicuna — the present Kerala Blasters coach and the same man who guided Mohun Bagan to its final I-League glory before it amalgamated with ATK.
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Five ISL clubs fail to secure licence from AIFF||Five Indian Super League clubs have failed to meet the AFC and national licensing criteria and will now have to either appeal against the decision or seek exemption from the AIFF in order to take part in the cash-rich event starting on Friday. Odisha FC, NorthEast United FC, Kerala Blasters, Hyderabad FC and new entrants Sporting Club East Bengal are the five clubs which were not handed licenses by the AIFF to be able to take part in AFC and national competitions this season. Successful clubs FC Goa, ATK Mohun Bagan, Bengaluru FC, Jamshedpur FC, Chennaiyin FC and Mumbai City FC have successfully secured the AFC and National licences for the 2020-21 season. These five clubs which failed to secure licenses can either appeal to the Club Licensing Appeals Body of AIFF against the decision of the Club Licensing Committee (First Instance Body) within a stipulated time or can apply for an exemption to the Club Licensing Committee. “These five clubs will have to appeal against the decision or will have to seek exemption from sanctions if they want to take part in the ISL,” Sunando Dhar, the AIFF CEO of Leagues, Sunando Dhar told PTI. Any club which failed to secure AFC License will not be able to take part in continental tournaments likes AFC Champions League and AFC Cup even if they qualify from the ISL.
17 November 2020||London,||Djokovic routs Schwartzman||Diego Schwartzman suffered a similar fate to fellow ATP Finals debutant Andrey Rublev the previous night as the Argentine was brushed aside by five-time champion Novak Djokovic on Monday. Russian Rublev barely laid a glove on 20-time Grand Slam champion Rafael Nadal during a straight sets loss and Schwartzman looked equally powerless to prevent a sixth loss from six meetings with the clinical Djokovic, losing 6-3, 6-2. The Serb dropped his serve early on at the virtually empty O2 Arena, where on Sunday he was presented with the ATP’s end-of-year number one award for a record-equalling sixth time. Imperious But from that moment on he was immaculate. He broke back immediately and then pounced again when Schwartzman served at 3-4, outmanoeuvring his opponent before pummeling away a forehand winner into the corner. Djokovic secured two breaks in the second set and clinched victory with a minimum of fuss. The 33-year-old World No. 1 is bidding to win the title for the first time since 2015 and equal Roger Federer’s six. Nadal began his quest to fill the one blank on his glittering CV in impressive fashion with a crushing 6-3, 6-4 defeat of Rublev. The Spanish 20-time Grand Slam champion has never won the season-ender, reaching only two finals, but looked in menacing form against the Russian youngster. The World No. 2 broke serve in the sixth game of the first set on his way to the opening set. Rublev, whose five titles this year was more than any other player on the ATP Tour, became visibly frustrated as he could make no impression on the rock-solid Spaniard having dropped serve at the start of the second set. Nadal was clinical on serve and wrapped up victory in his opening round-robin match in the London Group in 77 minutes.  The results:   Group Tokyo 1970: 1-Novak Djokovic (Srb) bt 8-Diego Schwartzman (Arg) 6-3, 6-2.   Group London 2020: 2-Rafael Nadal (Esp) bt 7-Andrey Rublev (Rus) 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles: Group Bob Bryan: 4-Marcel Granollers (Esp) & Horacio Zeballos (Arg) bt 6-John Peers (Aus) & Michael Venus (NZ) 7-6(2).   Group Mike Bryan: 2-Rajeev Ram (USA) & Joe Salisbury (GBr) bt 8-Lukasz Kubot (Pol) & Marcelo Melo (Bra) 7-5, 3-6, [10-5] .
17 November 2020||Chennai,||TN cricketers undergo COVID test||Though the start date of the domestic season has not been finalised, the Tamil Nadu team took its first step in preparation by conducting COVID-19 Tests for 39 players who will be part of the conditioning camp that will start later this week. The players who played for the State in any of the three formats last year have been selected for the first phase of the camp that will be held under coach D. Vasu’s supervision. All test negative “All players tested negative today. Over the next two days, we will complete the physical assessment tests before starting the camp in batches of 10,” said TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy. The TNCA is also likely to finalise the members of the Cricket Advisory Committee and selection committee in its Apex Council meeting that will be held on Saturday. The dates for the resumption of the league will also be finalised later this week. While the semifinals and final of the first division matches are expected to be completed by the first week of December, the remaining lower division matches will likely resume from the third week of next month.
17 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,||KCA’s T20 league likely in December||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) is awaiting the clearance from the State government for its T20 League — proposed as a precursor to a full-fledged Kerala Premier League — scheduled to be held at Alappuzha next month. It will be sponsored by Dream11, the title sponsor of the IPL, and Twenty First Century Media. “We will conduct the league strictly according to the COVID-19 guidelines,” KCA secretary Sreejith V. Nair told The Hindu on Monday. “We are planning to accommodate all the players in one hotel, so as to reduce chances of infection. We will also conduct tests regularly to all the players and officials.” Six teams will compete on a round-robin basis. The top two will clash in the final. The teams will be finalised soon. “We have requested all the districts in the State to forward the names of the players who have done well in various tournaments,” Sreejith said. “The league will also serve as a trail to select the Kerala teams for the domestic tournaments,” he said. “Our top senior players and best juniors will be part of the teams.” The tournament will be streamed live.
17 November 2020||KOCHI,||Anju Bobby George determined to lead the fight against doping||As the senior vice-president of Athletics Federation of India (AFI), Anju Bobby George is keen to lead the fight against doping. “I am ready to be in the front in the fight against doping,” said Anju, the country’s lone World Championships medallist — bronze at the 2003 Worlds in Paris — in a chat with The Hindu . A few years ago, India was third in world list of countries with most doping cases. It is now seventh as per the World Anti-Doping Agency’s December 2019 list but that could be because the country did not take enough number of tests or did not target prime suspects. “We are on the edge of being disqualified for the number of athletes suspended for dope, so we (the AFI) have zero tolerance towards doping and age fraud. “This is an individual sport and we can control the national camp but to check others who are outside, or in the school or college level is not easy.” Anju feels the Athlete Biological Passport (ABP) could be the most effective way to catch cheats. Wide variations “If you have taken any illegal substance during a certain period, there will be wide variations in your blood profile which will show in the ABP and you could be caught.” Doping, she feels, often tends to pull one down. The difference “If we are performing in India with the support of some illegal substance and when we go for a major championship without that substance, that fear will be enough to pull us down. “You will think you would not be able to perform because you don’t have the support of that particular substance,” she said. No fear “I did not have such fear when I was competing for I knew I was getting the results with my pure hard work and training.”
17 November 2020||New Delhi,||Ministry sanctions Rs. 10 lakh for M.P. Singh’s treatment||The Sports Ministry on Monday disbursed Rs. 10 lakh for the treatment of hockey Olympian Mohinder Pal Singh, who is suffering from a chronic kidney ailment and is currently on dialysis. The money, sanctioned under the Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya National Welfare Fund for Sportspersons, was given to his wife Shivjeet Singh. Speaking about the decision to extend financial support to Singh, Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said, “M.P. Singh ji has contributed richly to hockey both as a player and a coach. His physical condition is a matter of great concern for all of us. “Kidney treatment is an expensive treatment and we wanted to extend as much financial support as we could. “I have also spoken to Mahesh Sharma ji, who is the Member of Parliament of Noida where MP Singh ji lives and a letter has also been sent from his office to PM Relief Fund so that the hospital bills can be paid through the fund.”
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. approves online totalizator transactions for season||The Hyderabad Race Club will resume live racing after a pandemic-induced long gap. According to an official press release, the races without spectators, will be part of the Hyderabad winter races from November 19 and March 1, 2021. The Club also expressed its gratitude to the Telangana government for granting approval to online totalizator transactions. “The HRC has acquired high-end hardware and software at a considerable cost for taking online transactions on the totalizator from November 19,” the statement mentioned. Besides the online facility, the regular morning ticket sales counters for both live and off-course races will be open while strictly following the COVID-19 protocols at HRC, Malakpet and its off-course tote centres in the twin cities and outstation venues. “The morning sales counters will be opened at HRC and other tote centres from 9.00 am and will be closed half-an-hour prior to the scheduled first race of that particular racing centre and there will not be live offline transaction tickets sold during the conduct of the races,” the statement added. The procedure to register and use the online application can be viewed on www.hydraces.com  The total prize money on offer is Rs. 6,62,00,000, with trophies to the value of Rs. 3,65,000.  Important races:   Nov. 19: Dodla Pratap Chander Reddy Memorial Million; Dec. 13: Golconda 1000 Guineas; Dec. 27: Golconda 2000 Guineas; Jan. 10: Golconda Oaks; Jan. 31: Golconda Derby Stakes .
17 November 2020||Dubai,||ICC chairman’s election might feature three rounds of voting: report||The ICC’s Board of Directors could be involved in a three-round voting process to elect the next independent chairman between Greg Barclay and Imran Khwaja in case the magic figure of 11 is not reached at the first count. The ICC’s annual quarterly meeting began on Monday and the electronic voting process will involve the 16 board of directors — 12 from full member (Test playing nations), three associate countries and one independent female director (Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo). Barclay of New Zealand or Khwaja of Singapore will need at least 11 votes (2/3rd majority) to win the elections but with a fractured mandate, it will be difficult for either to get a two-third majority. According to a report in ESPNcricinfo, there will be three rounds of voting. “If neither candidate gets that number of votes (after first round), another round of voting will take place - most likely later this week. “Should that also not throw up a winner, a final round of voting will take place. If there is no two-thirds majority after that, then it is believed that Khwaja will be appointed the new chairman for a stipulated period. Votes are being cast electronically,” the website reported.
17 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||TTAK begins efforts to start competitions||The Table Tennis Association of Kerala (TTAK) will hold a meeting of its district units to explore the possibility of starting competitions next month. The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) on November 8 decided to conduct the National championships in January next year and directed all State associations to hold State championships by December 15. Decisions to be taken TTAK will hold a virtual meeting on November 29 to decide the venues for district and State championships and to select teams for participation in the National championships. TTAK secretary Michael Mathai said players’ future was of paramount importance and the association would take all steps to hold the State championships, complying with SOPs and the standard COVID-19 protocol. “The TTFI has sent us detailed guidelines and SOPs. We will follow the tournament guidelines of TTFI. But we have to comply with the State Government SOPs while conducting district and State championships. “The situation in Kerala is that most of the stadiums and indoor courts are yet to be fully opened to sportspersons. Most of the TT players are yet to begin full-fledged practice. We have asked permission from the Kerala State Sports Council and the State Government to conduct the championships. Proposals “We have received a few proposals from our member units, such as holding the State championships separately for seniors, juniors and sub-juniors at different venues. We will discuss all this at our meeting and explore all possibilities for holding the events,'' said Mathai.  All COVID protocols to be followed Separate tourneys, venues to be discussed
17 November 2020||Lodz (Poland),||Olympic champion turns delivery rider||With a large delivery bag on his back, Venezuelan Olympic champion fencer Ruben Limardo is out cycling around his adopted hometown in Poland, making ends meet in a strange but heart-warming tale from this time of pandemic. The 35-year-old London Olympics foil gold medallist, who will go for glory again at the Tokyo Olympics next year, stunned his fans recently when he tweeted revealing the nature of his new job. Earn your way “You have to earn your way and this is a job like any other,” said Limardo as he went about a typical day of training and making food deliveries for Uber Eats. And he is not the only one — 20 other members of Venezuela’s national fencing team live the same improbable existence. “We are all delivery riders,” said Limardo, speaking in fluent Polish. “We get very little money from Venezuela because of the crisis there. And the pandemic has turned everything around. There are no competitions, the Tokyo Olympics were delayed for a year and the sponsors are saying they will start paying again in the new year. “That’s why we have to make money on the road,” said Limardo, who does around 50 kilometres (31 miles) per day on his bike, earning around €100 a week. “It works well with our training. We could even say it is an extension of the training. It allows us to live, finish our studies. “We help each other out with training, paying rents.”
17 November 2020||KOCHI,||Celebrate victories, Anju tells athletes||Indian athletes should be taught to celebrate their wins to make the sport more attractive, feels Anju Bobby George. “We need to teach our athletes how to celebrate victories, we have to be entertainers also to attract spectators,” she said. “We need to learn to entertain spectators, to engage them. Fans are here to enjoy our speed, our jumps or our throws. “There is no charm if there are no spectators in our sport. Initially I was also very shy but after moving with international athletes, I also learned to celebrate.” She also feels that athletics meets need to be more compact. “We can have small one-hour or two-hour programmes with a few specific events. “The AFI is also planning to popularise certain events like javelin, walks, 400m and long jump among others.”  We need to learn to entertain spectators, to engage them
17 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||A-Division league may start by month-end||The Hyderabad Cricket Association is likely to start the A-Division three-day league in the last week of November, after conducting COVID-19 tests on players who will feature in it, according to HCA secretary R. Vijayanand. The HCA official told The Hindu that a decision had been taken in this regard after a meeting with all the concerned club secretaries and officials. Emphasis on safety “The emphasis will be on the safety of everyone involved in the league, including the ground staff, and a bio-bubble will be in place as we don’t want anything untoward to happen,” said Vijayanand. “Right now, 18 teams are in the fray and a final call will be taken soon on whether to continue with BDL, which is mostly fielding outsiders, or replace it with Commercial Taxes which has given jobs to eight cricketers. There is a still a dispute about Andhra Bank,” he said. “Naresh Sharma, joint-secretary of HCA, will be the overall in-charge for the conduct of the leagues,” added Vijayanand. “Though there has been no specific communication from the BCCI about the commencement of Ranji Trophy, even it was informally indicated that it will begin in January, we have deemed it fit to be ready for fielding a team,” Vijayanand said. Need for an AGM The primary objective of starting the league later this month is to ensure that at least some matches are played before the scheduled Annual General Meeting (AGM) on November 29 at Uppal Stadium here, the HCA secretary said. “The AGM is subject to State Government approval and we have written to the Commissioner of Police, Mandal Revenue Officer and the Health Department to get the necessary permission,” said Vijayanand. “It is important for the AGM to be held as accounts from 2019 have to be passed to get BCCI dues of about Rs. 70 crore,” Vijayanand asserted.
17 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jack sizzles, but in vain||A seven-goal spree by Jack Richadson proved inadequate for Sona Polo as it losty 11-8 by Sahara Warriors in the Sir Pratap Singh Cup 14-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground. With three teams in the league finishing on equal points, a penalty shootout resulted in Sahara Warriors and Sona Polo making the final ahead of Jindal Panther.  The results (league): Sahara Warriors 11 (Daniel Otamendi 4, Padmanabh Singh 3, Gaurav Sahgal 2, Kuldeep Singh 2) bt Sona Polo 8 (Jack Richardson 7, Basheer Ali) .
17 November 2020||New delhi:,||Mannika in quarterfinals||Top seed Mannika Sansanwal beat Suhani Gupta 8-7(7) in the AITA Talent series u-14 girls pre-quarterfinals’ tennis on Monday.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Under-14 boys: Pratyushraj Goel bt Tanmay Tomar 8-0; Eshant Patra bt Uttam Karthik 8-6; Kunsh Kakkar bt Charanjot Singh 8-1; Dhruveer Grover bt Dhruv Sharma 8-0; Mayank Ujjainwal bt Anmol Saini 8-7(4); Aarav Chawla bt Shivam Kandari 8-0; Viraj Chawla bt Purahan Yadav 8-1; Vishesh Kumar Singh bt Mod. Salik Neyazi 8-1.   Under-14 girls: Mannika Sansanwal bt Suhani Gupta 8-7(7); Nafeesa Zafar bt Mrinalika Swami 8-1; Anisha Sivakumar bt Pradeepti Gusain 8-1; Tanvi Arora bt Pari Bhardwaj 8-4; Stuti Kumar bt Praneet Kaur 8-1; Snigdha Ruhil bt Samaira Kohli 8-3; Khushi Gaur bt Vaishnavi Singh 8-3; Anya Gupta bt Avika 8-1 .
17 November 2020||Chandigarh:,||Akshat gets past Umang||Akshat Dhull edged past Umang Singh Gogi 8-7(4) in the under-16 boys’ pre-quarterfinals of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament here on Tuesday.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Under-16: Boys: Aditya Chauhan bt Naveen Pruthi Sabyasachi 8-1; Anirudh Sangra bt Darshan Dilabr Singh 8-3; Akshat Dhull bt Umang Singh Gogi 8-7(4); Rakshit Dhankar bt Yash Solanky 8-2; Aarush Sharma bt Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa 8-3; Rishi Dahiya bt Gurpuneet Singh 8-3; Arnav Bishnoi bt Aryan Jolly 8-1; Keshav Dangi bt Lakshya Gupta 8-4.   Girls: Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Saanvi Garg 8-2; Riya Kaushik bt Milli Pandit 8-6; Vanya Arora bt Krittika Katoch 8-1; Rubani Kaur Sidhu bt Catherine Bhangu 8-4; Harnoor Kaur Sidhu bt Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu 8-7(4); Shriya Singh bt Ananya Dogra 8-5; Sidhak Kaur bt Simar Atwal 8-4; Radhika Vasudeva bt Agrima Gandhi 8-1 .
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Snooker tournament||The Tamil Nadu Billiards & Snooker Association (TNBSA) will conduct the All-India open snooker tournament from November 17 to 27. The tournament, to be conducted in knock-out format, is held in the memory of Ajay Rastogi, a Class-I accredited referee. Prominent players such as the 2019 World 6-red men’s champion Laxman Rawat, Yogesh Kumar, Faisal Khan, Vijay Nichani, S. Shrikrishna, Rafath Habib are expected to participate.
17 November 2020||CARY (USA),||Prajnesh stumbles in the final||Prajnesh Gunneswaran could not provide an appropriate finish to his strong campaign and the fourth seed was beaten 3-6, 6-3, 6-0 by the second-seeded American Denis Kudla in the final of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here. Prajnesh earned 48 ATP points and $4,240, while Kudla got 80 points and $7,200.
17 November 2020||Melbourne,||BBL introduces X-factor subs, Power Surge||The inclusion of ‘X-factor’ substitutes are among three rule changes for the 10th edition of Australia’s Twenty20 Big Bash League (BBL). Teams will be allowed to use one X-factor player after the 10th over to replace a batsman or bowler who has bowled no more than one over. The other two changes allow for a ‘Power Surge’ — a two-over PowerPlay for the batting team at any stage of the second half of an innings, when only two players will be allowed in fielding positions outside the inner-ring. To accommodate that Power Surge, the PowerPlay at the beginning will be reduced from six to four overs. The other rule change involves a bonus point, to be called a ‘bash boost’, being awarded halfway through the second innings to the team with the best 10-over score. The BBL is set to start on December 10.
17 November 2020||Adelaide,||Fresh outbreak in Adelaide||A fresh coronavirus outbreak in Adelaide on Monday forced Australian players, including captain Tim Paine, into self-isolation but the country’s cricket board asserted that the first Test against India from December 17 would go ahead as scheduled.
17 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Apollo Tyres extends deal with Chennaiyin||India’s leading tyre manufacturer Apollo Tyres, on Monday, renewed its association with Chennaiyin FC. Apollo Tyres will continue as the two-time Indian Super League champion’s principal sponsor after signing a multi-year deal, according to a press release.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Desire for wealth||In Bhagavata Purana, Lord Krishna elaborates on the problems that result from wealth, said P.T. Seshadri, in a discourse. A man in love with money, steals to increase his wealth. He does cruel things. He is dishonest and vain. He becomes greedy. When he is unable to make more and more money, he is upset and becomes ill tempered. He becomes arrogant and egoistic, thinking that none can equal him in terms of wealth. He then begins to disrespect others. Because he treats others disrespectfully, people begin to distance themselves from him. Because people move away from him, enmity results between him and his acquaintances. Because people become inimical towards him, he never trusts anyone. Because of this mistrust, he wants to be powerful always. He begins to desire liquor. He takes to gambling. He is drawn to women and the pleasures they give him. Wealth ruins all his relationships. Father and son quarrel. Brothers fight amongst themselves. Husband and wife are no longer on good terms. His friends argue with him. Everyone becomes his enemy. He neither enjoys his wealth, nor does he share it with others. Finally, on his deathbed, what is he left with, but papa? Only by control of mind the desire for money can be overcome, Lord Krishna tells Uddhava. One should not be attached to body. To whom does the body belong, asks the Lord. Does it belong to one’s mother, or wife, or employer, or the fire that burns it? When one dies, dogs hope to eat the flesh, as do vultures. Does the body belong to them? When one does not even know to whom the body belongs, why should one love it so much, asks Krishna. The attachment to body is because one has not controlled the indriyas, and to achieve control of the indriyas one must control the mind.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 08:18 IST,||Sudoku - November 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Good tech||On August 6, 2016, Greg Van Avermaet rode for his life in Rio de Janeiro. Beginning in Copacabana, he raced his bicycle 150 miles through the Ipanema, Barra, and Reserva Maripendi beaches, before returning to Copacabana to capture the men’s individual gold medal in the cycling road race at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Brazil. It was a gruelling race, which saw multiple crashes that day. He averaged 23.3 miles per hour over the six-hour-and-nine-minute race, during which he hit a maximum speed of 67.1 miles per hour. He did all this in 89-degree (Fahrenheit) weather, which peaked at over 100 degrees. He hit a maximum cadence — the speed with which a rider turns the pedals— of 173 rpm, averaged 85 rpm, and ended the race with a winning sprint at 110 rpm. Then he did something he could never have done before 2009. He posted all these statistics to a social exercise app called Strava, sharing the details of his golden ride with the world. He got back a resounding 15,000 “kudos”, Strava’s version of digital congratulations, from friends, fans and admirers. In 2018 Strava athletes gave 3.6 billion kudos for the 6.67 billion miles of athletic activities their peers recorded across 32 sports in 195 countries. On average, 25 activities were uploaded to Strava every minute. The average run was 5.1 miles long and lasted about fifty minutes. The average bike rider completed a 21.9-mile ride in one hour and thirty-seven minutes. Sundays were the most popular days to exercise, and Tuesdays were the fastest day of the week for both runners and cyclists worldwide. One Strava statistic from 2018 stands out for me. When Strava plotted the data for 2018, it found that people exercise longer when exercising with friends. Group rides are 52% longer than solo rides, on average, and group runs are 20% longer than solo runs. It seems exercise is motivated by socialisation. But the Hype Machine institutionalises this motivation by instantaneously sharing our exercise activities with our friends, at no cost, just as Greg Van Avermaet shared his Olympic ride with the world. If social support and competition motivate us to exercise, then the digital socialisation of fitness has the potential to increase the amount, duration and intensity of the world’s exercise activities. By institutionalising the sharing of exercise activities, the Hype Machine is digitally enabling social influence and peer effects in exercise behaviours. These correlations raise an important question: does the digital social influence of the Hype Machine cause us to exercise more? Or put more directly: is exercise digitally contagious? And if so, what other kinds of behaviours might be digitally contagious? Is exercise contagious? Unfortunately, comparing group to solo exercise sheds little light on whether exercise is contagious because we don’t know what drives those differences. For the same reason we can’t measure the effects of Russian interference on elections or the returns from digital marketing by looking at correlations, we can’t measure digital social influence in exercise or any other behaviours without distinguishing correlation and causal lift. We know, for example, that marathon runners tend to be friends with marathon runners and that couch potatoes tend to be friends with couch potatoes. So simple correlations in running behaviour among friends don’t prove that friends influence each other to exercise. People who choose to run or bike in groups may simply be more committed to running or biking and may, therefore, run and bike longer. To understand whether digital peer effects motivate exercise and whether exercise is contagious, we need some way of distinguishing between correlation and causation. But while randomised experiments are the gold standard of causal inference and useful in a marketing context, we can’t go around randomly cattle-prodding some people to get off their couches to run. So to measure peer effects in running, we had to find another source of as-good-as-random variation in people’s running habits, something that motivates some people to run but has no effect on whether their friends run. To solve this riddle, my former postdoc Christos Nicolaides and I had to become meteorologists. We collaborated with a large, global fitness tracking company to collect data on the network ties and daily exercise patterns of 1.1 million runners who ran over 350 million kilometres over five years. Participants recorded the distance, duration, speed, and calories burned on their runs and shared those details with their friends on an app. For a global network of runners, we knew who ran, when, where, and how fast they ran, and who their friends were. We also collected data from 47,000 weather stations in 196 countries and knew the precise temperature and rainfall in the exact location of each of our 1.1 million runners for every day of the five years they ran. Why? Well, the trick to the study was that weather influences running. As you might expect, the less it rained and the milder the temperature, the more people ran. When runners woke up to beautiful weather, they laced up their sneakers and hit the road. When they woke up to rain, they stayed home. The key, however, was that their friends were all over the world, experiencing different weather than they were. So while it was raining in New York City, it was sunny in Phoenix, Arizona, where someone’s friend lived. We exploited these differences in weather to measure whether one friend’s running caused another friend to run more. It’s sunny every day in Phoenix, more or less. So if a beautiful day in New York caused a friend in Phoenix to run more, it could only be because of social influence between friends. We had found a ‘natural experiment’ that we used to measure the extent to which exercise is contagious. And what we found surprised us. Exercise was indeed contagious, and the magnitude of the effects was quite large. Seeing that your friend ran an additional kilometre on the app influenced you to run an additional three-tenths of a kilometre more on the same day. When your friends ran an additional kilometre per minute faster, it caused you to run an additional three-tenths of a kilometre per minute faster. When your friends ran for ten additional minutes, it motivated you to run three minutes longer. And when your friends burned an additional ten calories, it influenced you to burn three and a half additional calories. This peer influence diminished over time. Your friends’ running today influenced you less tomorrow, and the day after for every measure. But exercise is just the starting point to understanding how social media hypersocialises our behaviour. Excerpted from The Hype Machine by entrepreneur-invest-professor Sinan Aral with permission from HarperCollins
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Get skin that defies age||“After 40, the production of collagen and elastin (both proteins that provide structure) also come down. There can also be a mild loss of muscle mass that leads to the drooping of the face,” adds Dr Manveen Kaur, consultant dermatologist, Dr Kaur’s Skin and Cosmetic Clinic, Coimbatore. Some of the ingredients that can help in the development of collagen are vitamin D3, A, C, and E. Omega-3 fats and evening primrose oil supplements can help in collagen production and hydration. Do check with your doctor about this though.    Hydrating the skin is important, so drink water as per your body weight, height, the weather, and thirst (for an adult this usually works out to at least a litre-and-a-half). Start the day with a creamy, rich cleanser. “This will not strip the skin of moisture or natural oils,” says Dr Lunawat. Also, apply moisturising lotion during the day and before going to bed. Suparna Trikha, who advocates for kitchen-cabinet beauty, suggests using products containing shea butter or cocoa butter. Remember your lips, hands and feet. “With age, our feet get dry and develop cracks on the heels. Exfoliation after soaking it in warm soapy water helps. Always remember to moisturise the feet after this step,” says Dr Kaur.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Naturopathy||Bookend between Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday on October 2 and Naturopathy Day on November 18 this year, the National Institute of Naturopathy has been conducting a series of Facebook live sessions to help people understand the principles of the practice. Gandhi was a proponent: he practised this form of drugless healing himself and often self-experimented, wrote a book called Nature Cure, and helped set up Nisargopachar Ashram at Urulikanchan near Pune that is a naturopathy centre. The invisible letter in AYUSH, because it goes along with yoga, naturopathy hasn’t got the press that Ayurveda has. It is the art and science of healthy living that does not apply any form of medication. “We look at the body holistically, and believe that the accumulation of toxins is the root cause of all diseases. The treatment is detoxification,” says Dr Babina NM, Chief Medical Officer at Jindal Naturecure Institute, Bengaluru. She says naturopaths believe that the body is made up of panchamahabhoota , the five elements: earth, water, fire, air, space. “So the main treatments correspond to these.” For instance, earth treatments may include mud packs, water treatments may have a hip bath for pelvic disorders, fire treatments may include steam baths and hot oil packs, space treatments will have fasting, while air treatments centre on pranayama. “We believe in the body’s innate capacity to heal itself,” she says. Elimination forms a large part of the treatment, through four elimination organs: the skin, lung, kidney, and colon. Most facilities insist you spend at least a week there, so you are put through a regimen and get a chance to experience what an ideal lifestyle means for you (since treatment is based on personalisation), so you can practise it at home. “Physiological and psychological rest is important during the treatment period,” says Babina, adding that it is difficult to get that at home. Naturopathy practitioners are trained through a five-and-a-half-year Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences programme, though there are also an array of diploma and certificate courses, with the established centres asking for degree course graduates. “Students study regular MBBS courses like anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, except pharmacology,” says Babina. Its limitations are for emergency situations. “We are only saying medicine shouldn’t become a part of life. We shouldn’t eat out daily and pop a pill,” says Dr Abhishek Devikar, the Medical Director at Nisargopachar Ashram. People looking to reverse lifestyle-related disorders, those for whom other streams of medicine have failed, and those who want to detoxify after heavy medication (like chemotherapy) all come. In this column, we demystify the buzzwords in wellness.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A different kind of Deepavali||I’m now completing 25 Deepavalis in Delhi. Before that, I spent them in Kolkata. Not that they have Deepavali in Kolkata. A few non-Bengalis celebrate it, tucked away in their non-Bengali homes, but for the rest of us, Deepavali was something we watched Kareena and Shah Rukh celebrate in the movies, with costumes and catering by Karan Johar. Despite efforts by external forces to homogenise our Hindu festivals, for us in Kolkata, Deepavali has always been Kali Pujo, a very different kettle of fish. The mood was usually sombre. We had just finished stuffing ourselves during Durga Puja, and most of us were still consuming Gelusil. Acid reflux was rampant. The air was full of dashed hopes. The young men of Bengal had started dressing up from shoshthi , hopeful that this year, finally, they would get a girl. Failure on saptami did not dampen their enthusiasm — there were still three days to go. By ashtami , doubt was beginning to set in, and on the afternoon of nabami , the first glimmerings of hopelessness. Even worse were the feelings of those who briefly tasted success, when the girl of their dreams allowed them to pay for an egg chicken roll, regardless of what the raw onions did to their breath. This was the unkindest cut of all, because two days after the pujas, the same girl would fail to recognise them at the bus stop. This is how it has always been. By the time Kali Pujo comes around, the bitterness of defeat has fully sunk in, combined with the knowledge that in less than a year, the whole cycle of hope and despair will repeat itself. This is why the city of Kolkata has always been prone to violence. It also explains why so many Bengali young men develop an appetite for destruction and try to make their own fireworks, leading to a surge in the demand for ambulances in the week prior to Kali Pujo. This tradition goes back to the days of the revolutionaries, who would manufacture bombs to chuck at the British. As I once discovered, this tradition has also left a deep impression on the Hindi heartland. As a stripling, I once spent three days on an assignment in Hardoi, in the heart of the Chambal belt, where everyone carried a gun, except for the poor, who carried metal tipped lathis. I tiptoed around very nervously, but my inherent idealism led to an outburst on the third day. “Why do you all carry guns?” I demanded of a man carrying a gun. “Can’t you see that violence is not the answer?” He was having a cup of tea at the time. He sipped it thoughtfully, looked at me and said, with no trace of rancour, “You’re Bengali, aren’t you?”. I said I was. “In Calcutta, you have a lot of bombs, don’t you?” he said. I admitted that we did. “Well, here we don’t have so many bombs,” he said, “so we manage with guns instead.” As you can see, Kali Pujo in Kolkata is very different from Deepavali in Delhi, bringing with it a host of mental problems, as opposed to the physical problems of gluttony and alcoholism. Personally, I find this encouraging. Efforts are currently on to make us all homogeneous. So it’s nice to know that however hard they try, some little bits of us, that they cannot see, will always be disturbingly different. No one throws any bombs in Shovon Chowdhury’s most recent novel,Murder With Bengali Characteristics, although the New Thug Society does strangle a few people.
17 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Congress will overcome Bihar debacle, says Gehlot||After Congress leader Kapil Sibal’s criticism of the party leadership over the debacle in the Bihar Assembly election, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the party, which had improved with several crises in the past because of its ideology and policies, would overcome this time as well. Mr. Gehlot said the Congress had witnessed crises in 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in 1996, but it came out stronger every time owing to its ideology, programmes, policies and “firm belief in [the] party leadership”. “We formed the UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Sonia Ji ... We shall overcome this time too.” Taking exception to Mr. Sibal’s interview on the Bihar verdict, Mr. Gehlot said there was no need for him to mention the Congress’ internal issues in the media, as this had hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country. The veteran Congress leader said there could be various reasons for the electorate loss, but each time the rank and file of the Congress had shown “undivided and firm belief in the party leadership”. “That is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crisis,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. Even today, Congress was the only party which could keep the nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development, said Mr. Gehlot.
17 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Rain to boost wheat sowing||Fairly widespread overnight rain in the country’s key wheat producing States of Punjab and Haryana is expected to boost the wheat crop sowing in the ongoing Rabi (winter) season, officials and experts told The Hindu on Monday. Besides, with the minimum temperature likely to drop 2-4 degree Celsius by middle of the ongoing week, it would benefit the temperature-sensitive wheat crop, which thrives in cold conditions. Scattered to fairly widespread rain and thundershowers occurred in Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh during the past 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The showers have brought cheers to farmers, especially the wheat growers, as the rain spell would help in reducing pressure on the groundwater besides retaining soil moisture. “The region, including Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, received scattered to fairly widespread rain overnight accompanied with thunderstorm. The current active wet spell is expected to be over by November 16 and thereafter weather conditions are likely to be dry with an expected fall in minimum temperatures in the next few days,” said Surinder Pal, director at the IMD, Chandigarh.  39% sowing completed According to the government data, in Punjab, 39% of wheat sowing has been completed. The total sowing in the State is expected to be around 34.5 lakh hectares during the ongoing Rabi season. In Haryana, wheat has been sown on nearly 9 lakh hectares so far. Both States are major contributors of wheat to the central pool. “The overnight rains have ended a long dry spell. These showers will pace up wheat sowing and will also reduce the burden of irrigation,” Gurvinder Singh, joint director with the agriculture department, told The Hindu . P. S. Rangi, agriculture expert and former Punjab State Farmers Commission adviser, said the current rains would help in reducing pressure on the groundwater, besides it would also help in retaining soil moisture. “The minimum temperature, which is likely to come down over the next few days would further assist the wheat crop as it thrives in cold conditions,” he said. Wheat, the main winter crop, is sown between late October till December while the harvesting will start from April onwards.
17 November 2020||Kolkata,||Ghosh promises ‘Gujarat model’ for Bengal||West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party chief Dilip Ghosh on Monday said that if voted to power his party will emulate Gujarat’s growth model to develop the State. Mr. Ghosh said that the Trinamool Congress government and previous Left Front governments have not done enough to create jobs in West Bengal and turned the State into a hub of migrant workers who would have to go to States like Gujarat for work. “Didimoni (Mamata Banerjee) often says that we (BJP) are trying to turn Bengal into Gujarat, I say that we will certainly do so and turn it into a developed State. Our men and women won’t have to go there for work. We will ensure employment opportunities are available here,” Mr. Ghosh said. The Bengal BJP leader also said that the students from West Bengal who used to dominate civil services examination do not feature into the merit list. He blamed the Left Front government for the decline in the education sector “Biman babu (Left Front chairman Biman Bose) and Buddha babu (former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) have politicised the people of the State in a way that we (Bengal) now produce migrant workers who move to Gujarat for jobs, and not doctors, engineers or professors,” Mr. Ghosh said.
17 November 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan Minister Meghwal passes away||Rajasthan’s Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Bhanwarlal Meghwal died at a private hospital in Gurugram on Monday after prolonged illness. He was being treated on ventilator since May 13, when he had suffered a paralytic stroke and was diagnosed with brain haemorrhage. He was 71. Earlier admitted at the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital in Jaipur and battling for life, Mr. Meghwal was airlifted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on the advice of doctors. He was a senior Minister in the Ashok Gehlot government and a prominent Dalit face of the ruling Congress. Mr. Meghwal represented Churu district’s Sujangarh constituency in the Assembly and also held the Disaster Management and Relief portfolio. He was Education Minister in the previous Congress government between 2008 and 2013. Mr. Meghwal had entered politics after resigning as a physical training instructor in a government school. In his political career spanning 40 years, he was elected a member of the Assembly five times.  Governor mourns death Governor Kalraj Mishra and Mr. Gehlot mourned Mr. Meghwal’s death. Mr. Gehlot said he and Mr. Meghwal had been together since 1980. A day’s State mourning was declared for Tuesday, when the national flag will fly at half mast and all government offices will remain closed.
17 November 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata witnesses cleanest Deepavali as people largely avoid firecrackers||On the night of November 14 when Deepavali and Kali Puja were celebrated across the city, the Kolkata police from its official twitter handles tweeted the photograph of the city’s skyline in the evening which showed a well-lit Howrah bridge but no light from busting crackers . This festival season Kolkata and its neighbouring suburbs witnessed the quietest and cleanest Deepavali without air and noise pollution. The figures of arrests and seizures of crackers released by Kolkata Police on November 14 and 15, revealed that 708 persons were arrested and 1,771 kg of crackers were seized. When compared to last year, the number of people booked for busting crackers had almost reduced by half. In 2019, 1,210 people were booked for bursting crackers. The complaints received on helpline of West Bengal Pollution Control Board and other non-government organisations were also significantly less compared to last year. The Calcutta High Court had issued a ban on sale and use of crackers almost nine days before the festival on grounds that a deterioration in air quality can lead to surge in COVID-19 pandemic. The Kolkata police has also started an awareness campaign making public announcements not to bust crackers during the festival. The results have not only given a relief to the administration and law enforcing agencies battling COVID-19 pandemic but has surprised non-government organisations and activists. Paschim Banga Vigyan Macha on Monday issued a congratulatory note to the people of the State saying that the manner in which they have stayed away from crackers is “exemplary”. The organisation working for inculcating scientific temper among people of the State thanked the Calcutta High Court and administration for their efforts. Naba Dutta, city’s well-known environmentalist, said that while there were few complaints about busting of crackers in Parnashree and Kasba, the other areas in the city which were notorious for busting crackers were completely silent. In fact, the air quality in Kolkata turned poorer on Sunday evening than it was on Saturday when the festival was observed.
17 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Early construction of coastal highway sought||People of six coastal districts under banner of Upakula Rajapath Milita Nirman Kriyanusthan Mahamanch (URMNK) on Monday demanded expeditious environmental clearance for proposed coastal connectivity project. The URMNK, which pushes for construction of the ambitious coastal highway that proposes to connect Odisha’s Gopalpur with West Bengal’s Digha, said the road project was important as there was no single road connecting coastal areas.  ‘No connectivity’ “Everyday thousands of people cross many rivers and lakes by boats dangerously. In the event of natural disaster such as cyclone, flood and high tides, the situation worsens. Evacuation is also hampered during cyclone due to lack of proper connectivity,” said Tuna Swain, convener of URMNK.
17 November 2020||November 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Standing tall||
17 November 2020||Kanpur (U.P.),||Man killed, many hurt in Kanpur clash||A 25-year-old youth was killed and several injured here in a clash between two communities that erupted after a man was accidentally splashed with water, police said on Monday. Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed that the accused be booked under the stringent National Security Act, which allows preventive detention for up to a year. Two policemen have been removed for their alleged laxity.
17 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Child rights week observed in Rajasthan||Skill development activities, awareness programmes and new welfare schemes have marked the child rights week being observed in Rajasthan from November 14 to 20. The initiatives were taken in accordance with the announcement for creation of the Nehru Child Protection Fund in the 2020-21 State Budget. Inaugurating the week at a virtual event, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the State government was making an effective intervention to protect children’s rights and ensure that there was no incident of child labour or child marriage.He said his government was also taking all steps to prevent crimes against children and extend the benefits of various schemes to them. Two new schemes — Vaatsalya Yojana and Samarth Yojana — have been launched for orphan and destitute children during the week. Mr. Gehlot also inaugurated a skill development and counselling centre for children in Jodhpur.
