22 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Shift case to Delhi, says Hathras victim’s brother||The elder brother of the 19-year-old victim of the alleged gang rape and murder in Boolgarhi village of Hathras has demanded that the case and the family be shifted to Delhi. Speaking to reporters in the village on Friday, he said, “We demand the case be heard in a Delhi court and we would like to look for employment opportunities in Delhi. It would be better if the government could help us in providing protection and finding employment in Delhi,” he said. Later, Sub-divisional Magistrate Anjali Gangwar, who is in-charge of the security and daily needs of the family, met the father of the victim. “We are providing rations to the family and fodder to the cattle. Their regular medical checkup is also being done,” she said. When the victim’s father asked if they could work in the fields, she said they could start their normal life under police protection. In a related development, the CBI team probing the case visited the residence of Luv Kush, one of the four accused. Local sources said the team spent at least two hours at his residence and claimed that it collected the blood-stained clothes of Luv Kush. On Thursday, the team had visited the residence of the other three accused in the village.  Rahul hits out at Yogi Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over another case of alleged rape in the State and asked how many more incidents like Hathras would take place. Attacking the Yogi Adityanath dispensation on Twitter, Mr. Gandhi also tagged a media report which said a Dalit girl in Barabanki was allegedly raped before being killed and the victim’s family members accused the police of trying to coverit up.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Bus operators offer deep discounts via prepaid cards||With a view to making city commute hassle-free, cashless and attractive, bus operators in Mangaluru and Udupi will roll out prepaid Chalo cards offering deep discounts to regular travellers from November 1. The operators have tied up with technology provider Chalo to roll out the weekly and monthly prepaid cards by offering discounts ranging from 61% to 75% compared to regular travel by buying tickets. The cards work on near field communication (NFC) technology thereby offering touchless digital transaction. DK Bus Operators Association President Dilraj Alva told reporters here on Friday that Chalo card would help the twin cities to keep pace with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Digital India dream with 325 buses in Mangaluru and 80 in Udupi. Commuting is reaching near normal, up to 90% of pre-lockdown pattern, ever since skeletal bus services began from June, he said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Bidar’s Karthik Reddy is Karnataka’s NEET topper||Of the 89,359 candidates who appeared for the UG National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 from Karnataka, 61.56% have qualified. This is a 1.69% drop from the previous year where 63.25% of 1.02 lakh candidates had qualified. The percentage of students who have qualified for the test in the State is higher than the national average of 56.44%. The success of two students from Shaheen Pre-University College in Bidar is significant. Karthik Reddy, who bagged 710 out of 720 marks, was the State topper. He secured the ninth All India Rank, and is the only person in Karnataka in the top 50. “So many doctors are COVID-19 warriors who are putting their lives at risk. Their dedication is commendable,” he said. Karthik also decided that he wanted to become a doctor when he was in class 10, and wants to study in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “I prepared for eight to 10 hours every day from class 11 onwards, and used the lockdown period to solve mock test papers every day,” he said. Humble background Arbaz Ahmed, who is also from Shaheen PU College, secured 700 marks. He is the son of a lorry driver who had lost his limbs in a mishap.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Bhima river continues to be in spate||Though the water level in the Kagina came down after the rains subsided for the second consecutive day on Friday, the Bhima continues to be in spate owing to the heavy discharge of water from Maharashtra reservoirs. Since the water discharge from Ujjani and Veer reservoirs in Maharashtra increased to around 7 lakh cusecs on Thursday night owing to the heavy rainfall in the Bhima catchment areas upstream, the inflow at Sonna barrage across the Bhima at Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district rose to 5.85 lakh cusecs on Friday morning and then to 6.3 lakh cusecs by 5 p.m. The same amount of water was released to the river, and tracts of farm fields with standing crops along its course in Afzalpur, Chittapur, Jewargi, Kalaburagi, and Shahbad taluks. Residents along the banks anxiously watched the overflowing Bhima and prepared to move to safer places. In many places, the floodwater had already entered the villages. The entire Muttuga village and over 500 houses at Honagunta village in Shahabad taluk were flooded on Thursday night and residents struggled to get drinking water and food. The disruption of mobile connectivity and electricity supply continued on Friday as well.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,||Bidar’s Karthik Reddy is Karnataka NEET topper||Two students of Bidar-based Shaheen Pre-University college have achieved significant success in NEET, the pan-India medical college entrance examinations. Karthik Reddy of Bidar has got the all-India ninth rank while Mohammad Arbaz Ahmed secured the 85th rank. Karthik Reddy stood first in the State with 710 marks. Arbaz Ahmed, who is among the toppers in the State, got 700 marks. Reddy’s father is a professor at the Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College in Bidar. Ahmed’s father is a lorry driver who lost his limbs in an accident. In a release, school committee secretary Abdul Quadeer said over 400 of the college students were likely to get medical seats. “Last year, our students got around 8.32% of the State’s government quota seats. This year, we may get around 10 per cent,” he said. The performance of the college has been consistent. Its students got 152 medical seats in 2016, 201 in 2017, 304 in 2018, and 327 in 2019. Vachanashree Patil got the 332nd rank in 2018 and Vineet Megur got 342nd rank in 2018, the release added.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||Pandemic takes the shine off Dasara festivities||The famed Mysuru Dasara is set to take off on Saturday amidst a slew of precautionary measures and curbs in the light of the pandemic. In contrast to the usual bustle of tourists and grand festivities and cultural programmes, it is going to be a muted affair and the focus is only on keeping the tradition alive. Strict enforcement of SOPs for a safe celebrations has been the focus with Mysuru being a “COVID-19 hotspot”. The inauguration atop Chamundi Hills on Saturday will be simple with less than 200 participants and the Jamboo Savari will be confined to the palace environs with limited invitees. Palace cultural events are restricted to an audience of less than 50 members. The erstwhile Mysuru royal family too has decided to celebrate Navarathri at the palace only as a ritual in keeping with the tradition. In recognition of the untiring services of frontline warriors combating COVID-19 all these months, Dr. C.N. Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who is part of the State’s expert committee, has been chosen to inaugurate the festivities. Six warriors – a pourakarmika, a medical officer, a staff nurse, an ASHA worker, a police constable, and a social worker – will be felicitated. As recommended by the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, only 200 persons are being permitted to the inaugural event, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. With the curbs on public entry, arrangements for a virtual fete have been made. The palace, where the music and dance events will also unfold on Saturday evening and where the Dasara elephants are camping, is also geared up for the annual fete. The cultural events in the illuminated palace backdrop are limited to two hours from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for an audience of only 50. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Friday urged the public to watch the events live at their homes and promised a grand Dasara next year round to make up for this year’s austerities.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Metro ride to be cheaper from today||For the first time ever since it has commenced commercial operations, Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) announced discounts from 40% to 50% on every trip on purchase of smart cards and digital tickets starting Saturday and the offer will continue for three months till Sankranti. Till the month-end, it will be straight 50% off on topping up of smart cards or purchase of tickets, announced HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy on Friday. “ There has been a lot of demand from citizens and we too have been requesting provision of concessions to travellers. L&TMRH has now come up with attractive discount offers from Bathukamma festivities starting tomorrow. We will request them to continue the offers beyond Sankranti too,” he said, addressing a press conference at the Metro Rail Bhavan on Friday. Passenger count Flanked by L&TMRH Chief Executive and Managing Director K.V.B. Reddy and Chief Operating Officer (COO) A.K. Saini, Mr. Reddy said metro passenger count had touched one lakh mark a few days ago and the average passenger count across the three corridors has been 80,000. On the deluge day of October 14, the passenger count shot up to 1.17 lakh and there was an instance of a train service run for the sake of a pregnant lady who had to rush to Miyapur at 10 o'clock because the roads were flooded and ravaged. Frequency of trains on Corridor One/Red Line - L.B. Nagar to Miyapur has now come down to 3.5 minutes a train and due to the heavy demand on this route or carrying 65% of total passengers. Short haul trips from L.B. Nagar to Ameerpet and Miyapur to MGBS, Imlibun, are also being considered to take care of the increased footfalls in this direction. Except for Musheerabad and Gandhi Hospital stations on Corridor Two - Green Line from JBS to MGBS and Bharatnagar station on Red Line, no other station was closed due to COVID-19 containment zone notification.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||57% students in T.N. cross the NEET hurdle||Tamil Nadu performed better than last year with 57.44% of the candidates who appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test 2020 qualifying in the exam. However, in absolute numbers it is lower than last year, when 59,785 candidates of the 1,23,078 students who appeared for NEET qualified. The number of candidates who registered for the Tamil version of the test this year was higher. Last year, 1,071 candidates had registered whereas this year, 17,101 candidates had opted for it. This year though 1,21,617 candidates had registered, only 99,610 took the test. As many as 57,215 candidates have qualified. The State topper, R. Srijan, scored 99.998 marks. Two girls are ranked among the top 100 candidates — Mohanaprabha Ravichandran with 705 marks (99.99605) is ranked 52 and G. Swetha with 701 (99.995172) is ranked 62. As many as 15,97,435 aspirants had registered for the test of which 13,66,945 appeared. A total of 7,71,500 have qualified, which accounts to 56.44% of the total test takers. The National Testing Agency has cancelled the results of five candidates for adopting unfair practices in the examination. Two candidates were reported from Uttar Pradesh as well, according to a release. Cut-off rises The cut-off for this year for the unreserved category will be 147 marks. Last year, the cut-off was 134. Of the 7,71,500 candidates who have qualified, 6,82,406 fall in the range of 720-147 marks. For OBC, SC and ST candidates, the cut-off is 146-113; for candidates in the EWS, unreserved and physically-handicapped categories, it is 146-129. For the physically-handicapped candidates in the OBC, SC and ST category, the cut-off is 128-113 marks. The Directorate General of Health Services will conduct counselling for 15% of All India Quota seats, deemed universities, central universities, seats in Employees State Insurance Corporation-run colleges, Armed Forces Medical College, Benaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University. From this year, NEET will be the qualifier for admission to the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences and Jipmer. The details of counselling would be made available on www.mcc.nic.in The information and schedule of counselling would be made available on the websites of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and State medical education directorates.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Due priority to road, port connectivity works in A.P., says Union Minister||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Nitin Gadkari has said the Central government accorded due priority to road and port connectivity works in Andhra Pradesh and invited the Minister, MPs and officials concerned for discussions in Delhi on a host of projects lined up in the State. Virtually inaugurating highway projects costing Rs. 8,038 crore and conducting ground-breaking for projects costing Rs. 7,585 crore from Nagpur on Friday, Mr. Gadkari said a sum of Rs. 31,175 crore was being spent on the construction of 2,209-km-long highways in the State. “The related DPRs are in the final stages and the works will begin next year.” His Ministry would clear the Bengaluru-Vijayawada and Amaravati-Anantapur express highway projects and Vijayawada outer ring road once the modalities were finalised. The Bengaluru-Chennai expressway which was estimated to cost Rs. 5,000 crore was being taken up on a priority basis. Ways to reduce the financial burden entailed by land acquisition could be jointly worked out, Mr. Gadkari said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while highways spanning only 12 km used to be laid per day in 2013-14, it was now scaled up to 30 km per day. He complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Gadkari for taking up 7,800-km greenfield express highways in the country at a cost of Rs. 3.30 lakh crore. “Six of them measuring 375 km are in A.P.” The Chief Minister thanked Mr. Gadkari for clearing the highway between Rajamahendravaram and Vizianagaram via Rampachodavaram, Koyyuru, Araku and Bowdara and other road connectivity projects in the Agency areas, four-lane highways between Mydukur and Nellore via Badwel, Madanapalli and Tirupati via Pileru, Anantapur and Guntur, Kurnool and Dornala and Anantapur-Mydukur and various other projects including the west-side flyover at the Benz Circle in Vijayawada. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested Mr. Gadkari to release Rs. 1,500 crore under the Central Road Fund and sought sanction for some other projects which mainly include 25 road projects spanning 400 km connecting five seaports and developing a beach road from Visakhapatnam to Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||MSP is key to India’s food security, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated his support for minimum support prices and government procurement of crops, at a time when farmers are protesting against agricultural reforms that they say endanger the existing system. Speaking at a virtual event to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organisation, Mr. Modi also said the government would soon take a decision on revising the minimum age of marriage for women. “MSP and government procurement are an important part of the country’s food security. Therefore, it is important that it should continue to function with better facilities and scientific management. We are committed to this,” he said. With regard to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis, he said the system had its own identity and strength. ‘APMCs modernised’ “In the last six years, more than Rs. 2,500 crore has been invested to build better infrastructure in these APMC mandis. Hundreds of crores have also been spent to prepare IT infrastructure in these mandis,” Mr. Modi said, adding that the recent reforms aimed to make the APMC mandis more competitive. Earlier this week, Punjab farmer unions walked out of talks with the Agriculture Ministry, vowing to continue their protests and rail blockade against the reforms intoduced by the Centre. They said that the three recent laws passed by Parliament last month would weaken the APMC system and ultimately lead to the phasing out of government procurement at MSP rates while encouraging corporate buyers who will purchase the produce at lower rates. Mr. Modi emphasised the government’s view that the reforms would increase farmers’ income. “Small farmers used to sell their produce to middlemen earlier due to lack of access to the mandis. Now, the market itself will reach their doorsteps,” he said. “Every type of protection to the farmer has been ensured through these reforms. When the Indian farmer is empowered, his income will increase, and the campaign against malnutrition will also gain equal strength.”
22 October 2020||Belagavi,||Man, mother who spent night atop tree rescued in Vijayapura dist.||A farmer and his mother, who spent the night atop a tree on their farm during heavy rainfall, were rescued in Hingani village in Vijayapura district on Friday. Shivamallappa, 65, and his mother Neelavva, who is aged over 100 years, were rescued by villagers, the police, and Fire and Emergency Services personnel. They are both out of danger, but have been admitted to the district hospital for tests and preventive care. As many as seven members of a family that came to work in a charcoal unit were rescued by the police in an island near Devangaon in Vijayapura district. Santosh and Sangeeta from Maharashtra had come to Vijayapura district, along with their five children, and were caught in the island that was surrounded by the Bhima. When water levels started rising, they climbed a heap of hay and began shouting for help. A farmer who saw them waving for help alerted the police. Fire and Emergency Services personnel swam to the island and tied a rope to a tree there. The family members were given life jackets and escorted along the rope. They are all safe, Assistant Commissioner Balaram Lamani said. Bheemashankar Mashal, 32, of Bommanahalli in Vijayapura district was found dead in his house. The police said that he ended his life as he was unable to repay his loans as heavy rains destroyed his crops.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||We will extend all help to flood-hit people: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said here on Friday that all assistance would be extended to the flood-affected people of north Karnataka and that there was no dearth of funds for it. Speaking to presspersons here, the Chief Minister said he would tour the affected region and camp there for two or three days to apprise himself of the devastation there. “The government is with the people. It will extend all assistance to the flood victims and those who have lost their houses would be given suitable compensation,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The government would construct houses at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh and distribute them to the beneficiaries while Rs. 10,000 would be given as temporary relief. Though funds from the NDRF may be inadequate, the State government would pitch in with its contribution to ensure that the victims were suitably compensated, the Chief Minister added. He said some six districts in north Karnataka region had been badly hit by floods and thousands of houses and standing crops over a large area had been damaged. “I have also sought information from deputy commissioners of the affected districts and it may take a week to assess the actual loss. I have also spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah who has promised relief,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. Many Cabinet ministers were already in the region overseeing rescue and relief works and a few more Ministers would be sent to the region, he added. Mr. Yediyurappa is in Mysuru for the inauguration of Dasara festival on Saturday. On the Assembly byelecctions in the State, he said the BJP was set to win both the seats --- R.R. Nagar and Sira. The Chief Minister also conducted a meeting with district officials to apprise himself of the measures in place to curb the surge in COVID-19 cases being reported from Mysuru. District in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, local MLAs, and officials were present. Mr. Yediyurappa also took stock of the preparations in place for the scaled-down Dasara and measures in place to prevent the spread of the pandemic.
22 October 2020||Madurai,||Prospectus for medical admissions only after Governor decides on quota bill, State tells HC||The State government on Friday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that until a decision is taken by the Governor on giving assent to theBill on implementing 7.5% horizontal reservationfor government school students who have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions, the prospectus will not be issued. Advocate General Vijay Narayan informed a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi that no decision had been taken by the Governor, and till then the prospectus/admission notice would not be issued for medical admissions. During the course of the hearing, Justice N. Kirubakaran broke down in tears and observed that a decision had to be taken at the earliest to safeguard the interests of students from government schools. Data The judges pointed out that as per data available, in the last three years only three, five and six students from government schools had got admission in medical colleges. Therefore, a decision had to be taken with respect to the implementation of the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020, they said. Earlier, the court observed that the Bill was passed by the Assembly unanimously on September 15, after which it was sent to the Governor for his assent. However, it had been pending for one month without any decision being taken on it. If no decision was taken with regard to the reservation for government school students, definitely, fewer less number of students would get admission and the interests of the government school students would be affected, the judges said. Petitions The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions which sought a direction to the State to implement horizontal reservation for government school students as recommended by the Commission headed by retired High Court Judge P. Kalaiyarasan.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sailors turned saviours on Hyderabad’s night of deluge||Equipped with salvage boats and sailing equipment, sailors and support staff led by national champion K. Gowtham waded through canals amid blinding rain and gusty winds to conduct rescue operations, steering many citizens in submerged colonies to safety. Gowtham and his fellow national sailors, Y. Prasad of Rasoolpura, and M. Saibaba, a bronze medallist in the Optimist class in 2017 now working as the Yacht Club coach, used the same boats they had sailed in for the Nationals. With inflatables, radios and jackets, they proved to be the unlikely saviours, even as many government personnel also worked overnight to reach out to rain-hit citizens. The sailors were aided by a voluntary organisation called SDIF, headed by Mohammad Azam Khan. “We got a call around 7 a.m. on October 13, saying that about 500 people were stranded and unable to get out of their houses. So our coaches responded immediately. Never in the past 40 years have I seen such a deluge at the lake, and it was surreal as wind and water lashed the Hussainsagar in the dead of night,” recalls Suheim Sheikh, president of the Yacht Club. “We lost a load of expensive equipment, including an engine. One of our boats sank as they were not designed for or anchored to suit such intense conditions. But all our coaches are trained swimmers and lifeguards and the least we could do was help when the city needed such skills,” he added Gowtham and Saibaba headed out to Tolichowki, rescuing people in low-lying colonies adjacent to lakes. Prasad, on the other hand, left for Saroornagar and managed to ferry 15 families to safety, after which he headed to Rasoolpura with his boat as he got a call from Shaik Nayeem of the Kriya Sangh Society, informing him that water levels there were rising rapidly. By the end of the rescue job, the national champions had trained many local volunteers, and left the Yacht Club boats behind, which were used through the night. Azam Khan, who heads SDIF, was full of praise for Gowtham, Prasad and Saibaba, who, in four small Optimist class boats, rescued about 1,600 citizens in two days. Not to be left behind, volunteers Sunil Bhatti and Rajendra Prasad helped keep anxious relatives stay calm, keeping them updated about their efforts across the city. At the end of it all, the sailors had every reason to feel proud of having done their bit in the hour of crisis.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||People in areas along the Krishna evacuated||In view of an impending flood threat at Prakasam Barrage, teams of Police, Revenue, Irrigation and other allied departments jointly inspected the place which is under constant patrolling, said Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. Speaking during his visit to flood-prone areas in Chandarlapadu and Ibrahimpatnam regions on Friday, he said rescue measures were being taken up in low-lying areas along the river bank as the Prakasam Barrage was likely to receive 9 lakh cusecs of flood water on Friday night. In view of the flood threat, people in the low-lying areas were being shifted to safer places. Officials in 18 mandals, from Jaggayyapet to Nagayalanka, have been put on high alert. Mr. Imtiaz said Revenue officials in Penamaluru, Pamarru, Pamidimukkala, Kankipadu, Mopidevi, Challapalli, Avanigadda, Thotlavalluru and Nagayalanka mandals had been asked to be on alert and evacuate flood-affected people to relief centres if the need arose. The local Deputy Superintendent of Police, Circle Inspector and Tahsildar, along with a team had started evacuation measures at Chevitikallu, Ganiatkuru and Ravilala after flood water reached the villages. He said the National and State Disaster Response Forces were kept ready for relief and rescue operations. Mr. Imtiaz said 2,300 people from Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Tarakarama Nagar and Sairam Cut Piece Centre in Vijayawada city had been shifted to relief centres, 20 from Chandarlapadu and a few others from Ibrahimpatnam Ferry area had also been shifted to safe places.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Stubble burning: Justice Lokur, students to save NCR||Former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur, helped by student volunteer forces deployed from the National Cadet Corps, the National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides, will protect Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) from pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring States of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh this winter. A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Friday appointed Justice Lokur as a one-man committee to monitor and prevent instances of stubble burning by farmers in the three States. Student forces will patrol highways and fields in the three States and ensure that no fires are started in the fields. When Haryana counsel protested that these were just schoolchildren, Chief Justice Bobde reacted, “This does not involve a great knowledge of fires... Why can’t the NCC go and see who is lighting the fires?” The Chief Secretaries of the three States will provide facilities to the committee and provide the student volunteers with adequate transportation to aid their vigil. Existing mobile teams and nodal officers of the States will report to the committee. The Supreme Court’s own Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) would consult with the committee on issues related to stubble burning. The court made it clear to Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati that the formation of the committee was not meant as an adverse comment on the functioning of the EPCA. The committee will file status reports with the court at least every fortnight. The court chose Justice Lokur for the task as he had headed the Green Bench that was monitoring stubble burning for two years before his retirement. His name was recommended by senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is appearing for two children apprehensive of the onslaught of incoming waves of smog caused by unbridled stubble burning in the three States this winter.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sailors turned saviours in Hyderabad deluge||Equipped with salvage boats and sailing equipment, sailors and support staff led by national champion K. Gowtham waded through canals amid blinding rain and gusty winds to conduct rescue operations, steering many citizens in submerged colonies to safety. Gowtham and his fellow national sailors, Y. Prasad of Rasoolpura, and M. Saibaba, a bronze medallist in the Optimist class in 2017 now working as the Yacht Club coach, used the same boats they had sailed in for the Nationals. With inflatables, radios and jackets, they proved to be the unlikely saviours, even as many government personnel also worked overnight to reach out to rain-hit citizens. ‘It was surreal’ The sailors were aided by a voluntary organisation called SDIF, headed by Mohammad Azam Khan. “We got a call around 7 a.m. on October 13, saying that about 500 people were stranded and unable to get out of their houses. So our coaches responded immediately. Never in the past 40 years have I seen such a deluge at the lake, and it was surreal as wind and water lashed the Hussainsagar in the dead of night,” recalls Suheim Sheikh, president of the Yacht Club. Gowtham and Saibaba headed out to Tolichowki, rescuing people in low-lying colonies adjacent to lakes. Prasad, on the other hand, left for Saroornagar and managed to ferry 15 families to safety, after which he headed to Rasoolpura with his boat as he got a call from Shaik Nayeem of the Kriya Sangh Society, informing him that water levels there were rising rapidly. 1,600 rescued By the end of the rescue job, the national champions had trained many local volunteers, and left the Yacht Club boats behind, which were used through the night. Azam Khan, who heads SDIF, was full of praise for Gowtham, Prasad and Saibaba, who, in four small Optimist class boats, rescued about 1,600 citizens in two days.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Car sales up 28.9% in September’||Passenger vehicle dispatches to dealers by automotive companies recorded a strong double-digit growth of 26.5% in September, according to industry body Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers. Manufacturers expect ‘good demand’ in the festive season that kicks off from Friday, driven by improvement in customer sentiment. While car sales rose by 28.9%, sales of utility vehicles and vans climbed 24.5% and 10.6% respectively.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi, Odisha applicants score 100% in NEET 2020||Akanksha Singh of Delhi and Soyeb Aftab of Odisha both scored an unprecedented 100% in the NEET 2020, with Mr. Aftab snagging the All India number one rank, according to the tie-breaking policy, as he is older. This is the first time a perfect score has been achieved in NEET, according to the National Testing Agency which conducts the examination. The two topped the list of the more than 7.7 lakh students who qualified for medical and dental counselling. Cut-offs were higher across the board, with 147 for general category students, as against last year’s 134. For general category students from economically weaker sections, the cut-off is 129, while for all other reserved categories it is 113. The highest qualifying percentages were in Chandigarh and Delhi (both above 75%) and Haryana (almost 73%). Tamil Nadu recorded significant improvement, with a qualifying percentage of over 57%.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Car sales up 28.9% in September’||Passenger vehicle dispatches to dealers by automotive companies recorded a strong double-digit growth of 26.5% in September, according to industry body Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM). Manufacturers expect ‘good demand’ in the festive season that kicks off from Friday, driven by improvement in customer sentiment. While car sales rose by 28.9%, sales of utility vehicles and vans climbed 24.5% and 10.6% respectively.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 students score 100% in NEET, 2020||Akanksha Singh of Delhi and Soyeb Aftab of Odisha both scored an unprecedented 100% in the NEET 2020, with Mr. Aftab snagging the All India number one rank, according to the tie-breaking policy, as he is older. This is the first time a perfect score has been achieved in NEET, according to the National Testing Agency which conducts the examination. The two topped the list of the more than 7.7 lakh students who qualified for medical and dental counselling. Cut-offs were higher across the board, with 147 for general category students, as against last year’s 134. For general category students from economically weaker sections, the cut-off is 129, while for all other reserved categories it is 113. The highest qualifying percentages were in Chandigarh and Delhi (both above 75%) and Haryana (almost 73%). Tamil Nadu recorded significant improvement, with a qualifying percentage of over 57%. This is a leap from 48.6% last year and a huge spike from 2018, when it had one of the lowest qualifying percentages of 39.6%. Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand, saw its qualifying rates drop from almost 71% last year to less than 59% this year. There were four women in the top 10 all India ranking list, but only 13 in the top 50.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Active COVID cases fall below 40,000||The State reported 3,967 new infections and 25 deaths in 24 hours ending Friday morning, according to the Health Department's bulletin. With this, the infection tally increased to 7,75,470 and the death toll went up to 6,382. After more than three months, the number of deaths reported was the lowest. The death rate remains at 0.82%.  Only 5% active cases Also, for the first time in nearly three months, the number of active cases were below 40,000. With the recovery of 5,010 patients in the past day, the active cases came down to 38,979 (5.02%) and the recovery rate increased to 94.15% with a total of 7,30,109 recoveries so far. Of the total active cases, more than 50% are in East Godavari (6,622 cases), Chittoor (5,069), West Godavari (4,726) and Guntur (4,409), while the remaining nine districts account for other 50% cases. Kurnool and Nellore have only about 3% each of the State’s active cases. Meanwhile, West Godavari again reported the highest number of new infections while Krishna and Kadapa reported the highest number of deaths. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (627 and 1), East Godavari (608 and 2), Chittoor (510 and 5), Krishna (456 and 4), Prakasam (355 and 3), Guntur (246 and 3), Anantapur (233 and 0), Nellore (220 and 1), Kadapa (212 and 4), Visakhapatnam (206 and 1), Srikakulam (108 and 1), Kurnool (100 and 0) and Vizianagaram (86 and 0). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,09,044), West Godavari (78,072), Chittoor (72,724), Anantapur (62,075), Guntur (61,593), Kurnool (58,636), Nellore (57,689), Prakasam (55,900), Visakhapatnam (53,384), Kadapa (49,351), Srikakulam (42,313), Vizianagaram (38,007) and Krishna (33,787).
22 October 2020||Krishnadas Rajagopal NEW DELHI,||Stubble burning: Justice Lokur, students to save NCR||Former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur, helped by student volunteer forces deployed from the National Cadet Corps, the National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides, will protect Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) from pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring States of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh this winter. A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Friday appointed Justice Lokur as a one-man committee to monitor and prevent instances of stubble burning by farmers in the three States. Student forces will patrol highways and fields in the three States and ensure that no fires are started in the fields. When Haryana counsel protested that these were just schoolchildren, Chief Justice Bobde reacted, “This does not involve a great knowledge of fires... Why can’t the NCC go and see who is lighting the fires?” States to give transport The Chief Secretaries of the three States will provide facilities to the committee and provide the student volunteers with adequate transportation to aid their vigil. Existing mobile teams and nodal officers of the States will report to the committee. The Supreme Court’s own Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) would consult with the committee on issues related to stubble burning. The court made it clear to Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati that the formation of the committee was not meant as an adverse comment on the functioning of the EPCA. The committee will file status reports with the court at least every fortnight.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sailors turned saviours during Hyderabad deluge||Equipped with salvage boats and sailing equipment, sailors and support staff led by national champion K. Gowtham waded through canals amid blinding rain and gusty winds to conduct rescue operations, steering many citizens in submerged colonies to safety. Gowtham and his fellow national sailors, Y. Prasad of Rasoolpura, and M. Saibaba, a bronze medallist in the Optimist class in 2017 now working as the Yacht Club coach, used the same boats they had sailed in for the Nationals. With inflatables, radios and jackets, they proved to be the unlikely saviours, even as many government personnel also worked overnight to reach out to rain-hit citizens. ‘It was surreal’ The sailors were aided by a voluntary organisation called SDIF, headed by Mohammad Azam Khan. “We got a call around 7 a.m. on October 13, saying that about 500 people were stranded and unable to get out of their houses. So our coaches responded immediately. Never in the past 40 years have I seen such a deluge at the lake, and it was surreal as wind and water lashed the Hussainsagar in the dead of night,” recalls Suheim Sheikh, president of the Yacht Club. Gowtham and Saibaba headed out to Tolichowki, rescuing people in low-lying colonies adjacent to lakes. Prasad, on the other hand, left for Saroornagar and managed to ferry 15 families to safety, after which he headed to Rasoolpura with his boat as he got a call from Shaik Nayeem of the Kriya Sangh Society, informing him that water levels there were rising rapidly. Around 1,600 rescued By the end of the rescue job, the national champions had trained many local volunteers, and left the Yacht Club boats behind, which were used through the night. Azam Khan, who heads SDIF, was full of praise for Gowtham, Prasad and Saibaba, who, in four small Optimist class boats, rescued about 1,600 citizens in two days.
22 October 2020||Pune,||Active cases dip below 1.90 lakh in State||Maharashtra reported 13,885 COVID-19 recoveries as opposed to 11,447 new cases on Friday, as the State’s total case tally reached 15,76,062. With 306 more deaths, the toll has now climbed to 41,502. While the State’s active cases have dipped to 1,89,715, the recoveries have risen to 13,44,368, with the recovery rate at 85.3%. Mumbai continued to see another big spike of 1,853 cases to take its total case tally to 2,38,544.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for festivities||
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Light rain in north T.N. till Monday||Parts of north Tamil Nadu will experience wet weather till Monday as thunderstorms are set to return over the region, according to the Meteorological Department. As the earlier depression has moved to the Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast, some parts of the State particularly in the north, are likely to receive light to moderate rain, said officials. After a relatively warm day, a few areas in Chennai received light rain on Friday evening. Convective activity The weather stations in Nungambakkam and Madhavaram recorded less than 1 cm of rain till 6 p.m. Such convective activity will trigger rain for a few more days. Officials said similar thunderstorm activity would continue till October 20. For the next two days, districts, including Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Vellore, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Dharmapuri, Nagapattinam and Krishnagiri, are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall. On Saturday, rainfall may be heavy in one or two places in Dharmapuri, Salem, Tiruvannamalai and Tirupathur districts. While days may be hot in Chennai with the temperature hovering around 36 degree Celsius, convective activity will bring thundershowers in some areas during evening. Delayed withdrawal S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said weather systems were forming continuously in the Bay of Bengal due to the delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon. Another low pressure area is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal around October 19 and is expected to move towards Andhra Pradesh. This may influence rain over north Tamil Nadu till October 20. These weather systems have delayed easterly winds over the region. “We expect the northeast monsoon to set in by the month-end,” Mr. Balachandran added.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Car sales up 28.9% in Sept.’||Passenger vehicle dispatches to dealers by automotive companies recorded a strong double-digit growth of 26.5% in September, according to industry body SIAM. Manufacturers expect ‘good demand’ in the festive season that kicks off from Friday. While car sales rose by 28.9%, sales of utility vehicles and vans climbed 24.5% to 96,633 units and 10.6% up to 11,413 units each. Two-wheeler sales grew 11.64% to over 18.49 lakh units as against over 16.56 lakh units in the same month last year. Data showed a year-on-year growth of 17.3% for motorcycles to over 12.2 lakh units and a marginal increase in sales of scooters to about 5.56 lakh units.
22 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Minor raped, killed in Barabanki||The body of an 18-year-old girl, who was raped and killed, was found in a paddy field at Satrikh in Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh late on Wednesday, police said on Friday. One person has been arrested. On the basis of digital evidence and ground information, accused Dinesh Gautam, 19, was arrested, said Additional SP Ram Sewak Gautam. The accused, belonging to a hamlet in the same gram sabha as the victim, confessed to committing the crime, the police officer said.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC: any way to check TV news content before broadcast?||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Union government, “is there any mechanism for checking the content broadcast by news channels before the ‘damage is done’.” A Division Bench was hearing petitions seeking a direction to authorities to issue guidelines for all media to curtail comments that may jeopardise the reputation of the police and hinder administration of justice in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.
22 October 2020||Kalaburagi,||When floods cut off Muttuga from the world||People of Muttuga village in Kalaburagi were relieved on Friday as they managed to reconnect with the external world after two days of isolation. Since Tuesday night, they have had to go without food, potable water, power supply or telephone connectivity.
22 October 2020||Begaluru,||Old rivalry back as HDK and DKS shadow box||The outcome of the byelections in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies may not be crucial to the stability of the BJP government in Karnataka, but it is being keenly watched for the tussle under way for the Vokkaliga leadership. Both having sizeable Vokkaliga votes has resulted in a kind of shadow-boxing between former CM H.D. Kumaraswamy and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar.
22 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Anti-Khalistan activist gunned down in Punjab||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab for years, was shot dead on Friday by unidentified assailants at his house in Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district, police said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered the constitution of a Special Investigation Team headed by DIG Ferozepur to investigate the case.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||For 4th day, Delhi sees over 3,000 new cases||As many as 3,428 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3,24,459, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. The death toll has reached 5,946 with 22 more fatalities reported in a single day. There are now 22,814 active cases in the city.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||CPI(M) MLA from Basirhat Uttar joins Trinamool Congress||Rafiqul Islam, a sitting Communist Party of India (Marxist) MLA from Basirhat Uttar in North 24 Parganas, returned to the Trinamool Congress on Friday in the presence senior leaders Aroop Biswas and Sadhan Pandey. Mr. Islam had switched from Trinamool Congress to CPI(M) before the 2016 Assembly elections. After joining the Trinamool on Friday, Mr. Islam said only this party can defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in next year’s Assembly polls.    A number of MLA of the Left parties and Congress have joined the ruling Trinamool Congress in the past five years.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Seeking ‘basic rights’, Saibaba to go on fast||Professor G.N. Saibaba, who is lodged in the Nagpur Central jail after being convicted for maoist links, is said to go on a hunger strike from October 21 as he is not been provided with clothes, medicines and books since a month. Prof. Saibaba, a polio victim, is 90% physically disabled and wheel chair bound, and suffers from pancreatitis, high blood pressure, cardiomyopathy, and chronic back pain.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Teacher succumbs to post COVID-19 lung infection||Padmakshi N., a teacher of a government aided school in Moodbidri, died on Friday following post COVID-19 lung infection. She was undergoing treatment at the private hospital here since she tested positive on September 29.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,||‘Karnataka has not violated any law’||“Karnataka has not violated any law or rule. Goa’s allegations that we have violated Supreme Court orders on the Mahadayi river dispute are false. We are confident that its contentions in its contempt petition will not be accepted,” said Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi here on Friday.
22 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Anti-Khalistan activist gunned down in Punjab||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab for years, was shot dead on Friday by unidentified assailants at his house in Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district, police said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered the constitution of a Special Investigation Team headed by DIG Ferozepur to investigate the case.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||Case fatality, positivity rates fall in Mysuru||The weekly COVID-19 case fatality rate (CFR), which was between 2.2% and 2.5% last month has dropped to 1.8% this month. Also, the weekly positivity rate, which was between 14.2% and 20.7% from September till early this month, has dropped to 9%. According to the COVID-19 war room in Bengaluru, the positivity rate was 10.2% in seven days and the weekly CFR was 1.8%.
22 October 2020||Chennai,||Drop in HIV prevalence in antenatal women||The overall prevalence of HIV/AIDS among antenatal women has dropped from 0.27% to 0.18% in Tamil Nadu, but 11 districts have recorded a higher prevalence than the State’s average, according to the recently released 16th round of HIV Sentinel Surveillance, 2019.
22 October 2020||KHAMMAM,||Khammam rape victim’s death sparks outrage||Amid outpouring of anguish, the last rites of the 13-year-old Dalit girl, who died during treatment for her burn injuries at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Thursday night, nearly four weeks after she was set ablaze by a 25-year-old married man when she resisted his alleged rape attempt at his house here, were performed at her native village Pallegudem near here on Friday afternoon. The victim, who worked as a domestic help at the house of the accused Allam Maraiah, of Mustafanagar here, suffered around 70% burns after the latter allegedly poured petrol on her before setting her ablaze after a failed rape attempt on September 18. In view of the closure of schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the poor parents of the girl sent her (their second daughter) to Khammam to work as a domestic help to surmount mounting debt burden, sources close to the victim's family said. The gruesome incident came to light around 15 days after the actual crime as the accused, who hails from the same community as the victim, admitted her to a local private hospital clandestinely and tried to cover up the crime by resorting to intimidating tactics. For nearly a fortnight, the girl suffered in silence at the private hospital, the management of which kept the matter confidential and treated the injured girl in the regular ward, devoid of a specialised burns ward. The incident came to the fore belatedly on October 5 after a video clip showing the bed-ridden girl narrating her heart-wrenching ordeal went viral on social media. Following public outcry, the authorities shifted the girl to Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad the same day and a few days later moved her to a private hospital in the State capital for better treatment. The district health authorities sealed Sri Pooja hospital in Khammam on October 8 for failing to inform the police about the Medico Legal Case. The Khammam one town police booked Maraiah under the provisions of the POCSO Act and other relevant Sections of the IPC on October 5. On October 6, Maraiah was arrested and produced before a local court. He was remanded in judicial custody for two weeks on the same day. The body of the victim was brought to Pallegudem from Hyderabad amid tight security arrangements on Friday morning. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan consoled the bereaved family members of the victim and assured to look after their welfare. The officials handed over a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh to the parents of the victim. Tension prevailed in the village later in the day when activists of various women's organisations including the AIDWA and the POW staged a demonstration with the body of the victim at the burial ground. They raised slogans demanding a speedy trial of the horrific case and harshest punishment for the accused. The women activists including the AIDWA State secretary Mallu Lakshmi consoled the grieving mother of the victim and vowed to ensure speedy justice for her. The distraught mother of the victim said, “They (officials) asked me to sign on a paper before handing over a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh. We want speedy justice and stiffer punishment for the accused, she said crying inconsolably minutes before the final rites of her daughter.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India fares poorly in hunger index||India has the highest prevalence of wasted children under five years in the world, which reflects acute undernutrition, according to the Global Hunger Index 2020. The situation has worsened in the 2015-19 period, when the prevalence of child wasting was 17.3%, in comparison to 2010-14, when it was 15.1%. Overall, India ranks 94 out of 107 countries in the Index, lower than neighbours such as Bangladesh (75) and Pakistan (88). 2020 scores reflect data from 2015-19. The Index, which was released on Friday, is a peer-reviewed report released annually by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe. It uses four parameters to determine its scores. India fares worst in child wasting (low weight for height, reflecting acute undernutrition) and child stunting (low height for age, reflecting chronic undernutrition), which together make up a third of the total score. Although it is still in the poorest category, however, child stunting has actually improved significantly, from 54% in 2000 to less than 35% now. Child wasting, on the other hand, has not improved in the last two decades, and is rather worse than it was decade ago. India has improved in both child mortality rates, which are now at 3.7%, and in terms of undernourishment, with about 14% of the total population which gets an insufficient caloric intake. In the region of south, east and south-eastern Asia, the only countries which fare worse than India are Timor-Leste, Afghanistan and North Korea. Pandemic effect Globally, nearly 690 million people are undernourished, according to the report, which warns that the COVID-19 pandemic could have affected the progress made on reducing hunger and poverty. “The world is not on track to achieve the second Sustainable Development Goal — known as Zero Hunger for short — by 2030. At the current pace, approximately 37 countries will fail even to reach low hunger, as defined by the Global Hunger Index Severity Scale, by 2030,” says the report. “These projections do not account for the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may worsen hunger and undernutrition in the near term and affect countries’ trajectories into the future ... COVID-19 has made it clearer than ever that our food systems, as they stand, are inadequate to the task of achieving Zero Hunger.”
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||As cases surge, Centre rushes teams to 5 States||The Union Health Ministry on Friday deputed teams to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, which have been reporting a surge in the number of new COVID-19 cases in recent days. A Ministry release said the teams would support the States’ efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. They shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow-up. “Each team comprises a Jt. Secretary (nodal officer for the respective State), one public health expert to look after the public health aspects, one clinician to look after infection prevention practices, clinical management protocol being followed by the State,’’ said the Ministry. In the past 24 hours, the country has reported 895 case fatalities, and of these, nearly 82% were concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha and Delhi. More than 37% of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (337), the Ministry noted. “India continues to report one of the lowest deaths per million population, which stands at 81 today. Less than 1,100 deaths have been reported continuously since 2nd October. These results are boosted by 22 States/UTs which had demonstrated better performance and are reporting even lower deaths per million compared to the national average. Case fatality rate has been on the downslide continuously. At the current figure of 1.52%, it is the lowest since 22nd March 2020,’’it stated. The active cases now comprised 10.92% of the total positive cases of the country standing at 8,04,528. “Higher number of recoveries has aided the national recovery rate to further improve to 87.56%,’’ it added.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Police personnel become the heroes of Hyderabad||Armed with walkie-talkie sets and clad in khaki raincoats, the police of three urban commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda, were seen wading through swirling waters extending helping hands to people as rain lashed the city. The city police have earned rare encomiums from marooned people across various localities in the last three days. It was the police personnel on duty who reached out to the hapless commuters and averted loss of lives. Chikkadpally locality, which is one of the worst affected due to flood, had a saviour policeman who single-handedly is credited to have rescued 25 people from being washed away. Police constable Veerender rescued 25 stranded people while remaining in deep water at Aravind Nagar, Domalguda. “He is my hero. Such officers are the true stars of our team. I salute them and thank the community for encouraging the Hyderabad police,” tweeted Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. Prakash, a young man, who got swept away in the Chinnacheruvu near Ghatkesar, which recorded the highest rainfall of 32.4 cm, was rescued by the Rachkonda police. They also rescued two persons who washed away along with their bikes at Gowrelly village. Efforts of constable Surender of Abdullapurmet police station was well appreciated on social media after he recovered the body of a missing person by sitting on a poclainer. Police said that the victim, who was later identified as Raghavendra from Bachupally village in Kandakur mandal, went missing on Monday night. The East Zone police of Hyderabad distributed clothes and food door-to-door to people affected in Moosa Nagar and other areas. The police of three commissionerates put their training in disaster management to use and rose to the occasion. No sooner did the announcement of intending rains come than the police in a well-calibrated effort got the temporary houses that cropped up on the bank of River Musi vacated. As Musi started swelling, people heaved a sigh of relief.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||JD(U) banks on its past record against LJP||There is a dissonance between the high-decibel campaign of Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan against the Janata Dal (U) and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, and the actual on-ground confrontation between the two. In the 2015 Assembly elections, the LJP contested 42 seats. Of these, it came face-to-face with the JD(U) on 22 seats and lost on 21 of them. In three of the 22 seats — Warisnagar, Triveniganj and Sonbarsha — the party lost by more than 50,000 votes. Mr. Paswan’s cousin and present Lok Sabha MP Prince Raj lost from Kalyanpur by a margin of over 37,000 votes. Humiliating defeats The results of the 2010 Assembly elections were no better. Of the 75 seats that the LJP fought, it faced humiliating defeat in 27 at the hands of the JD(U). Mr. Chirag Paswan’s uncle Pashupati Nath Paras lost out from Alauli seat that his brother late Ram Vilas Paswan had first won in 1969. Mr. Paras lost to the JD(U) by over 17,000 votes. “JD (U) and LJP have never fought together — be it Assembly elections of 2000, 2005, 2010 or 2015. Whether they are with us or against us, makes no difference to us. In 2005, they fought alone and we swept the polls. Only disappointment is in the offing for them,” said JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi. He said the LJP’s dismal performance in 2015 was in spite of active support from the BJP with Prime Minister Narendra Modi campaigning on many seats for them. The LJP, meanwhile, claimed the situation in the last two Assembly polls was vastly different from today. Earlier, there was a wave in favour of the JD(U) and specifically Nitish Kumar, that has reversed now. “The political situation keeps changing, the ground reality is different today. There is a huge anti-incumbency against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. It is no longer even anti-incumbency; it is sheer anger against him,” LJP’s parliamentary board general secretary Abdul Khaliq said. He added that the LJP wanted the BJP to take the lead in this election and even now their fight is to replace the JD(U) with a BJP government.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||CBI detects assets of fraudulent firms||The Central Bureau of Investigation, in an operation conducted in coordination with the U.S. Department of Justice against six firms that were involved in cheating hundreds of elderly and vulnerable people in the U.S., has detected assets worth over Rs. 190 crore linked to the accused persons. “The CBI is collaborating with its counterparts in other countries to identify the network, dismantle their infrastructure and bring the perpetrators of crime to justice,” it said. The agency said, “The U.S. Department of Justice and the CBI collaborated in this regard, and on Thursday, the U.S. Federal court ordered an individual and five companies to stop engaging in the technical-support fraud scheme that is alleged to have defrauded hundreds of elderly and vulnerable U.S. victims.” According to the U.S. Department of Justice, the accused from Glendale in California, knowingly provided support to the India-based accomplices and facilitated the scheme through several companies, including in Singapore. “The temporary restraining order issued by the U.S. court dismantles these defendants’ U.S. infrastructure, such as websites and payment processing relationships, and prohibits the defendants from continuing to facilitate the alleged scheme,” the CBI said. During the recent searches in Delhi, Jaipur, Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh, the agency seized digital evidence and also identified bank accounts and fixed deposits to the tune of Rs. 190 crore. It also seized about Rs. 25 lakh in cash and gold worth Rs. 55 lakh. The accused companies were identified as Softwill Infotech Private Limited and Saburi TLC Worldwide Services Private Limited in Delhi; InnovanaThinklabs Limited and Systweak Software Private Limited in Jaipur; Saburi Global Services Private Limited in Gurugram; and Benovellient Technologies Private Limited in Noida. “It was alleged that these companies would contact the victims via Internet pop-up messages that falsely appeared to be security alerts from Microsoft or any other well-known company,” said the agency. Through the message, the accused would fraudulently claim that the consumer’s computer security had been compromised as it was infected by a virus. It would run a scan through the system, falsely confirming the presence of a virus and malware. The message would display a toll free number for technical assistance. Distress calls from the potential victims would land at the call centres run by the accused persons. The victims would pay up hundreds of dollars for the technical services and software packages on the promise of fixing non-existing problems.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Goibibo faces online flak over flight ticket refunds||Travel booking portal Goibibo, a company owned by MakeMyTrip, has become the target of social media outrage from many air travellers unable to receive either their refunds for flights cancelled due to COVID-19 or get customer care support despite a recent order by the Supreme Court. Sanchita Chandar, a Bengaluru-based dentist, had booked a return journey to Kathmandu for April to volunteer as a health worker through travel booking portal Goibibo. Six months on, she is yet to receive Rs. 18,500 for flights booked on IndiGo and Nepal Airlines. The SC ordered on October 1 that domestic airlines will have to refund tickets booked for travel during the lockdown, and credit shells may be issued by airlines if tickets were booked before the lockdown. But passengers say that even in cases where airlines have issued a full refund, Goibibo has not passed on the benefit. The latter says that airlines have not been giving cash refunds to them in many cases, and have been issuing only credit shells, while expecting that agents will give cash refunds to passengers. “IndiGo has told me that they have approved my cancellation and that it has sent the refund of Rs. 12,000 to Goibibo, through which I had made the booking. On the latter’s website, it shows that the refund has been processed and that it should be reflecting in my account, but that is yet to happen,” said the 28-year-old doctor. She also rued that there was no customer support. With no e-mail address and many were left to vent their anger on Twitter, she added. Credit shells In response to a query by this correspondent, a spokesperson for MakeMyTrip, which owns Goibibo, said, “We have refunded the money wherever refunds have been issued by our airline partners and we are offering booking on platform through credit shells wherever the airlines have released the refunds through credit shell. As always, we continue to work closely with our airline partners to seamlessly pass on the benefits to our customers through the mode offered by the airlines.” Another Kochi-based doctor, who did not want to be identified, is yet to receive Rs. 2 lakh she spent on booking a flight for two from Kochi to Vancouver for May 2 with Air Canada. The flight was booked on March 4, and following travel restrictions imposed by India and around the world, the couple was informed on April 4 that “your booking has been cancelled with full refund” and that they did not have to follow up any more. But on October 13, Goibibo informed her that she would have to contact Air Canada for her refund request. Both passengers were also offered credit shells by Goibibo in lieu of a cash refund, but the doctor from Kerala said the conditions imposed on claiming these credit shells are prohibitive. “Airline and travel agency playing games with customers! @flyspicejet claims they have transferred full refund to @goibibo who claim they only have a credit shell. One or both are lying and trying to defeat SC order,” tweeted Soumitra Pathare, a pscyhiatrist.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Anti-Khalistan activist gunned down||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab for years, was shot dead on Friday by unidentified assailants at his house in Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab, police said. He was 62. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case. Mr. Sandhu was awarded the Shaurya Chakra in 1993 for his exemplary courage as he along with his family strongly opposed the Khalistani movement and fought terrorism for many years. ‘Security withdrawn’ Pointing out that Mr. Sandhu has been the target of terrorists earlier also, his wife Jagdish Kaur alleged that his security cover was withdrawn earlier this year even though the family had been on the hit list of terrorists. According to the Shaurya Chakra citation (1993): “Terrorists have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu family in a span of about 11 months but every time, the Sandhu brothers [Balwinder Singh Sandhu and Ranjeet Singh Sandhu], with the help of their brave wives, successfully foiled the attempts. The deadliest attack was on 30th September 1990, when about 200 terrorists surrounded their house and attacked them for 5 hours with deadly weapons. Undaunted, the Sandhu brothers and wives fought with pistols and sten guns provided by the government and forced the terrorists to retreat.”
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Repurposed drugs did not cut down mortality, says WHO||Interim results from the Solidarity Therapeutics Trial, coordinated by the World Health Organization (WHO), have indicated that remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon regimens appeared to have little or no effect on 28-day mortality or the in-hospital course of COVID-19 among hospitalised patients, according to information released by the global health body. Clinical outcome Speaking exclusively to The Hindu about the outcome, Prof. K Srinath Reddy, member, executive steering group, WHO Solidarity Trials and co-author of the study, said: “The Solidarity trial is the largest trial to examine the effect of four treatments on the risk of death in hospitalised patients of COVID-19. As a multi-country study, it offers the advantage of large patient numbers needed to reach meaningful conclusions on this very important clinical outcome and also provides generalisability of its conclusions across diverse populations across the world.” He added that the trial has not shown any benefit of any of the four tested drugs on reducing the risk of dying in hospitalised patients of COVID-19. “The trial will continue to evaluate other promising interventions for their ability to save lives, through rigorously examined evidence from a large randomised trial methodology,” said Dr. Reddy. In six months, the world’s largest randomised control trial on COVID-19 therapeutics has generated conclusive evidence on the effectiveness of repurposed drugs for the treatment of COVID-19, noted the WHO release. 30 nations participate It added that the study, which spans more than 30 countries, looked at the effects of these treatments on overall mortality, initiation of ventilation, and duration of hospital stay in hospitalised patients. Other uses of the drugs, for example in treatment of patients in the community or for prevention, would have to be examined using different trials. The results are under review for publication and have been uploaded as preprint at medRxiv. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), an active partner in the trials, said in a statement, “ICMR has succeeded in conducting this large randomised controlled study even during a pandemic situation and earlier lockdown. This study reliably answers critical public health questions concerning therapeutics.” Earlier, ICMR conducted PLACID trial for convalescent plasma indicating no benefit of it in COVID-19 treatment. “The trial comprised 26 actively randomising sites with 937 participants in India. We are grateful to the trial participants and their families for contributing to these crucial findings,” said Samiran Panda, head, ICMR-Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases. India contributed one-tenth of the participants in the trial.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gold smuggling case: BJP demands Pinarayi’s resignation||The BJP on Friday demanded the resignation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case, alleging that those accused in the case were working in tandem with the ruling dispensation in the State. “The moral authority of the Chief Minister is lost. The BJP has been demanding, the people of Kerala have been demanding that the Chief Minister resign owning moral responsibility for the whole incident,” Minister of State for External Affairs and Kerala BJP leader V. Muraleedharan said at a presser at the BJP headquarters in New Delhi. The case relates to the seizure of 30 kg of gold from diplomatic baggage at the Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5. Mr. Muraleedharan said the Left government’s involvement in hushing up the case was clear by the fact that the State had first asked the Centre to order a probe into the matter and had now moved court against the CBI, claiming that the agency does not have the authority to investigate. “This shows that those involved in smuggling gold are hand in glove with those in power,” he alleged, adding that this case was distinct from other cases of gold smuggling because it was “directly” linked to the Chief Minister’s Office. He also pointed out that the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister had been suspended over the case. “(Chief Minister) Vijayan has been changing his stand on the matter from the day the case was registered and accused were arrested,” Mr. Muraleedharan said. The NIA, the CBI and the ED are probing various angles of the case and several people have been arrested in connection with the case.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||250 healthcare workers among 7,283 positive cases in Kerala||With a test positivity rate of 14.05% on Friday, Kerala reported 7,283 new cases of COVID-19. The death toll in the State from the virus was rising. With 24 more fatalities which occurred over the past few weeks being added to the official list, the cumulative death toll stood at 1,113. Nine deaths were reported from Kannur, five each from Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur, three from Kozhikode and one each from Idukki and Pathanamthitta. Over 98% of the new cases were locally acquired infections including those reported in 250 health care workers, a higher than normal figure. Among districts, Malappuram recorded the highest number of new cases at 1,025, Kozhikode 970, Thrissur 809, Palakkad 648, Ernakulam 606, Thiruvananthapuram 595, Alapuzha 563, Kottayam 432, Kollam 418, Kannur 405, Pathanamthitta 296, Kasaragod 234, Wayanad 158 and Idukki 124 cases-positive. The plateauing of cases in Thiruvananthapuram and the increase in disease transmission in other districts was reflected in active case numbers. Ernakulam led with 12,323 cases and Malappuram had 11,450. Andhra Pradesh reported 3,967 new infections and 25 more deaths on Friday, as per Health Department data. Of the total active cases, over 50% were inEast Godavari (6,622 cases), Chittoor (5,069), West Godavari (4,726) and Guntur (4,409), while the remaining nine districts accounted for 50% cases. West Godavari reported the highest number of new infections while Krishna and Kadapa reported the highest number of deaths. Telangana recorded 1,554 new cases on Thursday. Seven more patients succumbed to the virus. Greater Hyderabad contributed the major share of new cases with 249 on Thursday. Neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts reported 118 and 128 new cases respectively and Bhadradri-Kothagudem 95 new cases. 57 deaths in T.N. A total of 4,389 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. While 5,245 persons were discharged after treatment, 57 more persons died in the State. With the fresh cases, the State now accounts for 6,79,191 COVID-19 cases. Of this 40,959 persons were under treatment, while 6,27,703 persons were discharged till date and 10,529 persons have died.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
22 October 2020||Srinagar,||Police deserter escapes in gunfight||Just two days after a policeman deserted the service to join militancy, security forces on Friday engaged him in a gunfight in central Kashmir’s Budgam where he managed to escape but his associate was arrested. In another raid, the police also arrested held six persons for providing logistics to militants for carrying out attacks on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in the last two months. Associate held “On a specific input, the Special Police Officer [SPO], who deserted the police and decamped with two AK 47 rifles, along with his associate, was trapped in the Chadoora area of Budgam. They fired indiscriminately and the SPO managed to escape,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said his associate was captured. “The captured associate was identified as Jahangir Ahmad Bhat, an overground worker and a notorious stone pelter. One of the missing AK 47 rifles was recovered from his possession,” the IGP said. Mr. Kumar said the forces showed “maximum restraint by arresting the terrorist associate during the live encounter”. “I appeal to the family of the SPO Altaf to help police in bringing him back,” he said. The police said the six other militant associates who were arrested “provided shelter, transportation and also conducted recce of the security force deployments” on the highway in the Valley. “Police teams carried out a series of raids in Budgam’s Chadoora, Srinagar’s Nowgam and other areas and picked up around a dozen suspects for questioning. Six militant associates were found providing logistics to the attackers,” Mr. Kumar said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pak., Afghanistan did better work’||The Congress on Friday attacked the Narendra Modi government for its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy. Its former president Rahul Gandhi claimed that even Pakistan and Afghanistan handled the pandemic better. Sharing projections by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that the Indian economy is set to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, Mr. Gandhi mocked it as the Modi government’s ‘solid achievement’. He tagged a chart that showed IMF growth projections for 2020-21 for Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, China, Bhutan, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and India. “Another solid achievement by the BJP government. Even Pakistan and Afghanistan handled Covid better than India”, Mr. Gandhi tweeted. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said that while India’s COVID-19 infection figure was now nearly 74 lakh, with 1.12 lakh COVID-19 related deaths, its economy was among the fastest declining ones. “On the one hand, there is the corona pandemic where there has been gross mismanagement, and on the other, Mr. Modi and his team have ensured that the Indian economy has completely got ruined and is in complete shambles. Today, there is no demand, no consumption, no investment and hardly any jobs. In fact, some data suggests that 46% Indians are earning less than what they did,” Ms. Shrinate said. “It is a cause of deep concern because today Bangladesh has higher per capita GDP and the government, instead of doing something about it, turns around and says ‘our purchasing power parity is higher’,” she added. On Wednesday, based on the IMF projections that Bangladesh’s per capita would cross India’s, Mr. Gandhi tweeted it as “solid achievement of six years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism”. Earlier this week, the IMF projected that India’s GDP would contract by 10.3% this year but is likely to bounce back with an 8.8% growth rate in 2021.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||GST: Kerala welcomes offer, but wants Centre to borrow more||Even while welcoming the Centre’s decision to borrow through a special window and provide back-to-back loans to the States in lieu of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation, Kerala is putting pressure to borrow Rs. 1.70 lakh crore instead of the present offer of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. Kerala, which had led the States to oppose the Centre’s twin options on GST compensation, is of the view that the total shortfall in the collection of GST, estimated at Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, should be provided this year itself. “We have welcomed the Centre’s offer to borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. The remaining shortfall of Rs. 60,000 crore will be given to the States only in 2023. This issue has to be resolved. The Centre should discuss with the States on how much of compensation is to be deferred to 2023. Let us negotiate and reach a consensus,” Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told The Hindu . No effect on fiscal deficit Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman who telephoned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday from Delhi to drum up support for the Centre’s initiative was told that the State was welcoming the offer but wanted to enhance borrowing to Rs. 1.7 lakh crore. Kerala is putting pressure on the Union Finance Ministry to enhance the borrowing. “Since under the new arrangement, the additional borrowing will not affect the fiscal deficit of the Centre, why is it not ready to borrow Rs. 1.7 lakh crore instead of the present offer of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore,” asks Dr. Isaac. Meeting today The State is hopeful that the Centre will yield to the demand in view of its move to approach the Supreme Court on Centre’s ‘arbitrary’ decision on the issue. The GST council had not taken a decision after three meetings. The Chief Minister has convened a meeting of the officials of the Finance and Law Departments on Saturday to discuss the issue.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||Use Durga Puja dole only for COVID-19 prevention steps: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed that the money allocated by the West Bengal government to Durga Puja committees should be used only for improving community policing and procuring masks and sanitizers for containing the spread of COVID-19. A division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee, in an interim order, said the money allocated could not be used for any other purpose such as conducting any Puja activity, musical soiree or entertainment of the organisers. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on September 24, announced that the government would give Rs. 50,000 to each of the 37,000 clubs across the State. According to the court, 75% of the money should be used only for procurement of masks, sanitizers and face shields and 25% for strengthening police - public bonding and inclusion of more women in community policing. “During the hearing, government counsel said the money allocated to clubs is not for Puja but for certain schemes such community policing and distributing masks and sanitizer, etc. The court, on the basis of that statement said that not a single rupee should be spent on Puja,” Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, counsel for petitioner Sourav Ghosh said. The court in its interim order also directed that bills of masks and sanitisers’ procurement should be submitted to the Sub Divisional Officers (SDO) of the districts and the Kolkata Police for thorough auditing and report on this would be submitted to the court. The case will come up for hearing again after the vacation.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||2 months after SLBHES mishap, Genco plans to restart two units||After experiencing difficulties in soot removal and muck cleaning from the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station (SLBHES), which witnessed a major fire on August 20 night, the authorities of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) are getting ready to restart the first two units in a week’s time. “If everything goes according to plan, the first two units of the 6×150 megawatt underground hydro-electric station will resume power generation in about a week’s time – the fag end of the flood season to Srisailam. All the major repair or restoration works pertaining to panel board, power supply back-up, lighting and air-conditioning system and restoration of the gas-insulated sub-station in the tunnel have been completed for the revival of the two units and the final checks are going on,” a top executive of the power utility said on Friday. But for the long delay in soot removal and cleaning exercise, the two units would have been pressed into generation last month itself – during the thick of flood season, the official said admitting the fact that the mishap had caused major financial loss in terms of damage to the power plant as also loss of the low-cost power generation. “During the July-October period, which is considered the peak flood season, power generation at Srisailam LBHES this year was only 648 million units (MU) as against 1,386 MU last year, with barely one week of generation possible for the period this year, if everything goes well in restarting the first two units,” the official said explaining the loss to the utility in terms of low-cost power generation. Since the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system in Srisailam LBHES is 20 years old, the Genco authorities have also replaced it now, although they were planning for it before the fire mishap itself. The Genco officials further stated that three more units, except unit number four, would be revived over the next three months and the remaining one unit before the commencement of the next flood season. The sources said they had also weighed the option of replacing all the units but ruled that out to be unwise from the point of economics of working and the condition of the generation units after the fire mishap. The internal committee of the power utility that was tasked to probe the fire and recommend measures to prevent recurrence of such mishaps in future is yet to complete its work, the sources said, adding that the team would visit the project one more time next week before finalising its report.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Any stay on proceedings is valid only for 6 months: SC||Any stay on civil or criminal proceedings is valid for a period of six months, beyond which the trial will resume, the Supreme Court held in an order on Friday. “Whatever stay has been granted by any court, including the High Court, automatically expires within a period of six months,” a Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman said. An extension of the stay has to be granted only for a “good reason.” 2013 judgment The Bench was reiterating a 2013 judgment in the Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt. Ltd case. “The speaking order must show that the case was of such exceptional nature that continuing the stay was more important than having the trial finalised,” the court said. The judgment was concerned with the case of refusal of a magistrate court in Pune to resume trial as the Bombay High Court had previously stayed the proceedings. Call to magistrates “We must remind the magistrates all over the country that in our pyramidical structure under the Constitution of India, the Supreme Court is at the apex, and the High Courts, though not subordinate administratively, are certainly subordinate judicially. This kind of orders fly in the face of our judgment [2013 one]. We expect that the magistrates all over the country will follow our order in letter and spirit,” the Supreme Court observed.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Is there any way to check news content before broadcast on TV’||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Union government, “is there any mechanism for checking the content broadcast by news channels before the ‘damage is done’.” A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of public interest litigation petitions seeking a direction from the court to the authorities to issue guidelines for all media to curtail any comments that may jeopardise the reputation of the police and hinder administration of justice in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Union, cited several Supreme Court judgments to say that the court had maintained that the government must not interfere with the freedom of press, and the press must be encouraged to have a system of self-regulation. To this, the court said: “These judgments are from 2012-2013. Times have changed. This is the most misused freedom now.” ‘Unfettered licence’ The bench said, “Everyone seems to be having an unfettered licence to say whatever they want... Before the so-called damage is done, is there any machinery to check that? Or do you act only when a certain news is disseminated and complaints are received?” Justice Kulkarni said, “We are concerned with the efficiency of the present mechanism. Once the self-regulation has failed, what should be the remedy? That is the concern. We are in that situation, where the self-regulation has failed.” The court added that themedia must keep in mind that a person’s reputation is not tarnished unduly. “Media has fundamental right to freedom. But that cannot be used to infringe the rights of others. This cannot go unregulated,” it observed. “For the print media, there is the Press Council of India; for cinemas, there is a censor board. Why can’t you think of a similar statutory body for the electronic media. You [Union] do not seem to be in the mood, to ruffle feathers,” it stated.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Korea Tourism, The Hindu to host webinar on business travel||Korea Tourism Organisation and The Hindu will organise a webinar on ‘Future of MICE Travel Post Covid with Focus on South Korea’ on October 21 at 3 p.m. The webinar will have discussion on the future of MICE-meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions post-COVID 19 with focus on South Korea. Young-seup Kwon, Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Chennai, will deliver the inaugural address. A panel discussion on ‘Experience on Mice’ followed by a question and answer session with the participants will be held. It will discuss various aspects such as what kind of post-COVID travel do they foresee, what will be the company’s main parameters to select a destination and what kind of assistance companies would expect from the Embassy for MICE travel. The panel for the webinar includes Suresh Chukkapalli, Honorary Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Telengana, Chairman Emeritus, Phoenix Group, Hyderabad; Ashok Jaiswar, Group Head, Marketing B2C and B2B, Greaves Cotton Limited; Shefali Khalsa, Head, Brand and Corporate Communication, SBI General Insurance; Aikta Tyagi, Vice President, Special Events and Facilities, Amway India Enterprises; and Sandeep Dutta, Marketing Manager, Korea Tourism Organisation. The webinar will be moderated by Suresh Seshadri, Business Editor, The Hindu . To register for the webinar, visit: http://bit.ly/KTTHS or scan the QR Code.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,||Private Dasara of the Wadiyars to be a muted affair this year||The private Dasara of the Wadiyars to be held from Saturday within the Amba Vilas Palace will be a restricted affair and not open even to immediate family members in view of the pandemic. The elaborate affair used to start with rites and rituals supervised by priests. It was followed by a private durbar of the Wadiyars, which drew a good number of people, to witness the symbolic ascension of the golden throne. No invitation has been sent out this year. Palace secretary Lakshminarayan said there will be no one to witness the Khas Durbar this year, though Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar will perform all the religious rites associated with Navaratri. The rites and rituals used to include a battery of priests to chant the hymns, dharmadhikaris to supervise the proceedings apart from their assistants, but the numbers have been curtailed this year, he said. The Vajra Mushti Kalaga, a form of wrestling that has gone out of vogue but used to be held on Vijayadashmi, has also been cancelled. The procession of the Wadiyars that used to take place before the Jumboo Savari, will be nothing more than a drive to the temple. Narasimhan, curator of the Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, said this is the first time in the last few decades that such restrictions have been introduced, though there have been disruptions. But, various rituals associated with Navaratri will be observed, he added. The tradition has been passed on by the Vijayanagar rulers and after their decline, it was inherited by the Wadiyars. Raja Wadiyar, who ascended the throne at Srirangapatana in 1610 CE, proclaimed that Navaratri would be be celebrated on a grand scale and provided it royal patronage. Mr. Lakshminarayan said the practice continued till modern times and Jayachamaraja Wadiyar conducted the last public Dasara in 1969. Then came the disruption when the Government of India abolished the privy purses and privileges to the former rulers in 1970, it was passed in Parliament in 1971 after which the last maharaja restricted Dasara to the palace. Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar resumed the Khas Durbar and other paraphernalia associated with Navaratri a few years later, while there was a people’s movement in the city that led to intervention by the State government, which decided to revive Dasara in 1975, according to Mr. Lakshminarayan. In recent times, Dasara emerged as a fulcrum to promote tourism. This year, the pandemic has put paid to all plans and the celebrations funded by the government and the tradition observed by the erstwhile royals will be a muted affair.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Seeking ‘basic rights’, Saibaba to go on fast||Prof G.N. Saibaba, who is lodged in the Nagpur Central jail after being convicted for maoist links, is said to go on a hunger strike from October 21 as he is not been provided with clothes, medicines and books since a month. Prof. Saibaba, a polio victim, is 90% physically disabled and wheel chair bound, and suffers from pancreatitis, high blood pressure, cardiomyopathy, and chronic back pain. “Saibaba has been denied reading material, medicines and clothes,” alleges his wife A.S Vasantha Kumari. She said, “Saibaba who is lodged in jail since 2014 has been denied all basic human rights where he is not given any letters or allowed any phone calls from me since over a month.” Advocate Aakash Sarode who regularly delivers medicines, clothes and other essentials to Prof. Saibaba told The Hindu , “Last month I got a shirt, undergarments, medicines, four books and two notepads for him in the jail. However none of it was taken by the prison authorities, without giving any reason for the same. I went back again two weeks back but they refused to take anything I got. I will try going once again before October 21.”
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Theatres reopen but fail to attract patrons||Many single-screen theatres and multiplexes opened their doors to the public for the first time in months on Friday. However, exhibitors whom The Hindu spoke to were disheartened by the response from patrons. This was expected as ‘trial runs’ by some multiplexes on October 15 saw shows being cancelled as no one turned up, said one exhibitor. In Bengaluru, PVR and some single-screen theatres, including Santosh, Navarang, Veerabhadreshwara, and Sri Vinayaka, resumed screenings on Friday. Manikandan R., owner of Sri Vinayaka Cinemas in Varthur, said that they were running three films in two languages. “The response was not as bad as I had expected it to be. Around 15% of the available seats were occupied. I am sure the situation will improve in the following weeks, especially during the upcoming festival season and the year-end,” he said. A representative of Venkateshwara theatre in K.R. Puram said that they would open their doors to the public from Sunday (October 18) while Veeresh Cinema near Basaveshwarnagar is expected to do so by October 23. Theatre owners are hoping that new films will attract cinema fans. However, producers are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. Hasmukh Bafna, a film distributor, said that theatres in other parts of Karnataka also saw dismal football. “In many places, including Davangere and Shivamogga, only one or two theatres are open,” he said.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KC(M) entry likely as Mani meets LDF leaders||The optics of Kerala Congress(M) [KC(M)] leader Jose K. Mani’s high-profile visits to the headquarters of two major constituents of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Friday appeared to convey the impression that his entry into the ruling front was a certainty. Mr Mani drove to the CPI headquarters at M.N. Smarakam from AKG Centre here. He met CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran and later closeted himself with CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan. Mr. Mani later expressed optimism that the LDF would open its door for the KC(M) ahead of the local body polls. However, Mr Mani’s optimism seemed to be at odds with the rumblings of discontent his political shift had purportedly kindled in the opposing fronts. A State committee meeting of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Kochi, an LDF ally, reportedly signalled that it was averse to sacrificing any of its three Assembly seats to satisfy Mr. Mani. Mr Balakrishnan said disappointment awaited those who hoped for a mutiny in the ruling front. The NCP was in lockstep with the LDF, he said. The Congress also appeared to feel the aftermath of Mr. Mani’s abandonment of the UDF. K. Muraleedharan, MP, blamed the party leadership for failing to keep Mr. Mani in the coalition. A trivial dispute over a district panchayat chairmanship on the eve of the local body polls cost the UDF a long-standing partner. Mr. Muraleedharan’s statement seemed to have caught the UDF by surprise. His pronouncement seemed to cast doubts on the UDF’s public stance that Mr. Mani’s desertion would not sway its base in Central Travancore. Keala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullapally Ramachandran said Mr. Mani’s faction was a spent force. He reminded Mr. Muraleedharan that the Congress had welcomed him and the late K. Karunakaran despite their desertion of the party in 2005.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||MSP is key to India’s food security, says PM||“Small farmers used to sell their produce to middlemen earlier due to lack of access to the mandis. Now, the market itself will reach their doorsteps,” he said. “Every type of protection to the farmer has been ensured through these reforms. When the Indian farmer is empowered, his income will increase, and the campaign against malnutrition will also gain equal strength.” The Prime Minister also listed lack of education and early pregnancy of girls among the hurdles in the fight against malnutrition. He noted that the gross enrolment ratio of girls has become higher than boys for the first time. Child marriage is among the reasons that girls drop out of school in higher classes, he said. “Necessary discussion is also going on to decide the right age of marriage of daughters,” said Mr. Modi. A committee of Ministers has been set up to discuss the revision of the minimum age of marriage for women, which is currently at 18 years, while the minimum age for men is 21 years. Noting that he gets letters from young women across the country asking why the committee's report has not come yet, the PM said, “I assure all those daughters that the government will take action on the report very soon.”
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Two students score 100% in NEET, 2020||This is a leap from 48.6% last year and a huge spike from 2018, when it had one of the lowest qualifying percentages of 39.6%. Although the Tamil Nadu government has strongly opposed the introduction of NEET and fought a long, losing battle against it in court, it had also run free special coaching classes to help state board students meet the exam’s standards. Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand, saw its qualifying rates drop from almost 71% last year to less than 59% this year. There were four women in the top ten all India ranking list, but only 13 in the top 50. Although male candidates continued to dominate the top rankings, almost 4.3 lakh women qualified for counselling, in comparison to 3.4 lakh men. This is the first time that admissions to MBBS courses in elite institutions such as AIIMS and JIPMER will also be made through NEET, following an amendment in the National Medical Commission Act last year. With the COVID-19 pandemic causing disruptions and delays, only 13.6 lakh students attempted the examination this year, despite being given two chances to do so. This is lower than last year’s 14.1 lakh candidates, although this year’s original registrations were actually higher. Due to the pandemic, the examination that was originally supposed to be held in May was postponed to September. As students who tested positive for COVID or lived in containment zones were not allowed to write the examination then, they were given another chance in October. Masks, sanitisers and social distancing were compulsory elements of the examination experience for this year’s medical aspirants.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Minor fire breaks out at Annapurna Studios||A minor fire broke out at Annapurna Studios in Banjara Hills on Thursday. No casualties were reported. According to Film Nagar Station Fire Officer G.B. Chandrashekar Babu, his team received a call from the studio staff around 8.50 a.m. following which the fire fighters reached the spot by 9.10 a.m.. “The incident happened at Studio no. 1. The entire hall was filled with smoke. We entered through the exit route and blew the jets,” he said. He said short-circuit could have been the reason for the incident and no one was injured as the studio was closed. “No shooting was happening,” he said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Minor girl raped, killed in Barabanki||The facts revealed by him during interrogation were being authenticated. Police initially registered a murder case but after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, charges under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code were included in the FIR, he said. POCSO Act was included in the FIR after it was proven through some documents that the victim was under 18, said ASP Gautam. The girl had gone out and her father found the body in a field when he went in search of her after she failed to return. In the police complaint lodged against unknown accused, he said someone had strangulated his daughter ‘Hands and feet tied’ A family member told a television channel that she was naked and her hands and feet were tied. The victim’s father, a Dalit labourer, demanded punishment for the guilty and that the family be provided a pucca house. “We want the real murderers to be arrested but our family and villagers should not be unnecessarily harassed [by the police under the pretext of questioning],” he told a media channel. The Barabanki police issued a statement, saying there was no pressure from police on the victim’s family.
22 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Rehab policy soon for youth who give up arms||A rehabilitation policy for youth joining terrorism in the Kashmir Valley is in the works and if approved, “it will make some difference,” according to Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju, General Officer Commanding, 15 Corps. “The policy has been made, it has been sent, it has gone up the chain. It has not yet come back. The message I have given to the population is: irrespective of the policy existing or not existing, we are ready to go on board and we will do what is appropriate,” he said on Friday. The draft is awaiting Home Ministry approval. Pointing out that there existed a policy for those who had gone across to Pakistan to come back, Lt. Gen. Raju asserted that a large number of them did come back. “The new policy is for people who have taken up arms within the Valley.” In this direction, the focus was on encouraging surrenders by reaching out to families as well as to reduce local recruitment. “We will be doing more work on the issue of surrenders. Because for us, getting a man back is more important than neutralising him. And that is a work in progress. Through our actions, we want to reach out to people in a manner where there should be little reason for people to take up arms,” Lt. Gen. Raju observed. “Mainly because you held a gun and took a photo does not mean you have to die,” he said.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chidambaram hails meeting of J&K parties||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday welcomed the “coming together” of the regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir to demand the restoration of special status under Article 370 of the Constitution. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader said the Centre must stop looking at mainstream regional parties and the people of Jammu and Kashmir as “anti-national and secessionists.” On Thursday, regional political parties, in a meeting presided by National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, formed a new alliance to press for their demands such as restoring full statehood and special status under Article 370. “The coming together of mainstream regional parties of J&K... is a development that must be welcomed by all the people of India,” Mr. Chidambaram said.
22 October 2020||Pune,||Four children murdered in Maharashtra village||In a shocking incident, four minor siblings were found brutally murdered on Friday morning in Jalgaon’s Raver taluk in north Maharashtra, 440 km from here. According to the police, the children — two boys and two girls — aged between five and 14 years, were hacked to death with an axe in Raver’s Borkheda village while their parents were away. Officials suspect that all the children were killed with the same axe. The motive for the crime has yet to be ascertained. No arrests have been made as yet. The police have formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the grisly crime. According to the authorities, the father Mehtab Gulab Bhilala hails from Madhya Pradesh and came to work on a farm in Raver owned by one Mustafa. Mehtab, along with his wife and their older son, had reportedly gone to their native village in Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone district when the murders occurred on the intervening night between Thursday and Friday. Weapon found The farm owner later discovered the bodies of the children lying in a pool of blood today morning, along with the alleged murder weapon lying next to the victims. Superintendent of Police Dr. Praveen Munde said that the police were combing the area for clues, and that a number of angles were being probed. All four bodies have been sent for post mortem.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||Few puja committees respond to appeal by docs||As the fear of surge in COVID-19 cases due to Durga Puja celebrations grips Kolkata harder, at least three crowd-pulling neighbourhoods have announced that outsiders won’t be allowed into their pandals this year. Since neighbourhoods try to outdo each other in terms of decoration and themes, pandal-hopping is an integral part of the festivities that last five days, involving the movement of hundreds of thousands of people. At the time of the pandemic, pandal-hopping can be highly dangerous for a city like Kolkata, where people are already out shopping for Puja in large numbers. The indifference on the part of the State government and the public alike is making doctors repeatedly appeal to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to ensure restraint. Under the umbrella of Joint Platform of Doctors, they once again issued a statement on Friday saying that since they had not received any response from either the Chief Minister or the Chief Secretary to their pleas, they were once again urging all political parties and puja committees to advocate restraint. “We even submitted an online petition with 15,000 signatories. But in spite of our appeals, preparations for Puja and shopping are going on in full swing. It is not as if the people concerned are not able to gauge the risk, but they are simply turning a blind eye and on the contrary are doing everything possible to enhance the fervour,” the doctors’ body said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Stubble burning: Justice Lokur, students to save NCR||Former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur, helped by student volunteer forces deployed from the National Cadet Corps, the National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides, will protect Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) from pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring States of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh this winter. A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Friday appointed Justice Lokur as a one-man committee to monitor and prevent instances of stubble burning by farmers in the three States. Student forces will patrol highways and fields in the three States and ensure that no fires are started in the fields. When Haryana counsel protested that these were just schoolchildren, Chief Justice Bobde reacted, “This does not involve a great knowledge of fires... Why can’t the NCC go and see who is lighting the fires?” The Chief Secretaries of the three States will provide facilities to the committee and provide the student volunteers with adequate transportation to aid their vigil. Existing mobile teams and nodal officers of the States will report to the committee. The Supreme Court’s own Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) would consult with the committee on issues related to stubble burning. The court made it clear to Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati that the formation of the committee was not meant as an adverse comment on the functioning of the EPCA. The committee will file status reports with the court at least every fortnight. The court chose Justice Lokur for the task as he had headed the Green Bench that was monitoring stubble burning for two years before his retirement. His name was recommended by senior advocateVikas Singh, who is appearing for two children apprehensive of the onslaught of incoming waves of smog caused by unbridled stubble burning in the three States this winter. Mr. Singh said the issue was urgent and could not wait till the court reopened after the Dussehra holidays, as pollution may by then have reached “unmanageable proportions”. Stubble fires were five time more in Punjab regardless of a remote-sensing app used by the State. Justice Lokur who was called on telephone during the hearing, immediately agreed to do the job.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||‘No outsiders at Puja pandals’||As the fear of surge in COVID-19 cases due to Durga Puja celebrations grips Kolkata harder, at least three crowd-pulling neighbourhoods have announced that outsiders won’t be allowed into their pandals this year. The indifference on the part of the State government and the public alike is making doctors repeatedly appeal to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to ensure restraint. Not all are ignoring their appeals. The Puja at Santosh Mitra Square in the heart of Kolkata has decided to keep their pandal out of bounds for visitors. Two other highly popular Pujas — Jodhpur Park in south Kolkata and Debdaru Phatak in Behala — have also decided to bar the entry of outsiders. The State government, it appears, does not want to make any move that dampens the festive spirit.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Teacher succumbs to post COVID-19 lung infection||Padmakshi N., a teacher of a government aided school in Moodbidri, died on Friday following post COVID-19 lung infection. She was undergoing treatment at the private hospital here since she tested positive on September 29. Following a social media post by her daughter Aishwarya Jain explaining her condition, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on October 14 had directed the district administration to bear the cost of her treatment and arrange for speciality services. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy said Ms. Padmakshi tested negative for COVID-19 on October 13. She had developed complications in the lung. All necessary treatment had been arranged at the private hospital. Arrangements were also made for advance treatment at a hospital in Bengaluru. But before Ms. Padmakshi could be shifted, she succumbed, he said. Condoling the death of Ms. Padmakshi, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, in a Facebook post said it was sad to hear of the teacher’s demise. “Aishwarya Jain had desired for her mother to fit and fine after treatment. God give her all the strength to recover from this shock,” he said. Ms. Padmakshi was a teacher in Jawaharlal Nehru Makki Aided High School in Moodbidri. She and her husband Shashikanth Y., the headmaster of DJ Higher Primary Aided School, were involved in the Vidyagama programme of neighbourhood schooling since August. Mr. Shashikanth and their 11-year-old old son tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered following home isolation. Ms. Jain had held the neighbourhood schooling as the cause for infection in of her mother.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Can a victim tie ‘rakhi’ on her molester?||The Supreme Court on Friday sought Attorney General’s assistance on a plea for stay on the Madhya Pradesh High Court order which granted bail to an accused in a molestation case on the condition that he would request the alleged victim to tie him ‘Rakhi’. A bench headed by Justice A. M. Khanwilkar issued notice to the office of Attorney General K. K. Venugopal on an appeal filed by nine women lawyers who have said that courts should be restrained from imposing such conditions as these are against the principle of law. The High Court, in its July 30 order, had granted bail to the accused and imposed a condition that he along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant and request her to tie ‘Rakhi’ to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners including lawyer Aparna Bhat, told the Bench that the appeal has been filed in a extraordinary circumstance. The trauma of the victim is trivialised by such conditions, Parikh told the Bench, also comprising Justice B. R. Gavai.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘U.P. saw 13 horrific crimes in one week’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on the issue of women’s safety and alleged that 13 horrific incidents of crimes against women have taken place in just one week. “In the last one week, 13 horrific incidents of crime against women have occurred in U.P. As per reports, victims have been killed or the victims committed suicide in four such incidents,” Ms. Vadra tweeted. “This poor condition of women safety is disturbing. The Chief Minister has no time to convene a ‘special session’ but his photo session is on,” she said. She shared a chart of various instances of crimes against women across Uttar Pradesh — from Noida to Gonda, Jhasi to Pratapgarh — between October 9 and 15 and alleged that the BJP is giving “protection” to the criminals, making women feel unsafe in the State. The Congress general secretary, who is in-charge for U.P., has been attacking the Yogi government over law and order and launched a major campaign on women security after the Hathras rape and murder case. At the party’s media briefing, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate referred to Thursday’s incident at Ballia where a person was shot dead in the presence of government officials and policemen following a fight over allotment of a ration shop.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Clarification||With reference to the news item with the headline “CBI removes Hathras FIR from website” published in The Hindu on October 12, 2020, the agency’s spokesperson said the press release published on the website was not revised.  The Hindu had reported how the CBI published the FIR in the gang rape and murder case and later removed it from the website.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches DCHL assets worth Rs. 122 cr.||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 122.15 crore of Deccan Chronicle Holdings Limited (DCHL), two of its former promoters, T. Venkatram Reddy and T. Vinayakravi Reddy, and a benami firm allegedly floated by them. The total attachment in the case now stands at Rs. 264.56 crore. The 14 properties attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are located in Delhi, Gurugram, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru and other places. “All these attached assets are not covered under the National Company Law Tribunal process,” the agency said in a press release. The agency said the total loan fraud allegedly committed by DCHL and its promoters was about Rs. 8,180 crore.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Azad tests positive||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad took to Twitter on Friday to state that he had tested positive for COVID-19. “I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am in home quarantine. Those who came in contact with me in the last few days may kindly follow the protocol,” Mr. Azad said.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Hooch deaths: ED files chargesheet||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet against Sanjay Pratap Singh and others belonging in connection with a 2013 hooch tragedy that claimed 21 lives in Bihar. Assets of the accused would be confiscated.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Govt. extends bidding for new Secretariat complex||Evaluation of tenders for construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex has been deferred yet again. The Roads and Buildings Department, which invited tenders for the construction of the new integrated complex, has announced that the last date for submission of the tenders has been extended to October 20. According to the revised notification issued by the department, the last date for submission of tenders initially was October 13 and the technical bids were expected to be decided on the same day. The latest move by the government comes despite revision of the tender notification issued last month extending the time line for submission of the bids. The government has proposed to construct the new complex at an estimated Rs. 500 crore and the cost has gone up to close to Rs. 630 crore subsequently, following inclusion of several other structures along with the master plan for the complex. Tender notices had been issued for identification of prospective bidders and the last date of filing the bids was revised twice. In the first instance, the construction value of the new secretariat was pegged at Rs. 400 crore, which received the consent of the State cabinet and this was subsequently revised to Rs. 500 crore. The escalation in the cost of construction of the Secretariat was attributed to inclusion of staff quarters and related facilities as well as security mechanism. “Tender submission date has been postponed till October 20 in view of heavy rains and public holidays,” a senior official connected with the process told The Hindu . More than the security and other concerns, the main factor is resistance from the groups working for environmental protection around Tank Bund and the cases filed against the new complex citing grave concerns about impact on environment in the twin cities.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Video call grievance redressal system popular among people||One of the first initiatives Additional Director General of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal undertook soon after he took over as City Police Commissioner was to launch the scheme of enabling the public to make video calls to report their grievances. Mr. Aggarwal took charge during the peak of the pandemic, when public gathering was prohibited. The video call grievance redressal system was introduced as a workaround to this. After calls from people started pouring in, the thrice-a-week facility was extended to the Additional Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners of Police, enabling redressal of more cases. “Every grievance is noted down and pursued till a legal solution is arrived at. The details are computerised and transmitted to the concerned police stations for appropriate action. The scheme has particularly helped senior citizens, differently abled and women to reach out to senior police officers with their grievances,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Another public outreach model was to publicise the name/contact number of police officials on night duty around the city. A few hundred police personnel, led by senior police officers, are deployed on night rounds covering the 135 police station limits. After their contact details were shared via social media, several calls were received from people seeking assistance. “By deploying internet-enabled services to reach out to the public, we are not compromising on conventional policing in any way. In fact, we have introduced the concept of foot patrolling, where small teams of policemen walk through their respective police station limits. This has made policing more visible and accessible,” the Police Commissioner said. With many young police personnel active on social media, netizens get in touch with them to share information on incidents that require police intervention. “There have been many instances where people shared actionable inputs via social media and helped resolve certain issues. Some of the common issues are traffic violations and encroachment of pedestrian platforms,” a senior police officer said. “Hundreds of mobile phones that were reported stolen have been recovered and handed over to the owners last month. The decentralisation of cyber crime units at the police station level has enabled effective investigation of cyber offences, resulting in the seizure of over Rs. 30 lakh swindled through online scams,” the official said. Though officials from across the State have been on social media over the last few years, their activity logs went up post-lockdown. They have been sharing personal mobile numbers, requesting people to reach out to them in case of a crisis. V. Vikraman, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, who is active on Twitter, said social media was a huge help in gathering information. “Those who are not comfortable meeting a police officer in person are more comfortable sharing details online,” he said. Tiruvallur SP P. Aravindhan said the leads that come through social media were accurate and hardly misleading. “We get issues pertaining to animal cruelty and transportation of ill-legal cattle, among others. They send us direct messages on Twitter,” he said, adding that a murder case was solved through a tip-off that came through Twitter. “A girl was murdered and buried. Her brother, from a neighbouring State, informed us that she had gone missing. With his inputs, we tracked the case and arrested those involved,” Mr. Aravindhan said. In Sivaganga, Superintendent of Police R. Rohith Nathan said a WhatsApp number for people to communicate their grievances had helped. While police stations would remain the hub of the public redressal system, any issue that remained unresolved could be flagged using WhatsApp.  The scheme has particularly helped senior citizens, differently abled and women Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal Chennai City Police Commissioner
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK enters 49th year facing twin challenges ahead of poll||The AIADMK, which steps into its 49th year on Saturday, is facing the twin challenges of retaining power and maintaining its status of being a principal political party of the State in the Assembly election due in April-May 2021. After securing over 40% vote share in the 2016 Assembly election for the second time, the ruling party has been going through a testing phase in elections. In the byelections to 25 Assembly constituencies after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, it could win only in 11. Besides, the BJP, an ally of the AIADMK, is going ahead with its plan to expand its base in a perceptible manner. Two other allies, the PMK and the DMDK, are showing restlessness at times through their public statements. Right alliance Senior AIADMK leaders acknowledge that winning the Assembly election is going to be a major challenge for the party. “We will have to stitch up the right alliance,” said J.C.D. Prabhakar, one of the organisation secretaries and a member of the 11-member steering committee. Policy decisions Hailing the State government for the way it has been tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, he, however, pointed out that the party had to “take measures that are convincing” to the religious minorities. S. Semmalai, another organisation secretary and one of the party’s nominees in the 1977 Assembly election, said the absence of a “strong leader” would not pose any problem to the AIADMK, as both Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had been “groomed well” by Jayalalithaa. “Among the people of the State, there is neither anti-incumbency nor willingness to back the DMK,” he said. Leaders’ statement In a joint statement on the eve of the party’s foundation day, Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam called upon the members to make a resolve to help the party stay in power during its golden jubilee year too. V. Raghupathy, head of the department of Political Science and Public Administration at the Gandhigram Rural University, said the AIADMK, which is under pressure, has to disseminate the message among the people that it will never deviate from its commitment towards the core features of Tamil Nadu’s politics, including social justice, the two-language formula and welfarism.  The AIADMK has to disseminate the message among the people that it will never deviate from its commitment towards the core features of Tamil Nadu’s politics like social justice V. Raghupathy HoD, Political Science and Public Administration, Gandhigram Rural University
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin welcomes Minister’s statement||DMK president M.K. Stalin welcomed Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan’s statement that Anna University does not require the Institute of Eminence (IoE) status, if it means the loss of reservation and the denial of admission to students. “Even though it is a delayed announcement, it is welcome. However, the State government should immediately communicate its decision to the Centre, in writing, in a transparent manner,” he said in a Facebook post. Mr. Stalin also urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to recommend the dismissal of the university’s Vice-Chancellor, M.K. Surappa, for functioning unilaterally. A separate statement issued by DMK’s general secretary, Duraimurgan, said that Mr. Stalin would hold meetings with party district representatives at Anna Arivalayam, from October 21 to October 28. ‘An absolute lie’ Conferment of the IoE tag on Anna University will not affect the reservation policy in Tamil Nadu, and some people are making baseless allegations over the issue, BJP State president L. Murugan said on Friday. “Reservation is a constitutional right. It is everywhere. How can it be removed if you give [the university] the IoE status? The claim made by some people that reservation would be affected by the IoE tag for Anna University is an absolute lie,” he told reporters here. Mr. Murugan said Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa was trying to function independently and some people were trying to stop him from carrying out his duties. Asked whether Mr. Surappa had exceeded his powers by writing to the Union government directly, Mr. Murugan said the university laws needed to be studied to see what powers were vested with the Vice-Chancellor.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I became victim of conspiracy after Jayalalithaa’s death: Rama Mohana Rao||Former Chief Secretary P. Rama Mohana Rao on Friday alleged that there was a conspiracy immediately after the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and he had become a victim of it. However, he did not elaborate on the nature of the conspiracy, saying that he would reveal it at the appropriate time.  “There is no doubt that there was a conspiracy immediately after Amma ’s (Jayalalithaa) death. I became the victim of the conspiracy by facing Income Tax raids. I am a clean person. I will expose the conspiracy and conspirators at the right time,” Mr. Rao said while choosing not to blame any particular party or individual. Active politics “I am still wondering why I alone was targeted after Jayalalithaa’s death. I suspect that it was an attempt to divert the attention of the people to cover up others. As announced in 2017, I will take part in active politics. The people of Tamil Nadu have immensely contributed to my professional growth and I have a duty to serve them by upholding and protecting the Dravidian principles,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu . The former bureaucrat, who had floated the ‘RMR Pasarai’ “to educate the youth” about Dravidian traditions and showcase the glory of leaders such as Periyar and Tirumalai Naicker, on Friday visited the memorial of Veerapandiya Kattabomman at Kayathar in Thoothukudi on the death anniversary of the freedom fighter.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Top rankers go for circuit branches||Circuit branches continue to attract engineering aspirants. In the first round of allotment under the single window counselling of the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission 2020, the results of which were released on Friday, 62.8% of the seats allotted were for Computer Science and Engineering, ECE, EEE, and Information Technology. Of the 12,500 students who had been called for counselling, the cut-off for which ended at 175 marks, 7,510 seats had been allotted. The College of Engineering, Guindy, led the table with 928 seats being filled, whereas 294 colleges did not fill even one seat. While Anna University and some top-rung colleges such as SSN, PSG and Thiagarajar College of Engineering have steered clear of new courses, others have launched niche courses in Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Machine Learning. These courses have had good response. Aspirants have been attracted to two new courses — Artificial Intelligence and Data Science and Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning — in which 2.2% of the seats have been allotted. Colleges that have started the new courses are upbeat. A. Ramesh, principal of the Chennai Institute of Technology, said it had tied up with IT companies to train students. R.M. Kishore of RMK Group of Institutions, which has also started the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science programme, said it had tied up with three IT companies: TCS, Cognizant and Virtusa. Though the admission pattern is the same as last year, Jayaprakash Gandhi, an independent education consultant, said almost 2,500 candidates did not pay the initial deposit. Senior professors in top-rung institutions, including Anna University, are worried by the delay in counselling for medicine. Almost all top-rung colleges will see seats lapse once medical counselling begins. Professors anticipate 500 seats falling vacant at Anna University alone.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 4,389 new cases, 57 deaths||A total of 4,389 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. While 5,245 persons were discharged after treatment, 57 more died in the State. With the fresh cases, the State’s tally touched 6,79,191. Of these, 40,959 persons are still under treatment, while 6,27,703 have been discharged so far. As many as 10,529 persons have died. In Chennai, 1,140 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 15 succumbed to the infection. With 1,185 persons being discharged, the city’s active cases stood at 13,289. Coimbatore followed with 387 fresh cases, taking its tally to 39,102 (34,688 persons discharged, 3,902 active cases and 512 deaths). A total of 244 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem. Chennai’s neighbouring districts Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur accounted for 261 and 195 cases respectively. There were 130 cases in Kancheepuram, 116 in Cuddalore and 118 in Vellore. Tiruppur reported 147 cases, while Namakkal and Erode saw 132 and 138 cases respectively. As in the previous days, 26 districts reported less than 100 cases. Of the 57 fatalities, 37 persons died in government hospitals. Apart from Chennai, Erode accounted for five deaths, while Chengalpattu and Vellore saw four deaths each. Among the youngest to succumb to the infection was a 25-year-old woman from Erode who had no co-morbidities.  A total of 91,245 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law varsity V-C wins case against Pondicherry University||Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University Vice-Chancellor T.S.N. Sastry has won a case against his former employer Pondicherry University. The Madras High Court has held that he should be considered as having been covered under General Provident Fund (GPF) and not Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) scheme ever since he joined service as a lecturer in 1986. Justice V. Parthiban expressed his strong displeasure over the way in which the administration of Pondicherry University had been handling petitioner’s claim of being covered under GPF scheme. “The university probably has an axe to grind against the petitioner for some reason which can be inferred from the obdurate and relentless stand taken by it against him,” he said. The judge pointed out that pursuant to the Fourth Pay Commission recommendations, the government had decided to cover all new appointees after January 1, 1986, under GPF. Only the then existing employees were given the option of choosing between GPF or CPF. Since Mr. Sastry was appointed in November 1986, he would automatically get covered only under GPF. However, for some reason, the Pondicherry University considered him to be covered under CPF and maintained that stand all through though he had raosed the issue with the varsity even after joining Savitribai Phule Pune University and then shifting to his current position. “The professed stand taken by Pondicherry University consistently all along denying the benefit of GPF Scheme to the petitioner appears to be a little strange and incomprehensible for the reason that the first respondent university has never established that it had CPF scheme in place even after January 1, 1986 in respect of staff who were appointed fresh,” the judge said. Further, since GPF was made mandatory for all new appointees after January 1, 1986, the question of Mr. Sastry having opted to be in CPF would not arise at all, the judge pointed out. “This court finds that Pondicherry University’s understanding that the petitioner had exercised his option to the CPF scheme was fundamentally flawed and premised on erroneous perspective,” he observed.  The professed stand taken by Pondicherry University consistently all along denying the benefit of GPF Scheme to the petitioner appears to be a little strange
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 more nonagenarians recover from COVID-19 in RGGGH||Since the start of this week, three nonagenarians have been discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) after undergoing treatment for COVID-19. With this, as many as 27 patients, who were aged above 90 years and tested positive for COVID-19, have undergone treatment and have been discharged from the hospital. One of the three patients, P. Vaidyanathan, who was born in 1921, completed 99 years of age on October 2. He and his wife, V. Janaki, 89, tested positive and were treated in RGGGH. The couple were discharged on Monday. Mr. Vaidyanathan was admitted with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty on October 4, and tested positive for COVID-19. A CT scan showed lung involvement and he was provided oxygen support for a day, and treated with appropriate drugs. “He had no comorbidities and was active. He used to perform yoga everyday in the mornings. The couple was ambulant and took care of their personal needs during their hospitalisation,” RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan said. Ms. Janaki was admitted with COVID-19 symptoms on October 5. As her swab returned positive, a CT scan was done and it showed 20% lung involvement. “She was admitted considering the age factor. The couple recovered well,” he said. Another nonagenarian, Jayalakshmi, 93, was discharged after treatment from RGGGH on Friday. She was in respiratory distress and was admitted to the intensive care unit. On evaluation, doctors found that she had 95% lung involvement and oxygen saturation of 50%. She was put on a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure machine. The oxygen support was withdrawn gradually and she began breathing without assistance. After being hospitalised for over 45 days, Ms. Jayalakshmi headed home on Friday after a slow recovery. “Her 75-year-old daughter was with her throughout the hospitalisation period and took care of her as she was hard of hearing and had poor eyesight. She did not contract COVID-19,” Dr. Theranirajan said. “Recovery is good if the elderly are treated early. Considering the age factor and comorbidities, seeking medical help as soon as possible aids them to recover,” he added.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five suspects traced in kidnap case, CBI tells High Court||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that it had pinned down five suspects in connection with the kidnapping of a two-year-old boy from Cheyyar in Tiruvannamalai district on February 27, 2016, and subjected them to lie-detector and brain mapping tests. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha were told that the suspects would be subjected to a narco analysis tests at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru by the end of the month so that substantial progress could be made in the investigation. Advocate G. Vrinda, representing CBI’s Special Public Prosecutor K. Srinivasan, made the submission during the hearing of a habeas corpus petition filed by the mother of the missing child in 2016. Justices S. Nagamuthu (since retired) and V. Bharathidasan had ordered a CBI probe on April 11, 2017. Since then, the investigating agency had been taking time periodically for tracing the child and arresting the culprits. On Thursday, Justice Sathyanarayanan told the advocate that the narco analysis test results could at best help the investigators but could not be used as substantial evidence. He expressed concern over child lifting cases being reported consistently and said even last week there was a news report. The petitioner’s counsel, P. Srinivasan, told the judges that these gangs primarily target the children of roadside dwellers. The judges directed government advocate Raghavan to make sure that a status report on steps taken by the State police to curb such crimes gets filed in the court by November 19. When advocate T. Mohan, who had been appointed as an Amicus Curiae in a suo motu PIL petition, complained to the court that the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights was “headless and memberless” at present, the judges decided to take a call on that issue too next month.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I did not support the killing of innocent civilians: Muttiah||Actor Vijay Sethupathi has, in the last few days, faced severe criticism on social media for having agreed to play the lead role in 800 , the biopic of Sri Lankan Tamil cricketing icon, Muttiah Muralitharan. Sections of Tamil society and political parties urged the actor not to be a part of the film that celebrates the life and achievements of the cricketer. Mr. Muralitharan’s comment in 2019 that “2009 was the happiest day in my life”, has been cited as proof of his support to the final war against the Tamil rebel group, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, in 2009, in which thousands of innocent civilians were killed. Responding to criticism, Sri Lankan cricketing legend Muttiah Muralitharan on Friday said his comments about the end of war in 2009 had been taken out of context. In a statement in Tamil, Mr. Muralidaran said, “In a country that has been at war, we don’t know what will happen and when. A friend who used to play with me in school would not be alive the next day. Those who leave the house would have to return home for us to be sure of their safety. From an ordinary citizen’s point of view, the end of war made me feel safe, and, in the last ten years, there haven’t been any deaths on either sides… I had this in my heart when I said that 2009 was a happy day in my life. I did not support the killings of innocent people and I would not do it,” he said. Mr. Muralitharan said that he considers all ethnicities — Sinhalese, hill country Tamils and Eelam Tamils — as one and the same. “As a hill country Tamil, I have helped more Eelam Tamils than the hill country Tamils. I don’t like to talk about it, but I am being forced to do it,” he said. The off-spinner also said that through his charity, the Foundation Of Goodness, he had been involved in several initiatives that provided education to women or ensured medical services reached the Eelam Tamils. He said he was saddened by those who are portraying him as someone against the Tamils.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in HIV prevalence in antenatal women||The overall prevalence of HIV/AIDS among antenatal women has dropped from 0.27% to 0.18% in Tamil Nadu, but eleven districts have recorded a higher prevalence than the State’s average. With Tamil Nadu having “sufficient” health infrastructure for testing and treatment, officials say they are looking to intensify measures to raise awareness for reducing HIV/AIDS prevalence in the districts. According to the recently released 16th round of HIV Sentinel Surveillance (HSS), 2019, among pregnant women, the top five districts with high HIV prevalence are: Vellore (0.75%), Namakkal (0.75%), Krishnagiri (0.50%), Sivaganga (0.38%) and Coimbatore (0.38%). Tiruppur, Pudukottai, Madurai, Karur and Erode had a prevalence of 0.25% each. They were the other major districts with HIV prevalence higher than the State average. Tirunelveli recorded an HIV prevalence of 0.17%, while Virudhunagar, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruchi, Tiruvallur, Salem, Kancheepuram and Cuddalore recorded 0.13%. The remaining 12 districts had zero HIV prevalence among antenatal care (ANC) clinic attendees. HIV prevalence among ANC clinic attendees showed a declining trend at the State-level and in most districts, including Chennai. A rising trend in the recent past was noted in Vellore and Namakkal. The findings from the round corroborated with previous rounds, showing a low and declining trend at the State-level. A sustained declining trend among antenatal women, nationally and at the State-level, is a positive indicator of the successful response of the National AIDS Control Programme. However, the district-level fluctuating trends are a continuing challenge, according to HSS. What led to the drop in the HIV prevalence among antenatal women? Deepak Jacob, project director of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society, said, “Antenatal women are mandatorily tested for HIV/AIDS. We are testing 12.5 lakh women a year at the level of primary health centres, taluk hospitals and government medical college hospitals.” Through the campaign for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, prophylactic treatment is provided and the newborn of an HIV-positive mother is put on a drug regimen. “The State has a robust testing network through Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC). We have 807 standalone ICTCs and 2,200 facility ICTCs,” he said. He said that they were planning to intensify IEC campaigns in the 11 districts with higher HIV prevalence.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school student from Theni clears NEET||Jeevithkumar, a student of the Government Model Higher Secondary School at Silvarpatti, Periyakulam, in Theni district, is among those who have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) this year. In his first attempt last year, he scored only 193 marks. But he did not give up. “As a government school student, I wanted to prove that nothing is impossible,” said the boy who scored 664 marks this year. His father K. Narayanamoorthy is a cowherd at Vadipatti and his mother is a worker under the MGNREGA. Jeevith’s school played a major role in ensuring that he was able to enrol in year- long coaching classes. “When he expressed interest in wanting to attempt the NEET again, we managed to mobilise funds from teachers and donors. He was always a promising student and one of our toppers,” said A. Mohan, the school headmaster. He had scored 548 out of 600 marks in Class 12 and was the district topper. While Jeevith spent over 10 months at a coaching centre, the COVID-19 lockdown meant that he had to return home. Mr. Mohan said that to ensure he had a good place to prepare, he was helped with an accommodation by one of his teachers. “I studied for over two months in a room provided by my teacher as the date for the exam got nearer,” Jeevith said. His teacher ensured that he was provided meals.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for stealing bikes||The city police on Friday busted a gang of thieves specialising in stealing high-end motorcycles which were parked on roads in several parts of Chennai. The stolen bikes were sold to buyers in other districts and States. The police said the gang had established a vast network to dispose of stolen bikes. Following a series of complaints on the theft of bikes, a special police team led by Joint Commissioner of Police (East) R. Sudhakar investigated and cracked the case. Two weeks ago, the team nabbed three suspects — A. Mohammed Shafi, 27, of Mallipatinam, Thanjavur district; D. Sibi, 23, of Kerala, and Ameerjan, 36, of Virudhunagar district and recovered several bikes worth Rs. 15 lakh from them. Based on their information, four more accused namely Jamal alias Jamaluddin, 39, of Tondiarpet, Syed Ibrahim, 30, of Madhavaram, Kathiravan, 29, of Sivaganga district and Ameer, 25, of Vellore district, were nabbed and 16 bikes worth Rs. 25 lakh were seized. Mr. Sudhakar told The Hindu that the gang had established a wide network by using mobile messaging platforms. “Their target was only Bullet variant bikes parked on roads,” he said. The modus operandi of the gang, according to the officer, was that after receiving orders on WhatsApp, they would steal bikes from Chennai and shift them to another place. “For instance, if a bike was lifted from the city, the thief would take it to Cuddalore district and park it in a secluded place. The location of the bike would be shared with members of another gang and then one of them would ride away the bike to Thanjavur. Finally, it would reach an unknown buyer in Keelakarai. We worked on several leads and used scientific methods to nab the gang,” said Mr. Sudhakar.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize ganja in Chennai, Ranipet||The Royapettah police in Chennai seized a huge quantity of ganja from drug peddlers in the city, and from Arakkonam in Ranipet district. Four persons, who had allegedly procured the contraband from Andhra Pradesh, were arrested. During a routine vehicle check on Thursday night, police personnel intercepted two persons near B.M. Dharga. On searching their vehicle, police recovered a few kilograms of ganja. The suspects were identified as V. Praksah and B. Subbu. Further interrogation led to the arrest of I. Francis and V. Balaji. The team seized 144 kilograms of ganja concealed in a house in Arakkonam. A police officer said the estimated value of the contraband was around Rs. 41.25 lakh.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP-centric politics beginning in Tamil Nadu, says C.T. Ravi||BJP-centric politics is beginning in Tamil Nadu and it will be successful in the Assembly election, and the party is focused on long-term results in the State, C.T. Ravi, its newly appointed national general secretary, said on Friday. He said the BJP was strengthening its base in all 234 Assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu. “BJP-centric politics is starting in Tamil Nadu. It will be successful in the elections. We are not only for contesting elections for short-term goals, but our agenda is long-term, strengthening of our party in Tamil Nadu...,” he said before a meeting with the party’s high-level committee. Mr. Ravi said the DMK and its allies were accusing the BJP of being anti-reservation but the charge was not true. “We are for it. We gave the constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes and submitted an affidavit in favour of reservation in promotion. How can they call us anti-reservation?” he asked. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi valued the people of Tamil Nadu, its language and culture. “For the first time in history, a humble woman from Tamil Nadu has become the first full-time Defence Minister, and Finance Minister [Nirmala Sitharaman]. A Tamil woman has become the Governor of Telangana [Tamilisai Soundararajan]. Are these [appointments] anti-Tamil?” he asked.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses Theni MP’s plea||The Madras High Court on Friday dismissed an application preferred by Theni MP P. Raveendranath Kumar to reject an election petition filed by a voter challenging his electoral victory on the ground of having allegedly indulged in corrupt practices. Justice M.S. Ramesh also refused to entertain another application made by the MP to strike off certain contentious paragraphs from the complaint. Justice Ramesh agreed with advocate V. Arun, representing the petitioner, that the MP should face a full-fledged trial. P. Milany, a 38-year-old mechanical engineer from Palanichettipatti in Theni taluk, had filed the election petition under Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Panaiyur continue stir against stormwater drains in ECR||Residents of Panaiyur and surrounding areas staged a protest urging the Greater Chennai Corporation and State government to give up the construction of stormwater drains in areas along the seaside. Over 500 members, including representatives from all political parties, Jamath association, residents and other activists, gathered here on Friday, and demanded the authorities to halt the project. The protesters said the civic authority had been constructing stormwater drains in areas along the seaside which already had sandy soil acting as a natural filter for rainwater. They said the drains would stop the percolation of rainwater and would lead to depletion of groundwater. S. Asif Basha, a resident, said, “Our area was never waterlogged, even during floods. The construction of stormwater drains and concrete structures will only hinder natural percolation of rainwater. We have made representations to the State government and the Corporation Commissioner.” The stormwater drain work along East Coast Road was being funded by the German development bank, KfW.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors of new districts named DEOs||The State government has issued a gazette notification designating Collectors of Kallakurichi, Tenkasi, Chengalpattu, Tirupathur and Ranipet districts as District Election Officers (DEO) of the districts concerned. This follows the Election Commission issuing a notification regarding the designation of all DEOs in Tamil Nadu. The Chief Electoral Officer of Tamil Nadu in a statement said consequent to the creation of five new districts out of Villupuram Tirunelveli, Kancheepuram, and Vellore. “Separate infrastructure for electoral administration has been established for maintaining photo electoral rolls, EPIC database and separate election wing has been installed in the newly created districts of Kallakurichi, Tenkasi, Chengalpattu, Tirupathur and Ranipet,” the CEO said and added that the Collectors have been designated as DEOs of the respective districts as per Section 13AA of the Representation of the People Act, 1950.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child rights experts flag issues at juvenile homes||After a group of inmates recentlyvandalised agovernment observation home in Madurai, child rights experts say there is an urgent need to address the larger, underlying problems behind such incidents.  A few days ago, a group of 18 inmates of a government observation home in Kamaraj Salai, Teppakulam, vandalised property, including a television, computer and benches, when they staged a violent protest reportedly demanding bail. After inspection by a Judicial Magistrate, the inmates were transferred to observation homes in Vellore, Trichy and Tirunelveli. The incident reveals a deeper problem in the system, experts say. As per the Juvenile Justice Act, all children are entitled to bail immediately. “When the children are denied bail for a long time and kept at the home, they get frustrated. Either the social work members of the Juvenile Justice Board or the staff of the home should sit down and explain to them why their bail is being denied and when the next hearing would be. Besides, shifting them to other homes, especially during a pandemic, without addressing the root problems, will not serve any purpose,” said a child rights practitioner. Girija Kumara Babu, a child rights activist, said that usually bail is denied in the interest of the child. While safety is one reason, bail is also denied to prevent them from falling into the hands of adult gang members who are still at large. A third reason is to ensure that children do not go back to the same environment which had a negative influence on them. “...whenever bail is denied, the reason should be explained to the child and every stage of the case should be informed to him/her — this is what it means to be child friendly ... Besides, there is a need to segregate children in conflict with law based on the offence. If first-time offenders and those involved in heinous crimes are kept together, it will lead to problems,” she said. Geetha Ramaseshan, a senior advocate who has worked extensively in the realm of child rights said that more steps should be taken to channelise the energy of the inmates.   Sources from the Social Defence department said they are working on a contingency plan. “There are psychologists in the home and they are segregated too ... This incident was due to bail related issues and each child has to be studied separately,” said an official.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. can be a destination for Czech Republic’s defence manufacturing’||Tamil Nadu Industries Minister M.C. Sampath said the State can be a prime destination for the Czech Republic’s defence manufacturing. “During these times of crisis, new relationships must be built and existing ones should be strengthened,” said Mr. Sampath. He was speaking at a virtual conference, ‘Indo Czech Executive Round Table: Doing Business with Tamil Nadu’, organised by The Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI). Mr. Sampath said pharma is another sector with such potential. “With changing global pharmaceutical supply and manufacturing chains, Czech Republic can count on Tamil Nadu as an alternate, credible source of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (APIs),” he added. The Minister also highlighted the State’s strengths. Martina Tauberova, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade for EU Affairs and Foreign Trade, Government of the Czech Republic, said India is the most important partner in Asia and there is a long history of collaboration.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life sentence||A sessions court in Tiruvallur district has convicted a 65-year-old man for the murder of a 17-year-old teenager over a property dispute in Avadi, and sentenced him to a life term. According to the police, the boy, son of R. Xavier of P.V. Puram, was stabbed to death by his relative over a property dispute in January 2018. Suspect Francis Xavier was arrested by the Avadi police and trial was conducted in a Tiruvallur court, where he was sentenced.
22 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion on Kamarajar Salai||The traffic police announced diversions for four days on Kamarajar Salai as the Police Commemoration Day is to be held on October 21 in front of the Martyrs Column at the DGP office. The rehearsals will be conducted from October 17 to 19. Light motor vehicles and motor cycles proceeding from Santhome High Road towards Gandhi Statue will be diverted at the Karaneeswarar Koil Street junction into Karaneeswarar Pagoda Street, Ambethkar Bridge, Dr. Natesan Road and MRTS to enter Kamarajar Salai. MTC buses MTC buses will be diverted at the Santhome point towards Kutchery Road to reach Luz Corner Junction, Karpagambal Nagar Main Road, Dr. P.S. Sivasamy Salai and Dr. R.K. Salai. Traffic from Kamarajar Salai towards Santhome High Road will be diverted at Service Road near the Lloyds Road Junction into Foreshore Road towards Lighthouse and Karaneeswarar Koil Street Junction. The vehicles proceeding to the Lighthouse and Santhome High Road from Dr. R.K. Salai will be diverted at MRTS towards Kamarajar Salai, Lloyds Service Road and Foreshore Road to reach the Lighthouse.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors observe World Anaesthesia Day||Doctors of the Government COVID-19 Hospital, Guindy, along with patients who had tested positive, observed World Anaesthesia Day on Friday. Doctors explained the importance of oxygen in the treatment of COVID-19 and the role of anaesthetists in supporting patients. The role of early intervention was explained. K. Narayanasamy, director of the hospital, D. Sudhakaran, professor, anaesthesia, and K. Dhanasekar, medical superintendent, were present.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Carnatic vocalist dead||Eminent Carnatic Vocalist and guru to hundreds of students, P.S. Narayanaswamy, passed away at his home late on Friday. A long-time resident of Mylapore, the 87-year-old “PSN Sir” as he was fondly referred to, was the son of a doctor. His interest in singing film songs, including those by Papanasam Sivan, led his father to let him take up music. His first guru was Mudikondan Venkatrama Iyer. He learnt under Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer. He had created his own style or Baani. He would be the first to help when it came to worthy causes, said musician S. Ganesh. His daughter S. Mythili said he had been ailing for the past three days. He is survived by three daughters and wife Vasantha.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to permit fruit traders in Koyambedu||The Madras High Court on Friday granted time till December 14 for the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) to file its counter to a writ petition filed by an association of fruit traders to let them carry on their business from the wholesale market at Koyambedu here. Justice M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha passed the order after they were informed that the main market building was under renovation and only after the completion of the works would all the traders be allowed inside in a staggered manner after following all safety protocols. In the affidavit, the petitioner association claimed that only 200 out of 700 wholesale fruit traders were being permitted to carry out their business in Madhavaram, and the others had been suffering financially since the lockdown started. Counsel for the association M. Purushothaman said the 200 traders had been selected arbitrarily without following a fair procedure of allowing all traders to do business on rotation. He insisted that they should be allowed into the market at the earliest.
22 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Book on NEP released||Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a book on the ‘New Educational Policy 2020’ at Raj Bhavan in Chennai on Friday. A press release said the book, authored by former Anna University Chancellor E. Balagurusamy, aimed to highlight important recommendations of ‘NEP 2020’ and their implications to make the Indian education system globally relevant and competent. Prof. M.K. Surappa, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University; E. Balagurusamy, Chairman, EBG Foundation; and Anandrao V. Patil, IAS, were present.
22 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two run over by MTC bus||Two young women were run over by a Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus after they fell from their two-wheeler on the Velachery-Tambaram Main Road near Selaiyur on Thursday. The police identified the victims as M. Mary Roseline, 21, who worked in a financial services firm in Adambakkam, and her friend Kalaivani, 19, who was a college student. They were from Perungalathur and Nadu Veerapattu respectively. On Thursday, they were returning home with Roseline driving and Kalaivani riding pillion. According to the police, the vehicle toppled due to the poorly laid road and an MTC bus ran over them. After bystanders informed the authorities, the traffic investigation team, Chrompet, conducted an investigation. The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem examination was conducted in the Chengalpattu Government Hospital. The MTC driver has been arrested by the police.
22 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MNM keen to form third front, but alliance not ruled out||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) will prioritise leading the third front, but will remain open for an alliance in the upcoming Assembly election in 2021, party sources told The Hindu , after members of its central governing body and executive council met in the presence of party founder Kamal Haasan on Friday. The party also decided that it will contest the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha byelection only if it is held along with the Assembly election next year. A statement from the party said that seven committees had been formed to identify candidates, train them, create the party’s election manifesto, organise the party’s propaganda and look into other aspects related to preparations for the election. Main takeaway Speaking to The Hindu , party vice-president R. Mahendran said: “If we can contest in 38 Parliamentary seats, we can do it in 234 Assembly seats as well.” “The main takeaway was that we should be ready to go alone. The wish of the party leaders and the party cadre is that we should form a third front. As far as decisions on alliances go, the party president has been given unanimous authority.” A. Arunachalam, general secretary, MNM, said several parties were already speaking to the party about a possible alliance.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SFI cadre stage protest||A few cadre of the Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate on Friday opposing the move to split Anna University and demanding the resignation of Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. The protesters said splitting the University into two with one as an unitary institution and another as an affiliating institution and declaring the former as an institution of eminence, as per Government of India guidelines, would lead to commercialisation of education. It would pave way for appointment of foreign faculty and make engineering education beyond the reach of students from economically weaker and deprived sections of the society. That the Vice-Chancellor Mr. Surappa had chosen to write directly to the Government of India by bypassing the State Government was reason enough for his removal and therefore the SFI wanted him removed, the protesters said. The protesters also appealed to the State Government to not accept the Central Government’s proposal saying it would not be able to implement the 69% reservation system that was in vogue in the State.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition for Pilloor III water supply project to begin soon||The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board’s efforts to acquire land to execute the Pilloor III drinking water supply project for the city got a boost with the State Government enhancing district collector’s powers for land acquisition. The Government, through G.O. 526 of September26, has enhanced from 40 acre to 1,482 acre the land acquisition power of collector in respect of public purpose project. This, sources say, means that Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani can now issue the necessary notification for the Board to acquire the 125 acre required for laying the Pilloor III drinking water pipeline. In the absence of the G.O., the administration would have sent the land acquisition proposal to the Commissioner for Land Administration for issuance of necessary notification. Now this is being done at the district level. And, the Collector is likely to issue the notification sometime next week, the sources add. Once the notification is issued, the administration will begin the process of fixing price for the lands to acquired, village-wise to proceed with the process of acquisition. The TWAD Board requires the land to convey water from where it draws water (headworks) to the raw water treatment plant and from there to the master storage reservoir – in short, it requires land to lay pipeline for 30-plus km at 15 m width. This is only a part of the Pilloor III project, though. Sources in the TWAD Board say the third package of the project, which involves digging a 986-metre-long tunnel in Kattan hills to lay pipeline, has just begun. The company entrusted with the Rs. 63 crore package has progressed tunnelling 50m and in the next 15 months, it will complete the work. Likewise, the second package worth Rs. 104 crore to construct a raw water treatment plant has also taken off, the sources say. As for the construction of a master storage reservoir of 146 lakh litre, the Board has floated tender and on October 21, it is opening the tender to choose the lowest bidder, the sources add.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Western bypass: delay in de-notifying land puts landowners in a fix||People who own land along the old alignment for the proposed western bypass road project are in a fix, as their plots remain blocked for registration though a new alignment has been finalised. Almost a month ago, the Revenue Department issued a communication to the Registration Department regarding details of lands identified for acquisition as per the new alignment. The Registration Department too has stopped registering lands in these areas. The details were shared with the local bodies and Local Planning Authority too. However, the communication does not mention the old alignment and the need to release the lands blocked for registration in these areas. This has resulted in people owning lands along the old alignment unable to sell their lands. Further, the delay in communicating the new alignment has increased the guideline value in those areas. According to K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, since 2010, there is talk of the western bypass road. Those with land along the old alignment are suffering for long because of the time taken to finalise the new alignment and notifying it. With the land along the old alignment yet to be released, the land owners are affected. It is such issues that make land acquisition challenging for infrastructure projects. Further, delays lead to higher guideline values. Some owners along the new alignment may have constructed buildings and the government has to now pay compensation for buildings too. For any infrastructure project, land should be identified without delay for acquisition and these should be notified and communicated to all departments and officials concerned at the earliest. This will make the acquisition process simpler and bring down the cost of acquisition too, he said.  Those with land along the old alignment are suffering for long because of the time taken to finalise the new alignment and notifying it. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose Coimbatore-Pollachi bypass road project||The district road safety committee recently approved the Coimbatore-Pollachi bypass road project, which will be developed at Rs. 62 crore. Land acquisition The 23.7 km road from Kovilpalayam to Coimbatore, through Chettipalayam, will involve acquisition of 25 acres. It is expected to bring down traffic on the existing road.  ‘Modify alignment’ However, the project is opposed by farmers. “I will lose my land. We have repeatedly appealed to the officials concerned to modify the alignment. But, they are not willing to do so. The proposed alignment passes through several farms,” said Nataraj of Kondampatti village. ‘Unnecessary project’ K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the Coimbatore-Pollachi highways road has been widened. The proposed alignment for the bypass is through small villages and is an unnecessary project. The Highways Department should re-think this project. There are several other road projects that are needed for Coimbatore. These should be taken up. If there can be a bypass road for Pollachi, there can be bypass roads for Mettupalayam and Tiruppur too. This seems to be an unwanted expenditure and the Department should drop this project, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Red earth theft: woman accuses revenue department of inaction||A woman from whose land red earth was taken without permission at Chinna Thadagam on October 10, alleged lack of action against those involved in the act. In a petition to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell on Thursday, N. Maheswari said that following her complaint to the Revenue Department that several truckloads of red earth were stolen from her 3.5 acre land at Chinna Thadagam, officials detained an earthmover and a truck on October 10. She alleged that the vehicles detained at the Coimbatore North Taluk office were released on Wednesday without any action being taken against K. Saravanan, a brick kiln owner, and the drivers of the two vehicles. She also alleged that she received death threats from Saravanan. When contacted, a Revenue Department official said on Friday that action would be initiated soon.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Omni buses resume operations in Coimbatore||With the resumption of omni bus services in the State, around 30 buses from the Omni Bus Terminus at Gandhipuram in the city were operated to various destinations within the State on Friday. N. Senthilkumar, secretary of Coimbatore Omni Bus Owners and Travels Association, said that around 100 buses were ready for plying in Coimbatore. “We expect only around 50 % occupancy. Only non-AC omni buses will be operated to districts such as Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi and Nagercoil,” he said. All omni buses stopped operations in March following the COVID-19-induced lockdown. R. Baskaran, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association Coimbatore, said that the omni buses that were registered in Puducherry and plying within the State had not resumed operations yet due to a case pending in the Madras High Court. The buses at the Gandhipuram Omni Bus Terminus were cleaned and disinfected ahead of its operations on Friday. Transport Department officials said that motor vehicle inspectors from the four Regional Transport Offices checked the buses for adherence to COVID-19 precautionary measures and other violations. The inspectors will check the terminus again on Monday morning as more passengers from other parts of the State are expected to travel to Coimbatore over the weekend, according to the officials.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Parents sentenced to life for sexual assault on minor daughter||A special court in Coimbatore awarded life imprisonment to the parents of a 14-year-old girl who was sexually assaulted by her father multiple times. Police sources said that the girl was living with her parents in Anamalai police station limits and she was raped multiple times by her 47-year-old father. The 46-year-old mother was unable to prevent her husband from committing the crime. In June 2019, the victim told her school teacher about the sexual assaults, who filed a complaint with the Anamalai police that led to the arrest of the parents under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Judge J. Radhika delivered the verdict at the Special Court for POCSO Act Cases at the Combined Court Complex in Coimbatore on Friday. The parents were awarded life imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1,000 each, according to legal sources. Both the accused were taken to Coimbatore Central Prison following the verdict, where they were remanded in judicial custody. The victim, who is currently staying in a children’s home in Coimbatore district, will receive a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh from the State government’s fund for POCSO Act victims, the legal sources said.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Change in fair price shop timing||All fair price shops (ration shops) in the district will be open from 7 a.m. to noon and from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. A press release from the district administration says the change in timing will prevent people from queuing up at ration shops, more so now as the State Government has introduced fingerprint-enabled goods distribution under the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme. Earlier, the fair price shops distributed goods to cardholders from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and again from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. The release also says that the office of the Commissioner of Civil Supplies is taking steps to rectify errors in places where a few of the 1,419 fair price shops could not get linked to servers for activating the fingerprint-enabled distribution system.
22 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: lung rehabilitation centre opened||A lung rehabilitation centre for patients who have recovered from COVID-19 but continued to experience respiratory problems and other illnesses was opened at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital here recently. A release from the hospital said the Post-COVID Lung Rehabilitation Centre would treat this condition in moderate and severe cases of COVID-19 who required oxygen and other forms of respiratory support even after overcoming the acute phase of the infection.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids North Taluk office||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted a raid at the Coimbatore North Taluk office on Friday. Sources said that the raid commenced in the evening by a team of officials led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, DVAC, T.H. Ganesh. However, details pertaining to the reason behind the raid and whether unaccounted money was seized were not immediately available. Similarly, the DVAC officials from Tiruppur conducted a raid at the Avinashi Sub-Registrar office on Friday evening. Further details were awaited at the time of filing this report.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU rank list on Oct. 23||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will release the rank list for admission to undergraduate programme on October 23. A release from the University said as it was yet to complete the scrutiny of the 50,000-odd applications received online, it had to postpone the release of rank list. The University had earlier said it would release the rank list on October 15.
22 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Warning against electrical accidents||Ahead of the north-east monsoon, the Coimbatore South Electrical Inspector issued warnings to the public to prevent electrical accidents. A release said that the public must only use electrical appliances with ISI marks and hire only licensed electrical contractors. Residual Current Circuit breaker (RCCB) must be provided in the main supply and the earthing must be maintained properly at every residence. No electric poles must be used for fixing banners or support pandals during the monsoon season. The public should maintain a safe distance from any snapped electrical conductors and immediately contact Tangedco for repair works.     Youth Helping Hands, a Coimbatore-based organisation, has announced that it will donate 500 kits to children in orphanages to help them celebrate Deepavali. The organisation has joined hands with another organisation ‘Aram Anbin Adaiyalam’ and will distribute the kits on November 7 and 8, a release said. The ‘Deepavali Kit’ will include new dresses, masks, sanitisers, toiletries, sweets and crackers. Those willing to contribute may contact 9790376745 or visit www.youthhelpinghands.com.    Rotary Club of Monarks in collaboration with Veeku Multispecialty Hospital conducted a free health and cardio care camp for conservancy workers at the hospital venue on Thursday. As many as 50 workers took part. The programme will cover around 300 conservancy workers of Coimbatore Corporation in a phased manner, a release said.   Vijaya Pathippagam will organise a three-day book fair from October 17 to 19 to commemorate its 44th year of publication. The fair will be held at theshowroom on Raja Street in Town Hall, where customers may purchase Tamil books with a discount of 10 to 25 %, a release said. Founder of Vijaya Pathippagam M. Velayutham said that the showroom was inaugurated on October 17, 1977.   Due to transformer erection work in Jagathala sub-station, power supply will be disconnected in the following areas on October 17 between 9 a.m and 4 p.m.: Aravankadu, Coonoor, Burliar, Bandishola, Singara, Wellington, Yeddapalli, Brookelands, Adderlie, Bedford, Ottupattarai, Currency, Mount Pleasant, Beratty, Sims Park, Elithorai, Hossatty and Hubathalai.
22 October 2020||Colombo,TAMIL NADU||‘There are shades of grey’||The writers of 800 wanted to tell the story of a cricketing legend, but were keen not to make it a one-dimensional tale of a flawless superhero. They sought to bring in nuance, “the shades of grey” in Mr. Muralitharan’s career and life, according to Shehan Karunatilaka, an acclaimed Sri Lankan novelist who co-wrote the story with director M.S. Sripathy. “Murali”, Sri Lankan commentators have often observed, has been a controversial figure for more reasons than one. “In the broader cricketing world, you will find a percentage of people who say Murali is a genius, and another that calls his bowling action illegitimate,” Mr. Karunatilaka added.
22 October 2020||Devakottai,TAMIL NADU||RI arrested for bribe||Velusami, revenue inspector from the Devakottai Municipality, was arrested by a team from the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption wing on Friday. He allegedly demanded a bribe from Chittu, 50, wife of Kaliswaran of Thenammai Oorani Melkarai near Devakottai, to fix less tax for an immovable property. The police registered a case following a complaint. When the woman visited the office and handed over the cash as per a plan, a team led by DSP Manivannan, Inspectors Chandran and Kumaravel, SI Raja Mohamed trapped Velusami and seized the money. The police also conducted a search at the residence of the official. A case under Prevention of Corruption Act was registered. Further investigation is on.
22 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||IoE status will mean loss of reservation, says Minister||The Institute of Eminence (IoE) status to Anna University would mean the loss of 69% reservation, which was the result of a hard-won struggle for social justice, a hike in fees, the declaration of entrance exams and disproportionate admission of students from other States, in place of students from poor backgrounds within the State, said Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan on Friday. The Minister was commenting on the row triggered by Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K Surappa’s letter to the Centre on the university’s financial readiness for IoE status. Speaking in the wake of the controversy and the State government’s notice to the Vice-Chancellor, seeking his response, Mr. Anbalagan said that Anna University did not require an IoE status if it meant the loss of reservation, turning it into an exclusive varsity, denying entry to poor students. “The 69% reservation will become a question mark, there will entrance examinations and a hike in fees. Amma’s government does not need all that. The Vice-Chancellor’s tenure is fixed, but the government has a mandate to protect institutions for posterity,” Mr. Anbalagan said. “The Vice-Chancellor’s letter, though unilateral, pertained solely to the financial state of the university and its ability to mobilise finances for the IoE status. But the question then is, where will these funds come from? Will they take it from the affiliated colleges and regional centres?” he asked. The IoE status considers only the four research institutes of the university, and does not factor in its 13 affiliated colleges and four regional centers, all of which will suffer. “If research is key, the State government is ready to provide all the funds required,” he said. According to Mr. Anbalagan, the research institutions were doing very well, while there had been a fall in admissions in the other colleges. The focus then should be to involve all the affiliated colleges, and not allow one set of institutions to thrive at the expense of others, he said. The State has been relatively ahead in higher education, close to reaching the target of the New Education Policy’s vision for 2035. The NEP envisions the higher education percentage to touch 54%, while our State reached 49% last year itself, the Minister said. The government will provide all the research funds required by the university, and there is absolutely no need for an IoE status for Anna University, which is already among the top-ranked institutions, Mr. Anbalagan said. He underlined that the university was under the control of the government, and the government would simply reject the proposal for IoE, and, hence, there was no need for any drastic measure, like demanding the resignation of the V-C. Touching upon late admissions to colleges, the Minister said that admissions to arts and science colleges had been extended upto October 31 to enable those who cleared supplementary exams in their Plus Two Board exams to apply to colleges that still have vacant seats.
22 October 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Acting in a movie is an actor’s prerogative: BJP||Acting in a movie is the prerogative of an actor, said BJP state vice-president Annamalai here on Friday. Welcoming hundreds of cadres, who joined the BJP from other parties at a function, he told reporters that there was no need for any controversy regarding the Muttiah Muralidharan's biopic movie - 800, in which actor Vijay Sethupathi is playing the lead role. Politicising or threatening someone emotionally should be discouraged. It was for Mr. Vijay Sethupathi to take a call on it and political parties or leaders should stay away, Mr. Annamalai opined. On the utterances of actor Kushboo over the differently-abled people, he said that she had apologised. The people should take that and put an end to it there. “People no longer believe that BJP is anti-minorities as large number of people from the minority segments were joining the party since 2019,” he pointed out. The BJP in Tamil Nadu had bright chances of victory in as many as 65 Assembly constituencies and in Dindigul district, Palani constituency had a good chance for the BJP to emerge victorious, he said and added that only at the time of elections, talks of alliance would be finalised. To another query on whether the BJP would contest in the Lok Sabha by-poll in Kanniyakumari, Mr. Annamalai said that it was for the high command and the TN unit to decide. He said that every scheme announced by the Centre was useful for the common man. Unable to digest the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, some opponents were spreading rumours. It would all come to an end soon, he summed up. District president Kanagaraj, secretary Sendil and others participated in the meeting.
22 October 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating World Food Day with 5 paise chicken biriyani||A biriyani shop near Kamarajar Bus Stand here sold chicken biriyani boxes for five paise on Friday to mark World Food Day. K.Sheik Mujibur Rahman, the owner of ‘Mujib Biriyani,’ said that by selling a half plate biriyani for five paise, he aimed to create awareness of the importance to protect and preserve antiques. He said that the recent archaeological findings at Keeladi stirred an interest in him to understand history and to preserve artefacts. During several occasions the shop sold biriyani packets at a lower cost to emphasise on various social issues. This was the second consecutive year that the shop was selling chicken biriyani packets for five paise. Mr. Rahman said that biriyani boxes were sold to around 500 people on Friday. “All safety precautionary norms issued by the government were strictly followed. All customers were seated on chairs that were placed wide apart. It was ensured that all customers wore face masks and the staff of the shop regulated the customers,” he said. “The COVID-19 pandemic had financially pushed many families into starvation. Our group of friends distributed food packets to around 25,000 people during the lockdown period. But, we wanted to sell the biriyani packets for five paise as many people don't want to get food for free. We feel happy that we were able to satiate the hunger of many customers,” added Mr. Rahman. T. Premkumar, a customer who bought the biryani on Friday, said that many children turned up to buy chicken biriyani by bringing five paise coins.
22 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Black flag protest demanding steps to reduce traffic congestion||Stating that traffic congestion on Nachiappa Road is affecting their business, traders and shopkeepers urged the district administration and the district police to take steps to reduce congestion and hoisted black flags at their shops here on Friday. The stretch from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner is one of the busiest stretches in the city with the presence of Corporation central bus stand and commercial establishments on both sides of the road. In May, the district police introduced a one-way traffic system on the stretch by allowing vehicles to move from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner whereas vehicles in other directions were diverted through Nachiappa Road to reach Meenatchi Sundaranar Road. This resulted in one stretch of Mettur Road lying idle while the entire stretch of Nachiappa Road witnessed frequent traffic congestion throughout the day. Two-wheeler workshops, commercial establishments, vegetable market, eateries and other shops were present on Nachiappa Road. Due to continuous movement of vehicles on the road, shopkeepers said that their business was affected and wanted the congestion to be reduced by reintroducing two-way traffic on Mettur Road. They had also submitted a petition to the district police. Also, traders on Mettur Road were demanding two-way traffic as their business was affected. On October 12, Collector C. Kathiravan along with Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inspected Mettur Road and held discussions on reintroducing two-way traffic. However, no decision was taken. Hence, traders and shopkeepers on Nachiappa Road wanted traffic congestion in the stretch to be reduced and hoisted black flags at their shops.
22 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Onion price soars in wholesale market||The drop in arrival of onion led to price soaring to Rs. 80-a-kg at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market here on Friday. At the wholesale market, the price of small onions was Rs. 80-a-kg, while the price of big onion was Rs. 60-a-kg. Traders said that big onion arrives from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh while the small onion arrives from Bellary in Karnataka and also from nearby districts. They said that due to heavy rainfall in onion-cultivating States, production had dropped which led to the increase in price of onion. Usually, 80 tonnes of big onion and 50 tonnes of small onion arrive at the market every day. “But now, only one-third of onions are arriving and that led to price rise”, Mani Anand, a wholesale dealer said. Traders said that the price of onion will go up in the coming weeks as the arrival is expected to drop further. In December last year, the price of big onion touched Rs. 200-a-kg, while the price of small onion was Rs. 110-a-kg. “Price may go up, but not to the previous level”, he added. Consumers said that the price of vegetables, including onions, had gone up in the past one month and fear that the upward price trend will continue as monsoon is expected to set in the last week of October. During rainy season, the price of onion and vegetables will go up. “The government should take necessary action to check hoarding and also ensure that consumers are not affected due to steep increase in prices”, said P. Sheela, a home-maker from Sampath Nagar. The retail price of onion is around Rs. 90 and it may cross Rs. 100 in a few days, she added.
22 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two teachers placed under suspension||Two government school teachers in Modakurichi block who were involved in religious propaganda were placed under suspension. On October 6, parents found that the assistant headmistress Arulmani and teacher Saranya of Panchayat Union Primary School at Sellathapalayam in Anandampalayam Panchayat had invited students to the school and distributed religious materials to them. When parents gatheredl, both teachers fled the spot. Based on complaints, the Block Educational Officer inspected the school and found religious materials. The Educational Wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party had submitted a petition to Collector C. Kathiravan demanding action against the teacher. Parents had also submitted a petition demanding action against them. Based on the complaints, officials from the School Education Department held inquiries and submitted report to District Educational Officer Madhesan, who issued orders placing them under suspension.
22 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held with fake notes||Two persons, who circulated counterfeit currencies were arrested by the police here on Friday. On Thursday night, two persons, M. Satheesh (23) and S. Soundarrajan (20), both from Manickampalayam, gave four Rs. 500 notes at the eatery located inside the Tasmac outlet at Narayanavalasu and attempted to purchase snacks. Balu, working at the shop, found the currencies to be fake and alerted Erode North Police Station. When Balu questioned the two, both fled the shop. Later, the police picked up the two. The police seized colour printers, fake currencies, a two-wheeler and a car. A case under Sections 489 (B) (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes) and 489 (C) (possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes) of Indian Penal Code was registered. Both were arrested and produced in the court and lodged at prison.
22 October 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Kalam celebrated||The 89th birth anniversary of the late President A. P. J. Abdul Kalam was celebrated as ‘Youth Awakening Day’ on Thursday at Alagappa University, Karaikudi, through a virtual platform. Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran said that Kalam always spoke about guiding the youth for leading the development of the country. His life remains the best example of devotion to work, self-confidence, honesty and integrity. Kalam had a passion for books and delivered motivational speeches to inspire the younger generation, he said. Ponraj Vellaichamy, advisor to the late President, in his special address, said that Kalam’s dream was to ensure that everyone leads a happy life. Mr. Vellaichamy spoke about Kalam’s remarkable contribution to the growth of aerospace, defence and nuclear energy sectors of the country. Mr. Vellaichamy urged the youth to give up addiction to electronic gadgets. The youth should grab all the opportunities that come their way for reaping success in their lives, he added.
22 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Cooptex Deepavali sale launched||Cooptex Deepavali sale was flagged off by Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy on Friday. The Cooptex has been set a sales target of Rs. 1.60 crore for the district. This envisions a targeted sales of Rs. 80 lakh for Krishnagiri and Rs. 80 lakh for Hosur. Flagging off the sale, Collector Jaya Chandra BHanu Reddy urged the public to encourage handloom weavers by making their purchases for the festival season here. Cooptex’s Deepavali discount envisions up to 30% rebate on sarees. According to the administration, this year, real zari work silk sarees from Kancheepuram ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 40,000 and Arani silk sarees ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 8,000 are up for sale. The sale is to encourage public to purchase handloom products and help local weavers. Similarly, organic cotton sarees from Coimbatore, Dindigal, Salem, Erode, and Kalamkari work sarees are also available. Besides, export quality products that include quilts, aprons, bedspreads, door and window curtains, table mats and pillow covers are among the items put up for sale. The Cooptex showrooms will be functioning on all days, including holidays, to encourage footfalls.
22 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||ADGP reviews law and order||Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Rajesh Das inspected the district and reviewed law and order issues on Friday. Earlier, holding a meeting with the police officials, Mr. Das directed sustained action against rowdyism, extractive interests, and katta panchayats. Further, the officials were directed to conduct mass grievance redressal meetings.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sero surveillance study to be held in 38 clusters||A sero surveillance study, which will help to determine the extent of COVID-19 infection in the population, will be conducted at 38 clusters in the district from next week. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that the survey, which will begin on a pilot basis from next week, will continue for three weeks. The main aim of this state-wide survey is to understand how many in the general population have been infected with COVID-19 and have become immune to the virus. It also helps to understand the pattern of transmission in the community and to determine the fraction of asymptomatic or sub-clinical infections present in the community. Out of the 38 total clusters identified in the district, 20 clusters are in the rural areas and the remaining 18 falls within Madurai Corporation limits. Parts of Anaiyur, Alwarpuram, Anna Nagar, Harveypatti, Jaihindpuram, Narimedu, Tamil Sangam Road, Tirunagar, Thirumangalam, Alanganallur, Paravai, Sholavandan, T. Kallupatti and Usilampatti are some of the areas where clusters have been identified for the survey. An official from the health department said that a separate micro plan has been created and samples will be lifted from 30 adults in each cluster. The participants for the survey will be selected from each household through a scientific methodology and it can include those who have tested positive for COVID-19 or those who have tested negative for COVID-19. Each participant will have to fill a questionnaire and venous blood samples will be lifted from each participant. “The blood sample will help to ascertain the anti-body levels that were produced against the COVID-19 infection,” said the official. Mr. Arjun Kumar said that the samples that are lifted will be tested through chemiluminescent immunoassay (CLIA) method. A CLIA machine has been installed at Samayanallur Primary Health Centre to test samples lifted for sero-survey from Madurai, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Theni and Pudukkottai districts, he added. Three teams have been formed in the district and trained to conduct the survey. Each team comprises a lab technician, a health inspector and a staff nurse, and will be engaged in door-to-door collection of samples from the identified clusters.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Concern over poor patronage for Tejas Express||Chennai-Egmore-Madurai- Chennai Egmore Tejas Express has failed to get minimum patronage from passengers in view of the COVID-19 threat. Railway officials said that the patronage has been less than 15% of around 1,000 seats in the train on many days. The premium train comprises 12 air-conditioned chair cars and one executive chair car. “This was a train that got an overwhelming patronage in the past and getting accommodation on many days was near impossible,” a travelling ticketing examiner said. However, ever since the train services were resumed early this month after six months of lockdown, the all-AC coach train has got a negligible patronage. “This is not an isolated case. Even all the overnight superfast express trains are running with many vacant berths in AC coaches though sleeper class coaches are getting full in weekends,” he added. Southern Railway even changed timings of the Chennai Egmore-Madurai Tejas Express to enable people to reach the station on time to make up for the lack of adequate public transport facility in the early mornings. When the officials conducted a survey among the travelling public for three days on October 9, 10 and 11, vast majority of the 206 passengers described the overall travel experience by Tejas as good, very good and excellent. “Similarly, they gave top ratings on three important parameters like cooling in the AC coaches, their ambience and staff behaviour,” a senior official in Madurai Division said. The official said that the poor patronage in Tejas could be due to the fear perception among the passengers to travel in AC coaches under the pandemic conditions. More people have got used to travel by cars in the last few months during the absence of public transport as they feel car travels are safer. Besides, they could avoid using public transport vehicles like buses, metro trains and cabs during their stay outside home.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 84 new COVID-19 positive cases||Madurai recorded 84 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 17,874. A total of 73 persons got discharged and the active cases were 804. There were no deaths recorded on Friday. Virudhunagar  COVID-19 death toll in Virudhunagar district went up to 217 with two more deaths reported on Friday. A man, 61, and a woman, 71, died in different hospitals in Madurai on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. The number of fresh positive cases reported on Friday was 38 that took up the total number positive cases to 15,068. However, with the discharge of 74 patients on Friday and 14,605 till date, the number of active cases in the district had come down to 246. Theni Theni had 39 new cases of covid-19 cases taking the tally to 15,885. There were 70 discharges from the hospitals in a single day. Dindigul Dindigul had 32 fresh cases with which the tally went up to 9,511. The hospitals had discharged 39 people. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram had 18 new cases and the tally moved to 5,835. There were 26 discharges from the hospitals. Sivaganga Sivaganga had 19 fresh cases of covid-19 taking the tally to 5,602. The hospitals had discharged 26 patients. Tirunelveli While the southern districts recorded 200 new cases on Friday, 188 persons were discharged from the hospitals while two patients succumbed to the viral infection. With 70 new cases, Kanniyakumari district, which has so far lost 237 persons to the viral infection, had the tally of 14,156 and 717 active cases even as 63 patients were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli district had 61 new cases that took the tally to 13,792 and the number of active cases to 607 after 66 persons were discharged from hospitals. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi district recorded 56 fresh cases that increased the infection tally to 14,381. After 44 patients were discharged from hospitals, 546 patients are undergoing treatment. Since the district lost one more patient to the viral infection, the fatality rose to 126. Tenkasi Tenkasi district too lost a patient on Friday and the district has so far witnessed the death of 150 COVID-19 positive patients. After adding 13 new cases, the district had 183 active cases and its tally rose to 7,705.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stigmatisation continues, says woman transfused with HIV-infected blood||A woman from Sattur, who was mistakenly transfused with HIV-infected blood at a government hospital in 2018, burst into tears before a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi of the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench), on Friday complaining of social boycott. She said her husband and neighbours boycotted her and she was being stigmatised. The woman told the judges that whenever she goes out to fetch water from a nearby tap, she was subjected to crude remarks by neighbours. Her husband too refused to live with her. Taking note of her submission, the judges observed that the neighbours had to be sensitised on the issue. The neighbours were under the impression that HIV would spread to them if they speak to her. Therefore, the services of medical experts should be roped-in and they should be sensitised that the virus would not spread merely because they converse with her. The court observed that the her husband was avoiding her as he too was ignorant on the issue. Therefore, he should be provided with proper psychiatric counselling by the medical experts, the judges said. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed seeking appropriate relief for the woman. During the course of the hearing, Additional Advocate General (AAG) K. Chellapandian informed the court that Rs. 25 lakh was paid to the woman and her two children as compensation. The AAG also submitted that a two-bedroom house was constructed for the woman, as per the directions of the court. However, the judges took cognisance of the fact that only one bedroom had an attached washroom facility. The judges said, a separate washroom should be constructed in the other bedroom, which lacks such a facility and a separate water connection should be provided to the woman as she was being subjected to harassment by her neighbours. The court directed the State government to file a comprehensive compliance report before the court on November 5.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Limited number of omni buses resume operations from city||A limited number of omni buses, which are registered in Tamil Nadu, resumed operations from the omni bus stand at Mattuthavani here on Friday. A.Mydeen Basha, president, Madurai Omni Bus Owners Association, said that buses registered in northeastern states were functioning for the past few weeks. “The buses registered in Tamil Nadu are seater buses. Only a limited number of buses registered in Tamil Nadu are functioning in Madurai,” he said. A majority of omni buses were registered in Puducherry, which gives permit for sleeper buses. “These buses are expected to resume operations soon,” he added. Although only a limited number of buses resumed operations on Friday, the patronage was very poor, said M. Balamurugan, an omni bus owner. “People are scared to travel in public transport due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One killed||K. Mareeswaran (30), a worker, was killed when a concrete mixing vehicle slipped into a gorge while taking up the Vaigai South Bund Road widening work near Arapalayam late on Friday evening. The police said that Mareeswaran of Aruppukottai was pouring the concrete mixture from the rear of the vehicle as it was moving at around 6 p.m. However, the loose soil gave in and the vehicle fell down into the gorge. Mareeswaran was crushed by the vehicle. The driver of the vehicle, K. Thalamuthu (26) of Karseri, was rescued. The road widening work is undertaken by National Highways under the Smart City Project. Last year, two workers involved in the road widening work were crushed to death when a similar heavy vehicle ran over them while they were sleeping on the riverbed.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One killed in accident||K. Mareeswaran (30), a worker, was killed when a concrete mixing vehicle slipped into a gorge while taking up the Vaigai South Bund Road widening work near Arapalayam late on Friday evening. The police said that Mareeswaran of Aruppukottai was pouring the concrete mixture from the rear of the vehicle as it was moving at around 6 p.m. However, the loose soil gave in and the vehicle fell down into the gorge. Mareeswaran was crushed by the vehicle. The driver of the vehicle, K. Thalamuthu (26) of Karseri, was rescued. The road widening work is undertaken by National Highways under the Smart City Project. Last year, two workers involved in the road widening work were crushed to death when a similar heavy vehicle ran over them while they were sleeping on the riverbed.
22 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly 3||Unidentified persons broke into a TASMAC shop at Kuppanampatti on Wednesday night. The police said that the supervisor of the shop Balachandran (49) of Usilampatti had left the shop locked on Wednesday night. However, he was alerted by a local man, Arun, who told him that the shop was broken open. Later, it was found that several liquor bottles worth Rs. 13,400 had been stolen. Usilampatti Taluk police are investigating.
22 October 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneurship for youth during pandemic discussed at webinar||Tamil Nadu Dr. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University analysed scope of entrepreneurship for youths during and after COVID pandemic through a five-day webinar, involving eminent scientists and officials. Hosted by Department of Fisheries Extension, Economics and Statistics, Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute, Thalainayeru, the webinar that culminated on Friday witnessed 101 participants from ICAR (Indian Council of Agricultural Research), State agricultural universities and private sector who learnt COVID-19 impact on various sub-sectors of fisheries and aquaculture. Inaugurating the Webinar on ‘Fisheries in COVID times and after: gender, ground truths and growth,’ R. Gajalakshmi, Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation, Chennai, said the scope for entrepreneurship development for youth must necessarily be explored notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19. Ms. Gajalakshmi also elaborated on the current scenario in her lecture on ‘Entrepreneurship development for youth in COVID times and after.’ Though the situation was far from safe, the lockdown restrictions had been relaxed for economic revival, G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, said. Guest of honour J. Innocent Divya, Collector, The Nilgiris, spoke on measures taken by the government to manage COVID-19 epidemic. M. Krishnan, Advisor, State Level Project Advisory Committee for Marine Resources, Andhra Pradesh, and S. Ravichandran, Principal Scientist, Information and Communication Management Division, National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, Telangana, also spoke.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||ED seizes Gautham Sigamani’s assets worth Rs. 8.6 crore under FEMA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized assets worth Rs. 8.60 crore, held by Kallakurichi DMK MP Gautham Sigamani, equivalent to the value of “illegally” acquired foreign security and alleged non-repatriated foreign exchange earned abroad till date. Mr. Sigamani is the son of former Minister and DMK leader K. Ponmudi. The ED said it took up the probe based on information that Mr. Sigamani had illegally acquired foreign security without the Reserve Bank of India’s approval, in violation of Section 4 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The investigation “revealed that in March 2008, Gautham Sigamani, being a person resident in India, made overseas investment of $1,00,000 (Rs. 41,57,225) in acquiring 2,45,000 shares of PT Excel Megindo, Jakarta, and $55,000 (Rs. 22,86,924) in Universal Business Ventures, UAE”. The agency alleged that the investments were made without the RBI’s permission. Profits kept abroad It has also been alleged that Mr. Sigamani had failed to repatriate profits of over Rs. 7.05 crore earned by him from Universal Business Ventures from 2008-09 to 2012-13. He had allegedly held them abroad till date in contravention of Section 4, read with Section 8, of the FEMA. According to the ED, Mr. Sigamani did not repatriate the balance amount lying in the bank account of Universal Business Ventures to the tune of 6,04,783 dirhams, equivalent to over Rs. 90 lakh, as on December 31, 2012. Therefore, under Section 37A of the FEMA, the ED has seized immovable properties in the form of agricultural lands, commercial and residential buildings in Tamil Nadu and movable properties in the form of bank balances and shares.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Myriad hues of life during lockdown||The usually vibrant art and culture scene, one of the distinctive features of life in the city, is reviving amid the new normal set by the COVID-19 pandemic. A group show, themed “Lockdown Diaries” featuring 32 paintings by 10 artists, that is on at the Maison Perumal marks the first art event in the city since the March lockdown. The participating artists are Anwar Khan G, Kathiresan Manoharan, Kirti Chandak, Lasse van den Dikkenberg, Linguessar C, Mounissamy Cassinad, Nirmallyo Ghosh, R. Radjoucannane, Suresh Chandra Jangid and Suresh K. Nair. Dismal mood The exhibits include works in acrylic on canvas, watercolours and linocut on paper. Some of the exhibits capture the dismal mood during the pandemic, the shutdown of normal life, the pain and suffering and the large-scale migration of workers. The frames capture a range of emotions between either end of the spectrum, from the haze of an uncertain future to hope and optimism for life beyond COVID-19. Artists have applauded the heroes in the times of the pandemic, from front-line healthcare professionals to farmers and transportation workers. “A supportive space has been a feature of our hospitality experience. So, we wanted a painting show when we reopened recently to mark our return to the new normal,” said Sam John, manager of the heritage property in the Tamil Quarter of town. More than anything else, the event was organised to encourage artistic endeavour in these tough times, he said. There was been an uptick in guests, primarily from Chennai and Bengaluru, and many of them came down to break the shackles, Mr. John said. Dutch artist Dikkenberg, who has come down to visit his uncle in Auroville, has brought to the show a few interesting works. ‘Pro-corona ideal’ “Guitar Girl” depicts a girl with a guitar against the backdrop of buildings in Edingbourgh, his last holiday destination, in an attempt to “nostalgically depict the pre-corona western ideal.” In ‘The Pauw’ (peacock) the artist portrays the experience of sighting the bird during a visit to Auroville while ‘The Schildpad’ has a tortoise crawling across a fantasy landscape. Meanwhile, Alliance Francaise recently hosted an online book launch of French writer and academic Erik Orsenna’s Pasteur, la vie, la mort (Pasteur, Life, Death and Beyond) on its website and social media networks. The event featured a conversation with the author.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Digital divide is a major challenge for online classes in Puducherry’||Only about half of the student population of government schools in the Union Territory of Puducherry has access to gadgets and Internet connection. This is making it difficult for the Education Department to depend on online platforms to have virtual classes during the COVID-19 pandemic. A ‘Device Availability Survey’ conducted by the department during distribution of food security allowance revealed that only 2.51% of the government school students had access to a computer or laptop in the Union Territory. Smartphones, TVs Students having tablets comprised only 0.89 %, and those having a smartphone with Internet connection form about 47.98 %. However, only 10.42 % of the students have access to smartphone without an Internet connection. Even in the case of access to television sets, the numbers are not too comfortable, given the Union Territory’s status of having a higher per capita income. While 67.41 % of the students have access to televisions sets with a cable connection, only 20.83 % of students have access to television sets with DTH connection. When it comes to ‘button’ phones, 52.13 % of the students have access to the gadget. Only 10.81% of students have access to radio, the survey said. Director of School Education, P. T. Rudra Goud, told The Hindu that the digital divide poses a major challenge in conducting online classes during the pandemic. ‘Multi-mode strategy’ We will have to plan a multi-mode strategy where people can access study material through television. We have already directed the students to watch Kalvi channel of Tamil Nadu. Since the syllabus is the same, the students can benefit from watching the channel,” said Mr. Goud. The department would also share recorded videos of subjects explained by the teachers, he said. “Blended modes of transmission will be considered to ensure maximum reach,” he said. On the partial resumption of educational activities in high schools, Mr. Goud said there was good response from the students. “Only one student got infected with the coronavirus and the transmission was from outside the school,” Mr. Goud added. The department also issued a show cause notice to Kavi Bharathi School at K. T. Kuppam near Madagadipet for not following guidelines. “Inspection by our team revealed that school authorities were not following social distancing norms. The team will be visiting the school again on Friday,” said Mr. Goud.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Several leaders keen on joining BJP, says C.T. Ravi||BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi on Friday said leaders from several political parties in the Union Territory were in touch with the leadership to join the party. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Ravi said the party was working with a strategy to form the next government in U.T. “Several leaders are in touch with the party and lotus will certainly bloom in the U.T. after the 2021 Assembly elections,” he said. Any political leader who accepted the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was acceptable to the party, he said and added that the party was gaining strength in Puducherry. When his reaction was sought to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy’s allegation that the Centre was trying to merge the U.T. with Tamil Nadu, Mr. Ravi said people need not have any doubt on the status of Puducherry. “The Congress is trying to spread false information on the issue. There is no move by the Centre to merge the U.T. with Tamil Nadu,” he added.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G asks officials to sustain momentum of testing and preventive care||Puducherry added 287 new COVID-19 cases on Friday while one death took the toll in the Union Territory to 571. A 59-year-old man with co-morbidities succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the capital. The cumulative death count in Puducherry is 473, followed by Karaikal (52), Yanam (42) and Mahe (four). The new cases were detected from testing 4,287 samples. The test positivity rate was 6.69%, case fatality rate 1.74% and recovery rate 84.45%. Of the new cases reported, Puducherry region accounted for 236 cases, followed by Karaikal (28), Yanam (16) and Mahe (7). Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press conference that the overall tally was 32,766 after the transfer of seven cases to Tamil Nadu. The total number of active cases stood at 4,524 while 27,671 patients had recovered, including 306 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. The active cases include 2,871 patients in home isolation. The Minister said 2.55 lakh samples had been tested so far and results of 2.18 lakh samples were negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi instructed officials to sustain the momentum of testing and preventive care — in spite of the continual decline in cases and deaths — as the festival season approaches. No changes in manpower need to be made and treatment protocols should to be delivered with due clearance from ICMR experts, she said. Mobile teams would be deployed for random sampling in bars, theatres and public places during the festive season. The police would intensify enforcement of safety protocols in addition to traffic management, Ms. Bedi said.
22 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Protest against banking recruitment||Led by VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, party cadre and leaders of like-minded political parties on Friday staged a protest against the recruitment notification by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection. Speaking to reporters after participating in the protest, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the notification was aimed at providing 10% reservation in jobs to the economically weaker people of the general category. Urging the Centre to intervene and stop the recruitment process, he said if implemented the OBC, SC and ST candidates would lose their opportunity. The reservation policy was against those belonging to the OBC, SC and ST communities, he added. MP D. Ravikumar, former Minister V. Pethaperumal from the Congress and veteran CPI (M) leader T. Murugan participated in the protest.
22 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||15-year-old girl ends life||A 15-year-old girl ended her life at her house at Kumangulam in Alangudi police station limits in the district on Thursday. Her father was away at work when the incident occurred, said police sources. The girl was a Class X student in a private school in Tiruchi. Her mother had died a few years ago. The reason for the girl to resort to the extreme step was being investigated. The post mortem was done on Friday and the body was handed over to the girl’s family. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
22 October 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Woman kills two children||A young mother reportedly killed her two children including a three-year-old girl child and one-year old boy on Friday. Police said that Ganesan (30) of Nachiyendal village near Thiruvadanai here was married to Sonia (27). The couple had a girl and boy. Frequent quarrel between them on domestic issues had forced the woman to end life by attempting suicide. Earlier, she had thrown her two children in a well, but they were rescued by the fire and rescue services personnel. This time, she fought with her husband and left home and threw her daughter and little son in a tank near her dwelling, in which the kids drowned. The fire and rescue service personnel retrieved the two bodies and sent it for post mortem. Meanwhile, Tiruvadanai police arrested Sonia on murder charge. Further investigation is on.
22 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||State NEET topper is from Tiruppur||Tiruppur boy R. Srijan has topped the NEET rank list in Tamil Nadu with a score of 710 out of 720. “I consider this a huge achievement,” said the all-India eighth rank holder and the national topper in the OBC category. Hailing from Vellakovil in Tiruppur, he had enrolled at the Green Park coaching centre in Namakkal. Mr. Srijan said this was his second attempt and his parents were of great support to him. “I scored 385 marks during the first attempt after which I joined the coaching centre and trained for a year. I would like to join Jipmer Institute in Puducherry and specialise in cardiology,” he said. During the COVID-19 lockdown, he prepared for 10-12 hours a day. He added that he went through the NCERT prescribed syllabus thoroughly while preparing for the examinations. Mohanaprabha Ravichandran, who scored 705 out of 720 marks, said she is elated that she could score such high marks in her first attempt. The student is a native of Namakkal. Talking to presspersons, Ms. Mohanaprabha said that she underwent a three-month crash course at Green Park coaching centre. She said that she would like to join AIIMS and later specialise in neurology. G. Swetha of Velammal Vidyalaya, Mel Ayanampakkam campus, has scored 701 marks (99.9951717). She has been placed 62 in the all-India rank list. Ms. Swetha said she worked 8-10 hours daily towards achieving her goal. “I started preparing from Class XI. I did not do anything more than what the school taught me,” she said. She said she prepared for Biology/Zoology using the NCERT book. “For Physics, we need to work extra sums and for Chemistry too, we need both NCERT and extra sums,” she added.  Her father Ganesh Kumar is a self-employed engineer and her mother, Kalai Selvi, is a gynaecologist with Kamakshi Memorial Hospital. “It is what I always wanted to do,” said Ms. Swetha. She has not yet decided yet about the college she would like to study. ( With inputs from R. Sujatha )
22 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man, who was placed alive in a freezer, dies||An elderly man, who was recently kept in a freezer box while he was still alive, by his relatives, died during the early hours of Friday. The man Balasubramania Kumar (74), who was rescued and admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, died without responding to treatment. According to doctors, the patient was suffering from chronic lung ailments. On Tuesday, Kumar’s kin, allegedly presuming him to be dead, kept him in a freezer box for over 12 hours. The patient was later rescued when staff of the freezer company visited to collect the box. Police and 108 ambulance service staff had shifted Kumar to the Salem GH. According to health authorities, an inquiry has been launched against a private hospital where the patient was last taken for treatment and which issued the death certificate. Officials said, the patient was referred to be taken to home by doctors, considering his health condition. Almost an hour later, a death certificate was issued declaring it to be a home death based on information given by relatives of the patient. The Salem city police have registered a case and are investigating.
22 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Four persons recover with plasma therapy at Salem GH||Four patients who were affected with COVID-19 have recovered after undergoing plasma therapy at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The hospital began the therapy two weeks ago after the bank it opened received plasma from persons who had recovered from the disease. The hospital is also encouraging the patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19 to donate their plasma after they recover. Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan said, “The plasma was administered on five patients, aged 40 to 50. While four persons recovered from the disease, one died without responding to the treatment”. The four were recovering well after being discharged, he said. As the plasma was screened, it could be given to even patients with co-morbid conditions such as kidney ailments and diabetes. Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, said plasma must be administered at an early stage, before the patient developed antibodies. Doctors said six persons had so far donated their plasma to the bank at the hospital. The plasma from one persons could be used on two patients. COVID-19 patients could donate plasma after 14 days from recovery.
22 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||NEET: TN topper wants to be a cardiologist||“I consider this a huge achievement”, said R. Srijan who got the top rank in Tamil Nadu in NEET and the eighth at the All-India level, scoring 710 marks out of 720. He has also got the first rank at the national level in the OBC category. Mr. Srijan hails from Vellakovil in Tiruppur and underwent coaching for the test in Namakkal. Mr .Srijan said this was his second attempt and his school, Green Park, and parents were of great support to him. “I would like to join JIPMER in Puducherry and specialise in cardiology”, he said. During the COVID-19 lockdown, he prepared for 10-12 hours a day and the centre that coached him arranged various motivational sessions online. He went through the NCERT syllabus thoroughly while preparing for the test. Mohanaprabha Ravichandran, a native of Namakkal who scored 705 marks, told presspersons she wanted to join All India Institute of Medical Sciences and specialise in neurology.
22 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Case registered||The Namakkal district police has registered a case against four persons for allegedly conducting the funeral of a youth, who committed suicide. The police were reportedly not informed about the incident. According to the police, P. Kathirvel (18), was found hanging in his room at the house near Ayilpatti on October 12. The family, later, conducted his funeral near their residence.
22 October 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Convene all-party meet on reservation issue: CPI||The State government should immediately convene an all-party meeting on the reservation issue for OBCs in medical colleges and a delegation from Tamil Nadu should meet the Prime Minister, said CPI state secretary R. Mutharasan here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the affidavit filed by the Centre in the Supreme Court in this connection exposed the BJP’s stand against the OBCs. Already, the party had shown its true colours against the minorities. Now, they were keen to eliminate the role of OBCs in the administration, he claimed. The State government had passed a resolution to accord 7.5 % reservation for the government school students in the medical seats. However, the Governor was sitting on it without giving his consent. This too was highly condemnable, Mr. Mutharasan charged and demanded Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to act swiftly. Though the foodgrain output was higher in T.N. this season, the government should open direct purchase centres. Failure or delay may force the farmers to sell their produce to the private merchants for a song, the CPI leader said. Taking a dig at the style of functioning of Anna University Vice-Chancellor Surappa, he demanded stern action. The farm acts passed in the Parliament in a hurried manner only reflected the BJP's hidden agenda. It was misleading the farmers that it would be a boon, but actually, the Act would be a bane to the poor ryots. The BJP was interested only in protecting the interests of some corporate houses, he said. The BJP had made tall claims on the GST regime. However, the Finance Minister had given two plans to the States, to borrow funds. The CPI's stand on the GST had been vindicated now, Mr. Mutharasan said and added that the BJP was giving false representations in every sphere, which was dangerous to the nation's secular fabric. The DMK front in TN, no doubt, would sweep the polls next May, he said and added that the allies were clear about their policies. Former CPI MLA Gunasekaran, district secretary Kannagi were also present.
22 October 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Minister holds talks with Zoho||Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar held comprehensive discussion with the top officials of Zoho Corporation, a Chennai-headquartered software development company having its office near here, on expanding its operations in Tenkasi to give employment to rural youths. Chief Executive Officer of Zoho Corporation Sridhar Vembu participated in the discussion along with his senior colleagues. Apart from Mr. Udhayakumar, Minister for Adi Dravid Welfare V. M. Rajalakshmi, Additional Chief Secretary, Hansraj Varma, Collectors G. K. Arun Sundar Thayalan of Tenkasi and T. G. Vinay of Madurai, MLAs Selva Mohandas Pandian of Tenkasi, A. Manoharan of Vasudevanallur (Reserved) and Saravanan of Madurai South participated in the meeting. Zoho Corporation has already established its office at Maththalampaarai – Zoho Technologies Private Limited - near Old Courtallam. Emerging from the meeting, Mr. Udhayakumar said the meeting with the top-brass of Zoho Corporation was conducted as the Chief Minister was keen on taking the software development firms to the rural areas in a bid to give employment to qualified rural youth after technically equipping them. “While the migration of software technocrats to major cities in search of employment often leads to the change in their culture, the presence of these industries in the rural areas will conserve our culture intact. Moreover, the rural youth will get employment with decent salary in their places itself. Hence, we’re keen on ensuring more employment opportunities in the software industries by bringing these firms to the rural Tamil Nadu,” said Mr. Udhayakumar. On the site to be selected for the construction of Tenkasi Collectorate, the Minister said it would come up at a place which would be easily accessible for the public from all parts of Tenkasi district. As the site selected at Aayiraperi triggered widespread objection from people from all walks of life, an inspection was done by Commissioner for Revenue Administration who has submitted his report to the government on selecting the site, the Minister added.
22 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Raising vegetables, cash crops will erase delta’s identity: ryots||The Horticulture department’s initiatives to promote cultivation of vegetables in the delta region seem to have sown seeds of apprehension among a section of farmers that the region might gradually lose its identity as the granary of South India. Already coconut and other cash crop cultivation have become the major agricultural activity in certain parts of coastal belts of delta districts for decades, including the areas served by the Grand Anicut Canal irrigation system. Now, the Horticulture department has announced that incentives and other financial assistance will be extended to farmers if they switch over to vegetable cultivation instead of going in for the traditional crop – paddy, irrespective of whether the area comes under ‘Old Cauvery Delta’ or ‘extended Cauvery Delta.’ Apart from fixing the extent of the area to be brought under vegetable cultivation for the current crop season, it had also announced that a sizeable amount would be disbursed as the cost towards the cultivation of vegetables if the farmers prefer to take up the cultivation as a group activity. Regretting that such measures would only weaken the stand of Tamil Nadu in sharing of Cauvery Water for irrigation, P. Sugumaran, joint secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, said already Karnataka, the upper riparian State, had made it a practice to treat Tamil Nadu, the lower riparian State, as a drain whenever it gets copious rain in its catchment areas. On other occasions, it never releases the legitimate share of water into the Cauvery river of Tamil Nadu citing various reasons. Such being the case, if the Horticulture department succeeds in its endeavour to lure the Cauvery delta farmers towards vegetable cultivation, Karnataka would definitely grab the opportunity and refuse to honour the Supreme Court order by claiming that the Cauvery delta farmers were not suffering, Mr.Sugumaran said. Given the uncertainty over availability of sufficient storage at Stanley reservoir experienced by the farmers in the recent past and this year, he observed that the chances of farmers moving towards vegetable cultivation in the near future could not be ruled out totally. “In order to retain the identity of the Cauvery Delta as the granary, the officials should chalk out their plans in such a manner that paddy cultivation remains the main activity in the ‘Old Cauvery Delta’ area,” said S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. He suggested that such schemes could be promoted among farmers in the new Delta areas as the soil in those areas were more suitable for cash crop cultivation.
22 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Only online renewal of licences for industries||Renewal of licence for industries in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts must be done online, said R. Siddharthan, Joint Director, Industrial Safety and Health, Thanjavur. In a press release, he said it must be made on the site, https://dish.tn.gov.in, before October 31. The renewal certificate would be generated online. Regarding registration of new units, correction or change in ownership, application for certificates under Contract Labour or Migrant Labour Acts, such applications should be made online and three copies forwarded to the office of the Industrial Safety and Health for scrutiny and issuance of certificates, he added.
22 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested||A couple was arrested by the Papanadu police on charges of attacking the Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Pattukottai. According to the police, the couple - Balamurugan and Udhayabanu of Thondarampattu hamlet - attacked Pattukottai AWPS Inspector Kanniga when she urged the couple to hand over an infant delivered by the couple’s daughter Prathiksha on Friday, in view of a court order. On receiving the information, the Papanadu police rushed to the spot and arrested the couple for attacking the Inspector.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Advanced TB culture testing lab being set up in medical college||A state-of-the-art liquid tuberculosis culture testing facility is being readied at the Department of Microbiology at K.A.P Viswanatham Government Medical College. Being set up at a cost of Rs. 1.2 crore from the National Health Mission, the laboratory will help screen drug-resistant TB patients, and prevent spread of the infection, doctors said. While a lab at the medical college has been conducting solid culture tests for tuberculosis, with the new facility, set up in a bio-safety chamber constructed solely for this purpose, the technicians will be able to process tests for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis patients who were being referred to Chennai so far. As many as 960 samples, in a liquid medium, can be tested in one go as a Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Tube (MGIT) machine has been set up at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh. “This is the gold standard in TB testing. A collected sample is introduced to a liquid medium and if bacteria is present, it will consume oxygen in the liquid and grow. This is the basic principle through which the test is done,” K. Lakshmi, Head, in charge, Department of Microbiology, told The Hindu . To test for drug-resistant TB, at this stage, first-line drugs, which are the first prescribed medicines given to patients diagnosed with the infection is introduced. “In some patients, when these medicines are consumed for over six months, the body tends to become resistant to it. For them, despite treatment, the rate of recovery is slow,” she said. When the bacteria in the liquid medium continues to grow even after the drug is introduced, it indicates that it is drug-resistant TB. Following confirmatory tests, the patient from whom the sample was lifted will be treated accordingly. Test results are uploaded to Nikshay, a unified portal for TB patient management in the country. 960 samples As many as 960 samples can be processed in one go and results for positives can be acquired within a week. “TB is a slow-growing bacterium. Until recently, cultures were looked at individually under a microscope through an acid-fast bacteria test at various District Microscopy Centres. However, it only had a 60% accuracy rate. With the new facility, it will be near perfect,” Dr. Lakshmi said. The entire facility, equipped with three individual bio chambers, is a fully bio-safe lab with negative pressure to ensure the droplet does not affect the technicians. It has other control measures, including a disinfectant shower. “Patients can be diagnosed quickly and treatment started to save lives,” she said. Seven technicians - four will be recruited under National Health Mission, will soon join the team led by S. Vanathi, Assistant Professor, Department of Microbiology. Dr. Vanathi underwent special training to lead the team. “We are collecting 100 samples to run a quality control test. Once the test is completed, we will begin testing,” Dr. Lakshmi said. The facility is expected to be inaugurated by the Chief Minister soon.
22 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Omni buses are back; but only a few on road||Only around 20% of omni buses started plying from Tiruchi on Friday. While some operators claimed that there was poor demand, many others said they were awaiting a government decision on their plea to waive road tax for April-September period in view of the suspension of bus services due to the pandemic. A few buses to Chennai and Madurai left from the Omni Bus Stand which had seen no passenger footfall since the lockdown was imposed as a preventive measure against COVID-19. “We have made announcements in the media about resumption of bus services, the passengers will come. We expect total resumption by upcoming Navaratri season,” said R. Balakrishnan, president, Tiruchi Omni Bus Operators Association. While footfall was low, many queries and bookings had been made, he said. For buses which did ply, only 60% occupancy was allowed as per the Standard Operating Procedures. Sanitisers were to be made available, while bus operators must ensure that passengers wear face masks throughout the duration of the trip. “Buses are sanitised before and after a trip. Pillows and light blankets will not be given. Passengers can bring their own, if necessary. Curtains and blinds have been removed,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. However, a section of bus operators said that they would not start operations till the pending road tax was waived off. “The road tax comes up to Rs. 4 lakh per bus. We cannot afford to pay it as we were out of business for over half-a-year. We hope the government decides to waive it off soon,” said Abdul Sathar of Magic Travels.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||414 fresh cases of COVID-19 in central region||Central districts recorded 414 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, marking a continuation of the declining trend over the last few days. Seven deaths - three in Tiruchi and two each in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur - were recorded. A 50-year-old woman suffering from hypothyroidism, a 65-year-old man suffering from coronary artery disease and a 90-year-old man suffering from bronchial asthma succumbed to COVID-19 in Tiruchi. In Thanjavur, an 80-year-old man suffering from hypertension was one of the two people who died of the infection while in Nagapattinam, a 65-year-old and a 68-year-old woman succumbed to the disease. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases in the central region with 98 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Tiruchi recorded 80 cases, many of who hailed from existing containment zones, some frontline workers and primary contacts. The patients have been admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Tiruvarur recorded 76 fresh cases while Nagapattinam recorded 64 new patients. The cases were primary contacts of patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Pudukottai recorded a sharp drop in cases with 39 patients testing positive. Among them were local index cases with no history of travel or contact. Meanwhile, in Karur, residents from Gandhigramam, Narasimhapuram, and Kulithalai were among the 34 who tested positive on Friday. In Ariyalur, 16 patients - three from Ariyalur town, four from Thirumanur, two each from T. Palur and Andimadam, one from Sendurai and two from Jayankondam - tested positive for the viral infection. One inter-district traveller also tested positive. Perambalur recorded seven new COVID-19 cases - three from Perambalur town, two from Veppanthattai, one from Veppur and one from Alathur blocks. The total number of cases in the district stands at 1,932.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run of electric locomotive conducted on Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur line||With overhead electrification works in the last portion of the mainline section from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur junction fully completed, officials of the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited and Tiruchi division conducted a trial run of an electric locomotive on the 68-km energised stretch on Friday. The trial run was done successfully from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur in the evening after obtaining approval from the Electrical Inspector to the Government of India for charging the section, a senior official of the RVNL told The Hindu on Friday. The RVNL, a Government of India enterprise, was entrusted with the task of electrifying the 228-km mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam and the project was completed in phases - Villupuram to Cuddalore, Cuddalore to Mayiladuthurai via Chidambaram, and Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur. Although the last phase suffered a setback when the lockdown was clamped in late March due to COVID-19 pandemic, the works have resumed and have gained momentum since July, because of relaxations announced by the State government with the RVNL overcoming labour shortage for execution of the remaining works. With the final phase having been completed and trial run conducted successfully from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur, the stage is now set for mandatory inspection of the energised stretch by the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru. The entire mainline section, one of the major stretches under the vast jurisdiction of Tiruchi railway division, has become fully energised now. After obtaining statutory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety after the mandatory inspection, electric loco hauled passenger trains will be operated on the Thanjavur-Mayiladuthurai stretch. Statutory clearances have already been obtained for Villupuram-Mayiladuthurai stretch for operation of electric locomotive-hauled passenger and freight trains. As part of the project, the RVNL has constructed two traction substations: one at Cuddalore and the other at Thanjavur. Both traction substations have been commissioned. A new traction substation will also be commissioned at Mayiladuthurai. The entire overhead electrification project has been executed at an estimated cost of Rs. 300 crore.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New terminal to be ready by March 2022||The new integrated passenger terminal under construction at Tiruchi international airport will be ready by March 2022 with more than 40 % of the construction work having been completed, according to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The new terminal is being built to reduce congestion at the airport. The Airports Authority of India has undertaken the expansion work, which includes construction of a new integrated passenger terminal building, a new apron, an air traffic control tower and upgradation of airside facilities. The existing terminal has exhausted its design capacity, an AAI release said. The new terminal, being built at a cost of Rs. 951.28 crore, has been designed to handle 2,900 passengers during peak hours. It will have 48 check-in counters and 10 boarding bridges. With an area of 75,000 square metres, the new terminal is being designed as an iconic structure with a majestic-look roof. The interiors will reflect the colours and culture of the city.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the new terminal on February 10, 2019 through video conferencing from Tirupur.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||105 Amma mobile ration shops for Tiruchi district||Tiruchi district has been allotted 105 Amma mobile ration shops and all but one of them have been deployed in rural areas, Collector S.Sivarasu has said. The mobile shops would deliver ration commodities to 15,744 card holders at their doorstep, he said. Fortified rice was being supplied to card holders through all the 1,225 ration shops in the district. Fortified rice, which would help prevent anaemia, was being mixed with regular rice and supplied to card holders. One kg of fortified rice was mixed with every 100 kg of regular rice, he said. Referring to distribution of free face masks, Mr. Sivarasu said 51.64 lakh reusable masks had been supplied to 25.82 lakh family members listed in 8.14 ration cards in the district. Twenty-eight Amma cooperative mini super markets were also functioning in the district, he said in a press release issued here on Friday.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme for Child Welfare Police Officers conducted||A one-day orientation programme on Juvenile Justice System for Child Welfare Police Officers serving in Tiruchi Rural and Tiruchi City was held here on Friday. The main provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, ways to psychologically handle minor victims and the duties and responsibilities of Child Welfare Police Officers were discussed, said Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H.M. Jayaram. He said a Child Welfare Police Officer had been nominated in every police station to attend to child-related issues. Resource persons were invited for the interactive session with the participants. Child Welfare Police Officers were being sensitised on a gamut of aspects periodically so that they could refresh on their role, duties and responsibilities, he said. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya, Superintendent of Police T. Jayachandran and Superintendent of Police-II, Crime Against Women and Children, Chennai, A. Kayalvizhi took part. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the programme, Mr. Jayaram said Child Welfare Police Officers’ role was to keep a tab on issues relating to crimes against children and create awareness at places where the offences had occurred.
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Navarathri Utsav||Bharatiya Viyda Bhavan, Tiruchi Kendra, in association with the National College and Infosys Foundation, will host a week-long Navarathri Utsav over virtual platform, starting Saturday. The events will be available live athttps://www.youtube.com/ channel/UCjHM8iSxEsj RP1fTDjabicgat 6 p.m. The event will start with a vocal concert by Kamakoti Sisters Jayamathangi -Jayabargavi and party on Saturday, vocal concert by R. Aadtiya Rangan and party on Sunday; a flute concert by M.Anirudh and party on Monday; namasankeerthanam by Smarane Sukham team on Tuesday; veena concert by N. Akhilandeshwari on Wednesday; bharathanatyam by students of Revathi Muthuswamy of Srirangam Bharatanatyalaya on Thursday; vocal concerts by K. Ramesh and party on Friday; and R. Kashyap Mahesh and party on Saturday; and Natya Samarpanam by students of Vrinda Ramanan of Bala Kala Vidhanam on Sunday (October 25).
22 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 99.56 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 10,620 cusecs and the discharge 14,001 cusecs.
22 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli stares at 46% rain deficit||The district with an annual average rainfall of 814.80 mm had actually experienced only 267.98 mm rainfall between January and October this year which was 46% below the average, said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Saitsh here on Friday. She pointed out that during the period, the district should have actually received about 495 mm of rainfall. After a gap of six months, the farmers’ grievance redressal meet was conducted online due to COVID-19 pandemic. The reservoirs – Papanasam, Servalar, Manimuthar, Vadakku Pachchaiyar, Kodumudiyar and Nambiyar – had only about 42.60% water (5,500.13 million cubic feet against the total 12,882 mcft), which was 34.20% in the corresponding period last year. The district, which would get an average rainfall of 166 mm in October (it was 261.11 mm in 2019), has so far received only 20.28 mm rainfall. Of the 740 system tanks in the district, 695 tanks are bone-dry and all 550 rain-fed tanks are also dry. Only five of the 740 system tanks have water, sufficient for irrigation for two months. Though, the southwest monsoon had failed to bring much rain, farmers had raised paddy on 5,082 hectare, cereals on 249 ha, grams on 921 ha, cotton on 636 ha, sugarcane on 33 ha and oilseeds on 273 ha, with the water available in dams and from wells in rain-fed areas. Anticipating normal rainfall during the northeast monsoon this year, certified seeds, chemical fertilizers, bio-fertilizers, pesticides etc. had been stocked adequately and periodic checking was being conducted in the shops of the authorised dealers dealing with these agro inputs to check the quality of these products. Due actions were also being taken against traders dealing with substandard agro inputs. When inspections revealed the sale of substandard seeds in three shops, the sale ban was imposed on 1.62 tonnes of seeds, worth about Rs. 1.60 lakh. Under the Central assistance, 100% subsidy was being given to small and marginal farmers practising micro irrigation techniques while this grant was 75% for other agriculturists. As the district had received Rs. 10.68 crore during this fiscal under this component for installing micro irrigation systems in 2,500 hectare, the farmers should make use of it to irrigate their crops such as groundnut, coconut, oil palm, cotton etc., Ms. Shilpa said. Farmers who want to avail the grant for installing micro irrigation gadgets should upload the Aadhar card, ‘adangal’, map, computer ‘chitta’ inwww.tnhorticulture.tn.gov.in/ horti/mimis. When the farmers said there was demand for urea in several parts of the district, the Collector assured that the chemical nutrient would be available on time as the district had started receiving its share of urea. The farmers also appealed to take steps for ensuring early disbursal of crop insurance benefits for 2016-17 even though they had paid the premium before the deadline. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Joint Director of Agriculture Gajendra Pandian and other senior officials participated in the online grievance redressal meet.
22 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Vijay Sethupathi should respect popular sentiments: Minister||Without asking actor Vijay Sethupathi openly not to accept his upcoming project ‘800’, the biopic on legendary Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah Muralitharan, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju said it would be good for the actor’s career and future if he respects the popular sentiments of the people from various walks of life regarding acting in the movie. Answering a question in this connection at Kovilpatti on Friday, Mr. Raju said the actor, considering his career and his future and also the popular sentiments of the people, should take a right decision.“Though the actor, as an individual, has the right to decide on taking up a new project or not, he should also think about the popular sentiments of the people,” Mr. Raju said. When asked if the government will make an appeal to the actor in this connection, Mr. Raju said: “I am the Minister associated with the film industry and hence my opinion is only that of the government’s”. On the possible reopening of cinema halls, the Minister said the Chief Minister would take a decision in this connection within a week after discussing issues like ensuring physical distancing inside the theatre and disinfecting the entire premises after the end of every show.
22 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Thatchanallur and Melapalayam zones to get SCADA system||The Corporation, in a bid to improve its existing drinking water supply system to the residents, has proposed to install SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system in Thatchanallur and Melapalayam zones on an outlay of Rs. 24.30 crore under the ongoing Centre-funded Smart City programme. The proposed system would control distribution of drinking water from head works and service reservoirs to residents of Thatchanallur and Melapalayam zones even as this system is already in use in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai zones. The recently held meeting of the Board of Directors of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited with K. Bhaskaran, Chairman, approved these two projects. While Rs. 12.01 crore has been earmarked for the project meant for Thatchanallur Zone, Rs. 12.29 crore will be spent for Melapalayam Zone. As all the four zones will get the SCADA system, an ‘Integrated Command and Control System’ will be established in the central office at a cost of Rs. 12.50 crore for integrating all the four SCADA systems. “Apart from using this integrated system for controlling the four SCADA systems, it can be used for conserving energy in all corporation offices, street lights and used as a ‘war room’ during natural disasters and pandemic to evolve and execute strategies in the city within short notice,” said V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited. Dr. Nair said several north Indian States, which have created this Integrated Command and Control System, are using it for their anti-COVID-19 operations very effectively. The board granted its nod for the construction of a shopping mall near the Palayamkottai bus stand at an estimated cost of Rs. 11.73 crore and a multi-level car parking near the Palayamkottai bus stand at a cost of Rs. 12.82 crore even as the Palayamkottai bus terminus is under reconstruction. “Since the quarters of the senior corporation officials and the bungalow of Deputy Mayor were very old, all these old structures have been demolished to give way for the shopping mall and the multi-level car parking,” he said. Of the 2.40 acre in this area, the Palayamkottai bus-stand is on 1.10 acre and the quarters and the Deputy Mayor bungalow are situated on the remaining 1.30 acre. Hence, the 1.30 acre will be used for the shopping mall and the multi-level car parking. “Within the shopping mall we are planning to have an exclusive zone for shops selling branded products and the other zone will be utilised for common purpose,” Dr. Nair said.  On the anvil  A shopping mall near the Palayamkottai bus stand at an estimated cost of Rs. 11.73 crore An exclusive zone for shops selling branded products A multi-level car parking near the Palayamkottai bus-stand at a cost of Rs. 12.82 crore  Old quarters of corporation officials and Deputy Mayor’s bungalow will be demolished
22 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five held for extortion attempt, robbery near Avinashi||The Perumanallur police arrested a gang of five members, including a woman, for allegedly robbing two men of gold chain and cash and trying to extort money from them near Avinashi in Tiruppur district on Thursday. Police said that the complainant, Natarayan (56), owns a power loom unit in Vellakoil. His relative Kumar received a call from Kavitha aka Vennila (26), who invited them for a business deal involving purchase of bedsheets in bulk. Due to persistent calls, Natarayan and Kumar obliged and visited Kavitha’s residence in Perumanallur on Tuesday. The woman, along with four other men, locked the two inside a room. They stole Natarayan’s gold chain worth around Rs. 60,000 and Kumar’s smart phone and cash worth Rs. 3,000. Following this, the gang forced the two men to strip down to their underwear and made them stand next to the woman for a photograph. They gang demanded Rs. 3 lakh from the two, failing which the they threatened to upload the pictures on social media platforms, the police said. The two men were locked for four hours in the house. After being allowed to leave around 11 p.m., Natarayan lodged a complaint at the Perumanallur police station. The police registered a case under Sections 342 (Wrongful confinement), 385 (Putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 397 (Robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. On Thursday, the police arrested Kavitha along with Isakkipandi (30), Isakkimuthu (27), Jebaraj (24) and Chinnadurai (29). Investigations revealed that the accused had similar cases against them in Tirunelveli district and the woman was from Karnataka. The police also seized weapons from the residence where the incident took place. The five accused were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.
22 October 2020||Tiruppur/ Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for posting defamatory messages against Tiruppur South MLA||The Tiruppur South police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of posting defamatory messages on social media platforms against Tiruppur South MLA S. Gunasekaran. Police said that Arun Vijayaraja (25) and Anandakrishnan (32) were arrested in connection with their social media posts on the cost of projects inaugurated by the MLA. Vijayaraja was a member of the DMK IT Wing, according to the police. Cases have been registered against 11 persons based on complaints from AIADMK members, out of which two have been arrested. The case was registered under Sections 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (1) (b) (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of the Information Technology Act. The two accused were remanded in judicial custody on Friday and efforts are on to arrest the remaining persons, the police said. Man held for cheating The City Crime Branch (CCB) police arrested a man on Friday on charges of cheating a woman of nearly Rs. 62 lakh. Police sources said that K. Kathiresan (64), who runs a fuel station in Kumarapalayam, took money from a woman named Muthukani in Ganapathy for a land deal. However, Kathiresan and his wife did not begin the land registration process, according to the sources. Based on Muthukani’s complaint in November 2019, the CCB registered a case and arrested the accused on Friday. Investigations revealed that the accused and his wife had colluded with another couple, who owned the land previously, to cheat the woman. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining three, sources said.
22 October 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Biometric authentication suspended||Biometric authentication system for supply of commodities at ration shops will remain suspended temporarily in view of difficulties faced by the people, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Talking to reporters here on Friday, the Minister said that implementation of biometric system faced some glitches in some rural pockets. Due to this, the family cardholders found it difficult to draw their ration commodities. Hence, it was decided to distribute the ration through the old system of using smart cards, he added that when the smart cards were introduced similar problems cropped up during the initial days of implementation.
22 October 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized at DPC||About 150 gunny bags containing paddy were seized from a lorry at a direct purchase centre at Kannarapettai hamlet near Mannargudi on Thursday. According to official sources, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption personnel received complaints that DPC staff were demanding Rs. 40 per bag from farmers for weighing the paddy. Thus a team of DVAC officials from Tiruvarur landed at the Kannarapettai DPC on Thursday evening where they seized unaccounted money of Rs. 32,000 from the DPC staff and Rs. 50,000 from the lorry parked on the premises. Further, 150 gunny bags of paddy stacked on the lorry was also seized by the DVAC personnel since they were not able to locate any documents relating to the paddy bags loaded in the vehicle. As the initial investigations revealed that the paddy bags were transported to Kannarapettai DPC from a TNCSC open-air stockyard in Tiruvarur district, the officials concerned were alerted by the DVAC personnel. When this issue was brought to the notice of Food Minister R. Kamaraj at the Collectorate where he had distributed two-wheelers to the beneficiaries of Amma Scooter scheme on Friday, the Minister said any complaints of malpractices in the procurement of paddy would be dealt with severely.
22 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Siblings miss exams as COVID-19 hits livelihood||S. Mukesh, a fourth-year engineering student and his younger sister, S. Vibheshini, a second-year medical imaging technology student, deftly paint the contours of a doll in their house in Sallavanpet, Vellore. Their family makes mud dolls. However, the usual joy is missing from their faces. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, they have not been able to pay their fees, and hence, were not able to sit for their semester exams this year. “I was not able to appear for the semester exams in August as I could not pay the fees. The college management asked me to take a loan and pay the fees, but my father, T. Senthil Kumar, has already borrowed [money] to purchase raw material for the dolls,” said Ms. Vibeshini. They now work with their father as most of the staff has left in search of other jobs. “We have been in this trade for the past five generations. We used to have 20 people to make dolls ... Every year, we made around 10,000 dolls, ranging from three inches to 3 ft, and sell them during Navaratri, Krishna Jayanthi and Vinayaka Chathurthi. But this year our business plummeted and I am not sure how we will even eat next year,” said Mr. Kumar. He said that though he is happy to see his children take part in the family trade, he is not happy to see them miss their examinations due to his inability to pay the fees. “I have no other option. My staff has left as I was not able to pay their wages. So my children are helping me now... But I want them to study well and settle in life,” he said. Ms. Vibeshini, however, says, “I used to make dolls and paint them when I was a child. So I am happy to help my father. I know things will turn around soon.”
22 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cartoonist held for Facebook post||The Villupuram town police, late on Thursday, arrested Surender alias Surender Kumar, 31, a cartoonist of T. Kumaramangalam near here, for posting a derogatory post against Muslims on his Facebook page and promoting enmity between religious groups. The cartoonist, who is known as Varma, was detained following a complaint lodged by Akbar Ali, district secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). Police said Surender had posted a derogatory post against Muslims on his Facebook account. The accused had allegedly circulated the messages. He has been arrested and remanded in custody.
22 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two women relieved of gold chains||Unidentified persons yanked a five sovereign gold from an elderly woman S. Velumani (58) on Aruppukottai road overbridge under Virudhunagar bazaar police station limits on Thursday morning. Police said the woman, a drawing teacher, had gone for a morning walk near Kamatchiamman temple when the pillionrider of a speeding motorbike pulled her gold chain and fled. In another incident, U. Avudaiyammal (70) of R.R .Nagar was relieved of her two sovereign gold chain by a trickster who promised to get her an additional Rs. 1,000 old age pension near Vachchakarapatti. Police said when the woman was waiting to buy ration goods, the accused broached a conversation. He took the woman to a secluded place on Thulukkapatti Road and took a photograph of the woman. Suddenly, he pulled her gold chain and fled the scene.
22 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Aadhar must to buy fertilizer’||The district administration has made it mandatory for farmers to produce their Aadhar card while buying fertilizer for the rabi crop In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said farmers should pay the price for the fertilizer mentioned on the bags and the payment should be made using the point of sale equipment. They need not pay anything more than the stipulated rate and they should get the receipt from the shops. Stating that the Centre was giving around Rs. 1,110 subsidy for each bag of 45 kg of urea, he said farmers should buy the required quantity of urea based on the area of cultivation. “Anyone buying urea disproportionate to the area of cultivation or the retail or wholesale merchants selling higher quantity of urea would be booked under Fertilizer Control Act 1985,” he said. Mr. Kannan said farmers should use only the quantity of fertilizer prescribed on the soil health card. Thereby, they can avoid using higher quantity and prevent hoarding, shortage and irregularities in supply. A total of 1,105 tonne of urea, 1,110 tonne of DAP, 893 tonne of MOP and 1,912 tonne of complex fertilizer have been kept at 21 wholesale shops, 134 retail shops, 184 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies to meet the requirement. If any wholesale fertilizer merchant was found to have sold the fertilizer outside the district or transferred the subsidy-linked fertilizer to retail sellers or created an artificial demand, he would be tried against under Fertilizer Control Act 1985 and Essential Commodities Act 1955, the Collector said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Active cases drop below 4,000-mark in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district saw its active COVID-19 cases drop below the 4,000-mark on Friday; it stood at 3,902 active cases after the discharge of 913 patients from various hospitals. The district saw 387 fresh cases that raised the tally so far to 39,102. It reported one death -- of a man aged 67, which raised the toll so far to 512. Tiruppur reported two COVID-19 deaths and 147 cases on Friday, taking the district’s overall tally of positive cases to 10,839. The death of two men, aged 74 and 60, raised the toll so far in the district to 164. Out of the total positive cases so far, 9,471 have recovered and 1,204 were active cases. On Friday, 229 patients were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery. Salem district reported 244 cases, with 218 of these being indigenous, including 162 in Salem Corporation limits. Twenty-six patients had returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Kalakuruchi and Coimbatore. A man aged 55 died of the disease. Namakkal district reported 132 cases, of whom 25 patients had returned from Tiruchendur, Erode, Tiruchi, Salem, Thoothukudi, Coimbatore, Chennai, Tiruppur, Dharmapuri and Karur and three from Karnataka. Erode district saw 138 new cases, raising the district’s tally to 8,904. While 55 persons were discharged, 1,094 are under treatment. The district reported five deaths and the toll stands at 111. Ninety-three persons tested positive in the Nilgiris, and the total number of cases so far in the district is 5,915. Totally, 685 persons are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri district recorded 63 fresh cases and Dharmapuri district 68 cases on Friday.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State to await decision on reservation||Therefore, a decision had to be taken with respect to the implementation of the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020, they said. Earlier, the court observed that the Bill was passed by the Assembly unanimously on September 15, after which it was sent to the Governor for his assent. However, it had been pending for one month without any decision being taken on it. If no decision was taken, fewer students would get admission and the interests of the government school students would be affected, the judges said. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions which sought a direction to the State to implement horizontal reservation for government school students as recommended by the Commission headed by retired High Court Judge P. Kalaiyarasan.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival season begins||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Beautification work||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A gang of four murdered a fish merchant in Tirupuvanam here on Wednesday night and surrendered before a court in Madurai on Friday. Police said that preliminary inquiries revealed that P. Ganesan (38) of Uchimahaliamman Koil Street, a fish merchant, had previous enmity with Dinesh Kumar (22) of the same area. It is suspected that Dinesh Kumar planned to eliminate Ganesan, who was sitting in his father’s fruit shop along with his wife. Along three others, Dinesh Kumar caught hold of Ganesan and murdered him. Meanwhile, an autorickshaw driver Vijayan (24) of MGR Nagar in Tirupuvanam, who was reported missing on Thursday, was found dead on Friday on the Vaigai river bed near Ladanendal. The body was identified by the family members. Preliminary probe suggested that Prakash (23) of Kothamangalam and four others, including Dinesh Kumar (who was alleged to have murdered the fish merchant Ganesan) may have murdered the autorickshaw driver over a wordy altercation. While the police arrested Prakash, Dinesh Kumar and his accomplices identified as Nitish Kumar (22), Saravanan (20) and Ahim Khan (21) surrendered before the JM VI court in Madurai. Police have registered two murder cases.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Mariamman Temple: Navarathri festival, abishekam, alangaram to Utsava Amman, 5 p.m.; devotees darshan and pujas at Vasantha Mandapam, 6 – 7 p.m.; reaching asthana mandapam, Samayapuram, 7.15 p.m.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Karnataka has not violated any law’||“Karnataka has not violated any law or rule. Goa’s allegations that we have violated Supreme Court orders on the Mahadayi river dispute are false. We are confident that its contentions in its contempt petition will not be accepted,” said Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi here on Friday. ‘False affidavit’ “They have submitted a false affidavit. They have alleged that we have broken the underground wall that stops the flow of water from the Mahadayi to the Kalasa and Bandori nalas. They have alleged that we have diverted the river and violated the SC orders. This is not true. We have not done anything like that. Goa’s lies will be exposed in the court,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. He said he would go to meet the Union Water Resources Minister and other Ministers for clearances for the Mekedatu project, after Dasara. “I wanted to go now, but Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi is in home quarantine. So I will go later,” he said. He said that the Congress leaders were making allegations against the government and the BJP only because they were desperate. “They have realised that they are going to lose the bypolls. They are making baseless allegations as they cannot face the BJP in the elections,” the BJP leader said. “Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has alleged that the Election Commission officials are acting under the influence of the ruling BJP, while registering cases against Congress candidate. The BJP has nothing to do with it. The Election Commission is an independent body and acts against all alleged poll irregularities. I would like to remind Congress leaders that the commission also filed a case against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during the Gokak bypolls,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. He reiterated that the District Central Cooperative Bank polls will not be fought on political or caste issues. “Candidates will be from cooperative societies and will not fight from any particular party. I have been involved in the DCC Bank politics for many years. I have decided that I will accept the candidates chosen by cooperative leaders Umesh Katti and Balachandra Jarkiholi,” he added.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ensure there are no errors in estimating damage: Jarkiholi||Belagavi in charge Ramesh Jarkiholi asked officials to ensure that there were no errors in the estimation of loss or distribution of compensation for those who suffered losses in the rain and floods. He warned officers that he would not tolerate negligence or dereliction of duty. He was speaking at a meeting on Friday to review the situation caused by heavy rains in Maharashtra and Belagavi. “Officers tell me that the release from Maharashtra has not crossed 65,000 cuses on Friday. They caution that a flood-like situation may arise only if the release crosses 2.3 lakh cusecs. However, officers have to be vigilant about the situation at all times,” he said. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said there was no significant damage from the October rains. “One person died, six cattle were washed away, and crops on 35,000 hectares have been destroyed. The State government has approved release of crop loss relief to farmers,” he said.
22 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Elections to committees||Elections to the standing committees in the Belagavi Zilla Panchayat were held with COVID-19 protocols in Belagavi on Friday. ZP president Asha Aiholi was elected president of the finance committee, vice-president Arun Katambale was elected to head the general committee, and Siddappa Mudkannavar was chosen for the education and health committee. The election of presidents and members was unanimous.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. credits Rs. 36.57 cr. input subsidy to flood-hit farmers||To provide relief to farmers who have lost crops in floods, the State government credited Rs. 36.57 crore into 51,810 accounts of farmers as input subsidy on Friday. The amount was transferred to the accounts online. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a videoconference with the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and the Chief Executive Officers of zilla panchayats of 12 districts to take stock of the flood situation in Kalyana Karnataka districts. The Chief Minister instructed the DCs to take all steps on a war footing to save lives and properties of the people affected by floods. A sum of Rs. 85.49 crore has been released for undertaking emergency measures in the flood-affected districts. Owing to cyclone in the Bay of Bengal,Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir, Ballari, Raichur, Bagalkot, Davangere, Koppal, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Udupi, Vijayapura, and Belagavi districts have received widespread rain, resulting in inundation of low- lying areas and loss of standing kharif crops, according to a press release from the Chief Minister’s Office. The Chief Minister directed the DCs to shift villagers to safe places and ensure supply of food. He told them to follow COVID-19 norms in relief centres while accommodating people. The district administration has been instructed to provide masks and arrange facilities for doctors to visit. A total of 12 NDRF teams have been deployed in Kalyana Karnataka region for ensuring safety of flood-affected people. A total of 14 boats have been deployed in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. Mr. Yediyurappa told officials to take into confidence various NGOs while undertaking relief works in their districts.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Old rivalry back to the fore as HDK and DKS shadowbox||The outcome of the byelections in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies may not be crucial to the stability of the BJP government in Karnataka, but it is being keenly watched for the tussle under way for the Vokkaliga leadership. Both constituencies having sizeable Vokkaliga votes has resulted in a kind of shadowboxing between former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar. Interestingly, neither has been taking each other’s name so far in their fight to grab Vokkaliga eyeballs. The two families, which have had a long history of turf battle, had come together when the Congress-JD(S) coalition government was formed. But the old rivalry is back now, after the fall of that government. Old-timers will recall the historic 2004 electoral battle in which Tejaswini Gowda (then with the Congress and now with the BJP), backed by Mr. Shivakumar, defeated H.D. Deve Gowda of the JD(S). This byelection is the first electoral outing for Mr. Shivakumar as KPCC chief, and he and his brother D.K Suresh, MP, are out to prove their mettle, especially in the R.R. Nagar seat that the Congress held earlier. R.R. Nagar is also part of the Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha constituency that Mr. Suresh represents. On Friday, Mr. Shivakumar met Kannada Rakshna Vedike president Narayan Gowda, who has an influence in Vokkaliga pockets. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy, meanwhile, has to at least retain the Sira seat.  Migrating leaders The precipitating factor for the public exchange between the two leaders, JD(S) sources said, was Mr. Kumaraswamy’s anger at Mr. Shivakumar’s move to poach their local Vokkaliga leaders. In Sira, JD(S) leader Kalkere Ravi, husband of Tumakuru Zilla Panchayat president Latha Ravi, has joined the Congress along with few others. JD(S) leaders claim that Mr. Ravi moved because the Congress, which partners with the JD(S) in the ZP, planned to move a no-confidence motion against his wife. In R.R Nagar, a few JD(S) leaders, including the locally influential Bettaswamy, have moved to the Congress. But, playing down these migrations, Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “I am not rattled by a few people leaving the party. That is common during elections. The party’s base will not be eroded.” He went on to attackMr. Shivakumar, but without taking his name. The larger issue at play appears to be that the JD(S), which draws its support from among the Vokkaligas in Old Mysore, is feeling the heat as Mr. Shivakumar is trying to cut into the party by making a covert caste pitch. However, Mr. Shivakumar has been careful not to be upfront and antagonistic on the matter. So far, he has not attacked JD(S) leaders publicly, and has said that he does not do politics based on caste. “It is natural during elections for parties to attract those who believe in the party ideology and leadership,” he said.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||23 districts face big crop losses owing to heavy rain this month||Excess rain from October 1 to 15 has caused havoc in the State, leading to loss of agricultural crops on 2.3 lakh hectares and horticultural crop loss on 24,822 hectares in 23 districts. The actual crop loss would be much more as officials are yet to take up assessment in some Kalyana Karnataka districts such as Kalaburagi, Bidar, and Ballari where the rain has caused extensive damage. Displaced and dead A total of 7,776 people have been shifted to 54 relief camps as of October 15, while rain-related incidents have claimed the lives of 10 people. The State as a whole received 110 mm of rainfall from October 1 to 15 as against the normal 80 mm, an excess of 38%. From October 10 to 15, the State received 88 mm of rainfall as against the normal 26 mm, an excess of 238%, according to Manoj Rajan, Commissioner of the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. During monsoon, from June 1 to September 30, the State received 991 mm of rainfall as against the normal 852 mm, an excess of 16%. Of the 122 days of monsoon, the State received rain on 50 days, the second highest in the last 60 years. The highest was in 2010 in the last 60 years.  Reservoirs full Owing to heavy rain, the electricity generating reservoirs (Linganamakki, Varahi, and Supa) have storage of 285.82 tmcft of water as against the capacity of 328.18 tmcft. The Cauvery basin reservoirs (Harangi, Hemavati, KRS, and Kabini) have 112.14 tmcft of water as against the storage capacity of 114.57 tmcft. The Krishna basin reservoirs (Bhadra, Tungabhadra, Ghatapraba, Malaprabha, Almatti, and Narayanapura) have storage of 411.59 tmcft as against the capacity of 417.52 tmcft. All reservoirs in the State had storage of 809.55 tmcft of water as against the capacity of 860.27 tmcft as of October 15.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police probing Mangaluru underworld connection in murder of bar owner||The murder of bar owner Manish alias Sarvottam Shetty, 41, who was shot and then hacked to death by assailants off Brigade Road on Thursday night, seems to have been the fallout of gang rivalries within the Mangaluru underworld, the police probe has revealed. “The murder has all the hallmarks of an underworld hit job. The assailants dropped their weapons and abandoned their bike before fleeing from the scene,” a senior officer said. The police have recovered the bike and two firearms used for the murder. “We have high-quality CCTV footage of the crime scene,” the officer said. Underworld operative Vicky Shetty, who hails from Mangaluru and is now believed to be based in Dubai in the UAE, reportedly called up a Kannada news channel to own up to the murder. “We have information that Vicky made an internet call to a channel and claimed to have carried out the hit to settle an old rivalry. We are verifying these claim, and also whether the caller was really Vicky,” a senior police officer said. Manish, who is from Koppa in Chikkamagaluru district, was named in over 12 cases, including murder and robbery. He was known to be close to another underworld operative from the coast, Bannanje Raja, who was recently arrested by the State police. Manish was a partner in Duet Bar on Rest House Road. Preliminary investigations indicated that he was killed as revenge for the murder of a businessman, Kishan Hegde, police sources said. Hegde was killed on September 24 in Hiriyadka, Udupi district. “Kishan was killed over a monetary dispute, and the murder was allegedly financed by Manish,” a senior official probing the case said. However, the Udupi police’s investigation had neither uncovered underworld links to Kishan nor Manish’s role in his murder. “But, these are the leads we have picked up. These need to be verified,” the officer said. The city police are close to identifying the assailants, sources said. “We have information that three assailants were involved. They seem to be underworld operatives from the coastal region,” sources said. Murder raises concern The shootout in the heart of the city, off Brigade Road, has raised concerns in the police establishment about the growing brazenness of the underworld. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said such activities will not be tolerated and stringent action will be taken. Another senior official pointed out that Bannanje Raja and Ravi Pujari, who were hiding abroad, have recently been brought to India and it was time the city police concentrated their efforts on Vicky Shetty. “The recent global economic crisis due to the pandemic has led to monetary disputes in the underworld. The murders of Kishan Hegde and Manish seem to be a fallout of one such dispute,” said the official.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rejected govt.’s request for putting off gram panchayat elections, SEC tells HC||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that it had rejected the State government’s request to postpone the forthcoming elections to 5,800 gram panchayats (GPs) in view of COVID-19. In a statement submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi, the SEC said that it had told the government that it was necessary to conduct the elections to the gram panchayats as per the constitutional provisions, and postponement of the elections would impact the forthcoming polls to be held to zilla and taluk panchayats early next year. The SEC, in its letter to the government, has cited the elections being held to the graduates and teachers constituencies of the Legislative Council besides the byelections being held to the two Legislative Assembly constituencies. Stating that the Assembly elections are being conducted in Bihar by the Election Commission of India by formulating a standard operating procedure (SOP), the SEC has also told the government that a special SOP has been notified for holding elections to the GPs. Making its stand clear that the SEC will go ahead with its plan of holding the elections to GPs, counsel for the SEC told the Bench that the government again on October 15 wrote to it requesting postponment of the elections, and two political parties, the BJP and the Janata Dal (S), have also written to the commission seeking postponement of elections citing COVID-19.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Immediately look into issue of non-payment of old age pension||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to immediately look into the grievances of non-payment of old age pension regularly to eligible senior citizens. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Akhila Karnataka Vyyovrudhara Okkoota, organisation working for the social security, health security, and food security of the elderly in the State.Complaining that old age pensions are not released regularly and many elderly have not received pensions under the Sandhya Suraksha Yojane and the Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme since January this year, the petitioner has sought directions to the government to immediately release pending pension amounts to the eligible senior citizens. The petitioner has also sought a direction for upward revision of old age pension as per the direction issued by the apex court, which had directed both the Centre and State government to revise the pension scheme as they were decades old. Also, the petitioner has sought immediate health inspection by the State health authorities for every senior citizen, at their households/areas, to assess their medical needs and prescriptions besides delivering medicines at their doorstep every month. The petitioner has also sought a midday meal facility for the elderly through Indira Canteen, particularly in Bengaluru city.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing costs further cut||The State government has further revised COVID-19 test costs. The ceiling for samples in private laboratories, including screening and confirmatory tests using the RT-PCR method, has been reduced from Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 1,200, inclusive of the cost of PPE kit. The rate will be Rs. 1,600, if the samples are collected at home. The rate for testing of samples sent by the government to private laboratories, including screening and confirmatory tests, has been reduced from Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 800 per test, inclusive of the cost of PPE kit. According to a circular issued on Friday, while the rate for sample collection and transportation of government-referred and private samples to the testing lab has been fixed at Rs. 400, the rate for RT-PCR test for government referred samples to private labs has been fixed at Rs. 800. While Rs. 2,200 has been fixed for TRU-NAT test for privately given samples at private labs and Rs. 2,600 if samples are collected by the labs at home, Rs. 3,800 has been fixed for CB-NAAT test for privately given samples at private labs. This will increase to Rs. 4,200 if samples are collected at home. The rate for Rapid Antibody Test/ELISA for privately given samples has been fixed at Rs. 500 and for Rapid Antigen Test for privately given samples at private labs at Rs. 700.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: 40 nominations filed in 2 segments||As many as 40 candidates have filed their nominations for the byelections in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies that are going to the polls on November 3. Friday was the last date for filing the nominations. While 17 candidates have filed nomination in Sira, 23 have filed in R.R. Nagar. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is October 19. Meanwhile, all measures have been taken for the smooth conduct of polling and counting of votes thereafter, said N. Manjunath Prasad, District Election Officer, and Kamal Pant, Bengaluru Police Commissioner. Speaking to reporters after a joint inspection of the counting centre at Jnanakshi Vidyaniketan School, Kenchenahalli, here on Friday, Mr. Prasad said there would be four halls in the counting centre, each with seven tables. There would be 24 rounds of counting. “The counting of votes may begin around 8 a.m. and is likely to be completed by noon,” he said. In R.R. Nagar, earlier there were a total of 4.6 lakh voters. After the elections were announced, citizens still had the chance to enrol in the voters’ list. The last date to do so was October 6. After scrutinising the forms submitted, 1,616 voters had been added to the voters’ list, Mr. Prasad said.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will halt survey work in sanctuary for three days’||Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) on Friday assured the High Court of Karnataka that it would not continue till Monday the survey and geotechnical work undertaken at Sharavathi Valley Lion-Tailed Macaque Sanctuary for a 2,000-MW underground pump storage hydro-electric project. The assurance was given before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi after the Bench said it might have to stay the work as the records showing that the government had consulted the State Wildlife Board before the Chief Wildlife Warden granted permission under Section 29 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act were not forthcoming from the document produced in court. The advocate appearing for KPCL assured the court that the work of drilling boreholes would not be continued till Monday, and that the documents related to the State government’s appraisal of the work to be undertaken for survey and geotechnical investigation would submitted by Monday, the next date of hearing. The Bench was hearing petitions filed by Edward Santosh Martin, a Ballari-based conservationist, and United Conservation Movement Charitable and Welfare Trust, Bengaluru. The petitioners had questioned the legality of carrying out work inside be protected sanctuary while alleging that environmental laws were being violated in carrying out the work.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 51% of students pass SSLC supplementary exam||A little over half of the 2.13 lakh candidates — 51.28% — passed the SSLC supplementary exam that was held in September. This is a huge improvement in performance from 2019, when the pass percentage was 42.47. It is also the highest pass percentage in supplementary exams in over a decade. Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board authorities attributed the improvement in performance to the extra few months that students got to prepare for the exam, which had been postponedon account of COVID-19. In keeping with past trends, girls outperformed boys, with a pass percentage of 55.96 as opposed to 48.56. The pass percentage of students in rural areas stood at 54.21, higher than their urban counterparts (48.25%). According to a release issued by the board on Friday, the pass percentage of aided schools stood at 53.13, while that of government and unaided schools was 50.19 and 50.87, respectively. The pass percentage among Kannada-medium students was 50.79, while it was 49.25 for English-medium students. The highest pass percentage was in Urdu medium, where 64.88% of the candidates cleared the exam. Of the 1,430 differently abled students who sat for the exam, 40.41% passed.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Award for Vinayaka Thoravi||The State government has chosen Hindustani vocalist Pandit Vinayaka Thoravi from Dharwad for the ‘Rajya Sangeetha Vidwan’ award. He belongs to the Gwalior and Kirana gharanas (singing styles). The award will be conferred on him by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Mysuru on Saturday, during the inaugural ceremony of the Dasara festivities. The award carries a purse of Rs. 5 lakh and a citation, said an official release.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Priyanka Alva fails to appear before CCB||Priyanka Alva, sister of absconding accused in the drug scandal Aditya Alva, skipped the summons issued by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) to appear before them on Friday for questioning. The CCB had searched her residence in Mumbai on Thursday, on the suspicion that Aditya Alva may have been hiding there. “We need to question Ms. Alva as we suspect she is aware of the whereabouts of her brother. She has not honoured the summons to appear on Friday. We will again issue summons to her,” a senior CCB official said.
22 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police seize chocolates laced with ganja||Acting on a tip-off, excise officials on Friday raided a paan shop on Malleswaram 18th Cross and recovered Rs. 20,000 worth of chocolates laced with ganja. The shopkeeper Gulab Yadav hails from Uttar Pradesh. He fled the scene, and police are searching for him. Yadav allegedly sourced the ganja-laced chocolates from his hometown in Uttar Pradesh.
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Karnataka Public Service Commission has invited onlineapplications from eligible candidates for filling 16 posts of Assistant Conservator of Forests in the Department of Forest, Environment and Ecology. Applications may be submitted between October 20 and November 20. For details, visithttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in.
22 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Invitation to exporters||The Director of Horticulture, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, has invited exporters interested in exporting ‘Bangalore Rose’ onion cultivated and procured from Chickballapur and Kolar. Licensed exporterscan submit their requisition along with a letter of credit. Call 080-26573391 or visit www.horticulturedir.karnataka.gov.in.
22 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two injured as tusker attacks car in Kadur||Two persons travelling by a car suffered injuries when a wild tusker hit their vehicle near Kote-Koppa on Attigere-Sakharayapatna Road in Kadur taluk on Thursday night. Bharath, 26, and Sharath, 25, have been admitted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in Hassan. They were travelling towards their village of Belachenahalli by car when they encountered the tusker around 10.15 p.m. The animal pushed the car with its trunk and moved ahead as the vehicle turned over. N.H. Jagannath, Deputy Conservator of Forests, told The Hindu that the incident happened near Kamenahalli State Forest area. “We got to know that two elephants were crossing the road, when the car passed by. The one behind attacked the car. It seems the elephant was disturbed by the headlights”, he said. The officer said a group of eight elephants has been moving around the area. A response team had been sent to the spot. Bharat, who was driving the car, suffered serious injuries. Sharat, who was on the front seat, was in shock. Both have been admitted to HIMS, L. Swathi, RFO of Kadur, said.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AAP members stage unique protest in Hubballi||Taking exception to, what they termed, poor quality and unscientific execution of work under the Hubballi Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS), members of the Aam Aadmi Party staged a unique protest by cleaning up an underpass across the dedicated bus corridor in Hubballi on Friday. Already there have been complaints of unscientific execution of works under BRTS, which has led to frequent waterlogging of the roads. The lastest is that of the underpass near Sana College at Bhairidevarakoppa in Hubballi, which too gets flooded during the rain. The AAP members cleaned up the underpass and the surrounding area to highlight the problem. ‘Badly maintained’ Leading the protest, president of the Dharwad district unit of AAP Santosh Naragund said that although it was the lone underpass in the entire BRTS project, it had been built unscientifically and badly maintained. The underpass was the only option for the commuters and pedestrians to cross the road. However the authorities had badly maintained it posing health risks to the citizens, he said. “Probably the sorry state of the underpass has not come to the notice of leaders who keep on speaking about Swachh Bharat. The underpass which should have been people-friendly has become anti-people. There is no information board, no light, and no CCTV cameras in the underpass. There is no safety at all for women and the public,” he said, taking a dig at BJP leaders. Mr. Santosh pointed out that on getting to know about the AAP protest, the authorities had pumped out the rainwater from the underpass, which was a partial win for the protesters.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad-Unakal double line inspected||The statutory inspection of the newly-laid double track between Dharwad and Unakal railway stations, measuring about 17 kilometres, was conducted by the Commissioner of Railway Safety on Thursday. Commissioner of Railway Safety (Southern-Eastern region) A.K. Rai, accompanied by Chief Administrative Officer (Construction), SWR, K.C. Swami, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede, and others, conducted the statutory inspection. The officials inspected the tracks, level crossing gates, track curves, and bridges along the 17 km-stretch. They also inspected the passenger amenities, footover bridges, station buildings at Dharwad, Navalur, and Unakal. The team also inspected the goods depot at Navalur. The goods depot has been developed with nine tracks making it a major goods depot. It also comprises a carriage and wagon checking depot with nine tracks. According to a press release issued by Chief Public Relations Officer of SWR, the double line will be opened for traffic, after the mandatory approval from the Commissioner of Railway Safety. Non-interlocking work will also be taken up after the authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, the release said. The track doubling apart from the ghat section in Karnataka, from Hosapete to Tinaighat has been completed except a small patch between Hubballi to Unakal (4 km) and the work is expectedly to be completed shortly, the release said. This work is being executed by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited. General Manager of SWR Ajay Kumar Singh has said in the release that on completion of short patch left over between Hubballi and Unakal, there would be quicker running of trains between Hosapete and Tinaghat.
22 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank slashes interest on housing loan scheme||Considering the festival season and the adverse impact of the pandemic on the economy, Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) has slashed the interest rates of its housing loan scheme. Announcing the decision after launching the ‘Festival Bonanza special Campaign’ in Dharwad recently, chairman of KVG bank P. Gopi Krishna said that the home loan interest rates had been reduced by 1%. “With an aim to give thrust to home loan portfolio, the bank has reduced housing loan interest rate to 7.50 % linking to CIBIL score of the customers to encourage prompt re-payers,” he said. Mr. Krishna also said that the decision was aimed not only to reach out to the middle class but also to high-net worth customers. The interest rate reduction will mean huge savings for the borrowers in EMI. Campaign He said that the bank had Rs. 642 crore under the housing loan portfolio at present and it planned to disburse a minimum of Rs. 200 crore before the end of the current financial year. The campaign will be held from October 17 to 31, he said. General managers Chandrashekhar D Moro and B.C. Ravichandra, Assistant general manager Shrikant Hegde. and others were present.
22 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||When floodwaters cut off people of Muttuga from the outside world||People of Muttuga village in Kalaburagi district were a relieved lot on Friday as they managed to reconnect with the external world after two days of complete isolation and despair. Ever since the floodwaters of the Kagina entered about 500 houses of this village on Tuesday night, they have had to go without food, potable water, power supply or telephone connectivity. Every one of the about 500 houses was inundated by the Kagina, a tributary of the Bhima, destroying food and other belongings. As the raging waters entered their homes destroying everything in its path, some people climbed to the roofs of their houses and others rushed to safer places that were on a relatively higher altitude. Surviving on biscuits “We ate a few biscuits that we had managed to save and drank the floodwater because there was no other choice. We had to spend nights in complete darkness and fear as there was no electricity. Since all mobile networks were dead, we could not contact any outsider for help. None from outside,including government servants, reached the village,” said Nagamma Natikar from the village. They are very worried about the future since most of the stocked grain and acres of standing crop are destroyed, besides buildings and houses. After the floodwaters receded on Friday, the bridge emerged out of the river, restoring the physical connectivity. Electricity supply was not yet restored when The Hindu visited the village. The river was still in spate and gusty winds made even standing in an open area hard. Honagunta is another village on the bank of the Kagina that was similarly hit by the floods. Situated at the point where the Kagina joins the Bhima, the village was flooded by both the rivers. Over 500 houses were inundated on Thursday night, destroying everything stocked. Though the village was surrounded by the floodwaters, people did not have water to drink. When some government officials visited the village on Friday, an angry mob even attempted to assault them. The police had to intervene and pacify the mob with the assurance of providing drinking water. Within an hour, a water tank reached the village and people carrying empty pots were seen rushing towards it. The overflowing Kagina has flooded over 3,000 acres of agricultural fields with red gram, cotton, sugarcane, and other crops in and around Honagunta. Hundreds of trucks could be seen parked for kilometres on Bidar–Srirangapatna national highway near Saradagi village as the connecting bridge near Jewargi was submerged in the Bhima waters.  Though the Kagina waters receded on Friday, the Bhima continued to be in spate as water at the rate of over 6 lakh cusecs was being released from the Sonna barrage. Since a large quantum of water is being released from reservoirs in Maharashtra, the water level in the Bhima is expected to rise further. Villagers continue to live in fear of getting flooded yet again.  We ate a few biscuits that we had managed to save and drank the floodwater because there was no other choice. We had to spend nights in complete darkness and fear as there was no electricity. Nagamma Natikar,a resident of Muttuga village
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ashok undertakes tour of flood-hit areas in Kalaburagi, Yadgir||The hopes of flood victims in Kalaburagi district were dashed as Revenue Minister R. Ashok did not visit many flood-affected areas and concluded his trip hastily within two hours. Though he was scheduled to visit seven to eight villages, the Minister conducted a whirlwind tour and only visited three villages. Mr. Ashok, interacting with flood-hit victims at a relief centre in Syed Chincholi village, promise them of providing a permanent solution to avoid flooding in the future. He asked the public representatives and officials concerned to send a proposal to the State government to purchase 11 acres of private land available on the outskirts of the village and to rehabilitate the families located near rivulets of Kere Bhosga reservoir. Around 15 families staying in low-lying areas have been evacuated and shifted to the nearby government school after their houses were submerged following a rise in water level in the Bhosga rivulet. Mr. Ashok directed the officials to provide hygienic food and clothes to them. The officials were also instructed to provide masks, sanitisers, and clean drinking water to the victims. Mr. Ashok also visited the bridge across the Bhima near Kona Hipparaga and Saradagi villages in Jewargi taluk. He also visited a relief centre set up at Urdu government higher primary school in Ferozabad village, before leaving for Yadgir district. Ajay Singh, Jewargi MLA, who met Mr. Ashok at Kona Hipparaga bridge, said that nearly 33 villages on the banks of the Bhima in Jewargi taluk were badly affected owing to floods. He urged the State government to release adequate funds to take up relief measures in Jewargi taluk. Taking cognizance of the complaints by villagers against the Kodi village accountant Ramchandra, directions were also issued to place the official under suspension on the charge of dereliction of duty.  In Yadgir Mr. Ashok also visited flood-affected Hurusagundigi, Naikal, and Roja villages in Yadgir district on Friday. He travelled in a rubber boat to reach Roja village which was surrounded by the Bhima. He promised the people that the State government would take action and provide all facilities at the Kalaji Kendras established. “The State government is with you. Those who have suffered losses and whose crops have been damaged in the rain will get compensation and there is no need to worry,” he told the people. As many as 44 Kalaji Kendras have been established so far and nearly 5,000 residents from the flood-hit villages have been shifted there. As many as 318 houses have been damaged and those families will get Rs. 5 lakh compensation, Mr. Ashok said. He said that the government was prepared to tackle the flood situation as the Deputy Commissioners were already instructed to take all possible action.
22 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Ministry has given nod to revise NDRF norms’||The Union Finance Ministry has given clearance to revise the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) guidelines and increase the relief amount, by four to five-fold, Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said. Speaking to presspersons at Syed Chincholi village in Kalaburagi district, Mr. Ashok said that the State government had written to the Centre to revise the NDRF guidelines and increase the relief amount. “The proposal was before the Finance Ministry and it has given its approval,” he added. The State government has announced compensation of Rs. 50,000 for partially damaged houses and Rs. 5 lakh for collapsed houses, while the relief amount sanctioned by the Centre would provide only Rs. 95,000 for completely damaged houses, he added. Replying to a question, the Minister said that there was no dearth of funds with the State government to take up relief measures. The accounts of Deputy Commissioners have been credited with a minimum of Rs. 5 crore, which can be utilised for relief measures. A sum of Rs. 20.78 core was available with the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner and Rs. 11 core with the Yadgir Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Ashok said. Responding to complaints against officials, the Minister warned that officials will face suspension if they fail to discharge their duties. As many as 173 taluks, including 11 in Kalaburagi district, were declared as flood-hit areas in the State. The State government would appeal to the Centre to declare severe areas in north Karnataka and Kalyana Karnataka as natural-disaster hit. Providing details on the losses suffered owing to floods, he said that agriculture crops on 3,31,170 hectares, horticulture crops on 32, 976 hectares, and plantation area of 32,600 hectares were reportedly damaged. The floods also damaged 10,978 houses, 1,268 bridges, 360 tanks, and 3,168 government buildings, he added.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Konkan Railway celebrates 30th founding day||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., (KRCL) on Thursday celebrated its 30th founding day through a virtual platform adhering to COVID-19 protocol. Addressing the virtual gathering during the ceremony, Railway Board Chairman and CEO Vinod Kumar Yadav said the Railway Ministry was focussing on enhancing services to achieve high quality passenger satisfaction. He appreciated KRCL’s initiatives to improve services and amenities for the benefit of passengers under the leadership of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. KRCL Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta said KRCL has joined India’s fight against COVID-19, taking several initiatives to raise awareness about precautionary measures, providing sanitisation facility at stations and workplaces etc. Freight operations on the Konkan Railway continued during COVID-19 pandemic to ensure movement of essential goods. Passenger services were also made operational through special trains as a step towards gradually returning to normalcy. In the last one year, loading of two new cargo, namely, Pet Coke loading at MRPL siding in Mangaluru and Imported Fertilizer at Ratnagiri station, were started on KRCL. Work is being carried on all fronts in the USBRL project of Jammu and Kashmir. Konkan Railway has successfully completed its first export order by delivering two DEMU rakes to in Nepal Railway last month. He said KRCL was effectively utilising lockdown phases by providing more traffic blocks for speedy progress of electrification work on its network, which is in final stages of completion. On the occasion, KRCL announced awards and commendation certificates for officers and staff to recognise their work.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Suspend licence if establishments don’t follow COVID-19 guidelines’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday asked officials concerned to temporarily suspend licences of shops, establishments and hotels if the owners and staff fail to wear masks and ensure social distancing even after repeated reminders. Chairing COVID-19 intensified awareness campaign meeting on the zilla panchayat premises, the Deputy Commissioner said many instances of owners and employees at these establishments not wearing masks were being reported. Officials first sensitise them about the need to follow COVID-19 guidelines and resort to temporary license cancellation if they fail to adhere to the guidelines. Role models Prevention was better than cure and hence everyone should follow COVID-19 protocol of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, frequently washing hands etc. Government employees besides taking oath to follow COVID-19 guidelines, should follow them to become model to others. The Deputy Commissioner said COVID-19 awareness should be conducted at every government event. Mr. Jagadeesha said bus operators should ensure the vehicle was sanitised every day while passengers wear masks during transit. Similarly, temple managements should ensure devotees wear masks and sanitise their hands before entering temples. Teachers, during the online classes should also create awareness among students about COVID-19 protocol. Awareness On the occasion, Mr. Jagadeesha launched "My Family-My Responsibility" campaign to create COVID-19 awareness in every household of the district from Saturday. Anganwadi workers and booth-level officers would visit every household in their jurisdiction to distribute publicity material, administer oath, paste awareness stickers on walls etc., people have almost resumed their normal life after Unlock 5. The Deputy Commissioner said though the spread of the pandemic was declining in the district, there was need for greater awareness among people about safety of themselves and their near ones. Abundant precaution could prevent COVID-19 deaths. Accredited Social Health Activists would be given oxymeters through which they would check oxygen levels of residents. While the programme has already started in Karkala taluk, it would soon begin in Udupi and Kundapura taluks. The accelerated COVID-19 awareness campaign involving all government departments would be launched by Principal District and Sessions Judge J.N. Subrahmanya on the district court premises on Saturday, he added. Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, Kundapura Assistant Commissioner K. Raju, and others were present.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast set for low-key Navarathri celebrations from today||Temples in the twin districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have geared up to celebrate Navarathri amidst the COVID-19 pandemic following strict guidelines issued by the government even as former chairperson of Karnataka NRI Forum Arathi Krishna is scheduled to inaugurate the famed Mangaluru Dasara at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple on Saturday. All temples, including Gokarnanatha, Mangaladevi, Kadri Manjunatha, Mariyamma, Marigudi and others in Mangaluru, Kateel Durga Parameshwari, Dharmasthala Manjunatha, Kukke Subrahmanya, Polali Rajarajeshwari and others in Dakshina Kannada, Sri Krishna Mutt, Ambalapadi Mahakali, Kadiyali Mahisha Mardini, Kollur Mookambika, Kamalashile Durga Parameshwari, Anegudde Vinayaka and other temples in Udupi district will celebrate the nine-day festival of Shakthi Goddess without fanfare. Kids not allowed The Gokarnanatha temple management has decided not to allow kids below six years into the temple during the festival to ensure their safety. Ms. Krishna will inaugurate the Mangaluru Dasara at a low-key programme on Saturday at noon. The programme begins at 9.30 a.m. with Guru Prarthana followed by Kalasha Pratishthe and installation of Nava Durges on the temple premises in Kudroli. The celebrations would be carried out with the theme “Namma Dasara-Namma Surakshe” as per the wishes of the temple’s architect B. Janardhana Poojari, said a statement from temple committee treasurer R. Padmaraj. Wearing of masks, sanitising hands, maintaining social distance etc., would be compulsory for every devotee visiting the temple. Senior citizens who are fit may participate in the celebrations while the management accords them priority and honour. \Anna Prasada will be distributed to devotees in arecanut plates after the Mahapooja from 2.30 p.m. Ms. Krishna is the daughter of former Minister the late Begane Ramaiah who represented Sringeri Assembly constituency. She immediately responded to problems faced by expats in the Gulf during the COVID-19 pandemic and arranged home travel for thousands of people, the temple said. Virtual cultural programmes The cultural programmes organised as part of Mangaluru Dasara of Gokarnanatha Temple will be virtual with the programmes at Jaya C Suvarna Kalyana Mantapa being beamed on big screens at various places on temple premises as well as Namma Kudla cable TV channel, Mr. Padmaraj said. Cultural programmes would start from 6 p.mm every day from Saturday till October 26.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Teacher succumbs to post COVID-19 lung infection||Padmakshi N., a teacher of a government aided school in Moodbidri, died on Friday following post COVID-19 lung infection. She was undergoing treatment at the private hospital here since she tested positive on September 29. Following a social media post by her daughter Aishwarya Jain explaining her condition, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on October 14 had directed the district administration to bear the cost of her treatment and arrange for speciality services. Accordingly the district administration had conveyed the same to the private hospital. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy said Ms. Padmakshi tested negative for COVID-19 on October 13. She had developed complications in the lung. All necessary treatment had been arranged at the private hospital. Arrangements were also made for advance treatment at a hospital in Bengaluru. But before Ms. Padmakshi could be shifted, she succumbed, he said. Condoling the death of Ms. Padmakshi, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, in a Facebook post said it was sad to hear of the teacher’s demise. “Aishwarya Jain had desired for her mother to fit and fine after treatment. God give her all the strength to recover from this shock,” he said. Ms. Padmakshi was a teacher in Jawaharlal Nehru Makki Aided High School in Moodbidri. She and her husband Shashikanth Y., the headmaster of DJ Higher Primary Aided School, were involved in the Vidyagama programme of neighbourhood schooling since August. Mr. Shashikanth and their 11-year-old old son tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered following home isolation. Ms. Jain had held the neighbourhood schooling as the cause for infection in of her mother in the post she made on the Facebook in which she had sought help of the government.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MAHE observes Innovation Day||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) celebrated Innovation Day to mark the birth anniversary of the late President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on Thursday. Director of Inga Labs Mumbai, George Patani, spoke about the kind of research and innovation industry expects from the academia. He explained the innovation ecosystem of global leaders and gave a few examples of academia and industry tie-up in developed countries and suggested relevant metrics to measure the outcome of research and innovation. Vasan Sambandamurthy, CEO of DBT Wellcome Trust India Alliance, stressed on the importance of carrying out innovative research at universities and explained the objectives of the Indian Alliance, fellowship, and other collaborative funding opportunities available for biomedical research and outreach activities. MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. General M.D. Venkatesh recollected his interactions with the late Kalam and explained how humble, inspirational, and passionate he was. He also said that MAHE was promoting a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship and it was time to make it a movement.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||431 new cases in DK and Udupi||Five COVID-19 patients with comorbidities died, while 220 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. With 391 patients discharged, the number of active cases came down to 3,531. A fine of Rs. 9.17 lakh has been collected so far in 7,784 cases of people not wearing masks, said a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration. Two COVID-19 patients with comorbidities died, while 211 new cases were reported in Udupi on Friday. With 255 patients discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,907. A fine of Rs. 12.64 lakh has so far been collected in 11,228 cases of people not wearing face masks and violating social distancing norms, said a bulletin from the Udupi district administration.
22 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MIT students bag prize at aero design competition||Students o f Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, bagged the second prize at the recently-concluded Aero Dominator 7.0, a national-level aero design competition. The competition was held during Vellore Institute of Technology’s technical fest “Gravitas” from October 2 to October 5 wherein 25 teams from all over the country competed. The task was to design a fixed wing RC UAV capable of transporting medical cargo and first aid during emergencies. Teams were judged on three criterion - design report, technical presentation and predicted flight score. The team of students consisted of team manager Aditeya Gurumurthy, aerodynamics Head Nagaraj Ganesh Prabhu and senior team members Pranav Gupta, Prahaladh Chandrahasa, and Rahul Alvares. MIT director Srikanth Rao congratulated the team.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Case fatality, positivity rates fall in Mysuru||The weekly COVID-19 case fatality rate (CFR), which was between 2.2% and 2.5% last month has dropped to 1.8% this month. Also, the weekly positivity rate, which was between 14.2% and 20.7% from September till early this month, has dropped to 9%. According to the COVID-19 war room in Bengaluru, the positivity rate was 10.2% in seven days and the weekly CFR was 1.8%. In seven days, Mysuru reported 62 deaths. As on Thursday, Mysuru had 6,980 active cases. The biggest worry for the government and the authorities ahead of the Dasara festivities was the increasing fatalities in Mysuru, which was second highest in the State after Bengaluru. The slight drop in CFR may bring some relief to the district administration, which has the challenging task of keeping Mysuru safe from COVID-19 spread during the festive season. Between September 9 and 15, the CFR was 2.2% and 2.5% between September 16 and 22. It dropped to as low as 0.6% between September 23 and 29 (this was perhaps because the deaths were not updated daily following the strike by the contract health workers). Between September 30 and October 6, the CFR was 2.3%, which dropped to 1.8% from October 7 to 13, according to the figures furnished by the war room. As the disease burden went up last month, the number of persons who tested positive per 100 samples was 20.7 (between September 9 and 15). It dropped to 20.1% between September 16 and 22. The positivity rate dropped further to 14% between September 23 and 29, but went up marginally to 14.2% between September 30 and October 6. Till October 13, the weekly positivity rate stood at 9%, bringing marginal respite to those combating the infection. As announced by the district administration that tests had been ramped up to contain the pandemic, the average antigen tests per day and average RT-PCR tests per day have significantly gone up. As many as 2,241 PCR tests are being done per day based on the figures available between October 7 and 13. Likewise, 2,855 antigen tests were conducted in the same period. Between October 7 and 13, nearly 20,000 RATs had been done (an increase by nearly 10,000 tests a week), while 15,688 PCR tests were conducted in the same week. Nearly 200% test target had been achieved between October 7 and 13, which is a 100% jump in the target compared to the previous week. The number of samples collected per day has also increased, with nearly 4,380 samples collected between October 7 and 13, while it was 4,067 between September 30 and October 6. When compared to the previous month, more than 1,000 samples per day were being collected for testing.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||29,018 to receive degrees at 100th UoM convocation||A total of 29,018 candidates will be conferred with different degrees on the occasion of University of Mysore’s centenary convocation to be virtually addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 19. Though only 30 students with a distinction of bagging gold medals and prizes had been identified to receive their certificates during the convocation in view of the restrictions in entry into Crawford Hall, a ceremony to present the degrees will be held in the afternoon at the same venue to give away the degree certificates to all the students in groups of 25 each. Since it is centenary convocation, the varsity has made arrangements for all the students to receive their degree certificates in person, said Vice Chancellor of University of Mysore G. Hemanth Kumar while briefing reporters on details of the arrangements made for the convocation. Limited entry However, parents and other well-wishers of the candidates will not be allowed inside Crawford Hall. Arrangements have been made for others including teachers, students and parents to watch the proceedings on digital screens to be put up at Senate Bhavan, Vignana Bhavan and Centenary Hall. Governor Vajubhai Vala and Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayana, who is also the pro-chancellor, will participate. “Only 100 people will be permitted inside Crawford Hall including the University Academic Council members.” Mr. Kumar said. Delayed event Though the convocation was originally scheduled to be held in March this year, it had to be put off due to COVID-19 pandemic. For the first time in the university’s history, the country’s Prime Minister will address the convocation. The university’s first convocation was also addressed on October 19 in 1918 by then ruler of Mysore Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, Prof. Kumar said referring to the co-incidence of the centenary convocation also falling on October 19, but in 2020. The centenary convocation will begin at 10.30 a.m. and the Prime Minister’s address will be held between 11.15 a.m. and 11.40 a.m. The proceedings of the centenary convocation can be watched virtually on University of Mysore’s official website https://uni-mysore-ac.in, uomlive the YouTube channel and UoM’s Facebook page. Women doing better Women will outnumber men in receiving degrees during the centenary convocation of the university. While 18,344 recipients of degrees are women, accounting for 62.21%, men will receive 10,674, which is 36.78% of the total 29,018 degrees. Of the total 20,393 undergraduate degrees to be given away, women will receive as many as 13,598 against the 6,795 to be received by men. As far as PG degrees are concerned, women will receive as many as 4,482 of 7,971 while men will receive 3,489. However, men outnumbered women when it came to PhDs. Out of the total 654 PhDs, men will receive 390 and women 264. When it comes to medals and cash prizes, women accounted for 156 out of the total 230 candidates entitled for 392 medals and 198 cash prizes.  Only 100 people, including the University Academic Council members, will be permitted inside Crawford Hall. G. Hemantha Kumar V-C, UoM
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara programmes to be live-streamed across all social media platforms||All Dasara events in Mysuru, including the inauguration atop Chamundi Hills on Saturday and the Jamboo Savari at the palace on October 26, will be live-streamed on websites and social media platforms. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said Saturday’s inauguration atop the hills between 7.45 a.m. and 8.15 a.m. and cultural events at the palace from October 17 to 24 will be live streamed on the website of the Mysuru district administration and on the Facebook and YouTube platforms of the Department of Information and Public Relations. On the Dasara finale, the Jamboo Savari within the palace premises will be telecast live on Doordarshan Chandana besides in some private news channels and also on the social media platforms The website https://mysore.nic.in/en/mysuru-dasara-2020https://www.facebook .com/mysorevarthe/live/ andhttps://youtu.be/HhfbR9 FM08E can be visited to watch the events as a part of Dasara virtual fête over COVID-19 scare, she said in a release here.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Return excess amount collected by private hospitals to patients’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday asked government officials to recover from private hospitals the amount they had collected in excess of the charges fixed by the government for COVID-19 treatment and return the same to the patients. At a meeting of senior officials convened here to discuss the measures needed to control the surge of COVID-19 in Mysuru district, Mr. Yediyurappa said action had been taken against private hospitals in Bengaluru that were charging the patients in excess of the amount stipulated by the government. Even in Mysuru, officials should recover the excess amount collected by the private hospitals and return the same to the patients, he said. Private hospitals in Mysuru had been accused of failing to set aside 50% of their beds for COVID-19 treatment. However, the hospitals had now fallen in line and were setting aside 400 beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients, said Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri while briefing the CM. In view of the delay the district administration was facing for recruitment of nurses and D-group employees through tender process, Mr. Yediyurappa asked the officials to consider appointment through direct interviews so that the necessary para medical staff can be arranged to fight COVID-19 as early as possible. Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said necessary steps had been taken by the authorities to ramp up testing infrastructure in the district.  Also, he said Dasara celebrations had been scaled down substantially this year in view of COVID-19. While illumination of roads and buildings had been reduced to half of its normal scale, all necessary steps had been taken as per the recommendations of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee to minimise congregation of people during Dasara. The meeting was also attended by Additional Chief Secretary Javed Akthar, Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Services Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Mysuru City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Superintendent of Mysuru district police C.B. Ryshyant, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde, Additional Deputy Commissioner B.S. Manjunatha Swamy, besides MLAs S.A. Ramdas, L. Nagendra, B. Harshavardhan, MP Pratap Simha, MLC A.H. Vishwanath, Mayor Tasneem and MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders fret over closure of tourist spots||Stakeholders in the tourism sector who are against the closure of places of tourist interest during Dasara holidays, have reiterated their demand to lift the restrictions on the grounds to help revive the sector. In a memorandum addressed to the Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, they also pointed out the what they termed as contradiction in the administration’s decision. “On the one hand, the Department of Tourism is promoting Karnataka as safe for tourists while the district administration has ordered the closure of tourist places,” the stakeholders said.  Appeal to CM The stakeholders also met the CM, who is in Mysuru, and appealed to him to get the district administration’s order rescinded. Ms. Sindhuri ordered the closure of all important tourist spots in Mysuru during Dasara holidays from October 17 to November 1 as a measure to curb the surge in COVID-19 cases being reported acrossthe district. Similar restrictions have been introduced in the neighbouring districts of Kodagu and Mandya. The stakeholders, represented by Mysuru Travels’ Association, Hotel Owners’ Association, Mysore District Tourist Vehicle Drivers and Owners’ Welfare Association, Mysuru Approved Tourist Guides’ Association, and other groups said the closure will affect thousands of people who are directly and indirectly dependent on tourism. Cost of event They also questioned the need for spending money on illuminating the city if the tourists were to be restricted. A section of the stakeholders told mediapersons that tourists are being asked to stay away but the government was spending crores on the event though it was devoid of popular programmes like Yuva Dasara, Ahara Mela, etc. “The amount could have been utilised to ramp up city infrastructure and also to bail out the stakeholders in the tourism sector,” they added. Prashanth, president, Mysuru Travels’ Association, said the State has lifted the restriction on the assembly of more than 100 persons under Lockdown 5. But in Mysuru restrictions are being imposed and this comes at a time when the State has permitted even multiplexes and theatres to reopen, he said, urging the district administration to reconsider its decision on closing tourist spots.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sudha Murty to be conferred doctorate||Sudha Murty, chairperson, Infosys Foundation, will be conferred with the University of Mysore’s honorary doctorate on the occasion of its centenary convocation. Giving details of the centenary convocation to be held on October 19, UoM Vice Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar said the honorary doctorate for Ms. Murty had been approved by Governor Vajubhai Vala, who is also the chancellor of the university. Fielding reporters’ queries, Mr. Kumar said the university only constitutes a committee for selection of candidate for the award of honorary doctorates. The committee had recommended three names of which the Governor selected one. He said he was not aware of the other two names. It was the Governor’s prerogative to choose one or two. “Sometimes, two names are chosen. But, this time only one name was chosen,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the centenary convocation on October 19.
22 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Performance review reveals contrary data||The COVID-19 Performance Review of Mysuru district released by the Karnataka State COVID-19 war room shows that Mysuru reported 24,822 cases in a span of seven days. This meant that the average cases per day in seven days should have been around 3,500 cases a day. On the contrary, the cases reported in Mysuru, as per the daily health bulletin, were less than 1,000 cases per day barring one or two days, when cases were little over the 1,000 mark. When this was the case, there was a doubt on how Mysuru could report 24,822 cases in seven days. There could be an ‘incongruity’ in the data entry since such a big number was unthinkable if the daily bulletins were considered. The figure given in the review would need to be clarified as the same report shows a drop in the weekly positivity rate. Meanwhile, the number of contacts per person in seven days was 12, while percentage of patients with no contact in seven days was 19.4%.
22 October 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||briefly||The written test for selection of armed reserve police constables with Karnataka State Police will be conducted from 11 a.m. on October 18 at selected examination centres across the district. An official release said candidates have to appear for the tests with the hall ticket wearing masks. Details are available on www.ksp.gov.in.    Campus Career Academy has organised pre-counselling guidance programme for students who have written NEET/CET on Saturday at 10 a.m. on its premises, Al-Rabhaba Complex, Nellikai Road near State Bank. Information on various disciplines of medicine and engineering, seat selection process, documents required etc., will be given during the programme. Interested may fill inrb.gy/vj9nqeGoogle form or call 0824-4261320, 9845054191 for registration.    Different saplings of various trees are available with the Horticulture Ddepartment for sale as per prices fixed by the department. Interested may approach nurseries at Mangaluru-Padil, Bantwal-Thumbe, Bantwal-Vitla, Belthangady-Maddadka, Puttur-Kabaka and Sullia-Hosagadde horticulture plantations.    University of Agriculture and Horticultural Sciences, Shivamogga, Indian Council of Agriculture Research, Krishi Vignana Kendra Brahmavara and Paramparagata Krishi Vikasa Yojane, Sanur, celebrated World Food Day at the residence of Moodumane Umanatha Shetty at Sanur in Karkala taluk on Friday.
22 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Still no respite from floods for Yadgir, Raichur districts||Yadgir and Raichur districts have not got any respite from the flood situation on Friday despite no rain. The Bhima and the Krishna were in spate and agriculture fields were inundated with standing crops, such as paddy, cotton and red gram, destroyed. Road connectivity was cut off as the bridge near Malagatti submerged. Traffic was diverted to an alternative route. Nearly 2,000 in both districts were been damaged in rain-related incidents. In Yadgir, 2,163 hectares of standing crops were destroyed between October 1 and 15. As many as 45 villages in Shahpur, Yadgir, and Wadagera taluks are facing a serious threat of flood. Hurasagundagi village in Shahapur taluk has been almost inundated by the backwaters of the Sannathi bridge constructed across the Bhima. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has already issued an alert notice and asked the people to shift to the Kalaji Kendra. However, officials have already shifted 513 families. “These 45 villages will face a serious flood threat as there is a possibility of the outflow from the Sonna barrage in Kalaburagi district rising. Therefore, residents of river bank villages should not go near the river,” she said. She added that all precautionary measures have been put in place as officials of the police, the Revenue, and other related departments are ready to face any situation, she added. The Deputy Commissioner also visited the Kalaji Kendra and inspected the facilities and spoke to the people housed there. The district administration has been using hostels and school buildings to set up Kalaji Kendras. According to official information, 1.92 lakh cusecs of water were also released from the Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanpur of Hunsagi taluk to the Krishna and there was inflow of 1.7 lakh cusecs. There was 2.85 lakh cusecs of water discharged from the Sannathi barrage to the Bhima and there was 2.85 lakh cusecs of inflow. The road connectivity between Raichur and Shahpur will be cut off if the outflow from Basavasagar is raised to over 2 lakh cusecs to the Krishna as the bridge between Huvindagi-Kollur will be submerged, offcials said. Currently the outflow is 1.92 lakh cusecs and villages in Deodurg, Lingsugur, and Raichur are facing the threat of floods. The effort to trace Channabasava, who was washed away in steam near Maski town five days ago, is still on, sources said.
22 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Raichur DC briefs Yediyurappa on damage||Deputy Commissioner of Raichur R. Venkatesh Kumar has told Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa that the district suffered losses of Rs. 158 crore owing to the recent rain and that Rs. 61 crore has been released as per the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) norms. He was speaking to the Chief Minister during a videoconference on Friday. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar also said that all precautionary measures had been put in place to tackle the flood situation in the district. As many as two persons were killed, 487 houses partially collapsed, 18 livestock, and eight sheep were killed in the recent rain, he said. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar said that a total of 18 persons were killed in rain-related incidents from June till date, and compensation of Rs. 61 crore has been distributed. Rain The district received 440 mm till the end of September, which is more than 32% of the average rainfall, he explained. The Deputy Commissioner also said that the agriculture and horticulture crops on 22,031 and 23,745 hectares, respectively, have been destroyed. As many as 800 people from D. Rampur, Burdipad, Gurjapur, and Atkur villages have been shifted to safer places.
22 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Ashok visits flood-hit areas in Yadgir district||R. Ashok, Revenue Minister, visited flood-affected Hurusagundigi, Naikal, and Roja villages in Yadgir district on Friday. Mr. Ashok, who arrived from Kalaburagi after visiting the flood-hit areas there, travelled in a rubber boat to reach Roja village which was surrounded by the Bhima. The Minister promised the people that the State government would take action and provide all facilities at the Kalaji Kendras established. “The State government is with you. Those who have suffered losses and whose crops have been damaged in the rain will get compensation and there is no need to worry,” he told the people. As many as 44 Kalaji Kendras have been established so far and nearly 5,000 residents from the flood-hit villages have been shifted there. As many as 318 houses have been damaged and those families will get Rs. 5 lakh compensation, Mr. Ashok said. He said that the government was prepared to tackle the flood situation as the Deputy Commissioners were already instructed to take all possible action. He said that Rs. 10,000 as immediate compensation will be released to those whose houses were damaged in the floods.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t start construction of stadium in Gunjur village, HC tells govt.||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the State government not to commence construction of a proposed stadium at Gunjur village near Varthur on the outskirts of the city. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by T. Narasimhamurthy. The petitioner had contended that the 27-acre plot, allotted to the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (DYES) for construction of the stadium, is not revenue land but ‘deemed to be forest’ even though revenue records do not categorise it as forest land. Citing a letter written by the Deputy Conservator of Forests (Bangalore Urban division) to the Deputy Commissioner, Bangalore Urban district in January this year, the petitioner has contended that the land is part of a list of lands to be declared as ‘deemed to be forest’, submitted before the apex court as identified by the Forest Department. The government has allotted the land for construction of a stadium due to political influence based on a technical reason as records treat the plot as revenue land, the petitioner has claimed while pointing out that the Forest Department had raised objection when the work of digging a borewell was undertaken by the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports in January.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka saw increase in child marriage complaints in May||The number of complaints received pertaining to child marriages during the pandemic in Karnataka was the highest in May this year, reveals data from ChildLine 1098. Of the 579 complaints it got in May, it was able to intervene and stop 542 children from being forced into marriage. As many as 107 complaints were from Ballari alone. Barring complaints made in June, data from April to September was made available. Activists and counsellors attribute the surge in calls in May to the lockdown. The numbers started falling in the subsequent months as restrictions eased. While it received 214 complaints in August, the number dropped to 111 in September. The highest number of complaints in September came from Bengaluru Rural.   Fr. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR), said the number of complaints pertaining to child marriages were on the rise as the monitoring mechanism was not effective, with most officials being involved in COVID-19 duties. “People were also under the impression that this can be kept as a secret during the pandemic and they will not be held accountable,” he said. He added that people were facing several financial hardships during the pandemic and many particularly in rural areas felt that the marriage can be conducted with a minimum cost. ‘Surge in reporting’ However, Vasudev Sharma, executive director, Child Rights Trust, said that increase in the number of complaints was a result of a surge in reporting. “The general awareness is more and people are coming forward to complain. It does not mean that the numbers of child marriages are on the rise,” he said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State records dip in cases for sixth consecutive day||Continuing to record a marginal dip in new cases for the sixth consecutive day, the State on Friday reported 7,542 cases taking the total to 7,51,390. With 73 deaths, the toll rose to 10,356. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. For a week prior to October 11, the State had been reporting an average of over 10,000 cases per day. Meanwhile, cases in Bengaluru Urban district breached the three lakh mark on Friday. With 3,441 new cases, the total touched 3,00,634. With 24 of the 73 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 3,486. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 65,664. As many as 8,580 persons were discharged on Friday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,28,588. Of the remaining 1,12,427 active cases, 946 patients are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day reduced to 7.12%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.96%. As many as 1,05,891 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 27,961 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 64,61,694. Meanwhile, the State Health Department has issued guidelines for conduct of elections or by-elections, and on preventive measures to be followed in entertainment parks and during festivities.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bhima continues to be in spate||Since most of the major bridges in the district were already submerged, the connectivity between villages and towns remained cut across the district and the vehicular movement disrupted. Thousands of trucks were found parked on either side of bridges and highway-side at different places. Trucks were seen parked for kilometres together on the Bidar-Srirangapatana national highway near Saradagi village and between Shahbad and Bhankur. The Malkhed Bridge remained under the Kagina waters on Friday also cutting the connectivity between Hyderabad and Kalaburagi. In many flood-hit villages, relief centres were opened. Upon the direction of Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, several district-level officers camped at the mini-Vidhana Soudha coordinating with the field staff. Ms. Jyothsna also held meeting with key officials at midnight and took stock of the situation. Ms. Jyothsna, Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer P. Raja, Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Nalin Atul, Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation Commissioner Lokhande Snehal Sudhakar, and other officers visited the Saradagi Barrage and some of the flood-hit villages. As per the information provided by the administration, the authorities were releasing 3,761 cusecs water from Amarja, 14,400 cusecs from Bennethora, 3,020 cusecs from Lower Mullamari, and 11,333 cusecs from Karanja (in Bidar district) on Friday morning. People shifted As many as 12,114 people from 32 villages along the banks of the Bhima have been shifted to safer places. The district administration has identified 157 flood-prone villages in Afzalpur, Jewargi, Kalaburagi, Chittapur, and Shahbad taluks and cautioned the people. The administration has also opened 117 relief centres and 17,776 people have taken shelter. It has identified 55 government hostels for shifting. Ms. Jyothsna had appointed a Nodal Officer for each taluk to coordinate among the different government functionaries on the flood-related matters. On Friday, three NDRF teams were working. As many as 101 swimmers from Home Guards, diving experts, boat operators and flood rescuing trainers were deployed. According to the administration estimate, around 10,000 houses were flooded in the district. The administration clarified that no loss of human life has been reported. Extra forces Additional boats from Bagalkot, Ballari, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts, NDRF teams from Chitradurga and Dakshina Kannada districts, and Fire and Emergency Services Personnel from Bidar district have been summoned.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Steep fines for illegal road-cutting||Unauthorised road-cutting without following the prescribed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will invite steep fines. In an order issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday, private and government agencies will be fined Rs. 25 lakh while individuals will be fined Rs. 10 lakh. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad stated that the ward engineers have been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring that the SOP is followed during road-cutting. Agencies like Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), GAIL, apart from various internet and telecom service providers have to apply for permission on the Multi-Agency Road Cutting Coordination System (MARCS). In case of road-cutting being taken up at night, LED lights must be used and the site must be properly barricaded.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP asks NEERI to study Vrishabhavathi||The civic body has approached the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) for a study of the Vrishabhavathi river valley following directions of the Karnataka High Court. In a letter to NEERI, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has sought expertise of NEERI to protect, restore and rejuvenate the river. He urged NEERI to convey the timeframe needed for the study. The Commissioner has sought identification of pollutants, quantum of pollutants at various locations of the valley and methodology for prevention of pollutants entering the valley. NEERI has also been asked to suggest short- and long-term measures as well as technological interventions that may be required. The Commissioner stated that NEERI would have the liberty to make general and specific suggestions and recommendations.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bus operators offer deep discounts||With Chalo cards ensuring hygiene and cashless transaction, most of the bus operators have come on its platform while all city buses in both the cities would offer and honour Chalo cards from November 1. Besides Chalo cards, passengers could also use Chalo App on their smart phones for recharge and payment through the QR code, he added. Speaking about discounts, Chalo's senior manager Santosh Deshpande said a daily commuter buying one-way ticket of Rs. 10 would pay Rs. 399 for 100 trips in 28 days or Rs. 109 for 21 trips in seven days with the card allowing maximum four trips per day. A traveller buying tickets between Rs. 21-30 for a one-way trip could pay Rs. 799 for 28 days or Rs. 299 for seven days for four trips per day. While the cards are valid across all city buses, commuters may buy them either from bus conductors or any of the three Chalo counters in the city. While the prepaid card does not allow a commuter to travel beyond the one-way ticket price range, one with higher denominations could travel lesser distance, subject to maximum four trips a day. Occasional travellers too could buy prepaid cards by paying Rs. 20 and recharge with additional amounts where discounts are given: Rs. 210, 550 and Rs. 1,100 for recharges of Rs. 200, Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 respectively, Mr. Alva added.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Special day||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nature’s fury||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man, mother rescued in Vijayapura||He had three acres of land and a loan of Rs. 5 lakh from banks and cooperative societies and from moneylenders. A case has been registered in the Sindagi police station. Rainfall was reduced in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts on Friday, though some roads and bridges were inundated. Five bridge-cum-barrages were submerged in Belagavi district near Chikkodi and Athani. However, the connecting villages were not completely cut off as there were alternative routes, officers said.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||563 new cases in Alappuzha||The district witnessed a slight rise in daily COVID-19 cases with 563 people testing positive on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 543 patients acquired the virus locally. Eighteen health staff and one person each who came from abroad and another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the 563 cases, 86 were reported from Alappuzha and 76 from Mannancherry. Arattuppuzha (65), Mararikulam South (36), Purakkad (31), Ambalappuzha South (23), Cherthala (22), Arookutty (20), Aryad (19), Pathiyoor (15), Punnapra North (13), Muttar (14), Neelamperoor (10) and Kadakkarappally (10) also registered double-digit case count. On Friday, 181 patients tested negative. The police have registered 58 cases and arrested 35 people for violating COVID-19 protocol. Ward 1,3, 4, 8, 10, 12, 15, 16 and 17 in Punnapra South, ward 14 in Karuvatta and parts of ward 20 in Thanneermukkom and ward 2 in Karuvatta grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||School launches its greening drive at students’ homes||People have been trying a lot of things to cope with the difficult times in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. The students of Devaswom Board Higher Secondary School (DBHSS), Cheriyanad, are finding solace in planting saplings of fruit-bearing trees. Around 600 students from class V to class 10 of the school have so far planted 3,000 saplings on the premises of their houses as part of a drive titled Haritham Harithabham, launched by the school recently. They plan to plant 10,000 saplings before the reopening of schools. G. Radhakrishnan, a teacher and convener of National Green Corps, DBHSS, says the plantation drive is helping students enjoy their environs apart from increasing the green cover. “Students are spending a lot of time on internet because of online classes. For them, planting and tending to saplings is a way to relax. When the initiative was launched, we urged them to plant two saplings each. Some planted five or more. A few students who lacked space at their houses planted saplings at their relatives’ homes,” says Mr. Radhakrishnan.  Guidance from school While school authorities provide the guidance with the help of a retired agriculture officer, the students should find the saplings. After planting saplings, students share photographs on the school WhatsApp groups. “I planted four saplings of jackfruit, mango, rambutan and coconut last week. I hope to nurture them into trees with the support of my family,” says, Nandana S., a class 10 student of DBHSS. Cash awards The school authorities are keen to ensure that the drive is not just about planting and posing for photograph. “We have urged the students to grow the plants organically and protect them with tree guards. Once the school is reopened, teachers will visit the houses of students. All students who participated in the drive will be given certificates. Students who nurtured the plants well will be given cash awards,” says Mr. Radhakrishnan.  All students who participate in the drive will be given certificates.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Driving school instructor arrested||The Kareelakulangara police on Friday arrested a 53-year-old driving school instructor on charges of sexually harassing a woman. The arrested has been identified as Anil Kumar of Keerikkad. Complaint by woman According to the police, the accused touched the woman inappropriately and made sexual overtures during a driving class. He was arrested based on a complaint filed by the woman. Anil Kumar was produced in a local court and remanded in judicial custody, the police said.
22 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bank theft accused arrested||The police team probing the Karuvatta bank heist case on Friday took the prime accused into custody. According to officials, arrest of Albin Raj, alias Shyju, 39, of Kattakada, Thiruvananthapuram, would be recorded on Friday night or Saturday. At least 5.43 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 4.5 lakh in cash were stolen from the Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank. The incident came to light on September 3 when the bank reopened after the Onam holidays. Two others Earlier, on October 12, the police arrested two persons — Shybu, 39, of Chettikulangara and Shibu, 43, of Thiruvananthapuram — in connection with the case. According to the police, the burglars had entered the bank by breaking open a door and took away gold and cash kept in two safes in the strongroom. Both the strong room and lockers were opened using a gas-cutter. While the thieves abandoned the used gas cylinders, stolen from Adoor, in the bank, they took away the CCTV hard disk and computers.
22 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Reflection of rainfall pattern?||The unexpected rise in the water level in the Idukki reservoir in the middle of October has been attributed to the change in the rainfall pattern in the past few years. The dam was opened after 26 years on August 9, 2018 and by October the water level had started to decline. The water level in the dam on October 16, 2018 was 2,387 ft and 2,376 ft the same day last year. As per the data available with the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, the water level usually remains stagnant or increases at a minor level during October. The northeast monsoon usually does not make much of an impact in the dam water level with power generation remaining low. Despite the increased power generation, the water level in the reservoir continued to rise, reaching 2,393.36 ft on Friday. If there is heavy rainfall within two days, there are chances of the dam being opened as it is short of only 5 ft to the dam opening level of 2,398.85 ft as per the new rule curve level. Cumulative rainfall The cumulative rainfall in the catchment area from June 1 to October 16 in 2018 was 4,468 mm, the highest ever since the commissioning of the dam in 1977. The cumulative rainfall till October 16 this year was 2,702 mm. The power generation has been raised to 9.34 million units now. A Kerala State Electricity Board official said the board might look at the option of opening the dam shutters in case of heavy rainfall in two days. There were also chances of the water level remaining under control after the generation was increased and the rainfall declining. In 2013, 2007, 1992, and 1981, the water level had remained higher than the present level as on October 16. The figures being 2,396 ft, 2,397 ft, 2,399 ft, and 2,399 ft respectively. The shutters of the Idukki reservoir were opened in 1992 and 1981.
22 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vaccination against KFD to be intensified||A district-level meeting of senior officials chaired by District Collector Adeela Abdulla here on Friday decided to intensify vaccination against Kyasanur forest disease (KFD) or monkey fever in Wayanad. Three persons had died of the disease, and 29 KFD cases were reported in the district last season. Since the outbreak of the viral disease, transmitted to humans through a species of ticks found on monkeys, had been mainly reported from hamlets near forests, the public should be vigilant, especially during the peak period from November to April, Ms. Abdulla said. Health Department officials should adopt all possible steps such as intensifying the vaccination drive and organise awareness programmes in villages to tackle a possible outbreak, she added. Medicines, including antibiotics, and fluids should be stocked to meet emergency situations. Personal protection equipment including gloves, gumboots, and lotions will be supplied to people in KFD-hit areas, the Collector said. The disease was mainly reported from five grama panchayats in the district, including Thirunelly, Pulpally, Mullankolly, Poothadi, and Noolpuzha, District Surveillance Officer Savan Sara Mathew said.
22 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Matron’s death: welfare board official transferred||The director of the Kannur District Social Welfare Board and superintendent of the Azhikode Government Old Age Home have been transferred following the death of the matron of the old age home. She allegedly ended her life after her suspension from duty based on a complaint. While Pavithran Thaikandy, Director, District Social Welfare Board, was transferred to Kozhikode, Mohanan, superintendent, Government Old Age Home, Azhikode, was shifted to Thiruvananthapuram. According to Valapattanam Sub Inspector M.V. Sheeju, the matron took her life following her suspension based on a complaint by a nurse, who accused her of misbehaving with the staff. A case of unnatural death has been registered, and statements of 20 persons have been recorded, he said. Meanwhile, District Congress Committee president Satheesan Pacheni demanded a high-level probe into the incident. In a statement, Mr. Pacheni said legal action should be taken against those responsible for the matron’s death. The Congress will organise an agitation seeking justice for the family of the deceased, he said. Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000, and Direct Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISHA)- 1056
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC riders to Cheruvally estate land acquisition||The Kerala High Court on Friday refused to interfere in the State government directive to the Kottayam District Collector to begin the proceedings to acquire the Cheruvally estate for the Sabarimala greenfield airport. At the same time, the court stayed the government directive to the Collector to deposit the compensation for acquiring the land in a court as mandated by the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. It was on a petition moved by the Ayana Charitable Trust that the Single Judge of the Kerala High Court issued the order.  The State government had identified 2263.13 acres for an airport, which was earlier in the possession of Harrisons Malayalam Plantation. Earlier, the attempts of the State government to take over the holding were stayed by the High Court and the Supreme Court. Pronouncing the order on Friday, the Single Judge noted that the government was bound to conduct an investigation into the social impact of the acquisition of the land. The social impact study included an assessment related to the public purpose of the proposed acquisition, the order said. Expert opinion An expert group has to give an opinion to the State government whether the project would serve the pubic purpose or not. Thereafter, the government should examine the expert opinion to arrive at a final decision as to the bona fide public purpose for the project. It was only after completing these steps that the government was empowered to issue publication of the primary notification for the acquisition, the court noted. Church offers support Staff Reporter writes from Kottayam: Responding to the High Court order, the Believer’s Eastern Church said that it was never against the State government and offered its support to any development projects on the property. According to Fr. Sijo Panthappallil, official spokesperson of the Church, the Church approached the High Court as the State government had intended to take over the property without acknowledging its ownership rights on the land. “Now that the matter is settled, the government may approach us through proper channel seeking to take over the property,” he said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Chalking out an exit plan for SVEP||After creating 1,679 micro-enterprises benefiting as many families in Vadavucode block panchayat in nearly four years, the Startup Village Entrepreneurship Programme (SVEP) under the National Rural Livelihood Mission is set to complete its course in five months, leaving the District Kudumbashree Mission with the task of chalking out an exit strategy that does not leave behind the network of micro-enterprise consultants (MECs) created for the project. In Vadavucode The project was launched on a pilot basis in Vadavucode along with another block panchayat in Pathanamthitta with an allocation of Rs. 5.50 crore, shared in the ratio of 60:40 by the Central and State governments, in 2017 to ensure community development by harnessing entrepreneurial skills. “Out of this, Rs. 2.50 crore has been allocated as seed funds for starting enterprises in sectors other than agriculture and animal husbandry. And, unlike other Kudumbashree projects, in which funding is restricted to Neighbourhood Group (NHG) members alone, here it was available to any member of the family,” said Arathy Aravind, district programme manager, SVEP. The network of 19 trained MECs and the Block Nodal Society for Enterprise Promotion (BNSEP) constituted of 12 members remains the backbone of the project. Funds to beneficiaries are routed directly through the bank accounts of BNSEP members. MECs personally meet potential beneficiaries and their families in what is called a ‘triggering’ meeting when ideas are discussed and then take them through a one-day general orientation programme, followed by a two-day entrepreneurship development programme. MECs then inspect the site, conduct viability study, and submit detailed business reports based on which BNSEP clears the venture. “The exit strategy will have to focus on retaining the expertise of MECs within the Kudumbashree fold and ensuring a smooth transition of ownership of enterprises to BNSEP, so that they can operate without hiccups even after the District Kudumbashree Mission severs its links with the project. With the expiry of the project next year, alternative ways will have to be found to supplement the income of MECs, as their existing monthly earnings of anywhere between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 20,000 based on the target and consultancy-centric pay model may take a hit,” said Ms. Aravind. That the existing CDSs chairpersons will be replaced on January 26 means that the Kudumbashree is left with a narrow window to execute whatever exit plan they may draw up. Apart from the revolving fund of Rs. 2.50 crore that may be retained, alternative source may have to be found to set up new enterprises and support the existing ones.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prosecution fears unfair trial in actor rape case||Apprehending that the victim in the sensational actor rape case “will not get fair trial and justice,” the special public prosecutor has moved the court to stop the proceedings and shift the trial to another court. The police case is that the first six accused abducted the actor and sexually assaulted her in a moving car. Actor Dileep, the 8th accused, is facing conspiracy charges in the case. A. Sureshan, special public prosecutor, submitted before the Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI-3), Ernakulam, to stop the proceedings to enable him to approach the High Court to transfer the trial to any other court in the “interest of justice.” Prosecution’s fears The prosecution feared that justice would be denied to the victim if the case was tried in the present court. He submitted that the court was “highly biased,’’ which is detrimental to the judicial system. He submitted that the “trial of the case will be fair only if the judicial mind is uninfluenced by any extraneous matters. The conduct of the court to read out [an] anonymous letter in the open court and make remarks is opposed to fair trial and fairness of the judicial system,” he submitted. The prosecutor also complained that the court made some derogatory remarks, comments and baseless allegations against the prosecution and the special prosecutor. The court also made a few comments and remarks, which were not mentioned in the petition, for protecting the interest of justice, he submitted. At the same time, legal sources maintained that the trial was being conducted in a fair and balanced way as envisioned by the law. Neither the victim nor the women witnesses who were examined in the case had ever raised any concern regarding the fairness of the trial. The trial will have to be completed within the time frame fixed by the law and the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court, sources said. Mr. Sureshan, when contacted, said the Director General of Prosecution (DGP) was informed about the events before moving the petition in the court.  Responding to the developments, the Registry of the Kerala High Court said it had not formally received any complaints in this regard. However, the registry would look into what transpired in the court, judicial sources said. DGP Manjeri Sreedharan Nair said he had only unofficial knowledge about the issue. The petition should have been moved after the DGP clearing it. However, the issue would be inquired, he said.  Registry of the Kerala High Court says it has not formally received any complaint.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Untold stories of struggling tourism workforce||Among the worst hit by the pandemic, tourism stakeholders got together and readied “Untold Stories”, a short film, to show the plight of a bulk of its workforce who have been rendered without a source of regular income. The 10-minute short film shows how employees, mostly in the lower rung, are struggling to make ends meet, while being under pressure from, among others, demanding family members. It also portrays that hope is not lost forever. TCF initiative The initiative came from Tourism Care Foundation (TCF), which was constituted a few months ago to bring succour to tourism personnel who are in dire straits following the pandemic crisis. Its founder Shaik Ismail, a Kochi-based tour operator who produced the short film, spoke of how vast numbers of people — tour drivers, housekeeping staff, and others — even began contemplating taking their life. The film is aimed at highlighting their plight and to shed light on hopeful days ahead. Lending support Help poured in from, among others, actor Prithviraj who gave voice-over, while Stark Communications gave its cameras and other equipment. Director Lal released the film by uploading on Facebook. The film, directed by hotelier Abdul Gafoor, was shot in Thiruvananthapuram and its suburbs. Actors from sector All actors, including the main actor Shilendran Mohan, are from the hospitality and tour operator sectors. Kerala Tourism Secretary Rani George conveyed in a message addressed to members of the tourism fraternity that she was amazed at the talent of those who acted in the film. “The film was done professionally and conveyed a strong message on the prevailing situation. Amazing work by all in the team, and the film looked real. Excellent direction, screen play, cinematography, editing, and acting. Shilendran stands out with his acting prowess,” she said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Potholed roads give a hard time to Goshree islanders||There seems to be no end to the agony of Goshree islanders, who have over the years been crying foul at the bad condition of roads and bridges linking the isles with mainland Kochi. Having received much flak from commuters, the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) repaired several ill-maintained stretches that link the trio of Goshree bridges — the sole road connectivity from the island to the city. But bridges continue to be in bad shape, attracting complaints from, among others, Goshree Action Council, which spearheaded the campaign to realise the three bridges. GIDA is cash-strapped to undertake regular repair and maintenance work in road and bridge corridors. Neither is it in a position to execute work directly. Urgent repair work worth around Rs. 25 lakh was done, mostly using concrete paver blocks. Bridges too will be repaired, for which approximately Rs. 12 lakh is estimated. The delay occurred since the tender had to be called again, official sources said. The total restoration of roads and bridges will need around Rs. 3 crore, and GIDA is not in a position to spare this. Else, its general council headed by the Chief Minister must take a decision. The main issue with the bridges is that they give a bumpy ride in areas with expansion joints. This is because the height of the bitumen layer increased with each black-topping work. A sustainable solution would be to scrape the bitumen layer and apply mastic asphalt, sources said. Similarly, proper soil investigation must be done beneath roads, since they have around 40 metres of clayey soil underneath. Laying paver blocks is a good option, they added.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||As cases surge, Ernakulam shifts focus to critical care||The district administration is augmenting the number of oxygen-supported beds to handle a surge in COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam. The Adlux Convention Centre, which was functioning as a second-line treatment centre (SLTC) mostly for Category B patients, will now be converted into a “special” treatment centre, according to a doctor managing the facility. Earlier, patients with advanced symptoms were only given emergency care at the centre before they were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. It was being developed along the lines of a tertiary care facility where patients with serious symptoms but not requiring ventilators would be treated, said the doctor. Antiviral medicines will have to be supplied to the centre. It will also require more staff, including physicians and ICU-trained nurses. The facility is set to be upgraded in about a week. About 150 oxygen concentrators were brought to the convention centre on Friday and will be installed soon. The CIAL convention centre, which was a first-line treatment centre, is also being fitted with centralised oxygen supply for 150 beds. Category C patients who have mostly recovered at the MCH, but still require oxygen support are also to be accommodated at CIAL and Adlux. Five more SLTCs Five additional SLTCs are being readied for Category B patients in place of the first-line treatment centres at Kothamangalam, Paravur, Mattancherry, Perumbavoor and Mulanthuruthy. In addition to the 40 ICU beds and 100 high dependency units (HDU) at the MCH, 20 ICU beds and 30 HDU beds are functioning at PVS Hospital. While major private hospitals had also set aside over 320 ICU/HDU beds altogether, about 80% of the ICU/HDU beds in the district were occupied, putting the system in a tight spot and requiring that beds be set up at the two convention centres, outside of hospital facilities, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Private hospitals were testing patients who arrived for surgery or other treatments and those who tested positive were shifted to the isolation unit, irrespective of whether or not they needed intensive care, hence filling up beds, he said. Anticipating a further increase in the number of cases, the aim at present was to diagnose and treat Category B patients early, before they progressed to Category C and required critical care, said District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students from Kerala perform well in NEET||Aspirants from Kerala figured top in the rank list of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses, the results of which were declared on Friday. Eleven students from the State figured among the first 100 in the all-India rankings. Aysha S. of Koyilandy in Kozhikode secured 12th rank at the all-India level and emerged the State topper with 710 marks. She secured second rank in the OBC (Other Backward Classes) category at the national level. Aysha is hopeful of joining the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Second attempt “It was my second attempt. I was confident of scoring good marks, but never expected to become the State topper. I had devoted around 15 hours daily for my preparations,” she said. Lulu A. was on cloud nine after coming 22nd in the all-India rank list. A native of Nenmara in Palakkad, this was her second attempt. Lulu won 706 marks. "I was placed 448th in the all-India rank list in my first attempt. I started my preparations in the repeat attempt by concentrating on Physics in the first phase and focusing on Biology in the last phase," she said. Lulu, who completed her Plus Two from Government Higher Secondary School, Nenmara, would like to join AIIMS. She was placed second among the Keralites who wrote the test. Sanish Ahammed, a native of Vellimadukunnu in Kozhikode, bagged the 25th position in the all-India ranking. "This was my second attempt. I had referred to NCERT textbooks for my preparation. The online sessions provided by my coaching institute also helped a lot," he said. Sanish was hopeful that he could join the AIIMS. Justy Joseph, a faculty member of a coaching institute, said the students in Kerala have come up with a good performance compared with the previous year. “The questions were relatively easy this time and based on the NCERT syllabus,” he said.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mattancherry synagogue restoration work halted||The restoration of the Kadavumbhagam synagogue at Mattancherry, which was a place of worship for the Malabari Jews, is caught in a tussle between the State Department of Archaeology and local residents. After a portion of the roof of the synagogue and its facade collapsed last year, the Archaeology Department had decided to erect a temporary roof to prevent the structure from crumbling further. The work was to have been completed by June, before the rains set in, but pandemic-related restrictions kept it from progressing. When work on the roof of the 16th century structure began last week, residents put a halt to it, said a senior official of the department, who asked not to be named. Since a full-blown restoration of the synagogue would be a painstaking process that could involve reconstructing it from existing images, the department had settled on mending the roof temporarily. Besides, the property itself remains in private hands, and the process of acquiring it is still under way, keeping a complete conservation in cold storage, the official said. “While some residents argued that the work cannot proceed without the Kochi Corporation’s permission, the department has not received any official notice from the corporation or the owner of the building to stop the work,” the official added. According to T.K. Ashraf, councillor representing Mattancherry, residents in the area are worried that declaring the structure a monument will bring with it restrictions on construction around it. K.M. Sajeer Majid, a resident, said work would not be allowed to resume unless the residents were promised that declaring the structure a protected site would not hinder any construction or repair work on houses nearby. ‘Fears baseles’ The official of the Archaeology Department said that no restrictions on construction existed around sites protected by the department. “Specific restrictions are in place only for structures protected by the Archaeological Survey of India. Their fears are baseless,” he added. The synagogue was in use till most of the Malabari Jews in the area moved to Israel in the 1950s, and the property was turned into a privately owned warehouse. A primary notification declaring it a historically rich structure protected by the Archaeology Department was issued in 2015, and the process of acquiring the property was initiated. A final notification protecting it is yet to be issued, pending complete acquisition.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KRDCL entrusted with feasibility study on coaching terminal||The Southern Railway has formally given the nod to Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) to do a feasibility study to develop Ernakulam Marshalling Yard as a new coaching terminal. KRDCL had also sought the Railway’s consent to ready a detailed report for the project envisaged in 110 acres of Railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area. Demand Hibi Eden, MP, had in September written to the Southern Railway, demanding that the agency be entrusted with the two studies. Mr. Eden made the demand as there was delay by the Railway Land Development Authority in readying a feasibility study . The proposal is to hew out six platforms in the area, on a public-private partnership basis, in the first phase. Decongest Once readied, the terminal is expected to considerably decongest Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations, while speeding up train movement in central Kerala.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man dead after brawl with son||A 63-year-old man on Friday morning succumbed to injuries sustained in a drunken brawl with his son at their house at Cheranalloor. The deceased was identified as Bharathan, and his 38-year-old son Unnikrishnan has been accused of murder. Both were admitted to a private hospital following the fight on Thursday night. Bharathan was brought in with multiple injuries and damage to internal organs. The police said that the father-son duo, both coconut climbers, used to fight frequently under the influence of alcohol and it was one such fight on Thursday evening that led to the tragedy. Both allegedly used their machetes to attack each other.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two arrested on charge of stealing furniture||The Town North police arrested two persons accused of stealing furniture, refrigerator, and freezer from an eatery at Kaloor that was not being operated for a while. The arrested are Sanjay, 23, and Rajesh, 22, of Thripunithura. They were the fifth and sixth accused in the case and were charged with taking away valuables in a tipper lorry. The first accused, Raju, and fourth accused, Binoy, had already been arrested. The arrest was made on a petition filed by the woman entrepreneur who has been running the eatery since 2015. Following a dispute between the entrepreneur and the building owner over the alleged expiry of lease agreement in 2019, the eatery had remained closed. According to the police, a group led by Raju had forcibly entered the eatery and taken away the valuables. A similar attempt six days later was foiled on the intervention of the police. Cheating case A person accused of having sexually exploited a woman and usurped her money after promising to marry her before leaving the country two years ago was arrested on his return at the Kochi airport on Friday. A lookout notice had been issued for Abdul Khadar, 47, after the woman filed a petition. The emigration officials detained him on arrival.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MDMA case: 3 more held||The Kochi City police on Friday arrested three more accused in connection with the seizure of 21 grams of premium recreational drugs from two college students from a rented room in Edappally more than seven months ago. The arrested were identified as Muhammed Yasin, 20, of Koovappady; Jophin Varghese, 19, of Palarivattom; and Aftab Liyaqat, 20, of Edathalla. So far, eight accused have been arrested in connection with the case. The police said that a gang of four, including Muhammed Shifas, 20, of Aluva, who was arrested on Thursday, had taken a room adjoining the building from which the youngsters were arrested with the drug. The gang had allegedly taken the room for the purpose of selling drugs to college students and absconded as soon as the youngsters were arrested. Nigerian arrested The police had also arrested a Nigerian from whom the drug was sourced for Rs. 40,000, paid by Shifas. The foreigner also has similar cases against him in Goa, added the police.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kamaruddin moves HC||Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin has moved the Kerala High Court to quash the registration of police cases against him. The legislator was arraigned as the second accused in a cheating case booked by the Chandera police, Kasaragod, recently. The petitioner submitted that there was no prima facie case against him and the booking of the case amounted to abuse of the process of law. The case was the result of a politically motivated action of the ruling front.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. for speeding up city gas project||The State government will not brook any delay in realising the city gas project, and local bodies have been directed to take action within 21 days on giving permission for trenching roads as part of the initiative, according to a press release. Any hassles in this regard must be communicated to the government in two days. The direction was given at a meeting convened by the Local Self-Government Department. Local bodies had raised concern that road-digging for the project would attract criticism from road users. They further refused to take up the resurfacing work. Thus, it was decided that Indian Oil-Adani Gas would take up the resurfacing work and restore dug-up roads within a month. It was also decided to convene a meeting of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to discuss repair of potholed portions of the NH Bypass, mainly at Kundannur and Vyttila.
22 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held under KAAPA||The Ernakulam Rural police on Friday arrested two persons invoking the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) under its Operation Dark Hunt. The arrested were identified as Ashik, 25, of Cherai, and Vishnu aka Pallani Vishnu, 29, of Angamaly. Both have numerous cases against them and were arrested based on a report by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Ashik has around 15 cases, including for murder, rape, and attempt to murder. The police had arrested him under KAAPA twice in the past. He was out on bail and was allegedly planning fresh crimes.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||606 new cases in district||A total of 76 health workers were among the 606 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The source of infection of 342 people, over half of those who tested positive on Friday, remains uncertain. As many as 184 people have contracted the infection through local contact. From the Mattancherry area, 41 people have tested positive, besides 31 people from Thrikkakara. Thrippunithura, Palluruthy and Paipra registered over 20 new cases each on Friday. Fresh cases of the infection were also reported from areas including Edappally, Fort Kochi, Kalamassery, Cheranalloor and Perumbavoor. With 842 recoveries, the district’s active caseload stands at 12,323. Around 29,591 people remain in quarantine. While 9,299 people are recovering at home, 192 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital and 53 patients at the PVS Hospital. For testing, 4,847 samples were collected.
22 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waste disposal: consortium wins bid||The consortium of Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. and Bauer GmbH, Germany, has won the minimum qualification score in the evaluation of technical bid for rehabilitation of nearly one lakh cubic metres of old waste lying at the Brahmapuram dumping yard. The evaluation committee appointed by the government found the bid to be having substantial responsiveness to the terms and conditions in the terms of reference for the project. The technical bids of two other consortiums failed to earn the minimum qualification score and were rejected by the committee for multiple reasons, according to the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the nodal agency for engagement of private players for waste management. The technical and financial bids of the consortium that won the minimum qualification score have been submitted before the government. A decision on awarding the work order to the consortium will be taken by the government. The bid evaluation committee looked into the experience of the bidders in similar projects. The consortiums were asked to submit certificates from clients proving their expertise in handling similar projects. The government has accorded a time period of nine months to bio-mine heaps of waste once the work order is issued to the firm chosen for the project. The Department of Local Self-Government and the Kochi Corporation will be responsible for ensuring that the firm completes the work within the stipulated time-frame. The selected firm will have to biomine the existing legacy waste and recover the entire area, including the land allotted to the Indian Medical Association, for the development of a biomedical treatment plant. It should ensure recovery of the land by cutting and levelling it to the maximum possible extent, aimed at getting a relatively flat land after bio-mining. The successful bidder has to scientifically process the old garbage as per the guidelines specified in the SWM Rules 2016. The project will be based on Design and Build Basis. The agency selected should submit a management plan for dumping site land reclamation, excavation, screening and resource recovery, bio-mining of unprocessed municipal solid waste, and development of facility for scientific disposal of residual solid waste. The government had taken over the task of scientific management of old waste accumulated at Brahmapuram from the Kochi Corporation by invoking Section 24(e) of the Disaster Management, Act, 2005.
22 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Women get an industrial estate||Forest Minister K.Raju on Friday inaugurated Kollam’s first industrial estate for women entrepreneurs built by the district panchayat at Kareepra. “Women who want to take to entrepreneurship can now come to Kareepra as the estate has all facilities. Only Rs. 2 will be charged per sq ft,” he said in his inaugural address. In the first phase of the project, seven industrial sheds were constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.3 crore. Two multi-storey buildings will be built in the next phase. The Minister pointed out that the government has been implementing several schemes to protect those engaged in farming from legal hassles. “Earlier licence was needed for rearing more than five cows and more than 20 chickens. Steps have been taken to extend the numbers to 20 and 1,000 respectively. The Ordinance is awaiting Governor's clearance,” he added. District panchayat president C. Radhamai said that the panchayat has been focussing on addressing unemployment through its different projects. “The projects benefiting several people have fetched us two national awards and many State awards,” she said. P.Aisha Potty, MLA, was the chief guest on the occasion. Panchayat vice president S.Venugopal, members K.Jagadamma and T.Girijakumari also attended the event.
22 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam adds 418 more cases||The district reported 418 new COVID-19 cases and 746 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 410 contact cases, three persons with no known source, three health workers and two persons who had travelled from other States. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kunnathur, West Kallada and Vadakkumbhagam. The health workers who tested positive include three from Kadakkal, Pooyappally and Perayam residents. The district currently has 19,340 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,79,526. While 1,611 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 61,566 primary and 7,267 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present, Kollam has 7,333 active cases. Cases registered Meanwhile, the sector magistrates deployed by the district administration have so far registered 1,194 cases for not following COVID-19 protocol. “On Friday alone, 300 cases were registered and inspection at shops and public places will continue in coming days too,” said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar.
22 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||A hundred green islands come up in Kollam||Various local bodies in the district have converted 10 hectares of fallow land into 100 green islands as part of the Pachathuruthu project, an initiative of the Haritha Keralam Mission. The Kollam Corporation alone has developed 23 natural green habitats and the authorities are planning to extend the project to all 55 wards. Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS) workers were in charge of preparing the land, planting and maintaining the biowall. A stretch of land near the Kollam beach was transformed into a Pachathuruthu to prevent waste dumping in the area and the surrounding biowalls are expected to protect the islands from encroachment. At present, 38 local bodies is the district have developed natural and heterogeneous green patches full of endemic trees and plants. The authorities had identified fallow lands that also included public places after the project was announced. Bags award Karunagapally municipality that cultivated a herbal garden on the premises of Government Ayurveda Hospital bagged an award from the Haritha Keralam Mission. The local body has set aside 2 cents of land to grow the herbal garden while a mini forest similar to Mangalavanam in Kochi will come up in 40 cents of land attached to the municipal crematorium. The bio-diverse green island will have bamboo, shrubs, herbs, trees and a biowall. The Kulathupuzha grama panchayat has grown three islands near post office, KSRTC stand, and handloom weaving centre. Fruit trees at Alappad Alappad grama panchayat that has been facing serious environmental threats has grown a mini forest of fruit-bearing trees on 2.5 acres of land that was lying idle after mineral sand-mining. The local body has also planted mangroves to protect the water sources in the region as part of the project. The Social Forestry Division had provided the saplings required for the project and at present efforts are on to record the location, area, number of plants and species at each Pachathuruthu using satellite mapping with the help of the Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM). The target of the project is one green island in every local body across the State. The Haritha Keralam Mission has issued specific guidelines for cultivating mini forests and expanding the green cover. Mostly indigenous varieties matching the topography of the place will be planted. In connection with the intensive drive, everything from thick natural forests spread in multiple acres to small green patches will come alive in land belonging to government, institutions, private parties, and puramboke.
22 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Puttingal tragedy: 59 accused in chargesheet||The Crime Branch team investigating the Puttingal firecracker tragedy of 2016 on Friday filed a chargesheet listing 59 accused, including 15 temple committee officials. The Special Investigation Team led by Inspector General of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejit filed the chargesheet before the Paravur judicial first class magistrate court here. The 533-page chargesheet also absolves other officials, including those from the district administration. The chargesheet listed 1,417 witnesses, 1,611 documents, and 376 objects. The incident took place on April 10 when sparks from a fireworks display fell on a storehouse filled with crackers, resulting in a colossal explosion. While 110 people died in the accident, several others sustained major and minor injuries. Criticism over delay Many had been left handicapped and many houses were damaged in the explosion. It took the Crime Branch four years to file the chargesheet and the delay had generated much criticism.  Crime Branch files chargesheet before the Paravur judicial first class magistrate court.
22 October 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Training in fodder farming||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training programme in fodder grass cultivation. The session will be on Google Meet from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. on October 21. Those interested should register by October 19. For registration, contact 0476 2698550.
22 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||3 killed, 2 injured as car, bus collide in Kottayam||Three persons, including a woman, were killed and two children were seriously injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a KSRTC bus at Thrikkothamangalam, near Puthuppally, on Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Jins (33) of Mundakkayam and his relatives Jalaja (40) and Murali (70). Jalaja’s children, Athul (16), and Aswin (15), who sustained serious injuries, have been admitted to the intensive care unit of the Government Medical College Hospital here. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary at the District General Hospital. The accident took place around 5.30 p.m. along the Puthuppally-Vakathanam road at Eravinalloor- Thrikkothamangalam junction. The KSRTC bus was heading from Changanassery to Ettumanur via Puthuppally. The car, which came from the opposite direction, collided head on with the bus. The car was completely damaged in the impact of the collision. Eyewitnesses’ accounts suggested that the car had skidded off the road in heavy rain and crashed into the bus. The passengers, who were trapped inside the car, were taken out after cutting open the vehicle.
22 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||432 persons test positive in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise sharply in Kottayam with 432 persons testing positive for the disease on Friday. Of the new cases, 424 persons, including 24 health care workers, contracted the virus through local contact. Most affected Kottayam municipality continued to lead the tally with 67 cases, followed by Ettumanoor and Changanassery municipalities with 33 and 32 cases apiece. Local bodies including Erumely, Ettumanoor, Erattupetta, Panachikkad, and Vaikom also reported relatively high number of cases. 250 recoveries With 250 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,177 active cases. Of the total 17,240 cases reported in the district, 11,224 persons have recovered so far.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||970 more test positive in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district recorded 970 more COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of these, 886 were local transmission cases. The source of infection could not be traced in 76 cases. Eight health workers were among the infected. When 8,734 people were tested on Friday, the test positivity rate stood at 11.30%. The district also reported 1,154 recoveries. There are now 12,277 active cases. As many as 873 people were added to the list of those under observation on Friday. With this, the number of people under observation has gone up to 31,425.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exit of Jose faction a blessing in disguise for Congress||The exit of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) from the United Democratic Front (UDF) has come as a blessing in disguise for the Congress party in Kozhikode district to re-energise its grassroots-level workers, especially in the hill regions. The Congress party has been sacrificing some of its local seats, including those in the district panchayat and the Perambra Assembly segment, for the Kerala Congress (M) only to maintain the coalition propriety within the UDF. Now, most of these seats would be taken back for the Congress to contest. Congress leaders know very well that the Kerala Congress (M) has little or no influence in Kozhikode district. Yet the party has been giving the Perambra seat to the Kerala Congress since the 1977 Assembly polls. Except K.C. Joseph of the Kerala Congress, who remained as legislator till 1980, none of the nominees have won from the segment till now. Such political arrangements have always upset local leaders and workers of the Congress party. Incidentally, the Perambra seat was won by K.G. Adiyodi of the Congress in the 1970 polls and he remained MLA till 1977. (The normal five-year term of the Assembly which expired on October 21, 1975 was extended on three occasions over six-month periods during the Emergency). Direct fight CPI(M) candidates have been winning from Perambra since 1980. In the previous polls, Minister for Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan won the seat defeating Muhammad Iqbal, albeit by a small margin of over 4, 000 votes. Mr. Iqbal, who hailed from Kottayam, had also contested unsuccessfully on the KC(M) ticket in the 2011 polls when the UDF came to power. Possibly, Congress leaders believe, Perambra will witness a direct fight between the Congress and the CPI (M) in the Assembly polls next year. As of now, the Kerala Congress (M) has nine members in various grama panchayats and the majority of them owe allegiance to the Jose K. Mani faction. At the same time, a few leaders are with the P.J. Joseph faction as well. Congress leaders hope that the P.J. Joseph faction will not unsettle the electoral plans of the party.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amid curbs, Sarovaram biopark thrown open to visitors||Taking advantage of the latest unlock guidelines, the Sarovaram biopark was thrown open to visitors by sticking to COVID-19 protocol on Friday. Visitors were allowed to enter the premises after completing a QR-code based registration formality. Entry fee was also collected from the majority using a QR-code based payment method. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) officials said the visiting time was reduced to one hour to comply with the State-level guidelines. At a time, only 20 persons would be allowed inside the park and the system would continue, they said. “We have deployed our trained staff to disinfect the premises using the newly purchased sanitiser sprayers at regular intervals. There are also sufficient number of sanitiser dispensers at the entry point for the use of visitors,” said DTPC Secretary Beena Madusoodanan. She said the park would function from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Decision pending Though the State government had already taken a favourable decision for the reopening of beach destinations from November 1, a final decision on the same would be announced only after a district-level review meeting. According to Tourism Department officials, the main concern for Kozhikode is the increased number of critical containment zones along the coastal areas. Similarly, eco-tourism spots too would be opened after reviewing the situations by a district-level committee. According to Tourism Department officials, the Arippara waterfalls could be opened in the first phase as all arrangements had been made it. The Thusharagiri falls could be opened to the public only after getting clearance from the Forest Department, they said. Beautification projects Meanwhile, the official inauguration of two beautification projects covering the Vadakara sandbanks and the Mananchira Square in Kozhikode district will be held on October 22. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the projects through videoconferencing. Tourism Department officials said the State government spent Rs. 99.36 lakh for the beautification of Vadakara sandbanks, one of the prominent beach tourism destinations in Kozhikode district. The Mananchira Square was beautified by spending Rs. 1.70 crore. Both the projects had been included in the Chief Minister’s 100 projects in Hundred Days initiative.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mavoor Road crematorium will be renovated in six months: Mayor||Renovation work on the Kozhikode Corporation’s crematorium on Mavoor Road will commence on Monday. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran told reporters here on Friday that the Rs. 3.03-crore project was expected to be completed in six months. The century-old Chalthara crematorium is located on IG Road, an annexe of Mavoor Road between the mofussil bus stand and the KSRTC bus terminal. For years, local people have been complaining about the pollution and foul smell caused by burning of bodies at the crematorium. The basic purpose of the renovation was to solve these issues, said A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA. At present, the crematorium has two traditional furnaces besides an electric and gas furnace. While the latter two are in good condition, the traditional furnaces are in poor condition, and since they are located at a lower level of land, waterlogging is a constant problem for cremations here. The idea is to elevate the land to the road level to avoid further waterlogging and construct a new crematorium complex there. The new crematorium complex will feature three gas chambers. There will be no traditional furnaces to avoid the chances of pollution. “Gas furnaces can be operated at a much cheaper rate. A single cremation does not take more than an hour and a half. Thus an average of eight cremations can be carried out in a furnace on a single day,” the MLA added. The new cremation complex will also feature a main hall where funeral rituals can be carried out, another hall for condolence meetings, toilets, bathrooms, flower stalls, office space and ash collection facility. Special filters will be added to rid the smoke of polluting gases and a water treatment plant to rid the water of any polluting agents before it is emptied into waterbodies. Besides, large-scale landscaping and beautification activities will also be carried out to make the crematorium premises more pleasant. The electric and gas furnaces will be available for use during the six months of the renovation period. However, traditional cremation facilities will only be available at other crematoriums at West Hill, Puthiyapalam, Manaari, Mankavu, Nallalam, Beypore or Gotheeshwaram. Health Standing Committee Chairman of the Corporation K.V. Baburaj was also present.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bar on unqualified traditional medical practitioners||The Kerala government can no longer permit people without qualification to practice traditional medicine or ‘paramparya vaidyam’, naturopathy or any other forms of alternative medicine. This follows a Kerala High Court order on October 14 which quashed government orders exempting registration for unqualified practitioners. The order termed a certain provision that gave powers to the authorities to do so as ‘unconstitutional.’ Raju Thomas, president, and Sadath Dinakar, general secretary, Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI), said in a release on Thursday that their organisation had legally challenged the government order issued in 2011 allowing unqualified people to practice traditional medicine. Central Act The court pointed out that the orders issued by the State government “with respect to the exemption from registration by invoking the powers conferred under the 1st proviso to Section 38 of the Travancore-Cochin Medical Practitioners (TCMP) Act, 1953 is repugnant to the provisions of the Central Act of 1970” and was ‘unconstitutional.’ The Division Bench said the orders providing registration to unqualified practitioners of naturopathy and other alternative medicines were in conflict with the provisions of the Central Act, orders of the Government of India, and the guidelines specified. The court also struck down the first proviso to Section 38 of the TCMP Act, 1953. The AMAI functionaries said that the High Court order was against the backdrop of a Supreme Court order in 2017 which said that people who are not qualified and not registered themselves with the respective medical councils should not be allowed to practice medicine. Those who violate the law are liable to be punished by one year in jail or Rs. 5 lakh as fine, or both, they added.  The order termed a certain provision that gave powers to the authorities to do so as ‘unconstitutional’
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Documents seized from office of financial firm in Kozhikode||As part of the continuing investigation into the Popular Finance scam, the Kasaba police on Friday seized a number of documents related to various financial transactions and deposits made at the financier’s Kallayi Road branch office. The officer heading the probe said the branch office was closed to secure the remaining documents and make them available for scrutiny in the next phase of investigation. Around 49 grams of gold and liquid cash to the tune of Rs. 22.5 lakh had already been recovered from the branch. The office key had also been seized. The management, however, told the police that cash was accepted at the branch while returning the pawned gold ornaments to the depositors. The police said they had received complaints from 22 persons against the suspected financial fraud by the firm. Investors claimed a loss of Rs. 1.86 crore from the branch alone. In Kozhikode city, investors have complained against four branches within the limits of Kasaba, Mavoor, Nadakkavu and Chevayur police stations, they added.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K programme for entrepreneurs||The Laboratory for Innovation, Venturing and Entrepreneurship (LIVE) at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K) has launched a novel fellowship programme to promote innovation-led entrepreneurship. The programme — LIVE Innovation Fellowship for Entrepreneurship (LIFE) — has been specially conceptualised for first-generation innovative entrepreneurs who are committed to exploring an innovative idea that has the potential to evolve into a product that solves a real problem, a statement said here on Friday. The LIFE programme grants fellowship awards with subsistence grant (monthly stipend) to an aspiring or budding entrepreneur of considerable potential for developing technology or business model innovation into a business venture. Along with the awards, it offers pre-incubation support at IIM-K’s Entrepreneurship Development Center. The LIFE award recipient will be eligible for a grant in the form of monthly stipend limited to Rs. 30,000 a month with a minimum level of Rs. 10,000 per month for a period of 12 months. Besides, the recipient gets pre-incubation support that includes subsidised co-working space, professional services support, and guidance to establish or make the most out of their ideas and turn innovative breakthroughs into a business venture. Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIM-K, said the LIFE fellowship awards had been conceptualised to encourage passionate innovators who wish to convert their innovations into viable products or commercial offerings. Prof. Keyoor Purani, Executive Director, IIM-K LIVE, said the year-long fellowship programme would also have dedicated awards for start-up entrepreneurs from SC and ST communities to promote social inclusion under the LIFE programme. If the awardees are able to start a new venture with a proof-of-concept or a Minimum Viable Product (MVP), they will also be considered for the prestigious Business Incubation Programme (BIP) for incubation of their start-ups at IIM-K LIVE. LIFE is a specific offering of IIM-K LIVE under the NIDHI-EIR programme of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. The applications for the award of LIFE Fellowship programme are now open at www.IIM-Klive.org, and interested applicants can apply for this unique career-defining fellowship award by November 15.
22 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Construct new registration office: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has directed the Inspector General (Registration) to expedite the process for the construction of the new registration office building in Kozhikode. Based on a complaint filed by M.C. Francis, Karapparamba, the commission has also asked the Kozhikode Corporation Secretary to take necessary action in this regard. Judicial member P. Mohandas has noted that the office is situated in a more than 150-year-old building, which is in a dilapidated condition.
22 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||65 health workers among infected||As many as 1,025 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Friday. While 786 of them were infected through direct local contact, the source of infection could not be identified in 165 cases. As many as 65 health workers were infected in the district on Friday. The number of active cases stood at 8,600. Officials said there were 432 recoveries. Over 48,000 people were quarantined across the district. In Kannur As many as 405 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Friday. Among them, 383 people contracted the virus through contact. Of the existing COVID-19 cases in the district, 4,791 are being treated at home and the remaining 871 are being treated at various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 234 more people contracted the disease on Friday. Of these, 224 were local transmission cases. Ten health workers were among the infected.  In Wayanad A total of 158 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday, taking the total number of active COVID-19 cases to 1,118. Of the new cases, 151 were infected through local contact and seven persons came from other States. As many as 155 people also recovered from the disease on Friday .
22 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Now, an alternative to the depleting drug Sarpagandha||A team of researchers from the Centre for Medicinal Plants Research (CMPR) at the Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal, have discovered a viable alternative to a depleting drug widely used for treatment of high blood pressure in Ayurveda. The alternative to the famous drug Sarpagandha was found in a study that lasted several years. Taken from the root Sarpagandha is taken from the root of a plant named Rauvolfia serpentina or Indian snakeroot and is a vital drug in Ayurveda used for high blood pressure, asthma, and insomnia. It is a critically endangered species belonging to the family Apocynaceae. The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has red-listed this plant following its overexploitation. Shortage C.T. Sulaiman, senior scientist who led the research under Indira Balachandran, said that the shortage of Sarpagandha had begun to seriously affect the Ayurveda drug industry in the country. “Some started using spurious drugs in the name of Sarpagandha because of its non-availability,” said Dr. Sulaiman. The study found that the root of Rauvolfia tetraphylla , a plant belonging to the genus Rauvolfia, shared the same biological properties of Rauvolfia serpentina . “We could validate the similarity between those plants and could suggest Rauvolfia tetraphylla as a viable alternative to Sarpagandha,” said Dr. Sulaiman. Journal The latest issue of Beni-Suef University Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences published by the Springer Nature has carried the research findings of Dr. Sulaiman and team. K.M. Prabhukumar, C.K. Jyothi, and Jinu Krishnan Unnithan were part of the team. The National Medicinal Plants Board, Union Ministry of AYUSH, sponsored the study.  It is a critically endangered species belonging to the family Apocynaceae
22 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||648 in Palakkad||After a brief lull in the spread of COVID-19, Palakkad district saw yet another spurt when 648 people tested positive for the disease on Friday. District officials said that 434 of them contracted the virus through local contacts. However, there were 187 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. Ten cases came from other States and abroad. Among those tested positive on Friday, 17 were health workers. District officials said 322 infected people recovered from the disease. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district rose to 6,773. Apart from them, 57 people from Palakkad were being treated in Ernakulam, 46 in Malappuram, 17 in Kozhikode, seven in Thrissur, two in Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Kannur and Alappuzha.
22 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kanayi denies using model for Yakshi||Sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman has denied using any model for the construction of his iconic statue Yakshi at the Malampuzha garden. It was reported that the legs of a woman named Nafeesa, who died over a week ago, had been used as a model for the construction of Yakshi. The report was on the basis of the statements made by two other workers involved in the construction of the celebrated statue. Mr. Kunhiraman, in a statement, denied using the late Nafeesa as a model for Yakshi. “During the last 51 years of my active involvement in making sculptures, I never used any model for my works. The Malampuzha Yakshi is an imagination and there cannot be a model for it. I was always against using models by some western artists for their paintings,” he said. The 83-year-old sculptor said that his aim was to evolve an Indian culture and art-based sculpture tradition. “For the sculptures in different places in Kerala such as Shanghumugham, Veli, Kottayam and GCDA Kochi, I used the Indian traditional art, folk and temple architect (sic),” he said. According to Mr. Kunhiraman, using a model for his statue will defeat the very purpose of his efforts of the 51 years and will be against the values that he stood for.
22 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ananthodu reservoir almost full||In view of the continuing rainfall in the Sabarimala forests, water level in the Kakki-Ananthodu reservoir, which is part of the Sabarigiri hydroelectric project, was close to attaining the full reservoir level on Friday. Red alert With the water level in the dam reaching 978.33 meters by 6 p.m., the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sounded a red alert for the people living on the banks of the Pampa and Kakkattar. In view of the continuing rainfall, authorities may release water from the reservoir after 8 a.m. on Saturday According to officials, the blue, orange and red alerts for the reservoir are issued when the water level rises to 976.83 m, 977.83 m and 978.33 m respectively. District Collector P.B. Noohu has advised the people living on the riverbanks to exercise caution.
22 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Tally is 296 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 296 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday, of which 255 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 10 persons had come from abroad. The source of infection of 31 persons was yet to be ascertained. With 35 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases while Ranni and Erathu followed with 18 and 16 cases apiece. Three deaths Three more COVID-19 patients died in the district, taking the total number of deaths to 70. The victims were identified as a 64-year-old man from Chittar, 81-year-old man from Ranni and a 65-year-old man from Erathu, who had committed suicide two days ago. With 302 recoveries, the district currently has 2975 active cases.
22 October 2020||R.K. RoshniThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two cafés on wheels from month-end||Kudumbashree is going to improve its presence in the city’s food scene with the opening of two restaurants on wheels by the end of this month. The Kudumbashree district mission is gearing up to open a Pink Café and a Café Kudumbashree on refurbished buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) at East Fort and Thampanoor respectively. While Café Kudumbashree specialises in ethnic cuisine, the Pink Café will serve primarily steamed food, though fish, chicken, and packed lunches too will be on the menu. The buses, with facilities to seat at least 10 diners, will have the added advantage of being parked on KSRTC property in prime locations in the city, says Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju. Condemned KSRTC buses are being refurbished to operate as food trucks. Work on them is expected to be completed early next week. The Kudumbashree has handed over a deposit of Rs. 1 lakh each for the buses. It will give the KSRTC a rent of Rs. 20,000 a month for three years. The kitchens in the buses are being set up at a cost of Rs. 2.1 lakh each. The restaurants will be manned by five-member teams led by Subha of Mangalapuram and Aswathy of Kochulloor. Part of the Yuvashree initiative of the Kudumbashree, the two teams will be given training before the cafes become operational. On-the-job training will also be conducted for the members. The units will be monitored by one of the personnel from Kudumbashree’s empanelled agencies that provide training to catering groups.  Jobs to 20 people This is the first time in the State that the Kudumbashree is rolling out such a venture, says Mr. Shaiju. The cafes will provide employment to nearly 20 persons as part of Kudumbashree district mission’s target of providing jobs to 10,000 people under the State government’s 100-day action plan, says Dr. Shaiju. The cafes will be inaugurated by Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen and Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran in the presence of Kudumbashree Executive Director Harikishore S. and KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar at the month-end.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Encouraging cycling culture||To encourage students in the city to cycle to school once they reopen, the Indus Cycling Embassy here has launched ‘Bicycle Trains’ to familiarise them with various routes they can pedal along. Since students cannot be expected to cycle to school straightaway once they reopen, bicycle trains are being organised for the past couple of days to acquaint them with the routes. For now, they are being organised on two routes — from Kachani to Kowdiar and from Sreekaryam to Kowdiar. The Kachani bicycle train for students begins at 6.20 a.m. and takes the Vattiyurkavu-Maruthankuzhi-Edapazhanji-Manaveeyam-Kowdiar route to conclude at 7 a.m. The second bicycle train from Sreekaryam begins at 6.15 a.m. and takes the Medical College-Ulloor-Kesavadasapuram-Pattom-Kuravankonam-Kowdiar route. Bicycle trains on other routes such as Karakulam-Peroorkada; Kamaleswaram-Manaveeyam; Karamana-Thirumala; and Chakka-Pettah-Pattoor are on the cards. There are already 15 students taking part in these bicycle trains.  Bicycle brigades With school reopening still a distance away, word-of-mouth publicity and social media will attract more young cyclists, especially from the bicycle brigades in schools, says Prakash Gopinath, the city’s bicycle mayor.  Encouraging students to cycle to schools is an attempt to develop a cycling culture, he says. The idea is that when students pedal to school in large groups, they are very visible and there is safety in numbers. Also, traffic personnel can be alerted about their approach, making it possible to receive favourable traffic signals. “If a couple of students cycle from, say, Peroorkada to SMV school, they can be joined en route by students from other schools such as Cotton Hill, Model School, or St. Joseph’s and ride together, even if they will need to branch off somewhere during the trip.” The children, he says, will be escorted by adult members of the organisation during the morning school rides. For the ongoing bicycle trains, the COVID-19 protocol is strictly ensured. Besides helmets, masks, sanitisers, water bottles, and physical distancing are ensured, says Prakash.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Customs officials take Sivasankar to hospital||A team of Customs officers rushed M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to a private hospital here after he complained of uneasiness on Friday evening. The officers had reportedly arrived at the IAS officer's house to escort him to the Customs House here. The hospital authorities admitted Mr. Sivasankar to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit after he complained of chest pain. An initial report suggested that the doctors had diagnosed Mr. Sivasankar with elevated blood pressure and an erratic heart rate. The Customs reportedly wanted to question Mr. Sivasankar on suspicion of aiding gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to spirit away a vast sum of foreign currency from the country to Dubai during one of their alleged joint travel. Named accused It was unclear whether the agency has named Mr. Sivasankar as an accused in the currency smuggling case under the provisions of the Customs Act or wanted to arrest him. The Customs was reportedly in possession of statements from Swapna's accomplices in the economic offence that she used her trips with Mr. Sivasankar to Dubai as a cover for foreign currency smuggling. The agency "suspected" that the currency smuggling could be a component of a hawala operation to compensate the Dubai end of the international gold smuggling racket. An investigator said Mr. Sivasankar's presence could have given Swapna a measure of cover for her alleged illegal activities. They were perusing immigration records and air passenger manifestos of their "joint travel" to foreign countries find if there was any culpability on the part of Mr. Sivasankar.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The Golden Chariot to Kerala||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) that has given fresh life to Golden Chariot, the luxury train on wheels, has included destinations in Kerala in its itinerary. Kumarakom and Kochi have found a place in the ‘Jewels of South’ six nights/seven days itinerary in the new avatar of the Golden Chariot. Kerala Tourism has offered properties in Guruvayur, Munnar, Thekkady, and Wayanad, which will come in handy for the IRCTC. This will be the first trip of the luxury train to Kerala after the IRCTC, the travel, tourism and hospitality arm of the Ministry of Railways, took over marketing and operations in January 2020. The other two thematic tours — ‘Pride of Karnataka’ and ‘Glimpses of Karnataka’ do not touch Kerala. Newly upholstered furniture, elegant drapery, smart TVs for wholesome entertainment, renovated rooms and bathrooms, exquisite range of linen, and crockery and cutlery of international brand await guests. CCTV cameras and fire alarm have been added for ensuring more safety. Experienced chefs have created new menus for foreign and domestic guests. In addition to spa therapies on board, fitness enthusiasts can look towards modern workout machines. In view of the prevailing situation due to the pandemic and international flights yet to resume, focus is on domestic tourists. “The IRCTC has launched a host of special offers for domestic tourists in line with the Union Government’s effort to promote domestic tourism,” says Ratheesh Chandran R., Joint General Manager, Tourism, IRCTC, Ernakulam. Guests can travel two nights/ three days on any of the six nights/seven days journey for Rs. 59,999 plus GST per person on twin-sharing basis for journeys between January 2021 and March 2021. Pay for one and companion travel at 50% is another offer for domestic tourists. He says an online booking discount offer of 35% on the published tariff has also been launched. The package includes on-board meals, house wines, guided excursions in AC buses, free monument entry, and meals at outside venues. The train features 11 guest carriages, 104 pax capacity, two dining restaurants that can seat 36 in each, bar, spa, business centre, and a mini-gym. Each guest carriage houses four guestrooms and has en suite bathrooms with round-the-clock hot and cold water supply.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC plans to arrange medical check-up of staff||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has come up with a slew of measures to help the bus crew overcome fatigue and stress. The move comes in the wake of 14 personnel losing their lives in the past three-and-a-half months and 388 in five years due to various ailments. The KSRTC will launch a mobile health clinic with laboratory facilities in the capital and the utility will tie up with government and private hospitals in 13 other districts for medical check-up of those on its rolls. The government has sanctioned Rs. 29 lakh for the medical check-up of KSRTC staff, Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran said. The KSRTC management is planning to create health awareness among the staff and conduct medical check-up every three months. To overcome the difficulties posed to the drivers by heat, smaller openings will be made below the window by the driver’s seat to enhance air circulation. There will be a holder near the seat where water bottles can be kept. The mobile health clinic will cater to the needs of the 7,000 personnel on the rolls in the 24 depots of the KSRTC in the capital and the Central Works in Pappanamcode. The health clinic, which will be set up by modifying a bus, will reach all 25 units in Thiruvananthapuram and subject the personnel to medical check-up. The clinic will have a doctor, nurse, and a lab technician. The management has instructed unit officers in other districts to tie up with nearby government or private hospitals for carrying out the medical check-up.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Good response to ‘Ente Koodu’ night shelter facility||More than 10,000 people have put up so far at Ente Koodu, night shelters started by the government for destitute women and children to ensure their safety. The Ente Koodu shelter in Thiruvananthapuram has benefited over 7,000 women and children and that in Kozhikode 3,000. The shelters that were closed owing to the COVID-19 situation are about to be reopened. Earlier, students, employed women, and other women reaching Thiruvananthapuram or Kozhikode cities for some emergency at night had no option but to wait out the night in the waiting room at the railway station or on the platform. Now, they can head to Ente Koodu with a feeling of complete security owing to the police presence there. Ente Koodu began near the Kasaba police station in Kozhikode in 2016, and in Thiruvananthapuram inside the KSRTC bus-terminal complex. Watchmen, manager, multi-tasking staff and cleaning staff are there. Women, girls, and boys below the age of 12 are put up for free at Ente Koodu. Admission time Original identity proof that is recognised by the government should be produced at the time of admission. Admission time is from 5 p.m. to 7 a.m. If reaching after 9 p.m., the employees have to be convinced about the reason for arrival at that time. Entry is allowed till 3 a.m. depending on capacity. A person can be put up there for a maximum of three days a month. The facility can be used for three consecutive days too. If one needs to stay there for more than three days in an emergency, Rs. 150 will be charged for each extra day. Free dinner is provided to those who arrive by 8 p.m. Accommodation during the day is not allowed. Fifty people can be put in the facility that has air-conditioned rooms, kitchen and toilets. Complaints about facility or conduct of staff can be emailed todirectorate.wcd @kerala.gov.in. Contact ph: 0471 2346508.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Portal for speedy delivery of concessions||The Kerala government has launched an online portal for speedy and transparent delivery of concessions, including interest subsidy for the revival of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), hit badly by the economic downturn triggered by COVID-19. The portal, inaugurated by Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan here on Friday, carries all the details of various measures under the ‘Vyavsaya Bhadratha Package,’ including financial support and concessions for MSMEs reeling under the impact of the pandemic. Principal Secretary, Industries, K. Ellangovan, Secretary A.P.M. Mohammad Hanish and senior officials were present on the occasion. Up to Rs. 60,000 Under the scheme, MSME units which had availed additional capital credit or additional term loan, either separately or together, from April 1 to December 31, 2020, will be entitled to 50% interest subsidy for six months. A ceiling of Rs. 30,000 has been set for single loan and Rs. 60,000 for both the loans under this facility. For availing themselves of the concession, the beneficiaries can apply through the portal on the website of Directorate of Industries and Commerce, www.industry.kerala.gov.in. The package aiming at the overall development of industrial sector was worked out on the basis of discussions by the government with representatives of industries associations.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,279 constables complete training||The passing-out parade of 2,279 police constables was held at the Kerala Police Academy and various battalions here on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was the chief guest at the programme that was organised online. State Police Chief Loknath Behera participated at the function from the Police Headquarters. The police force, from the bottom rung to the topmost officials, should be fully conscious that their duty was to serve the people. This should be the foundation of the police force. Social responsibility Social responsibility should also be given full attention throughout the career. There should be no lapses in ensuring law and order and implementing rules, the Chief Minister said. The batch joining the police force was special for many reasons, Mr. Vijayan said. At a time when COVID-19 was snapping social ties, it was no small matter that 2,279 people had completed their training together. Even before the training was complete, the recruit training police constables had been deployed for COVID-19 prevention activities. This helped them learn early how to interact with the public during their service period, he said. This is the first batch to receive integrated training after the Integrated Police Training Centre was set up at Thrissur. An educated force Nineteen of the new recruits have MTech degree, 306 are engineers, and 26 have MBA. While 182 of them have postgraduate degrees, 22 are graduates.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anywhere registration of deeds within district on the anvil||Anywhere registration of deeds at the Sub-Registrar offices within the district will be implemented soon, Minister for Registration and Public Works G. Sudhakaran has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the new Sub-Registrar office at Kanjiramkulam and laying the foundation stones for the new Sub-Registrar office buildings at Chirayinkeezhu and Kadathurathi on Friday. The Minister said 37 lakh deeds were registered in the State during the four-and-a-half years of the Left Democratic Front government and it netted Rs. 14 lakh crore to the State exchequer. A sum of Rs. 1,022 crore had been received this fiscal so far despite Sub-Registrar offices in the State remaining closed owing to COVID-19, he said.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ward reservation for Corpn. polls complete||The reservation of wards in the city Corporation for the upcoming local body elections was decided by draw of lots on Friday, setting off intense calculations and speculations within the various political fronts on possible candidates for each of the wards. Urban Affairs Department Director Renu Raj presided over the process at the Collectorate conference hall, which was held following the COVID-19 protocol. The wards that would be reserved for women, the Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Caste women were decided. There is reservation for women in 50% of the wards. The SC/ST reservations are determined on the basis of the population of the communities in the wards. All the wards that were not reserved for women in 2015 were earmarked for reservation this time. Wards for women The wards that have been reserved for women in the city Corporation are Kazhakuttam, Cheruvakkal, Ulloor, Chellamangalam, Powdikonam, Njandoorkonam, Kinavoor, Mannanthala, Pathirappalli, Chettivilakam, Kowdiar, Nanthencode, Kunnukuzhi, Kanjirampara, Peroorkada, Thuruthummoola, Kachani, Vazhottukonam, Vattiyurkavu, Kodunganoor, Pangode, Valiyavila, Jagathy, Karamana, Aarannur, Mudavanmugal, Thrikkannapuram, Nemom, Punnakkamugal, Pappanamcode, Estate, Melamcode, Poonkulam, Venganoor, Mulloor, Vizhinjam, Thiruvallam, Poonthura, Kamaleswaram, Chala, Beemapally, Fort, Vanchiyoor, Chakka, Shanghumukhom, Pettah, Kannammoola, Kulathoor, Attipra, and Poundkadavu. Out of this list, five wards — Ulloor, Njandoorkonam, Nemom, Estate, and Chakka — have been reserved for Scheduled Caste women. The wards reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates are Chanthavila, Muttada, Thycaud, Manacaud, and Thampanoor. The civic elections, which have been postponed temporarily due to the spread of COVID-19, are expected to be held within two months.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Twenty projects inaugurated in State||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday inaugurated through videoconferencing 20 projects under the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes Department. The newly inaugurated projects include employment for 3,060 people in 100 days under the Kerala State Backward Classes Development Corporation; loan schemes for Rs. 650 crore this financial year; and new offices at Kanhangad, Thalassery, Mananthavady, Kanjirapally, Pathanapuram, and Adoor. ‘Oppam’, a project of the Kerala State Development Corporation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to provide jobs to 1,500 people, was also launched. The Chief Minister also launched farm loan schemes as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project. Exam training A centre for competitive exam training launched under the Kerala State Development Corporation for Christian Converts in Kottayam and distribution of financial assistance to 500 families affected by the pandemic also got off to a start. A post-matric hostel at Kodalipara in Idukki set up by the Scheduled Tribe Development Department; pre-matric hostel at Badiadukka in Kasaragod; Kuttikol pre-matric hostel; Thanal mini-supermarket that is the showroom for Aralam farm products in Iritty; and release of Kerala State Tribal Atlas are the other projects. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Government Model Residential School for Girls at Maruthonkara in Kozhikode under the Scheduled Castes Development Department and a post-matric hostel at Kozhinjampara in Palakkad were also inaugurated. In capital Mr. Vijayan also laid the foundation stones for a model residential school at Thonnakkal here. Another project in the capital is a drinking water project for 18 Scheduled Castes colonies in the Attingal constituency.  ‘Oppam’ project of SC/ST development corpn. to provide jobs to 1,500 people Chief Minister lays foundation stone for model residential school at Thonnakkal Drinking water project for 18 colonies in Attingal
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sectoral officers continue inspections||The sectoral officers appointed by District Collector Navjot Khosa to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols at commercial establishments and public spaces are continuing their inspections across the district. The team of officers under the sectoral officers carry out checks in shops and other places and initiate action against violators. The team also ensures that the restrictions as per Section 144 of the Cr.PC are followed. More inspections were carried out in areas like Nemom, Neyyattinkara, and Kattakada where more violations of the protocol were detected in recent days. The Collector has appointed 92 sectoral officers with magisterial powers in different parts of the district. One sectoral officer each has been appointed for each of the ten divisions in the city. In municipalities, one officer has the responsibility of two wards while one each has been appointed for the 73 panchayats. The officers carry out inspections in 20 locations every day. Action is initiated on violations in physical distancing, in the wearing of masks, and in the number of persons allowed for indoor and outdoor functions. Ms. Khosa said that COVID-19 could be kept at bay only with the full cooperation of the public.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police conspire to destroy evidence: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said a conspiracy was afoot at the headquarters level of the State police to undermine the investigation into the suspicious fire at the Secretariat in August. He said a recent Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) report had belied the government’s claim that an electrical short circuit had caused the fire. The FSL had told a court that it could find no evidence of electrical malfunction, raising the suspicion that fire could be an act of arson or sabotage. ‘Files linked to case’ The fire in the critical General Administration Department had consumed files that Central agencies had sought as part of their probes into the gold smuggling case. The FSL report stated the scientific truth based on empirical evidence. Mr. Chennithala said an officer in the rank of Inspector General (IG) summoned the FSL experts to his room in the police headquarters and scolded them for putting the government on the defence. Pressure from the police to tailor-make forensic examination reports to suit the political interests of the government had prompted the FSL director to opt for premature retirement. The police had now moved to place an officer in the rank of ADGP as FSL director. The move would destroy the scientific independence of the entity. He said the police were pressurising the FSL to submit reports that supported the government’s claim that the fire was an accident caused by an electrical malfunction. The government had also sought to undermine the FSL by appointing technical assistants on daily wages. So far, these appointees have conducted tests on 10,444 material objects related to 3,848 criminal cases. Mr. Chennithala said most of the reports could be doctored to help save the culprits. The State police have denied the allegations.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Central team to visit State||A two-member team deputed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will tour Kerala in the next few weeks and submit a review report on the pandemic situation in the State. Ruchi Jain, one of the officials at the Office of the Regional Director in Thiruvananthapuram, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, along with another official from New Delhi will tour districts where the COVID-19 graph has been climbing. The Union Ministry has deputed teams of observers to other States too as the COVID-19 situation has been evolving across the country and all States are in various phases of the epidemic. The team would tour all districts that were reporting high case numbers .
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State seeks package for tourism||Kerala has sought a separate financial package from the Centre for the revival of the tourism sector badly hit by the pandemic. Speaking at an online meeting of tourism ministers convened by Union Minister for Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel on Friday, Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said schemes, including stimulus package and loans for entrepreneurs and those employed, were needed for the revival of the sector. The Minister said the Centre should step in and issue order to facilitate travel to promote footfall of domestic tourists. Aggressive campaigns, united effort of all stakeholders and frequent exchange of ideas and inputs were needed for reviving domestic tourism. Moratorium Pointing out the Rs. 465-crore package rolled out for the State tourism sector by the government, the Minister demanded extension of loan moratorium in the tourism sector at least till March 2021.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Whip violation: notice to two Joseph faction MLAs||Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan on Friday asked Kerala Congress (M) legislators P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph to show cause why the Assembly should not disqualify them for “violating” the party whip. He said he had received a complaint from KC(M) leader Roshy Augustine, MLA, that the two violated the whip to boycott a no-trust motion against the LDF government. Mr. Augustine and N. Jayaraj, MLA, of the Jose K. Mani faction of the KC(M), had deserted the UDF recently. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan’s office had also received a complaint from Mons Joseph that Mr. Augustine and Mr. Jayaraj had violated the party whip by staying away from the voting.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||High-tech toilet opened||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated a high-tech toilet built by the city Corporation at the Powdikonam market under the People’s Plan project. The toilet will benefit traders at the market, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, local people and those reaching the market, a statement here said.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Talks fail, stir to continue at Vizhinjam||The agitation by local people near the upcoming Vizhinjam international multipurpose deepwater seaport in support of the 18-point charter of demands will continue as the talks with the agitators has failed. The talks convened by Sanjay M. Kaul, Secretary, Ports, on Friday which lasted for three-and-a-half hours, failed after the representatives of the agitators demanded assurance in writing that the demands will be executed by the government and steps for at least two of them will be rolled out soon. The agitators were of the view that the assurances given earlier were not implemented by the government. The demands include jobs such as crane operator at the port to supply kerosene to the fisherfolk. The assurance of the Ports Secretary that steps would be taken to address their concerns and that the demands needed the government’s concurrence failed to pacify the agitators. With the talks failing, Vizhinjam parish priest Michael Thomas announced they were going ahead with the agitation that began on October 1. Work hit The talks held earlier by District Collector Navjot Khosa with the agitators had also failed. The work on the upcoming seaport has been hit following the stir and the construction of the 3.1-km breakwater has been stalled.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Construction of vending zone launched||Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen inaugurated through videoconferencing the construction of a vending zone on the Museum-RKV Road stretch under the SmartCity project of the city Corporation. RKV Road will be renovated to include modern facilities for the rehabilitation of street vendors in the city and earmarking commercial spaces for them. Mayor K. Sreekumar presided. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, SmartCity CEO P. Balakiran and general manager Sanoop Krishna, and Corporation standing committee chairpersons Palayam Rajan and S. Pushpalatha were present.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mayor opens anganwadi||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated an anganwadi and a centre for the differently abled built by the city Corporation in Kesavadasapuram ward on Friday.
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Veli-Kadinamkulam road inaugurated||Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran inaugurated the Veli-Kadinamkulam road through a videoconferencing function on Friday. Works on a 7.2-km-stretch from Vettuthura to Mulathalappozhi, of the 19.5-km road, was completed at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. The work on the remaining 12.3-km-stretch was completed earlier. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi presided over the function.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Power supply will be disrupted in the Kazhakuttam electrical section from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday owing to maintenance work.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Enact law to help farmers: workers’ union||The Kerala Estate Workers Union (CITU) has urged the State government to enact a legislation to bypass the three new farm laws passed by Parliament to usher in agricultural reforms. A resolution adopted by the State council of the union said the new farm laws would make life miserable for farmers.
22 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New directions for getting defence pension||Due to the the pandemic situation, defence pensioners are requested to direct all enquiries and identification processes through SMS to the mobile number 9497850236/9447388736 for telephonic identification for pension. They are directed to forward life certificate to the official maid id,dpdotvm@gmail.com, mentioning the pension book number, name, army number, mobile number, Bank, Branch and contact number. .
22 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURM,KERALA||595 test positive in capital district||The COVID-19 caseload in the district continued its downward trend on Friday, with 595 persons testing positive. Of the new cases reported, local transmission accounted for 400 cases. In 182 cases, the source of infection could not be immediately ascertained by health officials. A total of 780 people recovered from the illness. The district registered five deaths on Friday. The deceased are a 56-year-old woman from Kanjirampara, a 48-year-old woman and a 71-year-old man from Manacaud, an 80-year-old woman from Jagathy, and an 84-year-old woman from Vallakkadavu. Out of the 595 persons who tested positive on Friday, 266 are women and 329, men. Among them, 58 are below the age of 15 while 107 are above the age of 60. The number of health workers who tested positive is 11. A total of 3,120 people have been newly put under observation, taking the total number of people under observation to 30,816. On Friday, 3149 persons completed their observation period without symptoms. The number of people under treatment is 10,902.  Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa on Friday declared Panimoola in Pothencode grama panchayat, Peringamala in Venganoor grama panchayat, and Panangod in Vilavoorkal grama panchayat as containment zones. The Collector withdrew the containment zones declared at Velloorkonam and Chavarkode in Navayikkulam grama panchayat, Thachoorkunnu in Attingal municipality, Mottamoodu in Pallichal grama panchayat, Ambedkar Nagar (Thottumukham area) in Edava grama panchayata, Machel in Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat, and the Kalady ward in the city Corporation. The City police booked 140 persons for not wearing masks and 19 for not following physical-distancing norms.
22 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Child-friendly tag for Puzhakkal||Puzhakkal in the district has become the first child-friendly block panchayat in the State. Activities initiated with the objective of child-friendly local governance fetched the block panchayat the honour. Child-friendly local governance aims at ensuring rights of entire children. The Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) started the initiative with the support of UNICEF. Puzhakkal block panchayat was selected in the initial stage itself. Holistic growth By coordinating six grama panchayats under it, Puzhakkal block panchayat has planned many child-friendly projects. A healthy lifestyle for entire children, holistic development of children, protection of their rights, action to stop violence against children, free and compulsory education for all children, parks and playgrounds for them and inculcating an interest in farming among children were among them. All the anganwadis under the Puzhakkal block panchayat have modern buildings.
22 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||809 cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 809 COVID-19 cases on Friday. A total of 831 persons also recovered from the disease. There are 9,443 active cases in the district and 160 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far COVID-19 has been confirmed in 26,042 persons and 16,337 of these recovered from the disease. All through contact All who tested positive on Friday contracted the infection through local contact, a pressnote isused here said. Active cases include 101 persons above the age of 60 and 54 children below the age of 10. In all, 6,395 patients are under home observation.
22 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||You are public servants, CM reminds police||The entire police force, from the bottom to top, should have the realisation that they are public servants, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking on Friday after taking salute from 2,279 armed police constables, who completed training at the Kerala Police Academy, online. The passing-out parade was held at the Police Academy’s ground at Ramavarmapuram. The COVID-19 pandemic outbreak occurred during the training period provided a special experience to the trainees, the Chief Minister noted. “The preventive mission against the pandemic is a social work taken up along with people. The current police training programme has a holistic approach. The change is visible. But isolated unfortunate incidents have been happening from the force. We have been keeping vigil against them,” he said. State Police Chief Loknath Behera also received the salute online. Academy director B. Sandhya and DIG Neeraj Kumar Guptha received the salute at the academy. On COVID duty The trainees were deployed on COVID-19 Janamaithri police duty for three and a half months in various police stations during the lockdown period. They were part of COVID-19 awareness campaigns and community kitchen activities. It was the first batch of armed police constables who completed an integrated training programme at the Integrated Police Recruitment Centre at the Police Academy. There are 19 MTech holders, 306 BTech holders and 26 MBAs among the constables. They also include 173 postgraduates and 1,084 graduates.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Govt. order on BSNL use not enough: unions||The Central government’s recent order mandating all departments, ministries and public sector units to use the telecom services of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL) may not bring much change in the fortunes of the State-run telecom companies, as it does not cover mobile connections. Some departments and public sector units (PSUs) have contracted private companies for the mobile connections for their official use. For instance, last year, Reliance Jio bagged the contract for the Closed User Group (CUG) mobile connection network for Indian Railways. The Railway CUG network has 3.78 lakh users, in addition to 7,200 extra connections for bulk SMS purposes. Staff demand Though the BSNL Employees’ Union (BSNLEU) has welcomed the government’s move, it has demanded that this be extended to mobile connections too. “Exempting mobile connections from this order is certainly to help private players like Reliance Jio. Most of the ministries and departments already use BSNL landlines. So, the increase in connections from this latest order might not be considerable. But, we stand to gain much from mandating mobile connections from the BSNL in these departments, which has not been done,” said C. Santhosh Kumar, State secretary of the BSNLEU. Many see the latest move as a ploy on the government’s part to cool the tempers at the continued denial of permission to the BSNL to implement its 4G services. Almost all major trade unions as well as associations of the BSNL were on the protest path after the government cancelled the company’s 4G tender in June. A proposal to upgrade close to 50,000 2G and 3G towers to 4G was also shot down. The 4G tender was issued in March after much delay. However, a group called Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council (TEPC) objected to the tender saying it is not favourable to Indian companies and goes against ‘Make in India’ norms. The tender was later cancelled in 4G. No fresh tender No fresh tender has been issued, as the condition to choose an Indian company is a hurdle. The employees say there are hardly any Indian companies capable of meeting the BSNL’s specifications. They also point to the fact that all private companies depend on foreign manufacturers, and none of them had to face any such conditions from the Central government.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kerala’s caseload up by 7,283||Kerala reported 7,283 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, when 51,836 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 3,25,212 cases. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 6,767. The test positivity rate in the State remains at 14.05%. The State registered 2,28,998 recoveries till date. The number of active cases in the State at present is 95,008. Of these cases, 724 patients are critically ill and in ICUs with 172 on ventilator support. The State’s COVID-19 toll is rising steadily. With 24 more deaths that occurred in the past few weeks being added on to the official list, the cumulative death toll stands at 1,113 now. Nine of these deaths were reported from Kannur, five each from Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur, three from Kozhikode, and one each from Idukki and Pathanamthitta. Over 98% of the new cases reported — 7,139 out of the total 7,283 new cases — are locally acquired infections, which include 1,158 cases wherein the source of infection remains unknown. These also include infections reported in 250 health-care workers, one of the highest numbers so far. Among districts, Malappuram recorded the highest number of new cases at 1,025, Kozhikode 970, Thrissur 809, Palakkad 648, Ernakulam 606, Thiruvananthapuram 595, Alappuzha 563, Kottayam 432, Kollam 418, Kannur 405, Pathanamthitta 296, Kasaragod 234, Wayanad 158, and Idukki 124 cases. The plateauing of cases in Thiruvananthapuram and the increase in disease transmission in other districts are reflected in the number of active cases in districts. Ernakulam has taken over the first place with 12,323 active cases, while Thiruvananthapuram has been pushed to the third place by Ernakulam, and Malappuram, which has 11,450 active cases positive.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fields beckon||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Serene surroundings||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For gender justice||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Navaratri days||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Footfall again||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||With enthusiasm||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solo protest||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Airing their concern||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kicking off||
22 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||After a lull, red sanders operatives back in action||After a lull of about six months, influx of the red sanders smuggling operatives from the north-western districts of Tamil Nadu into the Seshachalam hills spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts has resumed. The smuggling activity in the Seshachalam hills came to a halt on March 24 when lockdown was clamped in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. Three months later, the bustle of woodcutters resumed, but on a negligible scale following curbs at the border check-posts. With complete lifting of the restrictions on the transport across the borders, the movement of woodcutters has slowly returned to its visible levels since a week. According to the officials of the Red Sanders Task Force, the number of operatives present in the Talakona range alone since a couple of days is over 40, apart from other batches on their errands at Chamla and Balapalle ranges. During the fresh combing operations, the task force personnel have come across several halting points of the operatives, where the latter found enough time to cook meal and enjoy booze as well. In the previous years, the operatives had to go several kms in search of water, but now they could find it in just a few meters from wherever they halt. The copious rains in the biosphere from June till now led to cascading waterfalls and streams between Talakona to Rajampeta range. Now that the operatives are exploiting the benefits of rains and undergrowth, the task force personnel observe that the scenario has made their task very tough. As most rivulets and streams are brimming with rainwater, the chances of detecting the footprints of the smuggling operatives turn bleak. A combing expert and Inspector of the Red Sanders Task Force, M. Vasu, speaking to The Hindu confirmed that the rains and density of green cover in recent months turned a boon for the smuggling operatives.
22 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Whip trains guns on Naidu||Ever since Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has written a letter to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu has gone into hiding and not uttering a word on the ‘corruption that had taken place in Amaravati’, said Government Chief Whip G. Srikant Reddy, and wondered why Naidu was afraid of a CBI probe if he was clean. Speaking to the media here on Friday, he said corruption had taken place in thousands of crores of rupees in Amaravati during Naidu’s regime. Now, Naidu was resorting to mud-slinging at the government to cover up his misdeeds. If Naidu and his son had the guts, they should prove themselves right by inviting a CBI probe into the Amaravati land deals, he said. Mr. Srikant Reddy said there was drought during the regime of Naidu but now there was copious rainfall, which he was unable to digest and was making false claims on the gravity of the situation. He said it was a fact that there was crop loss now due to heavy rains and people were affected. But the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was effectively taking up flood management and rehabilitating those affected. He said the dramas that they were enacting were not giving positive results. “The other day Lokesh stepped into an agricultural field in Mangalagiri for a photo-shoot and now people are worried about their fate as when Naidu did the same in West Godavari, the crops had gone dry,” he remarked. He said even after there was crop loss in 14 lakh acres during Naidu regime, he had not provided input subsidy to farmers. Now, the present government had cleared all the dues of the Naidu government and had been providing additional relief, he said.
22 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People in low-lying areas being shifted as Krishna swells||District Collector I. Samuel Anand Kumar has asked the people living in low-lying areas adjoining the Krishna river to reach rehabilitation centres as flood level was increasing in the river. The Collector along with Joint Collectors A.S. Dinesh Kumar and P. Prasanthi inspected the rescue ope0rations in Kolluru mandal of Tenali division on Friday. He reviewed the situation with special officers of Revenue, Police, Health and Disaster Management departments appointed for the Krishna floods and asked them to shift people to the rehabilitation centres using tractors and boats. Take the police help in case someone refused to move to the shelters, he said. Later, the Collector told reporters that the discharge from Prakasam Barrage would cross 9 to 10 lakh cusecs as there were heavy discharges from the Srisailam, Pulichintala, Munneru and Musi projects due to heavy rain. “There are 18 lanka villages in Kolluru mandal from where people are being moved to the rehabilitation centre at Donepudi. We are using 30 boats of the Fisheries Department for shifting people and restricting the number to 10-15 persons per boat. Rehabilitation centres have also been arranged in Kolluru, Bhattiprole and Kollipara,” said the Collector. Superintendent of Police Guntur Rural Vishal Gunni visited the lanka villages of Gajulanka, Pesarlanka, Chinta Lanka and Eepuru Lanka.
22 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh alleges raw deal to farmers||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh has said the ‘inaction’ of the State government in helping the farmers hit by floods is glaring and could lead to mass suicides. Mr. Lokesh was speaking to reporters after touring the flood-affected mandals of Mangalagiri, Tenali, and Kolluru. At Chirravuru village in Mangalagiri mandal, Mr. Lokesh said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made tall promises before elections, but not stepped out of his house after assuming power. Mr. Lokesh said that farmers cultivating banana and turmeric in Tenalai mandal were badly hit and asked the State government to announce compensation immediately. At Tenali mandal, Mr. Lokesh visited the villages of Atthlurivaripalem, Pidaparthi, and Patha Bommanivaripalem, and said 14 persons lost lives in recent floods, and crops in 2.50 lakh acres were submerged and the loss to farmers could be about Rs. 400 crore. The worst hit were the farmers cultivating horticultural crops, he added. Suicide by farmers Launching a scathing attack on the State government, Mr. Lokesh said that 750 farmers committed suicide in 17 months after YSRCP coming to power. Farmers were promised Rs. 13,500 under the Rythu Bharosa , but now, the State government was saying it can pay only Rs. 7,500. Party leaders Nakka Ananda Babu, Alapati Rajendra Prasad and Tenali Sravan Kumar were present.
22 October 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘One-eyed’ lone tusker on the loose in Chittoor||The forest officials on Friday issued a public alert in Yadamarri and Bangarupalem mandals of Chittoor district, bordering with Tamil Nadu forests, about a wild tusker on the prowl, which had reportedly killed a forest department jeep driver on Wednesday night. According to information, the full-grown tusker, detected to be blind in one eye, has retreated into the forests of the border area, one km away from the accident spot in Yadamarri mandal. The tusker had attacked a forest department jeep killing the driver, while a beat officer escaped by a whisker. Divisional Forest Officer S. Ravi Shankar told The Hindu that the tusker had been on the move in the forests of the border area for the last one month. “Our personnel detected that it is blind in one eye, and turns aggressive on seeing humans. It’s clear that the tusker is lingering in Yadamarri mandal to feed on the standing crops of banana and paddy. Driving the animal back into the forest is a big task, going by the terrain with agriculture lands, jungles and hillocks,” he said. The DFO said that apart from the one-eyed tusker, another elephant was moving inside the forest, but close to the accident site. “We are waiting for the one-eyed tusker to join the other loner, so that their passage towards the thickets would be easier. Except for making its presence near the Yadamarri-Paradarami (T.N.) forest road, the tusker is not regularly venturing into the fields,” he said. Mr. Ravi Shankar said people of the vulnerable areas of the mandals had been urged to avoid moving close to the Kanthalacheruvu locality, where the forest jeep was attacked. “As an immediate step to avoid man-animal conflict here, we are proposing to go in for a digging a trench along a couple of kilometers parallel to the inter-State road,” he added.
22 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake godman peddling ‘hidden treasure’ held||A fake godman and two of his accomplices were arrested by Rajampeta police for trying to hoodwink people by claiming that they had knowledge of a hidden treasure. Shaik Mahboob Basha alias Usman Ali Khan, hailing from Gooty town in Anantapur district, donned the guise of a godman and began calling himself ‘Syed Baba’. Basha used to sell coffee powder and later sold saris for a living before he decided to earn a quick buck by becoming a fake godman. Along with a man named Murali of Enampalli village in Puttaparthi mandal, Basha began posing as a man with deep occult knowledge who had the ability to detect ‘treasures’ hidden deep below the ground. Basha managed to hoodwink several people and collected Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000 from them in order to tell them where such treasures were hidden. Two months ago, Murali succumbed to COVID-19 after which Basha joined hands with a man named S. Venkatesulu and an ITI graduate S. Satish, who provided Basha SIM cards. The trio broke into the house of a liquor baron after hearing that a large sum of money was hidden in the house, but returned empty-handed. They made similar burglary attempts in Anantapur, Tirupati, Molakamuru and Rajampet areas. The trio was picked up at Bellary Chowrastha in Kurnool by Rajampeta Rural Inspector Y. Narendra Reddy early on Friday.
22 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2.1 lakh people affected by rains||Over 2.1 lakh people have been affected by the heavy rains in the last one week, with rainwater inundating nearly 22,000 houses across East Godavari district by Friday. In an official release issued by the East Godavari District Collector, 743 houses have been completely damaged in low-lying areas across the district. No casualties were reported on Friday. Agricultural crops in 43,821 hectares have been damaged due to water-logging for over 24 hours while horticulture crops in more than 3,923 hectares have been damaged across the district. On Friday, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu inspected the affected areas in Kakinada city and rural areas, and inquired about the plight of the affected people. “The State Disaster Relief Force is engaged in evacuation of the affected people in Kakinada city. We will review the causes for the huge inflow of rainwater into the habitations in the city,” Mr. Kannababu said.
22 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||575 new cases, four fatalities reported in south coastal Andhra||The toll due to coronavirus increased to 1,028 in south coasal Andhra Pradesh as four more patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The toll jumped to 553 in Prakasam district with three more deaths while one more person died of the respiratory disease in Nellore district taking the toll to 475 here. As many as 575 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the number of cumulative confirmed cases in the two districts to over 1.15 lakh. Prakasam accounted for 355 new cases and Nellore 220. However, the number of active cases remained at 5,942 in the two districts as there were 643(421 in Prakasam and 222 in Nellore) ecoveries in the span of 24 hours. So far, more than 1.08 lakh patients have recovered in the two districts with Nellore district accounting for 56,564 recoveries and Prakasam district for 52,096. After reviewing the health situation, State Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy patted the Nellore district administration for bringing down the death and positivity rate.
22 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Food Day fete held||World Food Day was celebrated with farmers and scientists resolving to eradicate hunger, at the ICAR-CTRI Krishi Vignan Kendra(KVK) in Kandukur in Prakasam district on Friday. Magam Anuradha, programme coordinator, led the celebrations to mark the initiation of the global step towards hunger eradication by Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) and achieve the United Nations Sustainable and Millennium Development goals. Sudarsana Koppolu, home scientist at the KVK, laid focus on preparation of food without losing its nutritional values, especially in COVID-19 times, to improve immunity and boost health. She underscored the importance of consuming vegetables and fruits and low-cost millets, a repository of protein, fibre, vitamins and minerals. KVK livecast the release of commemorative coin (Rs. 75) on the occasion of 75th anniversary of FAO and 17 fortified varieties of eight crops developed by ICAR by Prime Minister Narender Modi on the occasion.
22 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police achieve breakthrough in 5 cases||Police achieved breakthrough in five cases, including an alleged murder, a highway robbery and three temple thefts, in Prakasam district on Friday. One of them pertained to the death of a 26-year-old married woman, Rani, which was cracked with the arrest of her husband and mother-in-law by the Ballikurava police. Probe revealed that the accused, V. Mariydasu, a mason, reportedly had an affair with another woman in Hyderabad and plotted to do away with his wife living in Kookatlapalli, near Ballikurava, and executed the plot on October 10, Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Prakasa Rao said. The mason had made it appear that his wife died by hanging after reportedly strangling her to death with her chunni , the DSP said. Cash recovered In the second case, the Ongole rural police, led by Circle Inspector, on Friday recovered stolen property worth Rs. 3.82 lakh from two juvenile offenders who had struck at three places of worship within N.G.Padu police station limits. Meanwhile, in another case, Addanki police arrested six highway robbers and two minor offenders, who were reportedly addicted to cricket betting, who had waylaid a passing truck and decamped with Rs. 2,400 from a truck driver on October 12.
22 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Regularise services of paper mill contract staff’||Rajanagaram MLA J. Raja on Friday staged a dharna on the premises of the International Paper APPM Limited’s unit in Rajamahendravaram demanding that the services of 194 staff members, who were hired by the company on contract basis, be regularised. The company reportedly promised to regularise them 2019 itself, but did not initiate any action in this regard till date, they alleged.
22 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU leader’s campaign against labour codes||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Friday launched a sharp attack on the Centre over the new labour codes passed recently by Parliament. “The replacement of 25 existing labour laws has diluted the rights of labourers and will favour industrialists in the country,” said Mr. Govinda Rao, adding that labourers are unaware of their rights and what they are going to lose under the new labour codes, which he termed ‘toothless’. “When people are facing untold miseries due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union government has silently passed the Labour Codes. It is nothing but stabbing 26 crore workers in the back. The government did not consult either the Opposition or trade unions over replacing the existing Acts which were enacted after decades of struggle during British regime itself,” he said. Mr. Govinda Rao, who has conducted over 80 agitations against the establishment of a nuclear power plant in Srikakulam district and has opposed forcible land acquisition for the Bhavanapadu port and other units, said he is ready to face arrest in order to protect the interests of the working class. “There is no job security. Any company can fire any worker without prior notice. It can even get labourers arrested if they agitate for their legitimate rights. Family members cannot even ask for compensation if any person dies while working in factories. The Labour Department now has little role with the introduction of the Labour Codes,” Mr. Govinda Rao alleged.
22 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navaratri Brahmotsavams off to a ceremonious start||The nine-day annual Navaratri Brahmotsavams began on a grand note at Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala on Friday. Priests conducted special rituals at the yagasala followed by a procession of Lord Malayappa and his two divine consorts on a golden Tiruchi around the Vimana Prakaram inside the hill temple. This was followed by asthanam to the deities at Ranganayakula mandapam, where the priests observed the traditional Kankanadharanam to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Member of Parliament Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy and his wife Prashanti Reddy, member trustees Sekhar Reddy and D.P. Ananth, and several pontiffs attended the rituals. The interesting feature of the annual event which is being conducted for the second time during the year owing to Adhika masam is that the festival is being held without Dwajarohanam and Dwajavarohanam, while all other vahana sevas are being observed on a normal basis. The festivities ended with Pedda Sesha vahanam in the night.
22 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS probationers call on TTD Executive Officer||Nine IAS probationers of the Assistant Collector rank paid a formal visit to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy at Annamaiah Bhavan here on Friday. The officers, hailing from various districts in the State, came here to have a first-hand information about the conduct of Brahmotsavams and develop an understanding with regard to other activities of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. Mr. Reddy, who briefed them on the significance of the nine-day Dasara festivities here, also explained to them about various spiritual, dharmic, welfare, educational institutions, hospitals, hierarchy in the administration, duties and responsibilities of the officials and various developmental works being undertaken by the management.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine-hour free power at a stretch during rabi||The Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has announced to provide nine hours of power at a stretch during daytime to agricultural connections during the ensuing rabi season. APSPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao made the announcement while addressing the Superintending Engineers and Divisional Engineers (construction and technical) of five districts at a meeting organised here on Friday. Earlier, power used to supplied in two shifts, causing inconvenience to the farmers. Hinting that the decision was in tune with the instructions of the State government, Mr. Rao told the engineers to take care of the feeders likely to suffer from overload. He also directed the officials to expedite new services in view of the proposal getting ready to provide smart meters to agricultural connections. Director P. Kaladhar Rao, Chief General Managers N.V.S. Subba Raju and R.N. Prasad Reddy were among the officials who took part.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushkar works reviewed||Minister for Irrigation P. Anil Kumar on Friday inspected the ongoing works pertaining to the construction of bathing ghats ahead of the Tungabhadra Pushkaram in Kurnool. Accompanied by District In-charge Minister Buggana Rajendranath, Collector G. Veerapandian, SP K. Fakkeerappa, legislators and other officials, he inspected the progress of work at Munagalapadu and Panchalingala pushkar ghats on the outskirts of Kurnool.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIRRD doctors cure girl of spinal deformity||Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD), the TTD-run orthopaedic super speciality hospital, performed a surgery to rid a 13-year-old girl of her spinal deformity. C. Indu, a native of West Godavari district came to the hospital with the complaint of deformity of her back. The complaint was diagnosed as Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis, which required surgical intervention. Doctors from Apollo hospital in Chennai joined hands with the in-house doctors to perform the complicated surgery, said BIRRD Director Madan Mohan Reddy. “With the complete eradication of polio, we have shifted focus from deformities to dealing with degenerative conditions of bones and joints by developing sub speciality verticals such as joint replacement and reconstructive surgery, arthroscopy surgery, trauma (fractures and dislocations), spine and rehab surgery,” said Mr. Madan Mohan Reddy while addressing a media conference here on Friday. The girl, who was able to walk on the third day of the surgery, is recovering fast, he said.
22 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara fete: temple to follow COVID norms||The famous Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Ammavarula Devasthanam in Srisailam has announced on Friday that it would celebrate the Dasara festival from October 17 to 25 by duly following the COVID-19 protocols laid down by the State government. Priests participating in the special pujas and ‘japa parayana’ will be required to follow the mandatory physical distance. The temple will witness different programmes, while the deities will be decorated colourfully during the nine-day festivities of Dasara. On behalf of the State government, Minister for Labour and Employment G. Jayaram will present ‘silk vastram’ to the temple on October 24, to be adorned to the presiding deities. Devotees will be required to abide by social distancing norms to keep the pandemic at bay.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. should show the way in NEP implementation, says Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday said the State should be a role model in the country in the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. Addressing the Vice-Chancellors of 20 universities at a review meeting organised remotely from Raj Bhavan, the Governor said the State government was committed to implementing the NEP in its true spirit, and urged the Vice-Chancellors to take a leading role in its implementation by overcoming the challenges, if any. National programmes Pointing to the fact that the policy envisions a robust and vibrant public education system in the country, he said that the national flagship programmes such as ‘Unnat Bharat Abhiyan’ and ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ would also be part of the NEP-2020 and said that the issues of financial, infrastructure, human resource and governance in the universities were pro-actively being addressed by the government. Education Minister A. Suresh said that the NEP was expected to bring about structural, institutional and curricular reforms in the higher education system in the country and many of the suggestions made by the government had been incorporated in the policy in respect of governance and financial aspects such as improving the GER (Gross Enrolment Ratio) through incentivising education through programmes such as Jagananna Amma Vodi and Jagananna Goru Mudda. The Minister said the government had already implemented several recommendations of the NEP- 2020 such as academic quality audit cell, skill development centre, incubation centres etc. even before the launch of the policy. He pointed out that the State’s GER stood at 32.4% against the national average of 28.8%, and the NEP-2020 envisaged to achieve a GER of 50% by 2035, whereas the State government aimed at achieving a GER of 90% by 2035. Infrastructure in higher education institutions would be upgraded under the Nadu-Nedu programme. The Minister said the NEP would transform the education sector in the country as it focused on making education accessible, equitable, inclusive. Mobile application Secretary to Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena said Raj Bhavan had taken the initiative to develop a mobile application in which the universities could upload data on monthly progress made by them in the implementation of NEP, for review of the Governor. Special Chief Secretary, Higher Education, Satish Chandra, and Chairman, AP State Council of Higher Education, Hemachandra Reddy, also participated. The Vice-Chancellors informed the Governor about the progress made by them in implementation of NEP and their respective future plan of action.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||End impasse with Telangana, RTC union urges Minister||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Employees Union met Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Friday and urged him to ensure an early solution to the impasse between the RTCs of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and pave the way for inter-State bus operations at the earliest. In a memorandum submitted to the Minister, the leaders expressed concern over the accumulating revenue losses to the APSRTC due to the delay in resumption of bus services to Hyderabad. Their other demands included payment of arrears pertaining to 2017 wage revision and leave encashment amount, as was agreed by the APSRTC management in a pact with the employees’ Joint Action Committee in the past, and the immediate release of Rs. 253 crore along with an interest of Rs. 37 crore belonging to the employees’ Credit Cooperative Society (CCS) that the APSRTC management had reportedly diverted for other purposes.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Think out of the box, teachers told||B. Rajasekhar, Principal Secretary, School Education, on Friday asked teachers to practise unconventional or alternative teaching methods to not only enhance learning for the children in the classroom but further integrate the concepts of the lessons being taught, easily and in a simple way for better understanding. Addressing the inaugural session of a five-day workshop on designing an alternative academic calendar by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) from October 16 to 20, Mr. Rajasekhar said teachers should adopt an innovative approach by thinking out of box, even a disaster like the COVID-19 pandemic could also be turned into an opportunity. Sharing the guidelines on designing the alternative calendar with subject teachers across the State who attended the session, he urged them to focus on personalised adopting learning to kindle the creative side of the students. He said as was discussed earlier, students would be divided in ‘High-tech’, ‘Low tech’ and ‘No tech’ categories and the teaching strategies would have to be designed accordingly. ‘No bag day’ Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K.Vetri Selvi said in the first two weeks of the reopening of schools, teachers should make the students aware of the precautions to be followed in view of the prevailing pandemic. Teachers would be trained in the task through a webinar, she said, adding that the calendar should include ‘No bag day’ on Saturdays. SCERT Director B. Pratap Reddy, explained the mode of designing the calendar through a power-point presentation. School Education Director Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu said from November 2 to April 30, 51 topics would be taught in an innovative way. He said the calendar was being designed in strict adherence to the unlock 5.0 guidelines. Director of Rashtriya Madhyamika Shiksha Abhiyan P. Parvathi, Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy, State secretary of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas Prasanna Kumar, and School Education Services Director Devanand Reddy were present.
22 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja wins quality circle contest||Amara Raja Batteries Limited (Rectifiers QC Team & Power Rockers QC Team) won the 33rd edition of the State-Level Digital Quality Circle Competition - 2020 organised by the CII-A.P. ITC Limited (Challengers QC team) stood in the third place, an official release said. K. Ravindranath and K.R.S. Reddy from Quality Circle Federation of India, Hyderabad chapter, and G. Nagadurga Rao, marketing manager of Makro Cast Pvt. Limited, acted as judges for the competition.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation to tow out aground Bangladeshi ship begins||The operation to tow out the 3000-tonne Bangladeshi ship MV Maa that ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam on October 13, began on brisk footing here on Friday. The Protection and Indemnity Club which is responsible for overseeing the operation on behalf of the owners of the ship, have appointed Visakhapatnam-based Gill Marines, a company that specialises in such operations, to remove the oil (fuel) that is stored onboard the ship. Meanwhile, as per the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) officials, the owners of the ship have appointed Mumbai-based Resolve Marines to take up the salvage operation and re-float the vessel. Deputy Conservator of VPT Cpt Mohanti said that the entire operation had two phases – first the oil had to be removed and the second stage involved salvage, re-float and pulling the ship back to safer waters. “To begin with, oil is being removed and we have also placed our team to check that there is no oil spill,” he said. On Friday, earth movers were seen clearing the sand from the road front to the aground ship, to enable free movement of men and material. Challenging task The owner of Gill Marines, Surender Gill, told The Hindu that though the ship was small in size and weighed just around 3000 tonnes, it was going to be a complex and challenging task and might take about a month. Right now the operation is focussed on removing about 40 tonnes of fuel that is stored onboard the ship. This will make the ship lighter and it is necessary as per protocol to avoid any oil spill, and to contain any damage to the ecology and environment. How it is done Speaking about probable salvage procedures, Mr. Gill said once the oil was transferred from the ship, efforts would be made to create tunnels under the ship by using specialised equipment such as high-power water jets, so that balloons could be laid under the belly of the ship. The flat balloons would be inflated to lift the ship and free it from the sand and rocks, on which it was sitting now, he said. What makes the operation complex is that the key factor is high tide. Everything has to synchronise – the inflation of the balloons has to coincide with the high tide timings and only then tugs can be deployed to tow it out. The rocky terrain of the Tenneti Beach is another challenge, as a small mistake can rupture the belly of the ship, and it could then be disastrous. If required, the ballast tank would be emptied, to make the ship lighter, Mr. Gill said. The work is under way in coordination with the authorities from the VPT, Indian Coast Guard, District Administration, Marine Police, P&I Club and DG Shipping.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City temples decked up for Dasara festivities beginning today||The temples in the city have been decked up for the nine-day Sarannavaratri celebrations, scheduled to begin on Saturday. On the opening day, goddess Kanaka Mahalakshmi will be decorated in the form of Adilakshmi and ‘laksha kumkumarchana’ would be performed from 9 a.m. onwards. Special pujas like ‘lakhsa kumkumarchana’, ‘laksha chamantula archana’, ‘laddu puja’, ‘kaluvapula archana’, ‘pushpa yagam’, ‘laksha tulasi’, ‘lakhsa gajulu’ and ‘sakhambari puja’ would be performed on each day. The goddess will be decorated in nine different avatars during the nine days. “We have made arrangements to ensure sanitisation and social distancing of devotees. Only those coming with masks will be allowed into the temple. Senior citizens above 60 years of age and children below 6 years will not be allowed in view of COVID-19 protocol,” Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple Executive Officer S. Jyothi Madhavi said on Friday. Elaborate arrangements were made at Sri Sarada Peetham at China Mushidiwada in Pendurthi as a number of people are expected to visit the peetham during the nine-day festival. Swami Swaroopanandendra Saraswati and Sri Swatmanandendra Saraswati will perform ‘abhishekam’ to the presiding deity of Rajasyamala temple on the peetham premises. Srimad Devi Bhagavatam parayanam will be held every day at 9.30 a.m. on all the nine days. Goddess Rajasyamala will be decorated as Bala Tripura Sundari, Maheswari, Vaishnavi, Lalitha Tripura Sundari, Annapurna, Maha Saraswati, Mahalakshmi, Mahishasura Mardhini, and Vijaya Durga. The daily rituals will be telecast live on social media and cultural programmes would be staged on all the days. Devotees will be allowed only for ‘darshan’ during the nine-day festival at Sri Durgalamma temple at Velampeta. They will not be allowed into the sanctum sanctorum in view of COVID-19 guidelines. EO K. Srinivasa Rao appealed to devotees to sanitise their hands before entering the temple and to observe physical distance.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumpy ride: city roads take a beating after heavy rains||After the city experienced some good rains over the last few days due the deep depression, the condition of many roads in the city have taken a beating. Potholes opened up and negotiating the roads have become difficult. While more number of roads are damaged due to the rains, the ongoing works of electricity department, water supply and a few others have added to the woes. Though most of the potholes were repaired last year under the civic body limits, many have opened up again. Not just the interior areas, even a number of potholes have surfaced on the NH-16, Venkojipalem to Hanumanthawaka road, Akkayyapalem, NAD Junction, Gajuwaka and a few, which seems to be causing problems for the motorists, as chances of skidding and falling down from two-wheelers have increased. “Once the road is dug out, it is not laid again immediately. Leaving stones, sand on the road without clearing it properly are leading to skidding of bikes. When it rains, it is better not to use some roads. I slipped off after applying brakes as roads were dug out near Daspalla Hills,” said B.J.V. Mahesh, who works in a telecommunications company. S. Ravi Kiran, a resident of MVP Colony, said that the road from Appughar to MVP Colony is in a very bad condition. Despite bringing it to the notice of officials many times in social media, none of them responded. M. Satyanarayana, a resident of Akkayyapalem, said that a number of roads near Shankaramatam, Gurudwara, Akkayyapalem are also in a bad shape. ‘Sudden brakes’ “Auto-rickshaw drivers are taking sharp turns or applying sudden brakes when they notice a pothole. We had a lucky escape yesterday by applying sudden brakes near Port Stadium at Akkayyapalem,” said Sheikh Faridha, a resident of Murali Nagar area. P. Vasu, an auto-rickshaw driver, said that they suffer the most due to the bad road conditions. “Our vehicles are getting damaged frequently,” he said. The GVMC officials have suffered an overall loss of more than Rs. 15 crore due to the recent rains.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 206 new cases, one death||As many as 206 fresh COVID-19 infections were reported from various parts of the district taking the cumulative tally to 53,896 in the last 24 hours, by Friday afternoon. The death toll rose to 454 as one more person died due to the coronavirus in the same period, according to the bulletin released by the district administration. Home quarantine As many as 170 persons, who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and under home isolation, recovered. With the new discharges, the number of discharges or recoveries stands at 51,298 in the district and active cases at 2,144. It was learnt almost 60% to 70% of patients are availing the home quarantine facility in the district. Among the 316 clusters in the district, four are very active and 64 are active and 248 clusters are dormant, said Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar. It may be remembered that 627 clusters were already de-notified.  ‘Increase IEC activities’ Meanwhile District Collector V. Vinay Chand has asked the officials to increase Information Education and Communication (IEC) activities, especially in those mandals of rural areas which have been reporting more cases. He conducted a review meet with Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, Joint Collector Arun Babu, District Medical & Health Officer P.S. Surya Narayana. The District Collector also asked them to focus on rural areas and instructed them to increase testing capacity.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cooperate in crime prevention, police tell auto drivers||The city police have sought cooperation from auto-rickshaw drivers and auto unions in prevention of crime. The police also advised unions to practise self regulation and self discipline be it in terms of parking, behaviour with passengers and following traffic rules. The police conducted a meet with auto-rickshaw associations and unions at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Friday. Speaking to the unions, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order -I) Aishwarya Rastogi and DCP II (In-charge) V. Suresh Babu said that a few auto-rickshaw drivers were found to be involved in crimes in the city. They also recalled several instances where several auto-rickshaw drivers showed their honesty by bringing back wallets and money lost by the passenger in the vehicle. The police also said that the auto-rickshaw drivers can contribute to crime prevention and make Visakhapatnam a peaceful city by sharing information to the police department, if they find any suspicious activities in their surroundings. The police also informed that the vehicles which have police verification will be allowed to ply at night time in city and advised auto unions to get them registered with the police station-wise so as to keep a track of the vehicles. Deputy Transport Commissioner ( Vizag) G.C. Raja Ratnam, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Adinarayana and a few others were present. Auto-rickshaw union leaders also spoke about their issues. Police said that they would always extend their cooperation to the auto-rickshaw drivers.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central funds sought for development of tourism projects||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has requested the Central government to sanction funds for the development of several projects in the State. He was addressing the media here on Friday after taking part in the video-conference with Union Minister of Tourism and Culture Prahalad Singh Patel. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the State government had already proposed 10 projects costing Rs. 951 crore under the Swadesh Darshan, PRASAD and other schemes. “Out of the 10 projects, six have been prioritised and four are under consideration. The project to develop the Simhachalam temple under PRASAD has already been approved,” the Minister said. Swadesh Darshan Under the Swadesh Darshan scheme, the State government proposed to develop the Rayalaseema Heritage Tourism Circuit. The Rs. 136.85-crore project envisages development of the Lepakshi temple, Penukonda fort, Gooty fort, Tadipatri temple, Belum Caves, Mahanandi temple, Ahobilam temple, and Gandikota. Similarly, sanction of funds was also sought for the development of the Araku Eco-Tourism Circuit under the Swadesh Darshan scheme at an estimated cost of Rs. 128 crore, the Minister said. Under the PRASAD scheme, the State proposed to develop the Simhachalam temple in Visakhapatnam, Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Dwaraka Tirumala, Srimukhalingeswara Swamy temple in Srikakulam and Sri Satyanarayana Swamy temple at Annavaram in East Godavari. “I have requested the Union Minister to launch the works pertaining to the Simhachalam temple that have already been approved,” he said. The proposals that were under consideration included the development of Rajamahendravaram Heritage, Eco & Nature Tourism Circuit, Kolleru Lake, Tirupati temple town and Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada. While responding positively to the State’s proposals, Mr. Prahalad Singh Patel also expressed satisfaction over the progress of other works in the State, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said.  COVID situation Taking stock of the situation in the State in view of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Minister enquired about the safety measures put in place at the tourist spots, tourism hotels and restaurants, and the training imparted to the Tourism Department staff and others involved in the hospitality sector.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take steps to improve functioning of rythu bazaars, officials told||Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy has expressed dissatisfaction over the functioning of rythu bazaars in the city. At a review meeting with Marketing officials and Estate Officers of rythu bazaars at the Collectorate on Friday, he asked the officials about the problems being faced at the rythu bazaars. Describing Visakhapatnam as a metro city, he said that the facilities should be on par with other metro cities. Mr. Venugopala Reddy warned of action against officials, who were negligent in discharge of their duties or were not punctual. Mr. Venugopala Reddy directed the officials to issue a show-cause notice to the Estate Officer of MVP Rythu Bazaar for the deficiencies, he had noticed during his inspection of the bazaar earlier in the morning. A complaint box and register should be maintained at the rythu bazaars and genuine complaints should be promptly attended.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weddings to be allowed at Simhachalam temple||Weddings will once again be conducted at Simhachalam temple with the Central and the State government permitting the same and the Endowments Commissioner P. Arjuna Rao issuing directions to that effect. The weddings can be performed with a maximum of 50 guests either at the hilltop or downhill. Booking of temple cottages, both on the hilltop and downhill, will be allowed with effect from Saturday (October 17). A decision was also taken to revive the issuance of marriage certificate by the devasthanam, which was stopped in 2011, on the requests being made by devotees. Those marrying at facilities, provided by the temple at Simhachalam, requiring a marriage certificate have to apply by submitting the wedding card, three photographs of the bride and groom and Aadhaar card copies apart from paying the prescribed fee. The parents of the bride and groom have to submit copies of their Aadhaar cards and sign on the forms along with the bride and groom.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||36 unauthorised kiosks removed by GVMC||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) have started a special drive against unauthorised small kiosks which are set up on roadside. The Town Planning Department officials have removed 36 kiosks at various areas which were set up by encroaching some part of the road. A few more shops were asked to shift to some other places as they were found obstructing traffic.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to take religion, caste off register hailed||The Right To Education (RTE) Forum has hailed the decision of the State government directing the school heads not to mention caste and religion of students in the attendance registers. Hailing the decision, RTE Forum Steering Committee member N. Prakasa Rao said it is related to the dignity and honour of the children and their parents. The decision will help to reduce discrimination based on caste, creed and religion, he said.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC to organise Golden Chariot Luxury Train tours from January||Indian Railway Tourism and Catering Corporation (IRCTC) has announced Golden Chariot Luxury Train tours to some of the prominent destinations in south India, commencing from January, 2021. The three itineraries, departing from Bengaluru, cover destinations in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and return to Bengaluru. The six nights and seven days ‘Pride of Karnataka’ tour includes trip to Bandipur National Park, Mysore, Halebidu, Chikmaglur, Hampi, Badami, Pattadakal and Aiholie Goa. The 6 nights/7 days ‘Jewels of South’ tour includes trip to Mysore, Hampi, Mahabalipuram, Thanjavur, Chettinad, Cochin and Kumarakom and the 3 nights/4 days ‘Glimpse of Karnataka’ is a short trip to Bandipur, Mysore and Hampi. The tour package is inclusive of on board meals, guided excursions in a/c buses, monument entry fee and meals at outside venues. The tours are planned as per the initiative of the Union government to promote domestic tourism for the journeys planned between January 2021 and March 2021. Tourists can pay for one and avail 50% discount for companion or avail 35% discount on published tariff for the full tour or enjoy luxury train travel for 2 nights/3 days on any of the 6 nights/7 days journeys, for just Rs. 59,999 plus GST (5%) per person on twin sharing basis, according to Chandra Mohan Bisa, Area Officer, IRCTC, South Central Zone, Visakhapatnam. For details and bookings, one can log on towww.goldenchariot.orgor contact the IRCTC Executive in Visakhapatnam or Bhubaneswar on the mobile no. 8287932318 or 8287932229.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food packets distributed to the needy||The Akshaya Patra Foundation, Visakhapatnam, distributed food packets for the homeless and needy people on the occasion of World Food Day on Friday. Volunteers distributed food packets to patients and attendants at VIMS Hospital, L V Prasad Eye Hospital, ENT Hospital, Govt. Chest Hospital, Victoria Government Hospital, KGH, Simhachalam Bus stand and to homeless people living on the streets.
22 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM admissions to nursing courses||Admissions into the 4-year B.Sc., Nursing programme and 2-year M.Sc., Nursing Practitioner in Critical Care (NPCC), being offered by the Institute of Nursing of GITAM Deemed to be University, are being conducted for the academic year 2020-21, according to Institute Principal Kanakalakshmi. She mentioned that due to pandemic situation the Indian Nursing Council (INC) has extended the admission period up to December 31, 2020, for the benefit of student, she said in a statement here on Friday. Those who have passed 10+2 from a recognised board with Bi. PC or 10+2 passed with physics, chemistry, botany, zoology and English with 45% marks are eligible to apply for B. Sc Nursing programme. For For more details, candidates can log on towww.gitam.edu.
22 October 2020||VIZIAIANGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people happy with RoFR pattas: Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare P. Pushpa Srivani on Friday said that distribution of Records of Forest Rights (RoFR) pattas to the landless tribal people would bring about a remarkable change in their economic status. “The exercise kick-started on October 2 to distribute 3 lakh acres to 1.53 lakh tribal families will be completed by November 2,” Ms. Srivani told the media here. Tribal families involved in agriculture activity used to face many hardships in the absence of right over the land, she said. “Each tribal family will get at least two acres under the programme. For the first time, even revenue land is being given. The initiative will ensure a decent income to the beneficiaries,” said Ms. Srivani. Dig at TDP “The tribal people had faced many problems during the TDP term. That was why, they had rejected the TDP in the 2019 elections. The opposition party will face a severe drubbing in the 2024 elections too as almost all the tribal families are happy with the distribution of the pattas by the YSRCP,” she said. Defending the decision to shift the Central Tribal University from S. Kota constituency to Saluru constituency, she said, “India’s first National Tribal University was established in the tribal area of Amarkantak in Anuppur district of Madhya Pradesh. Taking a cue from it, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to locate the university in the Saluru Agency area since S. Kota is an urban locality,” she added. “We have communicated the same to the Central team that visited Kottakki village in Saluru constituency. It has good road connectivity. The proposed international airport at Bhogapuram is also located nearby,” said Ms. Srivani. Promising to improve road connectivity in all the tribal areas in the State in a phased manner, she said, “The Ministry of Tribal Welfare has done a detailed study on the budget required to lay roads in remote areas. The government is keen on allocating more funds under the ST Sub-Plan,” she said.
22 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going gets worse for the homeless||Elderly people and orphans living on the streets have seen their fate take a turn for the worse this year. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic led to the shutting down of public places like railway stations, bus stands and parks — leaving them with no place to spend the night. The closure of commercial establishments ensured that they now had nowhere to go to for food. With nowhere to stay and no source of food or alms, homeless people endured one of the toughest phases of their life, said officials. Observing their plight, Parvathipuram Municipal Commissioner Kanaka Mahalakshmi allocated a building near Rythu Bazar in the town for their stay. She also roped in the services of the Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) to ensure regular meals for the destitute. Under the programme of Shelter for Urban Homeless, the municipality sanctions around Rs. 50 per day to provide food for orphans and neglected elderly persons. IRPWA Director P.K. Prakasha Rao and his friends and a few philanthropists are also contributing money to ensure that the homeless people get three meals a day. “Fifty-two destitute people could get decent shelter and food through the joint efforts of Parvathipuram Municipality and IRPWA. As many of them were suffering from various health problems, we organised medical camps under the supervision of senior doctors. Periodical check ups and medicines were ensured for needy persons,” he said.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adorned with ‘swarnakavacham’||
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decked-up||
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,554 new COVID-19 cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 1,554 new novel coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,19,224. Seven persons succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of casualties to 1,256. The total number of active cases as on Thursday was 23,203 with 19,251 persons under home/institutional quarantine. The sudden dip in the cases was expected to be on account of decline in the number of samples tested, which was pegged at 43,916 much lower than the-more-than 52,000 every day till the end of October first week. Reports of 831 of the 46,657 samples tested were awaited and the total number of samples tested to date reached 37,46,963. Of the total samples tested during the day, 41,968 were in the government institutions and 2,218 in private medical establishments. The case fatality rate continued to be much lower at 0.57 per cent against the national average of 1.5 per cent. The number of recoveries continued to be on par or higher than the positive cases with 1,435 persons recovering from the impact of the virus on Thursday taking the total number of recovered persons to 1,94,653, inching closer to the two lakh mark. Recovery rate climbed up to 88.79 per cent as against the national average of 87.5 per cent. Of the total new positive cases, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continued to contribute the major share with 249 persons testing positive on Thursday. Neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts reported 118 and 128 new cases respectively while Bhadradri-Kothagudem was just short of the three digit mark reporting 95 new cases. Kumrambheem Asifabad district reported the lowest number of new positive cases at 8 and the number of positive cases was on the lower side in Narayanpet (12), Bhupalpally (15) and Jogulamba-Gadwal (19), according to the bulletin released by the Health department.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR rain review: Focus on roads, sanitation and power restoration||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao inspected rain-affected localities in the city for the third consecutive day on Friday. He also visited the temporary rehabilitation facility for the flood affected, set up at BS Maktha and interacted with those seeking shelter there. He assured them that relief measures were being taken up on a war footing to restore normalcy. Later, the Minister inspected the inundated areas in Prakash Nagar and Brahmanwadi in Begumpet and took stock of the situation, before issuing necessary instructions to GHMC officials. He also distributed ration kits to the residents. The government has already started distributing blankets and other relief material at GHMC shelter homes. As the rain has subsided, the city’s sanitation assumes more importance, Mr.Rama Rao said, and appealed to citizens to drink safe and boiled water to prevent diseases. Medical and emergency services are being provided to citizens, he assured. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, MLAs Danam Nagender, Madhavaram Krishna Rao, and Mynampally Hanumantha Rao accompanied the Minister. Review meeting Later, at a review meeting with officials of GHMC, HMWS&SB, and TSSPDCL at the corporation’s head office, Mr.Rama Rao directed Discom officials to coordinate with the civic body for restoration of power supply in all colonies and apartments affected by inundation, within 24 hours. He also issued directions for repair and restoration of flood-damaged roads with a cost of Rs. 297 crore, besides asking the HMWS&SB officials to supply drinking water through tankers in the inundated areas. He also instructed them to take up repairs of sewerage and water pipelines wherever they were damaged due to the flooding, at a cost of Rs. 50 crore. He asked GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar to conduct a special sanitation drive in flood-affected areas, and to coordinate with Health department for organising medical camps there. Donations to CMRF In a separate announcement, a statement from the GHMC said that the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, GHMC corporators, and co-option members have decided to donate a month’s salary to the CM Relief Fund towards flood relief. The Cantonment Board members have announced four months’ salary would be donated to CMRF. Letters to this effect have been handed over to the Minister.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huge flood reaching Jurala, Srisailam||As forecast by the Central Water Commission (CWC), a huge flood of nearly 5.3 lakh cusecs started reaching Jurala project on Friday evening and it’s expected to go up further with increase in the discharge of flood to over 1.93 lakh cusecs at Narayanpur around the same time. Accordingly, the flood monitoring officials at Jurala have increased the discharge of flood to about 5.52 lakh cusecs from the 52 spillway gates. It’s likely to go up further as the release of flood at Narayanpur was on the rise. At 6 p.m., it was 1.93 lakh cusecs from the 20 spillway gates and another 6,000 cusecs with power generation. “Due to rainfall in the upstream catchment areas of Krishna Basin, release of flood from Almatti dam was around 2 lakh cusecs in the evening and coupled with supplementation from Malaprabha river that joins Krishna between Almatti and Narayanapur, inflows into the latter increased to about 2.1 lakh cusecs. The discharge of flood at Narayanpur is also expected to cross 2.2 lakh cusecs at night”, an official at Jurala said. Besides, the flood in Bhima is rising further with the CWC forecasting that the flood level would go up to 407.6 metres, against the danger level of 404.5 metres, at Deongaon bridge in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka. On Friday evening, it was 406.6 metres and it’s likely to go up by one more metre by noon on Saturday. At Srisailam, the discharge of flood was nearly 5 lakh cusecs including 4.71 lakh cusecs from the 10 spillway gates lifted for 20 feet height each and another 27,000 cusecs after power generation in the right bank power station of AP. The inflows were about 5.63 lakh cusecs but they were expected go further with higher flood from both Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers. At Nagarjunasagar in the downstream, discharge of flood was about 4.15 lakh cusecs besides release of another 7,500 cusecs to canals. Against the inflows of 4.22 lakh cusecs at 8 p.m., release of flood from the spillway was 8.85 lakh cusecs from 18 gates lifted for 15 feet height each and another 29,000 cusecs from power generation. In Godavari Basin, discharge of flood is continuing at Singur, Nizamasagar, Sriramsagar, Lower Maniar and Yellampally with sizeable inflows. The inflows into Singur and Nizamasagar are mainly supplemented by discharge of flood from Karanja dam in Bidar district.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TJS loses its match box symbol in State elections||The State Election Commission has cancelled the symbols allotted to six registered political parties, including the match box symbol allotted to Telangana Jana Samiti headed by M. Kodandaram, for failing to fulfil the conditions stipulated under the rules governing the matter. The TJS was allotted the ‘match box’ symbol in the elections held for the rural local bodies and the symbol continued in the elections to municipalities and corporations that were held subsequently. According to rules in Part-III of Symbols Order, 2018, the political parties which are allotted common symbols will lose the symbol if they failed to contest in at least 10% of the total seats in the particular elections. No applying afresh now The parties cannot apply afresh for the symbol till the completion of the five years period from the date of allotment of common symbol. In the process, they will also forfeit the deposit amount of Rs. 10,000 remitted for the symbol. “Though we fulfilled the condition in mandal parishad and gram panchayat elections, we did not contest the requisite number of seats in the subsequent elections to urban local bodies,” a senior Telangana Jana Samiti leader told The Hindu . State Election Commission officials told The Hindu that fielding candidates to at least 10% of the seats was mandatory and the decision to cancel the symbols allotted to the registered parties would be taken after examining whether the respective parties fulfilled the stipulations or not. “The TJS has failed to fulfil the requisite conditions and hence, the cancellation of the symbol,” a senior SEC official told The Hindu . Other symbols cancelled Symbols of five other parties Jana Shankaaraavam Party (Bat), BC United Front (Battery Torch), Mana Telangana Rashtra Samiakhya Party (Whistle), Praja Sena Party (Cup and Saucer), Samajwadi Forward Bloc Party (Scissors) and Yuva Telangana Party (Gas Cylinder) were also cancelled and they forfeited their deposit amount. “The deposit amount for symbols was much higher at Rs. 1 lakh. But the Commission had reduced it after holding elaborate consultations with the political parties,” the official said.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana seeks aid of Rs. 1,350 crore||The Telangana government has requested the Centre to release Rs. 1,350 crore as immediate assistance for taking up relief and rehabilitation works in the areas affected by the incessant rain in the last couple of days. Of this, Rs. 600 crore is proposed as assistance for farmers and Rs. 750 crore will be spent on relief and rehabilitation works in the GHMC area. Preliminary estimates put the losses incurred on account of the deluge at around Rs. 5,000 crore and Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking immediate release of Rs. 1,350 crore. The letter followed a high-level meeting convened by the Chief Minister to review the situation arising out of the recent rain. The rain/flood resulted in 50 deaths, including 11 in the GHMC area, and crops in over 7.35 lakh acres were submerged. The loss to farmers would be in excess of Rs. 2,000 crore even if half of the crops in the areas under submergence were damaged. The GHMC area recorded 31 cm rain on a single day for the first time after 1916, resulting in inundation of several areas, particularly those adjoining the tanks that reached their full levels. Water entered the cellars of apartments as 20,540 houses in 144 colonies in 72 areas received heavy rain, affecting 35,000 families. L. B. Nagar, Charminar, Secunderabad and Khairatabad zones bore the brunt with 14 houses getting damaged fully and 65 suffering partial damage. Roads suffered damage in 445 places and highways were affected in six places while the government had set up relief camps in 72 places. The impact of the rain was also felt in 30 other cities across the State, which reported damage to roads and other infrastructure. The power establishment, on its part, reported that water entered into nine sub-stations under the TS Transco and another 17 sub-stations under the power distribution companies. With uprooting of pools and damages to electrical lines in different places, the department suffered an estimated Rs. 5 crore losses even as works had been taken up on war footing to restore power supply in the affected areas where works had been completed. According to official estimates, 101 tanks suffered breaches and several other damages were also reported resulting in loss of Rs. 50 crore to the Water Resources Department while the Panchayat Raj Department reported close to Rs. 300 crore losses on account of breaches to roads and damage suffered by other infrastructure maintained by the department. The losses suffered by the Roads and Buildings Department were estimated at Rs. 184 crore and another Rs. 11 crore were on account of the damage to the national highways.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ace shooter’s academy submerged||For London Olympics bronze medallist and ace shooter Gagan Narang, it was no different experience as heavy rains left his Gun For Glory Academy in Trimulgherry Village completely water-logged. “It has been a harrowing experience for us at the Academy in the last 24 hours. We had water seeping into the Academy, submerging almost everything, including ranges, equipment and machines,” Gagan said. “More than the money, all the hard work of nine years has gone down the drain,” he said. “Well, if it was the pandemic that led to the closure of the Academy for close to seven months, now it is the rains that poured water on all our plans for resumption of activity in a big way,” Gagan said. “It is really disgusting that we face this kind of scenario even as we were switching gears to unveil plans to produce champions after the restrictions imposed because of the pandemic were eased considerably,” the former World Cup gold medallist said. Personal memories “It is never easy to get a world class venue like this. And, what hurts me most is that this is a very dear venue to me as I have great personal memories here,” said a sombre Gagan. “It was here that I would train along with shooters like Dhanush and Esha, even current World No.1 Elavenil. So special in very many ways. We are gutted and at wits end after this massive damage caused by the deluge,” he signed off, not sure about what is in store for him in the days to come.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Civilians step in to help the rain-hit stay afloat||Citizen and civilian groups have brought in a deft homely touch to the relief effort mounted in Hyderabad after the unprecedented deluge. Masks, hand sanitisers, soaps, phenyl and sambar powder in dry rations are part of the packages being distributed by civilian groups who are using social media to mop up funds as well as reach out to the affected people. “We distributed hygiene kits to people at shelter homes. The kits include masks, sanitisers and soaps so that people can protect themselves from the pandemic,” says Sai Teja, an IT professional, whose team is bringing relief to flood-affected. “People don’t have clothes; all their clothes have been damaged. These are people residing in localities like Old Bowenpally, Gaganpahad, Nadeem Colony and other areas. We managed to distribute some blankets but more effort is needed,” he adds. “Bhai agar kisi ku bhi Malakpet ke in and around khaney ki zaroorat hai toh please 88xxx-456x5 yeh number pe contact karey (Anyone living in and around Malakpet needs food can contact this number 88xxx-456x5).” This message on social media was enough. Muhammad Arshad’s phone has not stopped ringing since and he has not stopped distributing food for the past three days. “My phone battery used to last 48 hours. Now it gets discharged within 10 hours. I am getting calls from Shastripuram, Shaheennagar, Bandlaguda Jagir, Nadeem Colony and I am able to distribute food there,” says Arshad who promised details or photos of beneficiaries won’t be shared. Arshad and Sai Teja are not alone. There are others like Suhasini Sarvey in Cantonment area, Md Imran in Moosanagar, and countless others who stepped up and helped bring some relief to those marooned or displaced due to the massive flooding on October 13-14. “Citizens and citizen groups have been at the forefront of relief effort for the past 15 days. More than 500 persons are working to distribute food and medicines in the city, taking immense risk. It is not that the government is not doing anything; it is not doing enough,” said Sajaya, a social activist about the ongoing relief effort. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is distributing hot cooked food, civilian groups are bringing a homely touch with their understanding of the needs of people.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Promote all students without exams: NSUI||Telangana NSUI state president Balmoor Venkat along with his team submitted a representation to Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Friday requesting for promotion of all first, second and third year students of engineering. In a statement here, he said students of first, second and third year of engineering courses and first and second year of regular degree courses should be promoted according to the UGC guidelines. “The mass promotion is a necessity because these students have to manage their online classes, mid-exams apart from following semester, doing all this in this very short period will be a Herculean task,” he explained. Considering this all those students should be promoted based on their internal marks score as promised. He also wanted that Intermediate first year students with backlogs should also be promoted without any exam as they have to prepare for second year exams apart from host of entrance examinations. Mr. Venkat said students of degree and engineering who are writing supplementary exams should be provided with the option of selecting a convenient examination centre (self-centre option) in view of the pandemic and the flood situation.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||10 held in OLX fraud||Hyderabad Cyber Crimes police arrested 10 people for cheating gullible people through OLX by impersonating themselves as Army officials. The accused are Vajib Khan, Sahil, Sahid, Umer Khan, Satvirsingh, Ifran, Tarif, Mohan Singh, Azaruddin and Rahul. “In a combined raid organised by Cyber Crime Police and Bharatpur police in Rajasthan, the accused were caught after a strong resistance from villagers. The villagers of Chulhera and Kalyanpur attacked the police part and pelted stones, threw chilli power to stop the arrest,” Joint Commissioner of Police Avinash Mohanty said. He said that local police used tear gas shells and apprehended the accused person. “Three police vehicles were damaged in the operation,” he said, adding that the gang members were involved in seven more cases in Hyderabad, besides other cases of Telangana and other States. Four bodies retrieved The bodies of four persons of a family of nine that got swept away in the floods on Wednesday at Mailardevpally were retrieved. The officials fished out two bodies from a nala at Falaknuma on Thursday night, while two bodies were retrieved on Friday morning. Rajendranagar MRO K. Chandrashekar said that they had found the bodies of three women and a girl child, and efforts were under way to trace the remaining four, including a five-year-old. The victims have been identified as Farzana Tabassum, Humaira Tabassum, Darakhshan Quraishi and 10-year-old Ameena. The missing are Mohammad Abdul Qureshi, Mohammad Abdul Vajid Qureshi, Abdul Wasey Qureshi and Abdul Rehab Qureshi, he said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water Board initiates relief measures||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has started relief measures in the localities where water supply has been affected due to heavy rain and flooding. On Friday, the Board ensured supply of 26.7 lakh litres of water through 534 tankers in the affected areas. In low lying areas which were inundated but were inaccessible to tankers, 1,700 drinking water cans, 2,500 water bottles and 25,000 sachets were distributed. Besides, chlorine tablets and bleaching power were distributed to ensure drinking water safety. The Board has urged consumers to clean the drinking water sumps and tanks with bleaching powder before refilling them with fresh water and treating it with chlorine tablets. The Board is supplying a kilogram of bleaching powder each and chlorine tablets to every household. More details may be obtained by calling the toll-free number 155313.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kalwakurthy LIS pump house flooded||The flood water of Srisailam reservoir, back waters, has entered the pump of Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme and submerged it completely. According to the information reaching here, the flood water entered the pump house after over-flooding the surgepool at Yelllur village in Nagarkurnool district on Friday night. Huge flood in the Krishna river of over 5.5 lakh cusecs is said to be the reason for flooding of the pump house. The Srisailam project authorities are maintaining reservoir level of 884 feet against full level of 885 feet and the storage of water around 210 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.81 tmc ft as heavy flood is reaching it from Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers. Meanwhile, Minister for Agriculture S. Nirajan Reddy rushed to Yellur.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||49 structures demolished in five days||GHMC’s Town Planning wing has pulled down 49 dilapidated structures in the city over the past five days, 15 of them occupied, and vacated for demolition. A statement from the corporation noted that in view of the recent heavy rains and flooding, several other structures too might have been weakened owing to prolonged time in water. Instructions have been issued for identification of such buildings in dangerous condition, the statement said. Of the total 531 dilapidated structures identified in city, during the season, 176 have been demolished and 109 have been either repaired or vacated, it said.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kalwakurthy LIS pump house submerged||The pump house of Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme at Yellur village in Nagarkurnool district was submerged in the rising back waters of Srisailam reservoir. It happened within 20 minutes on Friday evening after water gushed into the pump house area from the surge pool. According to Irrigation officials, the first motor was switched on at 2.54 p.m. and the second at 3.45 p.m. for drinking water purposes. However, within three minutes of switching on of the second motor, flood water entered the pump house. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy visited the submerged Yellur pump house and assured that it would be revived in a month’s time.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for ‘raping’ girl||Three youngsters were arrested by the Kukatpally police on Friday on the charge of sexually assaulting a degree student in a hotel room recently. Kukatpally ACP B. Surendar Rao said the offence took place on October 5 and came to light on Wednesday after the 19-year-old victim narrated it to her parents. The accused are Joseph, Naveen Reddy and Ramu, aged between 21 and 23, from Yousufguda. The girl is also a resident of the same locality. Mr. Rao said on Oct 5, Joseph booked a OYO room and invited her to celebrate his birthday. “The trio offered her a cake which was laced with sedatives and raped her,” he said. After she gained consciousness, the trio threatened her and dropped her at home, he said. When her parents enquired as she was not well, she narrated the incident to them, and they approached Jubilee Hills police station where a Zero FIR was registered against the accused and later the case was transferred to Kukatpally police station, who nabbed the youngsters.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Briefly||Chief entomologist of GHMC A. Rambabu has received the APJ Abdul Kalam Excellence Award for his services to the department. He received the award from Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Thursday, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the former president A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, a statement from GHMC informed.
22 October 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||BRF||A man and his son got electrocuted in their field late at Kolapally village in Peddashankarampet mandal on Thursday night. According to the police, Harayana Naik (50) went to the field in the evening and accidentally touched a live wire, arranged to arrest the entry of wild animals. When he did not return home even after several hours, his son Raju (25) went to the field in search of his father and found him lying unconscious. Suspecting cardiac arrest, Raju tried to get his father up from the ground but, got electrocuted. The incident came to light in the wee hours of Friday.
22 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers incur crop loss of over Rs. 829 crore||D. Ashok is a farmer from Meligiripet village of Sadashivapet mandal. He had leased about 10 acres by paying Rs. 10,000 per acre, and hoping to get a bumper harvest, invested another Rs. 2 lakh on cotton. But, his hopes were dashed as all his crops are in deep water after heavy rains in Telangana. “There is nothing left. The cotton balls are completely damaged. Water is still there in the field and it is cloudy again. What should I do now?” asked Ashok. In distress Not only him, thousands of farmers in erstwhile Medak district are in serious distress and unable to think about tomorrow. The district is worst-hit after heavy rainfall for three days. In Medak district, paddy was damaged in about 10,000 acres followed by cotton in 15,000 acres. In Siddipet district, paddy in 32,000 acres, cotton in 29,000 acres, redgram and vegetables in about 1,700 acres got damaged. In Sangareddy district, the loss was put at cotton in 99,000 acres, paddy 9,000 acres, redgram 20,000 acres, sugarcane 6,000 acres and soya 3,000 acres. In several areas, crops were almost ready for harvest. Major loss Cotton was lost in a total of 1,43,000 acres followed by paddy damaged in a total of 41,000 acres. Paddy yield will be around 25 quintals per acre and per quintal price is Rs. 1,850. This will put the total loss at Rs. 189.62 crore Similarly in cotton, the average yield is being put at eight quintals per acre by agriculture officials and per quintal price is Rs. 5,600. So, the loss was estimated at Rs. 640.64 crore. The total loss is estimated to be around Rs. 829 crore. This is in addition to loss of crops such as soyabean, red gram and vegetables.
22 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||46 candidates file nominations for Dubbak by-elections||As the nominations for Dubbak by-election came to a close on Friday, the returning officer announced that a total of 46 candidates have filed their nominations, including S. Sujatha from TRS, Ch. Srinivas Reddy from Congress and M. Raghunandan Rao from BJP. Nominations will be scrutinised on Saturday and the last date for withdrawal of nominations is October 19. Meanwhile, election observer Raghava Sharma examined the arrangements for the by-elections. He directed officials to be transparent and attentive while performing duties. He also examined the sensitive polling stations, web-casting, CCTV cameras and strong room arrangements.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Bathukamma season||
22 October 2020||Bhopal,||CMs keep away from ‘jinxed’ seats in M.P.||It is believed if the Chief Minister steps inside Ashoknagar Assembly constituency, he loses the next election. In the past 17 years, none has visited the city. And ahead of the by-election in November, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan too didn’t take chances. Last week, he attended a public meeting for Ashoknagar and Mungaoli Assembly seats in the district, but 9 km away from the city. Congress leader Kamal Nath too stayed away from Ashoknagar. By attending a meeting 35 km away, he hoped to keep alive chances of storming back to power. At least six Chief Ministers since 1975 have lost power subsequent to their Ashoknagar visits: Congressmen P.C. Sethi, Shyama Charan Shukla, Arjun Singh, Motilal Vora and Digvijaya Singh, and BJP leader Sunderlal Patwa. For instance, in 1988, Mr. Vora visited the city’s railway station to inaugurate an overbridge, after which he lost power within days, while Mr. Digvijaya Singh visited the city for a candidate, and lost in 2003. Only in March 2019 did Mr. Chouhan visit the city after 2013, following the Assembly election loss. “This is a belief held by both the parties, owing to a few incidents in the past,” said BJP State spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal. The BJP held just one seat up for the contest, but needs to win at least nine to breach the 115 majority mark to retain power. While 25 seats were vacated as Congress MLAs defected to the BJP, two owing to deaths of sitting Congress legislators. “We have no reservations about visiting Ashoknagar,” said Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta. “The BJP is peddling such myths and instilling superstitions in the minds of voters.” Similarly, it is believed whoever organises a meeting from the Ramleela stage of the Mela Maidan of Bhander in Datia district loses power, said a local Congress leader. This includes former CMs P.C. Sethi, Arjun Singh and Mr. Vora. “Why take chances during crucial election like this? We are refraining from holding any events there for now,” he said. The Ichhawar Vidhan Sabha seat in Sehore district is another seat considered ‘jinxed’ by the CMs. “The belief is not the stand of any government, but held by locals,” Mr. Agrawal said. It is also believed that if a campaigner for the Madhanta seat lands at the Narmadanagar helipad, the candidate loses.
22 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Union bridges divide between contractual and regular workers||In a first-of-its-kind initiative to bridge the divide between contractual and regular workers in Gurugram’s automotive sector Bellsonica Auto Components Employees Union on Thursday granted membership to the company’s contractual workers, Around 70 contractual workers were formally inducted into the union with the handing over of membership slips at the culmination of the day-long hunger strike by the company’s workers against the four labour codes recently enforced, replacing the 44 labour laws and the long pending Charter of Demands (COD), among others. Around 900 workers, supported by the automotive company unions, including Maruti, Satyam, Munjal, Suzuki and FMI, observed hunger strike outside the mini-secretariat. Satvir Singh, vice-president of Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Haryana unit, was also present. Need to unite The union’s vice-president Ajit Singh said that workers need to unite against the attacks of the ruling class and their decision to induct contractual workers into the union fold would lend more strength to their movement in this region. He said the capitalists had divided the workers into regular and contractual to break their unity and exploit them. Mr. Singh said that COD of the Bellsonica workers was pending for more than 20 months now and the company management was using COVID-19 as a pretext to deny them their rightful share. He added that the union, among other things, had demanded that the strength of regular workers be increased. Labour rights’ activist and lawyer Monu Kuhar said that legally contractual workers could be part of the union. Seeking release of lawyer Sudha Bhardwaj and poet activist Varavara Rao, the association’s general secretary Jasbir said the duo and other activists were considered a threat by the government since they raised questions over the working of the government and spoke for the poor and the workers.
22 October 2020||JAIPUR,||No coercive action against Sachin Pilot’s media adviser: HC||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday stayed any coercive action by the police against former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s media adviser Lokendra Singh, who has been booked in a case related to phone tapping of some Congress MLAs. Mr. Singh and another journalist were accused of spreading “misleading and fake news” on the MLAs shifted to Jaisalmer during the political crisis in the State two months ago. The FIR had charged Mr. Singh and Sharat Kumar, State editor of a TV news channel, with circulating rumours through their reports on an alleged episode of phone tapping of the Congress MLAs, who were sequestered at a resort near Jaisalmer. Mr. Singh, who handles Mr. Pilot’s press releases on social media, had approached the High Court last week seeking quashing of the FIR. His counsel S.S. Hora contended that no offence was made out against the accused and the filing of FIR was an attempt to curb freedom of speech, while his client faced the threat of arrest on false allegations. The Single Judge Bench of Justice Goverdhan Bardhar directed that no coercive action, including arrest, would be taken against the petitioner and asked the police to put up the case diary on the next date of hearing, November 18. The case was registered on the complaint of an officer of the cyber crime police station.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: Mumbai police arrest Delhi resident for spreading fake news||The Mumbai Police has arrested a resident from Delhi for spreading fake news on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his manager Disha Salian. Vibhor Anand, claims to be an advocate in Bombay and was taken into custody by Cyber Crime cell. A highly placed source requesting anonymity said, “Mr. Anand has concocted several fake conspiracy theories in the death of Sushant and Disha. All the allegations on social media are sensational and defamatory and his twitter handle has been suspended.” He said: “Mr. Anand claims to be an advocate practicing in Delhi. We are investigating all social media platforms. He is charged with sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 505 (2) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.” A senior Delhi  police officer said that Mumbai police on Thursday morning contacted Delhi police seeking custody of Mr. Anand. He was wanted in a case registered against him in Mumbai. “A team of Delhi police assisted Mumbai police went to the house of Mr. Anand. He was taken to Mumbai on the same day by Mumbai police,” said the officer. On August 4, Mr. Anand from his twitter handle – vibhor_anand tweeted, “Well Sooraj Pancholi, Arbaaz Khan, Showik Chakraborty (Rhea’s brother and Aditya Thackeray together Gangraped Disha Salian. The only person Mumbai Police is saving is Aditya, rest all are pawns.......” Last week the Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh had said a case has been filed against many fake social media handles are being probed for trolling Mumbai Police for their investigation in Sushant’s death.  (With inputs from Saurabh Trivedi)
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||BAI offers to help State redevelop cessed buildings and SRA projects in Mumbai||The Builders Association of India (BAI) has approached the Maharashtra government with a proposal to join hands for the redevelopment of 14,250 cessed buildings and 1,500 Slum Rehabilitation Authority projects stuck for years in Mumbai. The BAI, the apex body in the Indian construction industry with over 20,000 construction companies as its members, has expressed its willingness to assist the State government and its agencies in completing the projects by providing contractors. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, BAI said if the government accepts their proposal, then Mumbai will be of slums and dilapidated buildings. Mohinder Rijhwani, chairman, Mumbai centre, BAI, a study conducted by the association found a lack of trust between tenants and developers, and developers and financial institutions. “This has led to projects for the development of cessed buildings and slum rehabilitation schemes being stuck for 25 to 30 years. The study shows when government agencies like MHADA, MMRDA, CIDCO are involved, distrust is eliminated and projects get completed in the stipulated time. On the basis of this, we decided to approach the government with our proposal. If the proposal gets through, the city will be largely benefited.”
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Crop damage: Thorat seeks financial aid from Centre||Maharashtra Revenue Minister and State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat on Friday demanded substantial financial aid from the Centre to farmers hit by heavy rain in the State. “This year’s monsoon has created a drought-like situation in Vidarbha and the retreating monsoon has wreaked havoc in Solapur, Osmanabad, Pune, Sangli and several other districts. The State government stands firmly with farmers, but we expect the Centre to provide substantial financial aid,” said Mr. Thorat. He said the government has given clear directions to conduct a panchnama of the losses and a proposal seeking aid will be sent to the Centre at the earliest. “The Centre has always given inadequate aid. At a time of COVID-19, the State government is facing financial stress and CM Uddhav Thackeray will speak to PM Narendra Modi seeking more aid,” he said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded the government to declare a wet drought in the State and provide aid to farmers.
22 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for impersonation, duping people||The Khandeshwar police have arrested a former Mahanagar Gas contractor for duping people by posing as a staffer of the company. The police said Pramod Krishna Mayekar (47), a resident of Wadala, on the pretext of providing a gas connection or taking the reading of the gas meter has stolen valuables from a house in Khandeshwar in Navi Mumbai, one in Shivaji Park in Dadar, and two residences in Bhoiwada in Kalyan. He was arrested in 2016 by the Nerul police. He has also robbed people using the same modus operandi in Mulund, Vile Parle, Nayanagar, Bhayender and Nirmal Nagar.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. defends decision on bed reservation for COVID-19 patients||The Delhi government on Thursday defended before the Delhi High Court its decision directing 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients, saying that the policy decision was taken as a stop-gap measure with an intent to mitigate the surge of virus cases in the national capital. In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the Delhi government denied that the decision, which was stayed by the High Court on September 22, was in violation of any fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi and termed the petition by ‘Association of Healthcare Providers’ as “wholly misplaced and baseless”. The High Court granted one week time to the petitioner association, which claims that the 33 private hospitals against whom the order was passed, are its members and sought to quash the order to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients, to file response to the city government’s affidavit. The High Court will hear the case on November 18. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the government, said there is a prediction that in the upcoming festive season, the number of COVID-19 cases will go up. The affidavit contended that the petitioner association was looking to secure the financial interests of its member hospitals under the garb of expressing masked concerns over securing healthcare facilities for non-COVID-19 patients to be able to levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from critical COVID-19 patients. The Delhi government said several other States like Maharashtra and Odisha have also taken similar steps and put in place similar measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The government said when the emergency meeting was convened by it on September 12, out of 33 private hospitals, 25 participated in it and none of them raised any protest or objection to the decision of the authorities to reserve the ICU beds. The government said the petition is an attempt to seriously imperil its pandemic management efforts and actually jeopardises the interests of hundreds of COVID-19 patients who have availed of the benefit of the order and secured ICU beds in private hospitals, at capped rates.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records over 3,000 virus cases for fourth day in a row||As many as 3,428 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,24,459, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 22 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,946. Of the total cases, 2,95,699, people have recovered and there are 22,814 active cases at present. A total of 58,145 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total tests, 15,660 tests were RT-PCR – the highest-ever. This was the first time more than 15,000 tests were done in a day. Containment zones The number of containment zones in the city on Friday was 2,747. Also, the number of active cases has increased for the fourth consecutive day and so did the number of people under home isolation for the third straight day. However, the number of people in hospitals slightly decreased on Friday. Out of the total 15,759 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.9% were vacant, as per government data. However, 54.2% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 53.8% of such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 5.9%. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.3%.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC stays proceedings against Shashi Tharoor in defamation case||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed proceedings against Congress leader Shashi Tharoor before a trial court here in a defamation case filed against him for his alleged “scorpion” remark against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait passed the direction while hearing the plea of the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram challenging the trial court order summoning him in the defamation complaint filed by Delhi BJP leader Rajeev Babbar. Next hearing The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on December 9. Mr Tharoor has sought quashing of the April 27, 2019 order of a trial court summoning him on the criminal defamation complaint filed in 2018 by Mr. Babbar who said his religious sentiments were hurt by the Congress leader’s statement. Mr. Tharoor had allegedly claimed in October 2018 that an unnamed Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader had compared Mr. Modi to “a scorpion sitting on a shivling ”. The former Union Minister has also sought quashing of the complaint. The complaint was filed under Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code, relating to defamation. In June 2019, a Delhi court had granted bail to Mr. Tharoor in relation to the case. Mr. Babbar, in his complaint, stated that Mr. Tharoor made the alleged scandalous remarks at the Bangalore Literature Festival on October 28. He said Mr. Tharoor’s statement was not only “an abuse of the Hindu deity but also defamatory and an insult to BJP workers, supporters and leaders”. He added that his religious sentiments were hurt by the statement as it was not only “baseless but also misleading and defamatory”.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for impersonating youth adviser to National Security Council||A cyber expert, who was allegedly impersonating a youth adviser to the National Security Council of India and had submitted counterfeit notification to facilitate export of three ply face masks to Saudi Arabia, has been arrested, said a senior police officer on Friday. The accused has been identified as Aniket Dey, who hails from Assam. He is a cyber expert and pursuing MA from JNU. He is also the writer of a book titled, ‘ The Three Tales ’. A senior police officer said that on September 11, an FIR was registered at IGI Airport police station based on a complaint filed by Pankaj Kumar, Superintendent of Customs at IGI Airport, regarding the submission of a counterfeit notification issued by Directorate General Foreign Trade by M/s Sun Polybag Pvt. Ltd. to facilitate export of three ply face masks to Saudi Arabia. During the course of investigation, Anuj Jain, proprietor of M/s Sun Polybag, revealed that an alleged fake DGFT notification was provided to him by one Aniket Dey from Prime Minister Office in lieu of Rs. 7 lakh, the officer added. All details of the bank account that was used by the alleged person to cheat the complainants were obtained and analysed. Details of mobile numbers connected with the accused Aniket Dey were also obtained, the officer said. “Further investigation and technical surveillance revealed that Mr. Aniket was living in Tinsukia district of Assam. A police team was then sent to Tinsukia and on October 8, he was arrested with the help of Assam Police,” said the officer.During interrogation, the accused disclosed that in this June, he was arrested by Bengaluru Police in a case of cheating for impersonating as a government officer with the same modus operandi. The police said that they have recovered one phone and various documents bearing details of Aniket Dey as Youth Adviser, National Security Council of India, Prime Minister’s Office, New Delhi, from his possession. They are finding out if he has duped more people.
22 October 2020||New delhi,||Delhi riots: court grants bail to two persons||A Delhi court has granted bail to two persons in two cases related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, saying the complainants in the matters were not eyewitnesses to the incidents. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to Mohd Sagir, and Mehtab on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 25,000 with one surety of like amount in each of the two cases related to vandalism and torching of vehicles during the riots in Jaffrabad area. The court said in its order passed on October 14, the present case was registered on the complaint of the complainant Wasim Khan. He had stated that he had parked his vehicle on February 24, 2020, and when he returned the next day, he found that parking had been burnt including his vehicle. He is not an eye witness to the incident. It noted that Sagir was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage and his disclosures in another case. Mehtab was also arrested in the case based on his disclosure in another matter.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP demands compensation for sanitation workers’ kin||The Opposition BJP on Friday staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence here demanding compensation for two sanitation workers who had died and another severely injured while cleaning a septic tank in south Delhi. Party workers led by Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, and State vice-president Ashok Goel protested at the Chandgiram Akhara in Civil Lines. “The Kejriwal government should implement the Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana with immediate effect and give compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of the deceased safai karamcharis and Rs. 50 lakh to the injured scavenger,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “There is a difference between CM Kejriwal’s words and works. if the Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana was implemented then no one would have died,” Mr. Goel said.
22 October 2020||Noida,||Gautam Buddha Nagar sees 123 fresh virus cases||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 123 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing the district’s infection tally to 15,695, even as the recovery rate crossed the 90% mark for the first time, official data showed. 1,477 active cases The number of active cases came down further to 1,477 from 1,523 on Thursday, according to the data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period. On the brighter side, 174 patients got discharged during the period and the overall number of recoveries in the district reached 14,154, seventh highest in the State, it showed. Death toll at 64 The district’s death toll stayed at 64 with a mortality rate of 0.40%, down from 0.41% on Thursday, according to the official statistics. The recovery rate of patients rose further to 90.18% from 89.80% the previous day, the statistics showed. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh came down to 35,263 from 36,295 on Thursday while the overall recoveries reached 4,08,083 so far and the death toll linked to COVID-19 climbed to 6,589, it showed. The average recovery rate of patients in the State is now 90.6%, according to government officials.
22 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases dip below 1.90 lakh mark||Maharashtra reported 13,885 COVID-19 recoveries as opposed to 11,447 new cases on Friday, as the State’s total case tally reached 15,76,062. With 306 more deaths (of which 125 are from the period before last week), the total death toll has now climbed to 41,502. While the State’s active cases have dipped to 1,89,715, the cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,44,368, with the State’s recovery rate at 85.3%. “Of a total of 79,89,693 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,76,062 (19.73%) have returned positive, with around 75,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.63%. Pune district reported under 1,200 cases to take its total case tally to 3,21,858, and 73 deaths (of which 36 are from an earlier period) saw its total death toll climb to 6,431. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate has climbed to a new high of 88.53%, with the number of active cases in the district dipping below 24,000. 1,853 cases in Mumbai Mumbai continued to see another big spike of 1,853 cases to take its total case tally to 2,38,544, of which 22,555 are active. With 37 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 9,638. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region , Thane reported nearly 500 cases as its total case tally crossed the 76,000-mark. Ten new deaths saw its death toll rise to 2,032.  Huge spike in Nagpur Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a massive spike of more than 3,000 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 92,841, of which 8,273 are active. Fifteen deaths saw the toll climb to 2,403. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported seven deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,336. As many as 211 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 43,965, of which 6,913 are active. Sangli reported over 200 cases to take its tally to 44,219, of which 4,803 are active. With 15 deaths, the toll has risen to 1,401. Kolhapur recorded just 58 new cases as its tally reached 46,234, of which 2,547 are active. With 12 deaths, the toll stands at 1,510. In north Maharashtra, Nashik reported nearly 450 cases taking its tally to 88,343, of which 12,542 are active. With eight deaths, the toll has reached 1,479. Jalgaon reported its lowest surge in months, with only 64 new cases and just five deaths as its total case tally reached 51,761, of which only 3,321 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,322. A total of 23,33,522 people across the State are in home quarantine and 23,409 are in institutional quarantine facilities, Dr. Awate said.
22 October 2020||Pune,||New research sheds light on declining star formation in Milky Way||In a vital discovery which may help understand the mystery behind declining star formation activity in the Milky Way, a team of astronomers from the Pune-based National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA-TIFR) and Raman Research Institute (RRI) in Bengaluru have used the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) to measure the atomic hydrogen content of galaxies seen as they were eight billion years ago when the universe was young. The research, carried out by Aditya Chowdhury, noted astrophysicist Nissim Kanekar, and Jayaram Chengalur of NCRA-TIFR, and Shiv Sethi, and K. S. Dwarakanath of RRI, has been published in the October 15 issue of the prestigious British scientific journal Nature . Explaining the importance behind the research, Mr. Chowdhury, a PhD scholar at NCRA-TIFR and the lead author of the study, said galaxies are made up mostly of gas and stars, with gas being converted into stars during the life of a galaxy. “Understanding galaxies requires us to determine how the amounts of both gas and stars change with time. Astronomers have long known that galaxies formed stars at a higher rate when the universe was young than they do today. The star formation activity in galaxies peaked about 8-10 billion years ago and has been declining steadily till today,” Mr. Chowdhury said. Unlocking the mystery He observed that the cause of this decline was unknown as there had been no information regarding the amount of atomic hydrogen gas — the primary fuel for star formation — in galaxies in these early times. “We have, for the first time, measured the atomic hydrogen gas content of star forming galaxies about 8 billion years ago, using the upgraded GMRT. Given the intense star formation in these early galaxies, their atomic gas would be consumed by star formation in just one or two billion years. And, if the galaxies could not acquire more gas, their star formation activity would decline, and finally cease”, said Mr. Chowdhury, adding that the observed decline in star formation activity could thus be explained by the exhaustion of the atomic hydrogen. The measurement of the atomic hydrogen mass of distant galaxies was done by using the upgraded GMRT to search for a spectral line in atomic hydrogen. Unlike stars which emit light strongly at optical wavelengths, the atomic hydrogen signal lies in the radio wavelengths, at a wavelength of 21 cm, and can only be detected with radio telescopes. Commenting on the measurements taken using the upgraded GMRT, Mr. Kanekar said, “Unfortunately, this 21 cm signal is intrinsically very weak, and difficult to detect from distant individual galaxies even with powerful telescopes like the upgraded GMRT. To overcome this limitation, the team used a technique called “stacking” to combine the 21 cm signals of nearly 8,000 galaxies that had earlier been identified with the help of optical telescopes. This method measures the average gas content of these galaxies.” Mr. Kanekar said studying the distant universe through the 21 cm signal has remained an important research area in astronomy, and one of the key science goals of the GMRT. Mr. Chengalur said the big jump in sensitivity was due to the upgrade of the GMRT in 2017. “The new wide band receivers and electronics allowed us to use 10 times more galaxies [8,000 galaxies were observed in the study] in the stacking analysis, giving sufficient sensitivity to detect the weak average 21 cm signal.” Detecting the 21 cm signal from the most distant galaxies in the universe was the main science goal of the GMRT, when it was designed and built by a team led by the late pioneering astrophysicist Govind Swarup in the 1980s and 1990s.  We have, for the first time, measured the atomic hydrogen gas content of star forming galaxies about 8 billion years ago Aditya Chowdhury PhD scholar at National Centre for Radio Astrophysics
22 October 2020||Pune,||NDRF units to stay stationed in worst-hit areas||With western Maharashtra and Marathwada acutely hit by intense showers of the retreating monsoon, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said that teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) would be stationed in Pandharpur, Solapur and Baramati for the next few days in anticipation of more heavy rainfall. Urging Pune division authorities to remain vigilant for the possibility of more showers in the next 48 hours, Mr. Pawar directed them to conduct an immediate inquiry into the massive crop damage suffered by farmers owing to the retreating monsoon. He also asked them to assess the damage to houses and other property in Solapur, Pune and other districts as well. “The administration must ensure that basic facilities are provided to all stranded citizens. Officials must take immediate action to restore the lives of the citizens in the worst-hit areas like Solapur, Pandharpur, and Baramati among others,” said Mr. Pawar, while reviewing the excess rainfall situation with authorities from the administration as well as elected representatives. According to authorities, more than 40,000 persons from 10,000 families in the Pune division (which comprises Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts) have been evacuated to safer zones, while 29 pople, of whom eight are missing, have lost their lives till now. More than 1,000 livestock have died, swept away by the floodwaters, while more than 87,000 hectares of crop land have been afflicted in the division. In Pune, the situation is particularly grim for farmers in Baramati, Daund, Junnar and Ambegaon tehsils, where the departing rains have ravaged thousands of hectares of paddy, pulses, potato and other crops. In Latur district in Marathwada, the estimated losses are even more severe with 2.10 lakh hectares of kharif crops, particularly soybean, having been destroyed by unrelenting showers. Farmer leader and All-India Kisan Sabha State Secretary Dr. Ajit Nawale said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government should announce an immediate relief of Rs. 20,000 per acre to farmers. “Instead of waiting for the long panchnama process (to assess losses incurred by a farmer), the Revenue Department authorities must immediately give an aid of Rs. 20,000 per acre to farmers,” said Dr. Nawale.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Light for right||
22 October 2020||Washington,||Trump, Biden hold parallel townhalls||With less than three weeks to go for the elections, U.S. President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden offered contrasting visions for the country at two separate televised townhalls. Mr. Trump had pulled out of the second debate with Mr. Biden when the organisers had said it would be held virtually following the President’s recent infection with the coronavirus. The very different personalities of the candidates were also reflected in the differing tempos of the two townhalls. Their differing visions came through in their descriptions of the handling of the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 218,000 Americans. Both candidates took questions from their respective interviewers and socially distanced and masked members of the public in the audience. Mr. Trump, speaking on NBC to Savannah Guthrie, attempted to deflect blame for his mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic. “We did the right thing. We were expected to lose 2,200,000 people, and maybe more than that. We’re at 2,10,000 people. One person is too much, it should have never happened,” Mr. Trump said. “Because of China... it happened because of China. And you have to get that and understand that.” On masks, he repeated — falsely — that a study had found that 85% of those wearing masks contracted the virus (presumably a reference to a study cited by the Centres for Disease Control; which did reach this conclusion). Most studies have shown that wearing a mask reduces the transmission of the virus. Meanwhile, at his townhall in Philadelphia with George Stephanopoulos of ABC, Mr. Biden presented a contrasting perspective on Mr. Trump and masks. “The words of a President matter,” he said. “When a President doesn’t wear a mask or makes fun of folks like me when I was wearing a mask for a long time, then, you know, people say, ‘Well, it mustn’t be that important.’” Mr. Biden said Mr. Trump had been informed about how dangerous the virus was [in late January, weeks before a national emergency was declared]. “He didn’t talk about what needed to be done because he kept worrying, in my view, about the stock market,” Mr. Biden said. On the economy, too, the candidates presented different pictures. Mr. Biden said he would raise the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28%, reversing, partly that aspect of the Trump tax cuts. Mr. Trump said raising corporate taxes would cause a depression and that he would work on a “middle income package.” Mr. Biden has repeatedly stated that he does not plan on raising taxes for those earning less than $4,00,000 a year. Legislative record Mr. Biden sought to defend his record in passing legislation during the ‘tough on crime’ era in the 1990s, the consequences of which fell disproportionately on African Americans. While he accepted that the legislation was a mistake, he said those were different times and the Bill was supported by Black Mayors and the Congressional Black Caucus and that states had implemented the legislation incorrectly. “Yes, it was. But here’s where the mistake came. The mistake came in terms of what the states did locally.” On whether he would consider “packing” the Supreme Court [increasing the number of justices from nine] if Republicans confirmed Trump nominee Amy Barrett, Mr. Trump said the public would know his position by November 3. He said he would consider how the Senate handles the confirmation process of Judge Barrett. “No matter what answer I gave you, if I say it, that’s the headline tomorrow. It won’t be about what’s going on now, the improper way they’re proceeding,” Mr. Biden said. At his townhall, Mr. Trump stuck to his guns on an unsubstantiated claim about voter fraud related to mail-in ballots. Ms. Guthrie said FBI Director Christopher Wray had concluded (as have others on both sides of the aisle) that there was no widespread fraud associated with the process. “Then he’s not doing a very good job,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Wray. On his own taxes, Mr. Trump did not deny that he owed $400 million in debt but said it was “a tiny percentage” of his net worth. [A New York Times investigation had recently claimed Mr. Trump was $421 million in debt]. Mr. Trump was challenged by Ms. Guthrie on the question of denouncing White supremacy, something he had failed to do unequivocally during the September presidential debate. He eventually denounced it, quickly pivoting to Antifa (which is an anti-fascist broad movement or ideology and not an organisation) and “people on the left”. White supremacy “I denounce White supremacy,” Mr. Trump said. “And frankly, you want to know something? I denounce Antifa, and I denounce these people on the left that are burning down our cities, that are run by Democrats who don’t know what they’re doing…” Mr. Trump refused to provide straightforward (or any) denials to other conspiracy theories. When asked by Ms. Guthrie if he would denounce the right wing QAnon conspiracy theory group’s claim that Democrats are a “Satanic paedophile ring”, Mr. Trump said he knew “nothing” about the group but said he did know they “are very much against paedophilia”, again pivoting to Antifa and the “radical left.” Mr. Trump also defended his retweeting of a conspiracy theory that Mr. Biden killed the Navy seal team that had faked the death of al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden. On the question of guaranteeing “the peaceful transition of power”, Mr. Trump, as he has done before, made allegations of voter fraud, the Democrats spying on his campaign before eventually saying, “Peaceful transfer, I absolutely want that. But ideally, I don’t want to transfer, because I want to win.”
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||What is behind the anti-government demonstrations in Thailand?||Thailand’s government, led by the Army chief-turned Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha, declared a state of emergency on Thursday, banning public gatherings and censoring the media, to tackle the growing students’ protests. The protesters have dismissed the emergency decree as yet another attempt by the government to take away their rights and vowed to continue the agitation, deepening the crisis that has shaken the country’s political and royal establishments. Angry youth The roots of the current discontents go back to the 2014 coup which brought Mr. Prayuth to power. Ever since, the junta tightened its grip on power and introduced more and more restrictions on the public. Many anti-junta activists, who fled the country during the coup and were living in neighbouring nations, went missing. At home, students were ordered to belt out a song every morning extolling Thai values. In 2017, the military introduced a new Constitution, which allowed the military to appoint a 250-member Senate that would play a role in selecting the Prime Minister. It also removed the need for the King to name a regent at home when he travels abroad. The country held the delayed Parliamentary election last year, which was seen as an exercise to transfer power from the junta to an elected government. Mr. Prayuth retained power after last year’s disputed election. Public resentment was building up against the military’s outsized influence in the government. In February, the top court’s decision to dissolve the pro-democracy Future Forward Party, which gained the third largest vote share in the Parliamentary election, triggered instant demonstrations. The protests, which subsided in the following months due to the pandemic, sprang back into action. In June protesters were back in the streets after the disappearance of a dissident in Cambodia. From July onwards, students have maintained the street pressure on the government and even started targeting the monarchy. Role of the monarch The Thai monarchy has historically been shielded from public criticism by strict lese majeste laws. The monarchy lost absolute authority in the ‘Siamese revolution’ of 1932. But the King retained god-like status in society and enormous influence in the government. The reigning monarch, Maha Vajiralongkorn, assumed the throne in 2016 after the death of his father, the revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who at the time of his death was the world’s longest reigning monarch. The junta gave the new King full control of the Crown Property Bureau, which manages the palace’s roughly $30 billion worth of assets. Last year, the King brought two Army units under his direct control. King Vajiralongkorn’s plan appears to be taking the country closer to absolute monarchy. The Generals are on the line. But this has triggered unprecedented resistance from the country’s youth. Students’ demands In August, Anon Nampa, a 35-year-old human rights lawyer and one of the leaders of the protesters, called for reforms to the monarchy. Students then submitted 10 demands to the government, asking for a separation of the King’s assets and the Crown Property Bureau. They also wanted to cut the Palace’s share in the national budget, a ban on the King from expressing his political views, and safeguards to prevent him from endorsing future coups. The students have also called for the Prime Minister’s resignation; a new Constitution; fresh, free and fair elections; and an end to attacks on dissidents and Opposition parties such as the Future Forward Party. Unlike the past protests in which two political sides clashed with each other, the current movement is largely led by school and college students. They used young adult pop culture icons and symbols from the Harry Potter  and The Hunger Games books and films for mobilising more young protesters against the government and the monarchy. In July, when the protests were still in the initial stages, hundreds of students sang a Japanese cartoon jingle in a rally, mocking the government as hungry hamsters feasting on taxpayers’ money. In August, thousands hit the street dressed in Harry Potter-style wizard costumes, holding up chopstick-wands. Instead of slogans, they cast mock spells against the “Death Eaters” of the establishment. They wanted both “the muggles and the wizards” to come together against the dark powers. The three-finger salute, a symbol of resistance and solidarity of the movement against the dystopian dictatorship of President Snow in The Hunger Games trilogy, was borrowed by the Thai protesters. On October 14, they raised the three-finger salute to a royal motorcade. A day after, the emergency decree was issued. The government says it won’t use force against the peaceful protesters, but has also warned them against “insulting” the monarchy. The Prime Minister has rejected the call for his resignation. Now, the emergency gives the government more powers to tackle dissent, and the police have already arrested some protest leaders. With the students refusing to stand down, Thailand could be descending to another showdown.
22 October 2020||Moscow,||Russia kicks off Caspian war games||Russia on Friday said its Navy had begun military exercises in the central waters of the Caspian Sea north of the Azerbaijani capital Baku, insisting there was no threat to neighbouring states as Armenia and Azerbaijan battle over the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The war games are taking place north of Azerbaijan’s Absheron peninsula, where Baku is located, and will include artillery and rocket fire, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. They involve six ships, seven planes and more than 400 servicemen, it added. “The activities... do not pose any threat and do not impose restrictions on the economic activities of the Caspian littoral states,” it added. Russia has so far kept its distance from the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the Armenian-controlled Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. CSTO exercise But Armenia, unlike Azerbaijan, is a member of the Moscow-led Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) military alliance and Yerevan has made clear it is hoping for Russian backing. With protests still pressuring Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko after disputed elections, CSTO forces have also been taking part in joint military exercises this week in Belarus. The exercises are called “Indestructible Brotherhood”.
22 October 2020||Jerusalem,||Knesset backs Israel-UAE deal||Israel’s Parliament voted on Thursday in favour of normalisation of ties with the United Arab Emirates after a marathon debate with over 100 speeches lasting more than eight hours. A total of 80 lawmakers voted to approve the U.S.-brokered agreement, with 13 from the Arab-led Joint List against. “This historic agreement... will bring us closer to other countries in the region to sign other peace agreements,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said. He said Israel had contact with another country in the region for the first time, but did not reveal its name. The UAE in August became the first Arab state to establish relations with Israel since Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994. It was quickly followed by Bahrain. The U.S.-brokered deals were formalised at the White House on September 15. The West Asia agreements were condemned by the Palestinians as a “betrayal”.
22 October 2020||MANILA,||Will defend rights in South China sea: Philippines||The Philippines is ready to defend the oil and gas exploration it has decided to resume in its internationally recognised waters in the disputed South China Sea and will not cede that right to any nation, the energy chief said on Friday. The Department of Energy announced on Thursday that President Rodrigo Duterte has approved its recommendation to lift a 6-year-old moratorium on energy exploration in three offshore areas west of the Philippines, including in potentially oil- and gas-rich Reed Bank, which China also claims. Companies with government contracts have been notified to resume their petroleum search, Energy Secretary Alfonso Cusi said. Mr. Cusi told reporters in an online news conference on Friday that China was not informed of the Philippine government’s decision to resume oil exploration in its exclusive economic zone, a 320-km stretch of waters where a coastal state can exclusively exploit maritime resources under the 1982 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea. Reed Bank and two other exploration areas are within the Philippines’ exclusive zone but China is likely to assert its claim, Mr. Cusi said. “They will not just take it without raising a word. I’m sure they’re going to write us,” he said. Asked how the Philippines will respond if China protests, Mr. Cusi replied, “We have to stand up for our rights, that’s what we are going to do.”
22 October 2020||MOSCOW,||Kyrgyzstan’s PM takes over as acting President||Kyrgyzstan’s Prime Minister became the acting head of state on Friday in the wake of the President’s resignation amid turmoil sparked by a disputed parliamentary election. Supporters of newly appointed Prime Minister Sadyr Zhaparov, rallied in the capital, Bishkek, and threatened to storm government buildings, forcing President Sooronbai Jeenbekov to step down on Thursday. Under the Constitution, the Speaker of Parliament would be next in line, but he refused to serve as caretaker leader under protesters’ pressure, allowing Mr. Zhaparov to claim the top office. The fast-moving developments mark the third time in 15 years that a leader of the Central Asian country has been forced out by a popular uprising. The unrest that gripped the country of 6.5 million people on the border with China was triggered by the Oct. 4 parliamentary election that was swept by pro-government parties. Supporters of opposition groups dismissed the results, pointing at vote-buying and other irregularities, and took over government buildings hours after the polls closed. The protesters freed several opposition leaders, including Mr. Zhaparov, who was serving an 11-year jail term. The Central Election Commission nullified the election results and rival regional clans begun jockeying for power, their supporters swarming the capital and occasionally clashing with each other, hurling stones. President Jeenbekov, who had introduced a state of emergency in Bishkek and deployed troops in the capital, first dismissed calls to resign, but he announced on Thursday that he was stepping down to avoid bloodshed. Mr. Zhaparov’s supporters quickly besieged the Parliament to discourage its speaker, Kanat Isayev, from taking over as acting President. Mr Isayev formally announced during Friday’s Parliament session that he wouldn’t take the top office.
22 October 2020||Moscow,||Putin wants New START treaty extended||President Vladimir Putin on Friday proposed a one-year extension without conditions of the last major nuclear arms reduction accord between Russia and the U.S. The New START deal was signed in April 2010 but went into force in February 2011. It lasts for ten years but with a possible extension. “I have a proposal — which is to extend the current agreement without any pre-conditions at least for one year to have an opportunity to conduct substantial negotiations,” Mr. Putin said at a meeting of his security council, according to a statement. Mr. Putin asked Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov to “formulate our position to try and get at least some sort of coherent answer from (the U.S.) in the nearest future.”
22 October 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo, Oct 16, 2020 (AFP) -||Japan will release more than a million tonnes of treated radioactive water from the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant into the sea in a decades-long operation, reports said on Friday, despite strong opposition from local fishermen. The release of the water is likely to start in 2022 at the earliest, said media reports.AFP
22 October 2020||Paris,||Paris, Oct 16, 2020 (AFP) -||French prosecutors said on Friday that they had slapped criminal conspiracy charges on former President Nicolas Sarkozy over claims he used Libyan cash for his 2007 poll campaign. It adds to charges lodged in 2018 of “passive corruption”, “benefitting from embezzled public funds” and “illegal campaign financing” for which he already faces trial.AFP
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Far from a happy toy story||Bent over his lathe in one of the by-lanes of Kalanagar in Channapatna, about 60 km from Bengaluru, Meer Kaleem stares at his handiwork, a piece of wood that is taking the shape of a toy’s part, with deep concentration. While his nimble fingers continue their work, his face falls when he starts talking about the seemingly bleak future of the craft that has been the source of livelihood for three generations. Business is yet to pick up for the famed Channapatna toys after a lockdown imposed across the country to contain the spread of COVID-19 stretched from three weeks to months. Only a few lathes are buzzing in the town. The lockdown worsened the woes of the craftsmen which began with the influx of cheap Chinese toys into the market. Demonetisation in 2016 and imposition of a 12% Goods and Services Tax (GST) on their products dealt additional blows to their business. “And now there is no demand for our products from local retailers. Merchants who used to come from different parts of the country are not showing up. Even exhibitions and fairs across the country, where many of our products are sold, remain closed,” says a worried Kaleem. Notwithstanding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mention of the brightly coloured Channapatna toys in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme in August and emphasis on the promotion of locally manufactured toys, Kaleem isn’t sure if the industry can return to its heyday anytime soon. The hand-crafted wooden products, which wear coats of vegetable paint and lacquer, enjoyed a good market locally and abroad. He reminisces about the variety of necklaces, bangles, beads and napkin rings he used to carve out from the logs of ivory wood in his lathe, to meet export orders, about 15-20 years ago. “Our products were in great demand in foreign countries even till the late 1990s. But not anymore,” he rues. The China crisis in Channapatna The arrival of Chinese toys in the market at almost half the price of the Channapatna toys severely impacted the industry. The assembly line production of Chinese toys makes them far less expensive than the Channapatna toys, which are hand-crafted and hand-painted. Even though Channapatna toys are said to be more durable and safer for children (as they are coloured with vegetable dyes), the Chinese varieties rule the market, artisans say. Channapatna toys date back to the reign of the 18th century ruler of the erstwhile Mysore kingdom, Tipu Sultan, who invited Persian artisans to train local artisans in making wooden toys. As ivory wood trees, easily distinguishable with their blooms of white, star-shaped flowers, were available aplenty in and around Ramanagara district, the craft flourished in Channapatna. Ivory wood trees help make lightweight toys. The uniqueness of the craft also helped the toys earn the Geographical Indication (GI) tag. The GI tag is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin. After more than 30 years in the toy-making industry, Kaleem, in his early 50s, does not see his sons taking forward the family legacy. All three of them have taken up other vocations. The number of artisans engaged in the toy-making industry is dwindling as their earnings fall well below the wages offered in other industries, he says. However, Sunil Kumar, Assistant Director in the Office of Development Commissioner (Handicrafts), Mysuru, claims that the number of Channapatna toy artisans has remained more or less unchanged for many years now, even if it hasn’t increased in proportion to the growing population. About 1,500 of the 2,500 registered Channapatna toy artisans are active now, he says. Of them, about 1,000 are registered with the Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation, which purchases finished products worth a maximum of Rs. 3,000 from each of the artisans in a month. Two common facility centres set up in Channapatna by the government authorities offer work spaces and lathes at a concessional rate to a few artisans, but a majority of artisans work on their own lathes set up in their homes. Special attention is also paid to the export-oriented toys at one of the two common facility centres, Kumar says. With the Central government’s ‘Atmanirbhar’ policy expected to discourage or even impose a ban on the import of Chinese toys, the officials are hopeful that the fortunes of the Channapatna toy artisans may change. But self-reliance alone isn’t sufficient; the absence of innovation in the design of toys is an area of concern, officials say. Artisans, they say, habitually produce the same set of toys without any innovation. In contrast, the new and attractive designs and colours of the Chinese products score over the Channapatna toys. Artisans like Krishna, who runs the Manjunatha Toys Store in Channapatna, counter this argument. Krishna displays a diverse set of products in his store, including utility items like car seats made of wooden beads, pencil sharpeners, tissue paper holders, and a variety of tops. Artisans are always willing to innovate as long as there is a market for the products, he argues. Workshops on design innovation, organised by the authorities, are few and far between, while designs introduced by the handicrafts department authorities and the prototypes approved by them rarely translate into a market for the artisans, he says. Kumar says the government plans to create an online market for the artisans by facilitating their registration on the Government e-Marketplace portal. Apart from the threat posed by Chinese toys and lack of innovation, there are other ills plaguing the Channapatna toy-making industry. As business is slow, some craftspersons tend to yield to the temptation of making quick money. “The ivory wood needs to be seasoned for at least three to four months before an artisan can start working on it. But a few artisans began making the toys without waiting for the seasoning period to end. The compromise shows in the quality of the product,” says artisan Syed Ameeruddin. A few artisans also use chemical dyes, which are considered harmful for children, instead of vegetable colours, he says. Many countries have strict rules against the import of toys with chemical dyes. As a result, some consignments fail to make the export quality grade. Modi’s mention of the Channapatna toy industry comes as small consolation to the artisans who have been campaigning for withdrawal of 12% GST on their products as well as for intervention against the alleged hurdles posed by the Forest Department in the transport of ivory wood. An industry with great potential More than 700 km away, the toy makers of Etikoppaka and Kondapalli in Andhra Pradesh, and Nirmal in Telangana, see a ray of hope in Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ speech in which he had praised their efforts in keeping a tradition alive despite meagre returns. Lauding the revival efforts of the traditional artisan C.V. Raju of Etikoppaka in Visakhapatnam district, Modi said he wanted start-ups to promote the industry and secure the future of the artisans. He said that while the global toy industry is worth over Rs. 7 lakh crore, India’s share in it is minimal despite its wide variety of traditional and unique toys. A back-of-the-envelope calculation by market players on the total annual business of wooden toy handicrafts in Etikoppaka, Kondapalli and Nirmal amounts to about Rs. 50 crore. This industry has tremendous potential and can provide employment to lakhs of people, according to market estimates. Etikoppaka is a village on the banks of the Varaha river. Located about 65 km from the port city of Visakhapatnam, the village houses about 10,000 people. Over 200 traditional artisan families are part of the Etikoppaka toy-making industry in the village. The Etikoppaka signature toys include a standing couple, a wedding scene, automobiles, birds, and shehnai troupes. They are made with the soft variety of wood from the Ankudu tree. Like in Channapatna, here too artisans use only vegetable colours. “The soft-edged toys are useful for children. They help their eye-hand coordination, they help them recognise colours and enhance their motor skills. The industry also makes utility, decorative, ornamental and measurement utensils besides toys,” says farmer and artisan Raju, 57. In Etikoppaka and Kondapalli, the rich tradition of the handicraft needs a larger push, says Raju. He says he wrote to the Department of Science and Technology and the National Innovation Foundation in 2019 seeking help to make his initiative Hasthakala an experiment, interpretation and experience centre of handicrafts. They said they would get back on the proposal, he says. Industry players and artisans point out that an organised approach towards enhancing the skills of artisans along with subsidies, interest-free loans, scientific development of the industry, market interventions, and official supply of wood and lacquer would ensure the industry’s growth and competitiveness. Appealing to start-ups Modi’s mention of Etikoppaka has generated a lot of interest among start-ups and other business communities, says M.P. Dubey, joint director of Software Technology Parks of India (Visakhapatnam). “Etikoppaka handicrafts have a GI tag. That is a valuable resource for start-ups for mutually beneficial tie-ups. We did a lot of research on the sector and we are finding out ways of adding value to the craft so that it can become competitive in the global market. At the same time we have organised a meet to link interested start-ups with the artisans to explore multiple business opportunities for growth,” says Dubey. Back in the village, the positive vibes from the Prime Minister’s talk reverberate in the form of progressive initiatives by the local artisans to expand business. A couple of groups have chalked out a plan to tap into potential opportunities with IT and other corporate firms. Adarsh, a student of IIM Bangalore, has organised a couple of artisan groups to tap into the corporate social responsibility funding of IT firms for promotion of the crafts industry. “The IT firms, as part of CSR, give a lot of support to upcoming industries and handicrafts. We have made a plan to contact the top 10 IT firms to ask them if Etikoppaka toys can be made a part of their gifting plans. We are also approaching big-ticket wedding organisers asking them to opt for these toys as return gifts. We have positive signals from the market,” says Adarsh.  But funding poses a big problem to bulk manufacturing, says Ramanababu, president of the Etikoppaka Mutually-Aided Cooperative Society.  The society urgently needs a Rs. 5 crore corpus fund to buy the toys in bulk from artisans and fulfil major orders, he says. “Most of the time we lose business not because of lack of expertise but the inability to fulfil expectations. Artisans are not in a position to make toys in bulk and store them with the society because of financial issues. A corpus fund can solve this problem. And there should also be a mechanism to arrest the volume of Chinese toys in our market. Chinese toys sell more than local toys even in places like Etikoppaka. The government should help us to be atma nirbhar this way. Many youngsters are ready to learn and pursue the handicraft,” he says. The society is also concerned about the sharp fluctuations in the cost of lacquer. Lacquer costs anything between Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,100 per kg. The proposed fund is also expected to be used for bulk purchase of lacquer and supply it to artisans at a wholesale price. On an average, an artisan gets Rs. 30,000 a month if he works five days a week. The income can be enhanced four times if the industry is promoted in the right way, say artisan associations. Illegal wood in Kondapalli The elegant toys of Kondapalli include wooden-painted bullock carts, a Dasavataram set, a palanquin, wedding sets, farmers in the field, and Sita, Rama and Lakshmana in a boat. The 45-year-old third generation artisan, Samala Satyanarayana, from Kondapalli village near Vijayawada, says the primary issue with the industry is its basic ingredient, the Tella Poniki wood, which is illegal to fell. “I’ve been making Kondapalli toys for 25 years. But I am forced to use illegal wood procured by woodcutters as respective governments have failed to regularise it despite our long-pending demand. The Forest Department can also get good revenue if the government agrees to our demand,” he says. Here, too, artisans complain about GST. And now COVID-19 has led to a steep fall in business. The orders from the government-owned Lepakshi have also come down, they say. Regular bulk orders come from private purchasers in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Artisans say that they are given short- term training by the skill development corporation. Training for 15 days to three months is not sufficient, they say. At least a year of training is required for professional expertise in the craft. “We need authorised wood. It needs to be supplied by the government after treatment so that it is immune to pests. The treatment plant is too expensive for us to establish,” says one artisan.  The artisans, who are using their own innovative methods and advanced tools to make toys, say that the government can help them create innovative tools to enable faster manufacturing. “It’s a long process but it will work if the government takes interest. Making toys faster is also important in the age of technology. Sometimes, we get bulk orders from corporates but usually they give very little time for manufacturing,” says Satyanarayana. Online marketing avenues too are not working well for the artisans, he says. Higher prices on Amazon and Flipkart means fewer customers. “We also need subsidised loans. Interest-free loans would work well for us. Right now we have a loan with a 9.5% interest rate. Now there is a huge dip in demand due to the pandamic. There are fewer orders, there is pressure from private lenders, maintenance costs, etc., and there is no support from any direction as usual,” laments one artisan. Meanwhile, efforts by artisans and local leaders to build a facility to promote the industry have borne fruit. The work related to a new artisan facility in the place of an old one in the middle of Kondapalli has advanced. The proposed building for wood processing is under way, according to Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani). “We facilitated a Rs. 1.8 crore MSME fund, and a matching grant of Rs. 50 lakh was allocated from my MPLAD funds. The facility will be built soon,” Srinivas told The Hindu . Demand for eco-friendly toys To encourage the next generation to take the legacy of toy-making forward, the government should provide funds and old-age pensions, says B.R. Shankar, manager of the Nirmal Toys and Arts Industrial Cooperative Society. The number of families who make the finely carved Nirmal toys in the towns of Nirmal in Adilabad district of Telangana has come down to 50 from over 100 a few years ago, says Shankar. “Apart from providing loans and longer training periods, the government should help us find ways to restart exports. There were no revival efforts after these handicrafts were banned by some countries few years ago,” Shankar says. Market research reports suggest that there is greater demand for eco-friendly wooden toys across the world. There is a visible change in the way schools and households are looking at toys for children, say artisans. Toys made of plastic and other hazardous material are being replaced by wooden toys and toys made of other non-hazardous material. This provides wooden toy-makers a great opportunity to innovate and meet the surging demand. Artisans feel encouraged by Modi’s push, but the toy story can end well only if their many problems are addressed and the government manages to bring the industry out of the woods, they say.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A constitutional pickle of the Andhra kind||The division of the larger State was a traumatic phase, and troubled times seem not to have left Andhra Pradesh’s people and institutions, caught as they are between warring chieftains Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and N. Chandrababu Naidu. Of special concern now, however, is the latest controversy which threatens to suck in the Indian judiciary at its highest levels. This is embedded in the letter of October 6 written by the State Chief Minister, Jagan Mohan Reddy, to the Chief Justice of India (CJI), S.A. Bobde. Allegations against a judge Historical movie buffs will recall an ancient war machine called the catapult. A huge arm was attached to a tall gibbet into which was put shredded nails or molten fire. As the arm swung back and then spun forward, it released its contents across a wide arc into the opposing castle. On landing, it did devastating damage. The king of the castle had to deal with it, and quickly, to contain the damage. The young Chief Minister’s letter evokes this parallel. Except that the target is not the city or the Court, it is one judge — but Justice N.V. Ramana is no ordinary judge; he is now the seniormost after the CJI, and is due to take over from him come April 2021, if the convention on seniority holds. The Chief Minister’s letter begins with a reminder that the executive is an equal partner of the judiciary and the legislature in serving the people. It acknowledges the power of judicial review over acts of the other organs of State, and quickly swings this around to emphasise the consequent need for absolute judicial integrity. The arc thus traversed, the contents are offloaded, and they consist of damning allegations against Justice Ramana. Reference is made to Justice Ramana’s proximity to former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) as Additional Advocate General, and we are reminded that former Supreme Court justice Justice J. Chelameshwar has commented adversely on their connection. That Justice Ramana has, through the State Chief Justice, influenced the selection of the roster and allotment of key portfolios to a few judges close to the TDP. That important matters relating to State policy and TDP interests are posted before these judges and invariably orders adverse to the government are passed. That even a decision of the Cabinet appointing a Special Investigating Team to investigate allegations of corruption against the previous TDP administration has been stayed by the High Court. The letter makes mention of cases where the High Court has passed orders negating a slew of key decisions of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the last 18 months; presumably, these include shifting the capital out of Amaravati, resolution on the abolition of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council, and removal of State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar, etc. Gag order as a misstep The Chief Minister’s missive makes specific and pointed reference to insider knowledge and purchase of large land transactions in Amaravati at old prices to make a killing when the development plans were unveiled. He mentions the involvement of D. Srinivas, previous Advocate General of the State and also makes reference to close relatives of Justice Ramana. It is not possible here to discuss the FIR filed by the government in this case owing to a most unusual order passed by the Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, Justice J.K. Maheshwari on September 15. In the face of Supreme Court precedents, Justice Maheshwari injuncted further investigation of the case. Crucially, he went one step further (and this may be the fatal misstep) and placed a gag order on the media from reporting the FIR. Now, this goes against every tenet of freedom of speech, the right of the press to properly report on matters of public importance and our right as citizens to receive such reports, and the tenets of transparency and accountability of high constitutional office-holders in a democracy. Indeed, one would like the Andhra Chief Justice to explain to us what the crucial aspect of security of the State or integrity of the country involved in this case of alleged land grab through insider knowledge is that we the citizens should not know about it. It is galling in the extreme that a senior judge should think that after 70 years of constitutional freedom, we will meekly consent to have our mouths gagged and our ears clogged. Sadly, that gag order continues, contrary to expectation that the designated sentinel on the watch, the highest court, would order its immediate extinction on becoming aware of its existence. Onus is on the CJI All eyes are now on the CJI to evolve a fair and transparent process which enables Justice Ramana to clear his name; brotherly absolution and Pandora’s boxes will cause damage to both man and institution. And here one may express an anxiety which is dogging us for quite some time about Chief Justices of India falling short of the standards of integrity and probity. The office of the CJI is the most august one — pater familas of the legal system, master of the roster, decisive say in appointment of the next generations of judges — it does not get more powerful. We deserve to get the best CJI we can get. Wanted, a watchdog There is pushback against the Andhra Chief Minister, saying that he has levelled these allegations against Justice Ramana because Justice Ramana is speeding up cases of corruption against politicians, and Mr. Jagan Mohan has a slew of cases involving vast amounts of money pending against him. Let us also make it clear that the utmost priority should be given to all such cases; the way to good governance lies through punishment of the corrupt governors, and the more stringent and expeditious this is, the better. Indeed, one wishes for a Leadership Commission which would focus on the measures required to obtain and keep high levels of integrity from our leaders, and that includes not just politicians and bureaucrats, but also judges. And for good measure perhaps, we should also bestow thought on the office of a judicial ombudsman. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s rise and fall at the UN||The United Nations turned 75 this year. In normal times, September would have seen a grand Summit in New York but because of the novel coronavirus pandemic, world leaders were forced to do with video messages to the UN General Assembly. The UN season, though, started on an auspicious note for India, with India besting China in the elections for a seat on the UN’s Commission on the Status of Women (CSW). This was the first such victory in a decade. To add to China’s woes, soon after the CSW vote, it lost another election, this time to tiny Samoa for a seat on the UN Statistical Commission. And a couple of days ago, it just about managed to get elected to the UN High Rights Council, coming fourth out of five contestants for four vacancies. Earlier, China’s candidate had lost to a Singaporean in the race for DG World Intellectual Property Organization. China’s strengths In 2011, India defeated China in a one-on-one election at the UN for a place on the Joint Inspection Unit. Thereafter, taking advantage of its position as a member of the P-5 and as a huge aid giver, China made itself invincible in UN elections, capturing, among others, the top positions at the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Indeed, India, too, felt this was a UN election behemoth not to be trifled with, and even as late as last year, pulled out its candidate against the Chinese from the race for the Director-General, FAO. But how did China rise to this pre-eminent position at the UN. It all began, as is the case with India and multilateralism, a century ago with World War I. India was one of the largest contributors of soldiers in the war against Germany and Turkey and became a founding member of the League of Nations even though it was a colony. At the end of WWII, India participated in all the three UN conferences becoming a charter member of the UN even before Independence. Pakistan, on the other hand, joined the UN in September 1947 on application. China saw an opportunity in World War I to rid itself of German occupation from some of its territory and allied with the United Kingdom and France. But they could not send soldiers as the Japanese, who were in competition with the Germans for the same Chinese territories, also allied against the Germans and refused to countenance Chinese troops in action. So, the Chinese sent large numbers of labour to support the western war efforts against Germany and won an invite at the Versailles Peace Conference. Things, however, did not turn out well as the West sided with the Japanese and China refused to sign the Versailles Peace Treaty. The United States, though, was sympathetic to the Chinese cause, and a few years later helped reach a peace deal between China and Germany. World War II saw strong U.S.-China collaboration against the Japanese, including U.S. operations conducted from India. An incidental but pleasant fallout of the stationing of U.S. forces in India was the establishment of ice-cream makers in India who, at the end of the war, bought the plants brought by the U.S. for its forces. America’s ‘forgotten ally’ These old trans-Pacific linkages of the U.S. and China, including the presence of a very large Chinese community on the west coast of the U.S., are not well known, especially in India, but China is really “the forgotten ally” of the U.S. to use an expression coined by Oxford Professor Rana Mitter. This is important to bear in mind as the world, and India, pontificates the outcome of a U.S.-China contestation and its implications for multilateralism. Their bilateral ties saw the U.S. include the Chinese in the ‘Four Policemen’, a group of the most important countries for ensuring world peace post- World  War II, along with the real victors of World War II — the U.S., the USSR and the U.K. This number morphed into the P-5, with France being added by the UK at the San Francisco conference held in 1945 where the UN charter was finalised. The pure multilateralism of the League of Nations was thus infused with a multipolarity, with the U.S. as the sheet anchor. The U.S. also thought that China would act as a bulwark against the USSR. But that was the Republic of China (RoC) led by the Kuomintang who were soon routed on the mainland by the communists and found themselves on the island of Formosa (now Taiwan). This is important as the People’s Republic of China (PRC) would have us believe that it was a founder of the UN. RoC retained the UN seat of China till 1971 when it was expelled from the UN and the PRC admitted as a member giving it a de jure pole position at the UN. U.S. President Richard Nixon visited Beijing in 1972 and the U.S.’s opening to the PRC certainly paved the way for the unprecedented economic growth of China. However, in its march to global hegemony, the COVID-19 pandemic may have caught China on the wrong foot. Institutional transformations Multilateralism is under unprecedented stress fuelled by the COVID-19 pandemic and a certain disenchantment with globalisation. At the root, of course, is the rise of China and its challenge to U.S. global hegemony. But for global action there are no substitutes for multilateralism backed by strong multipolarity relevant to contemporary realities. This demands institutional reform and not just engagement with extant issues which form the song and dance of diplomacy. Perhaps most important are institutional reforms in the UN Security Council (UNSC) and at the Bretton Woods Institutions so that their governance leverages the capabilities of the major players among both the developed and developing countries. In this context, it is good that recently India, Germany, Japan and Brazil (G-4) have sought to refocus the UN on UNSC reform. As proponents of reform, they must remain focused and determined even if these changes do not happen easily or come soon. This is also the way forward for India which is not yet in the front row. A window opens Earlier in the year, India was elected as a non-permanent member of the UNSC for a two-year term. India will also host the BRICS Summit next year and G-20 Summit in 2022. These are openings for India in coalescing the world in critical areas that require global cooperation especially climate change, pandemics and counter-terrorism. India also needs to invest in the UN with increased financial contributions in line with its share of the world economy and by placing its people in key multilateral positions. Three defeats and a near defeat for China in elections to UN bodies post-COVID-19 and the negative reaction to its threat of veto to forestall a discussion on the pandemic in the UNSC clearly point to a disenchantment with China in the globe and is a thumbs down for them. It is also an opportune moment for India and a Reformed Multilateralism. Manjeev Singh Puri is Former Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations. The views expressed are personal
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Valley’s voice||The announcement, on Thursday, by five regional parties and the CPI(M), of the formation of the ‘Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’ to fight for the restoration of full statehood and special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir, is one that has also coincided with the release of former J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti after 14 months in detention. The Gupkar Declaration by these parties, on August 4, 2019, had anticipated the Centre’s move to repeal J&K’s special status the next day and vowed to fight for its protection. J&K also lost its statehood. The NC, the PDP, People’s Conference, Awami National Conference, the J&K Peoples Movement, and CPI (M) have now reiterated their earlier pledge; the Awami Ittehad Party and the Peoples Democratic Front too have declared their support. The coming together of the rival regional parties is strange and significant; this is no electoral alliance, but a political meeting point on the status of Kashmir. It is a result of the perception that politics in J&K is a face-off with the Centre and a reflection of increased Kashmiri alienation from the national mainstream. The framing of Kashmir politics as a combat with the Centre has been forced upon the regional parties by the BJP government through its reckless policies. In 2015, the BJP-PDP coalition government in J&K appeared like the maturing of a progressive trend. The BJP and the NC were in alliance at the Centre earlier. With two main national parties, the Congress and the BJP, forming opportunistic alliances with two regional parties, there were reasons to believe that politics in Kashmir was not out of step with the national mainstream. Besides participation of Kashmiri parties in national coalition governments, the debate within had begun to echo political debates elsewhere in the country — with development and governance increasingly taking centre stage. Debates on autonomy and self-determination continued, but did not overwhelm politics in Kashmir. As it turned out, alliances with regional actors did not temper the BJP’s strident opposition to the notional special status. It sought to delegitimise regional parties by terming them ‘soft separatists,’ and unleashed state agencies against them. J&K’s reorganisation in 2019 created new international dimensions. The BJP government at the Centre evidently believes that domination, not accommodation, is the way forward in Kashmir, which has helped the party’s electoral appeal in the heartland, and acts as an incentive. With sufficient amount of force, any policy is enforceable on the ground, but that is not a moral choice that democratic societies make. National integration advanced through patient negotiations and accommodation is more enduring and formidable. It is time for a new beginning in Kashmir and the Centre should be sensitive to the sentiments expressed in the Gupkar Declaration.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope amid uncertainty||The IMF’s latest World Economic Outlook sums up the challenges ahead in the report’s title: ‘A long and difficult ascent’. With COVID-19 having already extracted a toll of over a million lives, accompanied by an evisceration of livelihoods and output in economies, prognosticating the economic future even as the pandemic rages on is an unenviable task. The Fund’s economists have gamely sought to make forecasts for world output through 2020, 2021 and into the medium term. While the global economy is projected to shrink 4.4% this year, reflecting a less severe contraction than the 5.2% drop estimated in June, output is seen rebounding at a marginally slower 5.2% pace in 2021. The IMF has based its revision on “better-than-anticipated second-quarter GDP out-turns, mostly in advanced economies” where activity improved after lockdowns were eased, as well as signs of a stronger recovery in the July-September quarter. But the IMF has been prudent in pointing out that even as the world economy ascends out of the depths it plunged to in April, following the worldwide lockdown, there remains the danger of a resurgence in infections that is prompting countries in Europe to reimpose at least partial closures. And the risks associated with predicting the pandemic’s progression, the unevenness of public health responses, and the extent to which domestic activity can be disrupted, magnify the uncertainty. Pointing out that the pandemic is set to leave scars well into the medium term ‘as labour markets take time to heal, investment is held back by uncertainty and balance sheet problems, and lost schooling impairs human capital’, IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath contends that global growth will gradually slow to about 3.5% in the medium term. With the cumulative loss in output relative to the pre-pandemic projected path estimated to more than double to $28 trillion over 2020–25, efforts to improve average living standards are certain to be severely set back. Observing that the pandemic is set to widen inequality between economies and within nations, the Fund has urged greater international cooperation. It is imperative for all countries to work closely to ensure that new treatments and vaccines are made available to all since wider and faster availability of medical solutions could boost global income by almost $9 trillion by end-2025, reducing income divergence, she says. With no visibility yet on vaccine availability, the IMF has also stressed the need for policymakers to persist with direct income support for the most vulnerable and regulatory forbearance for stressed but viable firms. The message is clear. In a world as interconnected as it is today, the cost of economic insularity would only be more protracted pain for all.
22 October 2020||New delhi,||Diesel sales hint at rebound in October||Diesel demand has returned to pre-COVID-19 levels as sales rose 8.8% in the first half of October from a year earlier, preliminary industry data showed. This follows the same pattern that petrol sales too had begun seeing. This is the first annual increase in sales of diesel — the most consumed fuel in the country — since the nation imposed a lockdown in late March to curb the spread of the pandemic. While demand for petrol has been more resilient than diesel due to an increased preference for using personal vehicles instead of public transport to follow distancing norms, the October 1-15 sales numbers showed better-than-anticipated recovery. Pent-up demand and the upcoming festive season were expected to support fuel sales but even before that, diesel sales rose to 2.65 million tonnes in the first fortnight of October, from 2.43 million tonnes a year earlier and from 2.13 million tonnes in the first half of September. Petrol, which had returned to pre-COVID levels last month, posted a 1.5% rise in sales to 9,82,000 tonnes in the first half of October, from 9,67,000 tonnes in the same period a year earlier and 9,68,000 tonnes in the first fortnight of September. India witnessed unprecedented demand destruction after a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. Oil demand fell by as much as 49% in April. With the easing of restrictions and reopening of the economy, fuel demand recovered sharply in June from April before slowing due to the reimposition of restrictions in certain cities because of COVID-19 and flooding in some regions. It started to climb back again in September. Even in September, diesel had shown a month-on-month increase. On Thursday, Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman of Indian Oil Corp., had said that September recovery was faster than expected. ‘ATF sales muted’ But aviation turbine fuel (ATF) sales continue to be way below normal as airlines are yet to resume full services. ATF sales fell 57% to 1,35,000 tonnes in the first half of October from a year earlier but was 2.5% higher than the 1,30,000 tonnes sold in the first fortnight of September. “We see (oil) demand picking up this quarter and by the end of the current financial year, we should be back to pre-COVID levels,” Mr. Vaidya had said.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Farm sentiment stays positive: ICRA||Farm sentiment remained buoyant, driven by a healthy monsoon and further optimism of a good Kharif crop despite the COVID-19 pandemic, ratings agency ICRA said in a report. Rural household incomes stayed resilient, supported by healthy farm cash flows across regions and aided by high levels of Rabi procurement under various government schemes after a bumper Rabi harvest, it added. Besides, increased government support, via the likes of MNREGA and PM-KISAN, had helped create employment and easing liquidity pressure on rural incomes, brought about by large-scale reverse migration to rural areas during lockdown, the agency said. Shamsher Dewan, VP, ICRA, said though there were fears of disruption in the Rabi procurement process, the same was “mitigated by prompt lifting of restrictions by the Centre for agricultural activities”.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Commercial vehicle sales fall 20% in July-September: SIAM||Commercial vehicle sales, which are usually seen as an indicator of economic activity, fell 20.13% to about 1.33 lakh units in the July-September 2020 quarter as compared with about 1.67 lakh units in same period last year. SIAM has begun releasing wholesales CV sales data only for the full quarter. For the CV segment, the volumes are lower than in the comparable period of FY16, SIAM president Kenichi Ayukawa said. Meanwhile, passenger vehicle (PV) dispatches to dealers recorded a strong double-digit growth of 26.45% in September. While cars sales rose 28.92% to more than 1.63 lakh units in September 2020 from about 1.27 lakh units in the year earlier month, sales of utility vehicles and vans increased 24.5% to 96,633 units and 10.64% to 11,413 units, respectively. Two-wheeler sales grew 11.64% to more than 18.49 lakh units as against over 16.56 lakh units in the same month last year. Data showed a year-on-year growth of 17.30% for motorcycles to over 12.24 lakh units and a marginal increase in sales of scooters at about 5.56 lakh units.  Three-wheeler sales plunged almost 72% to 18,640 units in September as against 66,362 units in the year-ago month.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Tax cut, better roads to boost luxury car sales’||To push demand for luxury cars in India, it is important to develop road infrastructure and to normalise the tax regime, which, in the current form, dissuades people from buying such cars, BMW Group India President Vikram Pawah said. “As the road network gets developed, people will like to drive even better cars... The second part is on the taxation policy... Currently, people are dissuaded from buying luxury cars because of the taxation regime, the way it exists... ,” Mr. Pawah said, replying to a query. He, however, added that he expected the BMW brand to continue to grow on the back of new product launches. “We are in the midst of the biggest product offensive and will continue to introduce products over the next 18-24 months,” he said. On the impact of COVID-19, Mr. Pawah said in the current year, every quarter had been different. While in Q1, the industry saw transition from BS-IV to BS-VI emission norms, the second quarter was a total washout and some sequential recovery was seen July onwards.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Import ban on ACs won’t impact major players’||The government’s move to ban import of air conditioners with refrigerants is unlikely to impact major players, who mostly import components, industry players said. On the other hand, it would help create jobs and increase exports, they added. “The decision will boost AC manufacturing in India and create more jobs,” Kamal Nandi, president of Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association, said adding that currently, about 30% of air conditioners are imported into India as completely built-up units. Global research firm Jefferies said in a note that top seven players, accounting for 90% of the market, should not be impacted by the move as they primarily import compressors/refrigerants versus the entire unit.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||HCL Q2 net profit rises 18.5% on digitisation push||HCL Technologies on Friday said its net profit for the second quarter ended September 2020 grew 18.5% to Rs. 3,124 crore driven by a push for digitisation. The company said it planned to implement salary increments in addition to a “significant number of hirings” during the current year. The company’s revenues grew 6.1% to Rs. 18,594 crore during the quarter. “We delivered a solid performance in Q2... Our stellar performance is broad-based across verticals, service lines, geographies and Mode 1, 2, 3 offerings,” president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said in a virtual briefing. “Our new bookings remained very robust, it increased 35% compared to the last quarter. We won 15 transformational deals,” he said. Mr. Vijayakumar added that the company’s deal pipeline grew 20% quarter-on-quarter, which was “an all-time high”. One of the main elements that contributed to the ‘brilliant performance’ was the intensity of the technology spent as companies recalibrate businesses and business models for the new normal, he said. “We are implementing the salary increments effective October 1, up to E3 levels, and effective January 1, for E4 and above levels,” he added. The Board of Directors has declared an interim dividend of Rs. 4 per equity share for FY2020-21.  Our new bookings remained robust; they rose 35% compared to the last quarterC. Vijayakumar,CEO, HCL Technologies
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||First State loans OMO on Oct. 22: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said it would conduct Open Market Operation (OMO) purchase of State Developments Loans as per its October 9 announcement. The OMO is to be conducted on October 22 for Rs. 10,000 crore. “Depending on market response, the size of the auctions may be enhanced in subsequent auctions,” the RBI said in a statement. RBI will purchase the SDLs through a multi-security auction using the multiple price method. There is no security-wise notified amount.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Policy delay hurting edible oil security’||The delay in the roll out of the National Oilseed Mission was hurting India’s edible oil security, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA), the apex body of the Indian vegetable oil industry, said. “This delay in the announcement is a cause of concern... as raw material supply is reducing and our dependence on import of edible oil is rising year after year,” Atul Chaturvedi, president, SEA said in a letter to Union Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and Consumer Affairs. To curb imports, the SEA had been advocating cultivation of soybean, sunfower, maize and mustard in Punjab and Haryana via a shift in crop pattern from rice in kharif and wheat in rabi season.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||E-com firms censured over origin details||The government on Friday issued notices to Flipkart, Amazon and other e-commerce companies for not mandatorily displaying information, including country of origin, on products sold on their platforms. The notices have been issued by the Department of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Apart from Amazon and Flipkart, notices have also been sent to other e-commerce players, sources said. The companies have been asked to reply to the notices within 15 days.
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Micromax eyes comeback, to invest Rs. 500 cr.||Homegrown consumer electronics brand Micromax is planning a comeback in the smartphone segment with a Rs. 500 crore investment. As a first step towards re-entry into the segment where it made waves before Chinese phones took over, Micromax Informatics on Friday unveiled a sub brand ‘in’, under which it will roll out a range of smartphones. Setting the backdrop for the comeback is the anti-China sentiment, in the wake of recent tension between India and China, as well as the Centre’s emphasis on ‘Make in India’. Micromax has plants in Bhiwadi and Hyderabad. A release said the firm had a 2-million-phones-a-month capacity and is working on strengthening its retail and distribution network.
22 October 2020||Hyderabad,||For Business Pages PSU general insurers asked to designate nodal officers for ombudsman offices||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has advised public sector general insurers to appoint a nodal officer each for the 17 insurance ombudsman offices to ensure proper and timely disposal of complaints. This follows the ombudsmen citing difficulties in dealing with cases of these insurers in the absence of any responsible officer who can liaison with their offices.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Union Bank of India MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai is new chairman of IBA||Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) said Union Bank of India’s MD and CEO Rajkiran Rai G. has been elected as the association’s chairman for 2020-21. The managing committee of the IBA, at its meeting held on October 16, elected Rajkiran Rai G. as the chairman, IBA, a release said. State Bank of India’s Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara has been elected as the deputy chairman.PTI
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Liberty Steel makes ‘non-binding indicative offer’ to acquire Thyssenkrupp Steel assets in Europe||U.K.-based Liberty Steel Group on Friday said it has made a non-binding indicative offer to Thyssenkrupp to acquire the German steel major’s assets in Europe. The Group is part of diversified GFG Alliance. In a statement, Liberty Steel Group said it had “made a non-binding indicative offer (NBIO)” as part of a Thyssenkrupp-led process to acquire its steel activities.PTI
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||MI juggernaut rolls on, crushes KKR to reclaim top spot||In a lopsided contest, Kolkata Knight Riders succumbed to Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday. MI thrashed KKR by eight wickets inside 17 overs to move to the top of the table, even on points with Delhi Capitals but ahead on net run rate after eight games. Signature shot Chasing a target of 149, Quinton de Kock (78 not out, 44b, 9x4, 3x6) snatched the game away in a flash. The South African executed classical cricketing shots, including his signature hook, to keep the scoreboard ticking. He found solid support in Rohit (35, 36b, 5x4, 1x6) and the partnership helped MI race to 51 without loss in the PowerPlay. By the time Shivam Mavi dismissed Rohit, Mumbai only needed 55 off 57 balls. Although Suryakumar Yadav did not get going, Hardik Pandya, promoted to No. 4, hastened the end with an 11-ball 21 not out (3x4, 1x6). Disciplined effort MI’s disciplined bowling effort had earlier restricted the Knight Riders to 148 for five. KKR started cautiously before Suryakumar’s quick reflexes in the point region, which helped him pouch Rahul Tripathi off Trent Boult, set things rolling for the defending champion. Nathan Coulter-Nile scalped Nitish Rana to finish the PowerPlay on a high. It set the stage for leg-spinner Rahul Chahar, who called the shots in the middle overs by removing Shubman Gill and Dinesh Karthik, who had handed over the captaincy to Eoin Morgan in a bid to bat more freely. Gill and Karthik were dismissed off successive deliveries. Bumrah nails Russell Jasprit Bumrah then got the dangerous Andre Russell with a well-directed short ball to further hurt KKR’s chances. Pat Cummins, who had smashed a 12-ball 33 against MI earlier this season, refused to give up the ghost, finishing with 53 not out (36b, 5x4, 2x6). He added 87 runs off 57 balls for the sixth wicket with Morgan to save his side’s blushes. But de Kock’s early assault quickly ended any hopes KKR may have had of making a match of it.
22 October 2020||Sharjah,||Pooran hails Gayle as greatest T20 batsman||Chris Gayle’s presence in the middle had the team brimming with confidence and the ‘Universe Boss” with a cracking half-century proved his worth during Kings XI Punjab’s win over Royal Challengers Bangalore, said batsman Nicholas Pooran. Gayle, who was playing his first competitive match since January, overcame a sluggish start to smash five sixes and a boundary in his 53-run knock, helping KXIP snap a five-match losing streak. “He started slowly, which is acceptable because he hasn’t played cricket in a long while. He has shown once more why he is the greatest T20 batsman. It’s wonderful to see him get runs,” Pooran told teammate Mayank Agarwal during a post-match show for IPLT20.com. Mood is upbeat The West Indies wicketkeeper-batsman added that when the 41-year-old Jamaican is out in the middle, the mood in the camp is different. “To me, he is the greatest T20 player. When Chris is batting, you always feel you have a chance of winning the game. Once he is there, it’s a different mood in the camp. We, as batsmen, would want someone like him in the middle,” Pooran said. In the first match of the tournament against Delhi Capitals, KXIP had failed to score the required one run from the last three balls and the game went to a Super Over where Kings XI lost the game. On Thursday, K.L. Rahul and his men needed just seven off the final two overs with nine wickets in hand but somehow took the game to the last ball. With big-hitter Gayle departing off the penultimate ball, Pooran walked in to hit the winning six. Deja vu “When the last over started, it was like deja vu . Last three balls, one run it was like the Delhi game all over again but just the difference is that I was in the dugout,” Pooran said. “A million things were running in my mind, I was not clear, to be honest, what I was gonna (sic) do. I never wanted to be in that position. After sitting out for so long, I have to bat the last ball and 11 fielders looked like 20. Two points is the most important thing for us,” Pooran added.
22 October 2020||Mumbai,||Writ filed against MCA||A representative of a member club of the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court against MCA, seeking directives to convene the much-delayed annual general meeting and initiate a process to appoint a professional chief executive officer as per the requirements of the Supreme Court-directed administrative reforms in Indian cricket. Ravindra Mandrekar, a MCA veteran who represents Gaud Saraswat Cricket Club, has filed a petition on October 14. Mandrekar’s petition has appealed to the court to direct the MCA to organise an annual AGM within four weeks, issue a restraining order to extend C.S. Naik’s tenure as CEO and initiate a procedure for appointing his successor. The petitioner states he is moving court since “the association is in disarray and being conducted contrary to the Lodha Committee reforms”. The petitioner has stated that despite several reminders and attempts, the elected apex council, headed by Vijay Patil, has not convened the AGM for over a year. The petition alleges “lack of transparency in the management” since for the last three years power has been “concentrated in the hands of 17 members of the Apex Council” instead of 312 MCA members. Each of the 17 elected members of the apex council has also been made a party to the petition. The petition points out that there is an attempt to persist with Naik, whose term is to expire on October 31, as the CEO. “In the absence of an AGM, the general body members are unable to object to the continuance of the CEO, who is not qualified as per the provisions of the Constitution,” the petition states.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI apex council to discuss home season||The fate of the home season, including England’s scheduled tour of India early next year and the deferred domestic calendar, is set to be discussed during the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s apex council meeting on Saturday. Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, competitive cricket in India has virtually come to a standstill. As a result, despite the Indian Premier League (IPL) being played in the United Arab Emirates, there is no clarity on whether competitive cricket can resume in India anytime soon. ECB’s apprehension The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has thus expressed apprehension over travelling to India and has instead sent the BCCI a feeler preferring to play the series in the UAE. A section within the apex council is understood to be in favour of creating a bio-bubble either in Mumbai, Ahmedabad or Dharamsala for the England series. But there are sceptics about domestic cricket, with a whopping 38 teams participating in senior and junior cricket now. “To assure ECB about safety of cricketers in India, scheduling domestic cricket is paramount but to create bubbles in four or five cities is the big risk, so it’s a tricky call,” said a BCCI insider. Call on kit sponsor It remains to be seen if the apex council takes a call on the kit sponsor for India’s tour to Australia. With Nike’s term having expired, the recent tenders floated by the BCCI didn’t receive any response due to uncertainty over resumption of international cricket.
22 October 2020||London,||Liverpool up against pacesetter Everton||Liverpool faces Premier League pacesetter Everton this weekend, determined to prove its 7-2 drubbing by Aston Villa was just a bizarre blip while misfiring Manchester United could slip into the relegation zone. The Merseyside derby kicks off the Premier League action on Saturday after the international break, with Manchester City’s match against Arsenal also catching the eye. United desperate Ole Gunnar Solskjaer will be desperate to turn around Manchester United’s fortunes at Newcastle after the team’s 6-1 humbling by Tottenham. The Goodison Park club is top of the table with four wins out of four and Jurgen Klopp will not be relishing the short trip across Stanley Park. The champion is smarting from its pummelling at Villa, which followed impressive wins against Chelsea and Arsenal, and it will be the defence that is giving the German boss his biggest headache. Liverpool has conceded 11 goals in the Premier League so far — only West Brom has conceded more (13) — and it is coming up against the Premier League’s joint top-scorer in Dominic Calvert-Lewin, who has six goals. The forward is quick to praise fellow-attackers James Rodriguez and Richarlison. “I continue to work hard, like I always have. I’m grateful the quality behind me is producing the opportunities for me to score the goals.”
22 October 2020||PARIS,||Wimbledon set to return in 2021||Wimbledon is set to go ahead next year even if the Grand Slam tournament has to be staged behind closed doors, organisers announced on Friday. The grasscourt championships were cancelled this year for the first time since World War II because of the coronavirus pandemic. The All England Club is planning for several scenarios in 2021 — a full-capacity Wimbledon, reduced numbers of fans or holding the tournament with no spectators present. “Staging the championships in 2021 is our number-one priority and we are actively engaged in scenario-planning in order to deliver on that priority,” said chief executive Sally Bolton. Wimbledon’s statement read: “Our overriding priority will continue to be the health and safety of all of our stakeholders, in particular our guests, our staff, and our competitors. “We are working closely with relevant government and public health authorities, alongside the rest of the sports industry, to understand the varying challenges and opportunities presented by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.” The 134th championships will be staged from June 28 to July 11, 2021.
22 October 2020||Kolkata,||Mohd. Sporting secures I-League berth||Mohammedan Sporting scored once in each half to prevail over its city rival Bhawanipore FC 2-0 in the penultimate match of the qualifiers and secured a place in the main stage of the I-League. Dominance The match at the Kalyani Stadium on Friday saw Sporting maintaining its dominance all through as Vanlalbiaa Chhangte and substitute Gani Ahmmed Nigam found the target to help their team secure its third consecutive victory and bag nine points. The victory gave Sporting an unassailable lead in the points table, rendering the final round of action on October 19 inconsequential. Sporting will meet FC Bengaluru United in the final round. Bhawanipore, which is on six points with a game left, will not be able to overtake Sporting as the latter has a better head-to-head record after Friday’s win. Looking to secure the lone qualification berth on offer, Sporting began strongly, repeatedly raiding the Bhawanipore half. Defence caves in Bhawanipore’s defence caved in to pressure in the 28th minute when Sporting’s Trinidad and Tobago striker Willis Plaza set it up for Chhangte to finish. Bhawanipore tried to regroup after the break, but its search for the equaliser remained elusive. Sporting took the match further away in the 67th minute when Nigam, a 46th-minute substitute, chested down a free-kick and finished with a grounder to make it 2-0. In the other match, Garhwal FC split points with ARA FC after a 1-1 draw.  The results:   Mohammedan Sporting 2 (Vanlalbiaa Chhangte 28, Gani Ahmmed Nigam 67) bt Bhawanipore FC 0.   Garhwal FC 1 (Neeraj Bhandari 17) drew with ARA FC 1 (Surajit Seal 83-pen).   Sporting, with nine points, takes an unassailable lead The final round of action on Oct. 19 becomes inconsequential
22 October 2020||Palakkad:,||Jishore claims title||Kannur’s V.M. Jishore kept a clean slate to win the Palakkad leg of the qualifiers for the online all-Kerala Open chess tournament here on Friday. Jishore tallied nine points in the nine round tournament and finished ahead of former State champion O.T. Anilkumar (8) and FIDE Master Jubin Jimmy (8). Ten players from Palakkad — Aadithya Pradeep, P.G. Muralidharan, Vinu Unnikrishnan, Shaji Lonappan, S. Pournami, Aravind J. Nair, Ahammed Lal, N.G. Sreejen, K.V. Harikumar and Aarush S. Nair — qualified for the mega finals.  The standings: 1. V.M. Jishore (Knr, 9 pts), 2.T.Anilkumar (Koz, 8), 3. Jubin Jimmy (Klm, 8), 4. John Veny Akkarakaran (Koz, 8),5. Renjith Babu (Ekm, 7.5), 6. Aadithya Pradeep (Pkd, 7), 7. Joy Lazar (Tsr, 7), 8. Anudeep Anoop (Knr, 7), 9. P. Jayakrishnan (Ksgd, 7), 10. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm, 7).
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||KXIP finally wins, puts a spoke in RCB’s wheel||Kings XI Punjab nearly made a mess of it once again, but Nicholas Pooran's six off the last ball ended the team's losing streak on Thursday. K.L. Rahul's men beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by eight wickets at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium. With Rahul (61 n.o., 49b, 1x4, 5x6) and comeback man Chris Gayle (53, 45b, 1x4, 5x6) at the wicket, seven runs from the last two overs should have been a walk in the park. The scores were tied — at 171 — when the ‘Universe Boss’ was run out off the penultimate ball. Pooran took charge, stepping out and hitting the final ball over long-on. KXIP's only other win this season was also against RCB.   Kings 161 for one  Kings were 161 for one in 17 overs. Rahul (58) and Gayle (50) were batting while Mayank (45) was the batsman dismissed
22 October 2020||Madrid,||Barca ponders giving Messi a breather||Barcelona must weigh up the decision whether to rest Lionel Messi for Saturday's trip to Getafe ahead of a congested run of fixtures, while Real Madrid is still waiting for the return of Eden Hazard from injury. Messi played the full 90 minutes in Argentina's World Cup qualifiers against Ecuador and Bolivia during the international break, the second of which was played at altitude in La Paz. The Barca captain has not missed a single minute for his club since football resumed in June following the coronavirus shutdown. However, with seven games in the space of 21 days awaiting Barca, coach Ronald Koeman could elect to give Messi a breather before the start of the team’s Champions League campaign. Barca hosts Hungarian side Ferencvaros on Tuesday and then faces Real Madrid four days later at the Camp Nou. Unbeaten run Leader Madrid is unbeaten in La Liga since March, winning 13 of its past 15 games, and welcome Cadiz to the capital this weekend. Zinedine Zidane could also opt to rotate some players, but Thibaut Courtois, Karim Benzema and Vinicius Junior are in line to play after resting while others were away on international duty. Courtois left the Belgium squad with a back injury and while he is fit to return, compatriot Hazard is not yet ready for action. The 29-year-old has yet to feature this season having picked up a muscle injury as he worked his way back from an ankle problem. He is also expected to miss next weekend's Clasico, but Courtois believes Hazard will come good after scoring just once in an injury-plagued first season in Spain. “I have no doubt we are going to see the best of Hazard,” Courtois told Cadena Ser radio. “He is more desperate than anyone to show it. He's coming along well and hopefully soon he can prove it. He added: “I am sure that in no time he will explode and will give many joys to the team.”  Atletico Madrid visits Celta Vigo in its first game since the sale of Ghana midfielder Thomas Partey to Arsenal on transfer deadline day. Partey made 188 appearances for the Atletico and was part of the sides that reached the 2016 Champions League final and beat Arsenal on the way to winning the Europa League in 2018. The Dutch-born Morocco international could make his Sevilla debut at Granada after joining the club on a five-year deal from AZ Alkmaar. Idrissi, 24, scored 13 goals in 25 games in the Eredivisie last season before it was declared over in March due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Undefeated Julen Lopetegui's Europa League winners are one of four undefeated teams in La Liga this term, with seven points from their first three matches.
22 October 2020||Sharjah,||Tough test awaits CSK as it takes on dominant DC||CSK will face a stiff examination when it meets an in-form DC here on Saturday. M.S. Dhoni used leg-spinner Piyush Chawla for only one over, leaving the job mainly to Ravindra Jadeja and Karn Sharma against SRH. CSK is likely to continue with three spinners considering that the Sharjah wickets are now getting slower. However, CSK is up against a team which is high on confidence and well-served by the South African pace duo of Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje. Add the wily R. Ashwin and Axar Patel to the mix and DC has an impressive bowling unit. The Capitals side would, however, be worried about the fitness of Shreyas Iyer, who hurt his left shoulder in the previous game.
22 October 2020||GDYNIA (Poland),||Coe gives the thumbs up to Wavelight technology||World Athletics president Sebastian Coe said on Friday he embraced the new track technology that features pacemaking lights, a system used to great effect in the World records set last week by Joshua Cheptegei (men’s 10,000m) and Letesenbet Gidey (women’s 5,000m). Both had a team of metronomic pacemakers around them who utilised Wavelight technology — a trackside visual time guidance system which lights up to indicate the world record pace. “You have to innovate, there’s no question about that. “I think Wavelight allows people in the stadium, people on television, to understand a little bit more about the incredible talent, the incredible speeds our competitors are running at actually lends to the type of understanding I want.”
22 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Odisha to sponsor National rugby teams||The Odisha Government will pay the Indian Rugby Football Union (also known as Rugby India) Rs. 3 crore as sponsor of National teams over three years. Sharing this information with The Hindu Odisha Sports Minister Tusharkanti Behera said: “The high performance player remuneration will be provided to India’s men and women’s teams in rugby 15s, rugby 7s, under-20 rugby 15s and 7s, under-18 rugby 7s towards players camp fees, tour fees, match fees, bonus, nutrition and welfare.” Behera said the National rugby teams “will have access to our Sports Science Centre, the Abhinav Bindra Targeting Performance facility, six times a year during their camps in Bhubaneswar.” The Minister said Odisha, which has hosted several international events, including the Asia Rugby 7s' under-18 girls’ championship in October 2018, “looks forward to hosting bigger international rugby matches at the Kalinga Stadium.” Taking into account the rise of players like Sumitra Nayak and Hupi Majhi and KISS winning the women’s title in the Khelo India University Games, Behera said such success stories brought ‘aspirational values’ to the youngsters in the State. “The association with Rugby India will help nurture talent, create a pathway to elite (level) and produce more players from the State who can bring laurels to the country,” said Behera.
22 October 2020||Dubai,||RCB looks to get tactics right against RR||RCB will aim to get its strategy right when it takes on an erratic RR here on Saturday. RCB has won five of its eight games on the back of all-round performances but blundered in the eight-wicket defeat to KXIP on Thursday. RCB’s move to promote Washington Sundar and Shivam Dube ahead of the in-form A.B. de Villiers backfired. While defending 171, Kohli’s decision to save Washington for the big-hitting Chris Gayle also didn’t pay off. RR’s campaign, meanwhile, has been marred by numerous top-order collapses. It has had to rely on Rahul Tewatia to come to its rescue. After failing in his first match, Ben Stokes, who has been promoted as opener, scored 41 against DC.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Bowlers’ mindset has changed in T20s: Vihari||Hanuma Vihari enjoys Test cricket, but the India international also has a fair idea about the dynamics of T20 cricket. Having featured in 24 IPL fixtures — for Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals — the 26-year-old understands the importance of time in the shortest format of the game. “For batsmen, time depends on where you bat. If you bat at the top of the order, you have a little more time than the others who bat in the middle. It depends on the situation,” said Vihari on the Tissot presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. “The top-order has the advantage of taking a bit more time compared to a finisher, who walks in at No. 6 or 7. He does not have the luxury of a couple of extra balls and should get going from the beginning,” Vihari said. Even though T20 cricket is considered a batsman’s game, the bowlers have also found ways to make their presence felt. “For a bowler, it’s just four overs, but it’s also an opportunity for him. If he is a fast bowler, he can go all out and try and pick wickets. “Attack is the best form of defence and all the bowlers — even the spinners — are now trying to take wickets instead of just containing the batsmen,” Vihari said. The full interview can be watched on: https://youtu.be/0Yt8fmqoqWc
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||HFC signs young trio from Indian Arrows||Hyderabad FC continued to show faith in providing a platform for the young domestic talent by signing three players from Indian Arrows — Akash Mishra, Rohit Danu and Lalbiakhlua ‘Biaka’ Jongte — for the coming ISL season. The trio, which has been training with the team in Goa, has penned a long-term deal with the club till the end of the 2022-23 season.  Full-back Akash Mishra spent three years training in Germany after making it through the trials conducted by U Dream Football Academy in 2015. The 18-year-old scored twice in seven games to help India clinch the SAFF U-18 Championship in 2019 before joining Arrows. Danu, an 18-year-old attacker, started training with the AIFF Elite Academy at a young age and was the youngest member in the Indian camp for the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2017. Injuries halted his progress in the National side but Danu became the youngest-ever goal scorer in the I-League, with a goal for Indian Arrows against Aizawl in January 2019, at the age of 16. Jongte helped India win a four-nation tournament in Serbia where he was also named ‘best goalkeeper’. Impressive He added the SAFF U-19 Championship to his honours last year with the national side while impressing with the Arrows in the I-League.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Views on creation||The ultimate purpose of human existence is to realise Brahman and the main aim of scriptural texts is to lead the individual to this goal. To enable each one to know one’s own true self, scriptures explain creation from two angles and this aspect is analysed in the text Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. One view is known as Krama srishti, that is, the gradual evolution of the universe with all its infinite variety from its very source called Moola prakriti. From this are derived Maya, Avidya, Avarana, Vikshepa, ether, air, fire, water and earth. This view regards the five elements as the cause of the gross, subtle and causal bodies. But there is another view known as Yugapath Srishti where the causal body or karana sarira is shown to be the ultimate cause of the other two bodies, the gross and the subtle. This is based on the belief that ignorance alone is the cause of the self getting associated with the gross, subtle and causal bodies. The subtle body is also known as the Linga-sarira as it carries on the latent impressions until the soul attains liberation. The subtle body functions through the seventeen organs, the five jnanendriyas, the five karmendriyas, the five pranas, the mind and the buddhi. Careful examination of the acts such as seeing, hearing, etc, will show that these are solely the functions of the subtle body and not the gross body. This is confirmed in the case of deep sleep, swoon state and death, where the gross body is present, but the activity of the seventeen organs is not seen. Ignorance that leads one to believe unreal as real is cause of all sorrows like the experience felt when one misunderstands the rope to be a snake. One has to engage in viveka and vichara in all sincerity to be freed from this ignorance.
22 October 2020||New Delhi:,||Padmanabh, Daniel sizzle||Daniel Otamendi and Padmanabh Singh struck telling blows in the fourth chukker, after the teams were level, to guide Rajnigandha Achievers to an 8-5 win over Aravali Polo in the last league match of the Bhopal Pataudi Cup 8-goal polo tournament here on Friday. In the final on Sunday, Rajnigandha Achievers will face Sona Polo which beat Army Red 8 goals to 2-1/2.  The results (league): Sona Polo 8 (Tommy Severn 4, Siddhant Sharma 2, Akshai Malik 2) bt Army Red 2-1/2 (Aman Singh, Ravinder Mang, handicap 1/2); Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 5, Padmanabh Singh 3) bt Aravali Polo 5 (Angad Kalaan 4, Raghav Rao) .
22 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,||We are not panicking, says Archer||Rajasthan Royals may have blown more cold than hot this season, but Jofra Archer has been red hot with the ball, right through. He has 12 wickets, second in the bowling chart, behind Delhi Capitals' Kagiso Rabada. Royals will need him to come up with another fine show in Saturday's match against Royal Challengers Bangalore at Dubai. Archer said: “We’ve been in this situation before and have come back from this, so we’re not panicking.” He added that the team had to do well collectively. “I think there are wins out there and we just, as a team, need to go out there and get them,” he said.
22 October 2020||DUBAI,||Ponting wants Capitals to play its best in the back half||Delhi Capitals coach Ricky Ponting felt that playing well in the second half of the tournament will be a bigger challenge as the tracks in the UAE have been getting slower. “One thing I have been telling the boys right from the start is that I want us playing our best cricket in the back half of the tournament, not necessarily in the front half,” Ponting said on the eve of the match against CSK.  About the CSK challenge, he said: “They’ve proven performers — they have probably been the best team in the IPL since Day 1, you can’t take them lightly.”
22 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||ACA’s T20 league from Oct. 22||The Andhra Cricket Association will organise a six-team T20 cricket league championship at Anantapur Sports Village from October 22 to November 8. The event, being held in collaboration with Rural Development Trust and the Anantapur District Cricket Association, will see a bio-secure bubble for all the participants, according to ACA president Sarath Chandra Reddy. RDT’s Moncho Ferrer said they were happy to host what would be the first major cricketing event in the State after the first lockdown. Teams and members of the organising committee will undergo COVID-19 tests four times during the event.
22 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Karthik steps down, Morgan is KKR captain||Dinesh Karthik has informed the KKR management that with a view to focusing on his batting and contributing more to the team’s cause, he wished to hand over the reins to Eoin Morgan, according to a KKR statement on Friday. KKR CEO Venky Mysore said Karthik’s decision had come as a surprise. The team was “fortunate that Eoin Morgan, the 2019 World Cup-winning (England) captain, who has been the vice-captain, is willing to lead the side going forward,” he said. “DK and Eoin have worked brilliantly together during this tournament,” he added. Karthik led KKR for two-and-a-half seasons.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||RBG Champions Golf Development Tour from Oct. 27||The opening event of the RBG Champions Golf Development Tour will commence at Prestige Golfshire course here on October 27. The second event will be held at Eagleton Golf Club from November 25 to 27. Each event will be played over 54 holes (three rounds), in three categories — junior (7-12 yrs), teen (13-18) and amateur (19+) for boys and girls. The winners in the junior and amateur category will gain Global Junior Golf Ranking (JGS) and World Amateur Golf Rankings (WAGR) points. Interested players, who hold a valid handicap certificate, can send their entries to championsofindia@yahoo.com.    Former Karnataka Badminton Association (KBA) President Ramesh Moola passed away here. He was 81. Moola was instrumental in developing the KBA infrastructure in the 1990s. The KBA condoled his demise.
22 October 2020||MUMBAI,||UTT put off to next year||The fourth edition of Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT) was on Friday postponed to next year due to concerns over health and safety of the players amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The league was originally proposed to be held in India from August 14 to 31, after the Tokyo Olympic Games, now moved to next year because of the pandemic. “We must avoid any risk to the health and safety of the players and other stakeholders, especially with 2021 being an Olympic year. “Furthermore, international travel restrictions are still abound with clarity awaited on the same,” UTT co-promoters Vita Dani and Niraj Bajaj said in a joint statement. “After evaluating the current situation and after due deliberations with TTFI, we have arrived at a mutual consensus to not conduct UTT in this calendar year,” the statement read. “We are optimistic that 2021 will be healthier and happier, and in due course of time we hope to announce the dates for UTT to be held next year,” he added.
17 October 2020||October 17 2020 08:53 IST,||Sudoku - October 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Weekend travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Mumbai There seems to be a sharp divide between malls in South Mumbai (mostly deserted as they draw office goers and tourists) and those in the suburbs (where millennials and Gen Z are daring to step out). “Consumer behaviour has changed and though fear is still a factor, we are getting serious buyers now, so the conversion rate is high,” says Mukesh Kumar, CEO, Infiniti Mall, popular with the celebrity crowd. At Growel’s 1O1 Mall, facilities like live shopping services and ‘Mall on Wheels’ — where a selection of brands are brought to housing societies — have been introduced. Additionally, it is also organising pop-ups for customers who are apprehensive of stepping inside stores. “About 70% of business is coming from online channels, with deliveries happening through mall stores. This reinstates the fact that omnichannel as a trend is here to stay,” says Sachin Dhanawade, COO - Retail & Real Estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Ltd, which operates the mall. —Lalatendu Mishra We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Relook at the moral compass||‘Morality is a changing goalpost’ is the idea that binds together three short stories written by Siva Ananth for the Telugu web series Addham (mirror), which will première on Aha on October 16. The three-episode series produced by Sujatha Narayanan and E S Devasena has a Chennai-based cast and crew that worked on the project during the lockdown. Meet the three directors of Addham .   Siva Ananth has been associated with director Mani Ratnam since Dil Se , primarily in the direction and production departments. He also directed the Telugu film Chukkallo Chandrudu (2006). “Until a decade or two ago, several Telugu films were being produced from Chennai and we had a large pool of actors and technicians who worked in both Telugu and Tamil. Though my primary work is with Tamil cinema, I’d like to also think of myself as a Telugu film technician since I’ve directed a Telugu film,” he says. Since Aha was game to look beyond romance and crime capers, Siva wrote hard-hitting stories on morality as the thematic connection. “A theme like this helps us look inwards. There are grey areas; sometimes there’s no demarcation between what’s right and wrong. Each episode is of 20 minutes duration,” he explains. Siva directs the story titled The Unwhisperable Secret starring Varalaxmi Sarathkumar and Kishore: “Varalaxmi enacts the part of a mature and intelligent woman with an inner turmoil. I’ve been working with Kishore for Mani Ratnam’s next, Ponniyin Selvan , and he was game when I narrated this story.” After script readings on Zoom and meticulous planning, the team went to shoot in the first week of August. The filming was wrapped up within three days with a small crew. “We planned everything, down to the shot divisions and smallest details, so that we don’t waste time on set,” says Siva.      Sarjun has earned a steady following thanks to his Tamil short films (such as Lakshmi, Maa and Montage ) and feature films Airaa and Echcharikkai . Taking up a Telugu short for the first time, he recalls reading the script several times and listening to the dialogues to get familiar with Telugu words. “We had someone on set to guide me and the actors,” he shares. The story titled The Road That Never Ends stars Rohini and Jayaprakash along with Praveen, a teen actor. “It’s a sensitive story where it’s tough to judge what’s right and wrong. We filmed under constraints during the lockdown and my thoughts were all about wanting to translate the brilliant story I read into a good film,” says Sarjun. After months of lockdown, the actors were eager to face the camera. However, getting permissions to shoot outdoors wasn’t easy. After several attempts, the team got the go-ahead to shoot in a locality 25 kilometres from Chennai. “We shot from 4 am to 11 pm one day and for 12 hours the following day. Only when editor Sreekar Prasad went through the footage and said we had good material, I was relieved,” says the director. Sarjun is also in talks to direct a Telugu film for Geetha Arts.   “When I read the story Crossroads written by Siva, I felt it almost had my voice. One of the main reasons I left my corporate career and became a filmmaker is to be able to put out my voice,” says Barath Neelakantan, who directed the Tamil film K-13 . “In the planning stages, we (the three directors) debated on plot points and what a character is likely to say in a certain situation. In the process, we became greater friends since we shared personal stories,” he says.  Crossroads stars Prasanna, Abirami Venkatachalam and Pavithrah Marimuthu. “When we talk of Crossroads , most of us talk about career and rarely do we acknowledge it in the context of our personal lives. This story deals with personal life,” says Barath. Taking up a story written by another writer for the first time, Siva was concerned that he should be able to do justice to the story. Though it’s his first Telugu project, he says it wasn’t tedious since his wife, a Telugu, was part of one of the script readings.  (Addham streams on Aha)
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||An actor in the making||Ten-year-old K Mahashweta, a Class V student from Tiruppur, has acted in four Malayalam short films and has already won two international awards for her acting skills. The latest one is the Best Child/Young Actress award for her role in the short film Grandma Toy at the Las Vegas Movie Awards 2020. In the film, she plays an orphaned child who helps senior citizens who are abandoned at old age homes. “Why do people leave their parents at such places instead of caring for them at their homes?” asks Mahashweta. Grandma Toy, directed by Gajendra Vava, was released on YouTube in June this year and has crossed over a lakh views. The short fetched Mahashweta the award in the category Five to 12 years that had contestants from 100 countries. “I got an opportunity to work alongside senior actors in Malayalam and it was a great learning experience. I want to do films in Tamil too,” says the actor who has enrolled for online acting classes. “All the films she has done so far had social messages,” says P U Krishnan, her father. Last year, she won the award at Los Angeles Movie Awards for short film Whom Should I tell ( Aarodu Parayum?) themed on how mobile phones come in the way of parenting. She played a girl left uncared for as her parents sat glued to their phones. Her other short film Sketches of Life captured emotional trauma that families went through during the Maradu flat demolition in Kochi. Krishnan says Mahashweta’s work is getting noticed by artistes in the industry. “Actor Navya Nair put up a post on Facebook appreciating her performance. When I was young, I joined CG Ravi drama troupe but couldn’t go any further in acting because of lack of support. I want to encourage my daughter to pursue her passion,” he says.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Know your metals||Do metals interest you? Mango Education presents a webinar on Understanding Metals Around Us. It will be held by engineer and metallurgist Sri Rajan from the city, who has eight years of experience in casting and metal forming. He started his career in a foundry and has experience with various casting technologies and now works in the aluminium industry, specialising in the hot rolling process of aluminium. At the session, Sri Rajan will introduce participants to concepts including casting, vacuum induction melting, hot rolling of aluminium, industrial safety, superalloys and turbochargers. Entry fee is Rs. 500. Visit https://themango.co/ to register. Call 9952243541 or 7397796541 for details.    The webinar is on October 24, from 6 pm to 7 pm.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Feedback||We invite your feedback to the articles in the supplement. Letters may be sent to The Hindu MetroPlus, 19-20, ATT Colony, LIC Road, Coimbatore 641018 or e-mailed to feedbackcbe@thehindu.co.in All communications must contain the writer’s name and the complete mailing address.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Metroplus travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Coimbatore Malls in Coimbatore opened in September after being closed for six months. They have invested in fumigating machines, UV scanners, apps and temperature scanners. “We spent close to Rs. 50 lakhs for the same,” says Justin S, Marketing head, Prozone Mall. An app developed for the mall monitors the number of people inside the premises; the Brookefields mall’s app takes in contact details of visitors. “This helps us in contact tracing if necessary,” says Ashwin Balasubramaniam, COO. “The footfall has come down from 15,000 to 5,000 on weekdays. On weekends, it has fallen from 50,000 to 10,000,” says Justin. Ashwin adds that the closed down multiplexes are not helping matters either. “The longer they are shut, the harder it will be to revive the business for them and other dependent businesses,” he explains. In order to help retailers stay afloat and to keep them from vacating, malls have provided rent waivers for stores. — Susan Joe Philip We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Weekend travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Mumbai There seems to be a sharp divide between malls in South Mumbai (mostly deserted as they draw office goers and tourists) and those in the suburbs (where millennials and Gen Z are daring to step out). “Consumer behaviour has changed and though fear is still a factor, we are getting serious buyers now, so the conversion rate is high,” says Mukesh Kumar, CEO, Infiniti Mall, popular with the celebrity crowd. At Growel’s 1O1 Mall, facilities like live shopping services and ‘Mall on Wheels’ — where a selection of brands are brought to housing societies — have been introduced. Additionally, it is also organising pop-ups for customers who are apprehensive of stepping inside stores. “About 70% of business is coming from online channels, with deliveries happening through mall stores. This reinstates the fact that omnichannel as a trend is here to stay,” says Sachin Dhanawade, COO - Retail & Real Estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Ltd, which operates the mall. —Lalatendu Mishra We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Chef Saby returns||A subject that never fails to intrigue me is the way food crosses borders. Take Armenian food. Who would have thought that one day you’d get to eat dishes that are a part of life in the Eurasian country? But let’s not forget that India has old links with Armenia, ever since the first traders came from there in the late 17th century. There are people of Armenian origin living mostly in Kolkata. That should explain why an intrepid chef opened a restaurant serving Armenian delicacies in south Delhi a few years ago. I wanted to try out the food, but never managed to do so. But now, I am happy to say, Sabyasachi Gorai — known widely as Chef Saby — has started a food delivery service, and on the menu are a couple of Armenian dishes. The outfit is called Saby’s Deli - Soulful Decadence. I received a menu the other day and found it interesting. For those who like their fish and meat, there is Icelandic salmon steak (Rs. 950 for 200g fish and 350g of mash and vegetables plus taxes), slow roasted American chicken leg and thigh (Rs. 800 for 400g with bone), and Nordic lamb neck (Rs. 600 for 300g of meat with bone). For vegetarians, the menu includes aglio e olio pepperoncino (Rs. 450 for 500g), sautéed beans and spinach (Rs. 200 for 250g); spaghetti Alfredo (Rs. 450), roast vegetables (Rs. 200 for 250g). The produce, the Deli says, are sourced from the USA and Scandinavian countries, and then vacuum-packed and transported frozen through a cold chain. The dishes are then paired with local vegetables and oven cooked with just a little oil, it says. I can vouch for this — the food is light, yet delicious. I wanted a taste of Armenian food, so asked for the mushroom manti — Armenian ravioli stuffed with mushroom and cheese, in a tomato sauce (Rs. 500 for 300g). It was superb, nicely creamy and spiced. The pasta — tossed in olive oil, black and green olives, capers and chilli flakes — was smooth and al dente (which is how I like it). I enjoyed the roasted pumpkin and carrot, too — plump pieces that had been roasted with a dash of sea salt, olive oil, fresh herbs, and whole red chillies. The lamb dish consisted of small pieces of meat on bone that had been braised for three hours with vindaloo spices. I liked the gravy; the meat had been cooked just right too. The slow roasted chicken leg and thigh (the chicken was American, and thus rather large!) was surprisingly tasty. It came with roasted vegetables, a garlic mash, and a delightful gravy flavoured with rosemary. The chicken had been marinated overnight with ginger and garlic and then slow cooked with a splash of garlic oil on a bed of vegetables, Chef Saby tells me. A smoked chilli rub was applied on the chicken, and then it was again slow cooked for a bit. I loved the dessert. Called ponchiki, this is an Armenian version of a doughnut with a filling. The patisserie includes cookies and cream (Rs. 150 for 200g), a rich dry fruit cake with home-made liquor (Rs. 250 for 200g), three milk cake (with condensed milk, cooking cream, and Niagara whipping cream with sugared nuts — Rs. 400 for 350g), and lemon and maraschino cherry cupcakes (Rs. 350 for a dozen). Selling dishes by weight is now a trend in food delivery, it seems. Food is delivered (with varying charges) across Delhi-NCR. Place your order (9910731957/ 9717714687) by 6 pm, for the next day. Chef Saby’s food has re-ignited my love for travel. I am thinking of Yerevan. But first, I must get to know the food! The writer is a seasoned food critic
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Raise your can||In vino veritas . But even without the wine, if truth be told, I am not sure I’d be comfortable cracking open a can of some sophisticated vino . “Would you?” I had asked Kapil Sekhri, the late CEO of Fratelli wines (who passed away last Saturday) that is launching what it says are well-made but easy to drink wines in cans this autumn. “If it is a $50-$80 wine, I would not. I would want the whole drama of the bottle being uncorked, the romance of it,” Sekhri had said. “But there is no scientific reason why cans and good wine cannot go together.” Tilt — to “tilt your perspective” — that Fratelli has launched in four variants (apart from a spritzer under its Noi label) is wine in a can for the young, for those new to wine, but also led by occasion. (The red, white, rosé and bubbly cans, all 250 ml, are priced at a pocket-friendly Rs. 180 to Rs. 200.) So, while the romance of say a Chablis or Amarone — two of my favourites during the pandemic-induced social hibernation — may be missing, there could be place for more casual, less passionate encounters with wine too.   Let’s talk convenience  The ‘beerification’ of wine has been in the works for more than a decade and a half. In 2003, The Family Coppola launched Sofia Blanc de Blanc in a small 187 ml can, sold with a straw. The wine, named after American screenwriter-actress Sofia Coppola, gained a lot of attention. But it was only a decade later that wine in a can got a fillip in the US with the likes of Oregon’s Union Wine Company launching various lines. Since the last two years, the category has been registering an astounding growth in the US — up 69% in June last year over 2018, in retail, and totalling $79.3 million sales, according to a Nielsen report. In India, as the pandemic pushes us to new ways of consuming food and beverage at home, retail sales for wine have been growing phenomenally in the last two months (they are back to 2019 levels, as per various industry estimates) making up for losses through restaurants and institutional sales. In such a scenario, wine in a can is a new category where Indian wine makers are hoping to grow consumption. While Fratelli had been planning this launch for the last two years, and rushed to finish the project once the pandemic started, market leader Sula had debuted the category in India even before Covid-19 struck. The canned version of its long-standing brand, Dia, has been launched in two sparkling categories, red and white (priced at Rs. 180 for a 330 ml can), with a relatively low alcohol content at 8% ABV. In the next few months, a more premium still wine in a can will be launched, says Rajeev Samant, CEO of Sula Vineyards. “The image that it is only cheap or inferior wine in a can is being challenged in the US. Cans are more eco-friendly, recyclable, easier to transport and store, and more convenient for consumers,” he points out, adding that he is betting on premium wines across Sula’s portfolio in the new normal, when people have been choosing better quality wines for drinking at home. “I am not going to do wines below Rs. 500. My focus now is wines in the Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,000 bracket,” he says.  Case for gender fluid  The world over, the pandemic has turned premiumisation as an alco-bev trend on its head. Economic distress has meant that people have reduced spending and the sales of premium alcohol have been hit. In India, however, the reverse seems to be happening for wine. “When the lockdown opened, all my top labels like Gaja and Cakebread sold out that month itself. It may be that people had exhausted the wine they’d picked up while travelling abroad, but a new trend is also more men tasting high quality wines,” says Madhulika Dhall, owner of La Cave, a chain of wine stores in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. The demand for certain premium Indian labels like Sette and Bengaluru-based Krsma has also gone up in some markets, she says. In traditional whisky-dominated markets such as Delhi and Gurugram, a new trend is the sprouting of informal ‘boys clubs’ where six-10 enthusiasts gather at home, bringing their own pricey labels of wine, and tasting these over gourmet meals. While some of this may have to do with the inherent snobbery that comes with drinking pricey alcohol, the fact is that more men in their late 30s and 40s may be switching over to quality wine, hitherto considered a woman’s drink. Sekhri echoes this sense of a changing drinking culture when he pitches his canned wines with low ABV and varying levels of sweetness (from 20 g/l sugar for the spritzer to the dry-ish 10 g/l for the sparkling) as “gender fluid, age fluid”.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The windmills of our mind||The problem with science is that it has been the exclusive bastion of ‘scientists’ for far too long. Bah. Just because someone specialises in a particular subject for 10-20 years and pursues it single-mindedly for the rest of their life doesn’t necessarily mean they know best. As if. What we need in science is a little less reason and empirical evidence and a little more mythology, creativity, the spirit of why not and that all-important wah factor. Let’s take a few inventions that we have been using for decades without question as being meant for doing only one job and see how they could be tweaked to give us more roar for the rupee. The Washing Machine Till now the washing machine, as its name suggests, basically washed clothes. And then made the quantum leap of being able to steam them as well. Really? We’ve invented a phone that can transport pictures of our intimate parts from Ambattur to Antwerp in under three seconds and this is the best we could do with washing machines? I think if we put our minds to it, they could make our clothes as well. Yes, you heard me right. If they can wash clothes, why can’t they make clothes? It’s all clothes, isn’t it? Wash ‘em. Make ‘em. Just feed some multicoloured threads into them already. Add a miniaturised tailor with a measuring tape, scissors and AI. That’s all. Also, while they are at it, why can’t these machines, say, take the household pet for a walk? I think it’s perfectly possible. I mean, after all, they already make clothes, wash them and steam them. So, a tweak here in the motor, a reset there in the motherboard, and why can’t they take Brownie out to go do his business? The Car The automobile hasn’t really progressed much, has it? All we’ve been able to do with it in a century is make it driver-less. C’mon. Think, think. What else can it be made to do? How about it lays the roads that it travels on? That’s brilliant. And just. After all, roads are damaged by cars. So the car re-lays the road as it moves. Simple. Just need to tweak the engine and the petrol tank a bit, a minor change in the algorithm of the thingamajig, and voilà, tar-dispensing, road-laying cars that take us where we want to go without drivers. Not enough, though. Why can’t they give us investment advice? I mean, cars get out all the time, right? They know what the word on the street is. And Wall Street is a street. The Mixer-Grinder One of the biggest scams is the mixer-grinder. Imagine an appliance pretending it actually does different things to mix and grind. What a sell. Now how’s this for a thought. One of the primary components in a mixer-grinder is the blades. What else do blades do? They shave, dammit. So why can’t a mixer-grinder also be used as an electric razor? C’mon, all you great big scientists, that can’t be that difficult, can it? Find a simple way to put our faces in the mixie so we go in looking like Baba Ramdev and come out looking like Dev Anand. Hmmm, where else are blades used? Fans, of course. By now, you know where I’m going with this: mixer-grinder-cum-razor-cum-pedestal-cum-ceiling fans. The sky is the limit, my friends, if we think out of the dabba . Let us cogitate, innovate, renovate, and masticate. To aim to be NASA’s Most Bestest Scientific Country In All Fourteen Lokas . Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebirth of the salesman on Instagram||In early September, Sabyasachi Mukherjee hosted an Instagram Live with Beth Armata, Manager - Fine and Designer Jewellery, at New York’s luxury retailer Bergdorf Goodman. The virtual show featured staff in masks, modelling his 65-piece Haute Joaillerie collection (showcased exclusively at the store since January). The ace designer offered a running commentary — amount of gold, number of gemstones, cut, carat, colour — with the uncanny vibe of a late-night TV infomercial from the ’90s. The only differences? The medium, and an email ID instead of a toll-free number. Haute couture labels rely on plush brick-and-mortar stores and touch-and-feel experiences to woo the luxury buyer. Before Covid-19 struck, social media was largely a playground for niche labels to build an audience base, market collections or drive sales of single products. Engaging audiences went beyond ‘Swipe up to win’. Even someone like Mukherjee, who regularly launches his collections on Instagram to over 4.5 million followers, admitted on-air that “it is very stressful”. No trials, only shopping Thirty two-year-old multi-designer boutique, Ensemble, launched their e-commerce portal in April, and their social media also saw a shift. Where executive director Tina Tahiliani Parikh had only occasionally appeared in photos with designers on their pre-lockdown Instagram feed, she was now going live with the likes of Anamika Khanna and Ruchika Sachdeva of Bodice. She is open to being part of the brand’s social media strategy. “It is a very personalised business, so whenever necessary, I’ll do it,” she says, adding that the reliance on PR consultants has reduced because you have a direct way to talk to your customer. “A luxury experience depends on the salesperson’s customer knowledge and intimacy, product exclusivity, and the narrative behind it. The brands able to translate these values digitally will succeed,” says Parmesh Shahani, author of Queeristan and head, Godrej India Culture Lab. For now, it is a work in progress. Like Mumbai-based multi-brand luxury house Le Mill: when lockdown eased in August, they got in-house stylists to share fall classics and curate wardrobe staples under Rs. 50,000 — all from their store, of course. Like, share, shop Designers have been focussing on launching e-commerce portals, but continue to rely on social media to spread the word. Bridal couture studio Jade by Monica and Karishma offers virtual consultations by appointment. Simultaneously, they’ve started an IGTV series called ‘Jade Closet’, where designers give styling tips on everything from ruffle saris to lehengas . Luxury sari labels, traditionally defined by a tactile approach, are also creating WhatsApp catalogues for virtual pop-ups and offering video call shopping, like Bengaluru-based heritage label The House of Angadi. “We discussed internally if it would take away from the physical experience of buying a handwovenkanjeevaramor Benarasi, but the connoisseur knows,” says Varun Rana, fashion commentator and Communications Director at the textile label.  Tech check While Amazon’s livestream shopping function has videos by celebrity beauty brand founders such as Jessica Alba and Gabrielle Union, there has been a spurt of IG Lives closer home. Ogaan, a multi-brand store with branches in Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad, hosted Instagram Lives with designers Amrita Khanna and Gursi Singh of Lovebirds, and Rina Singh of Eka, showcasing their latest collections. Elsewhere, designers are crowding Instagram and Facebook feeds with virtual launches, using Reels and AR filters to further their reach. If you head to jewellery designer Roma Narsinghani’s profile, you can try on her collection, including headpieces and septum rings, showcased at Helsinki Fashion Week via filters. Arnab Samanta, marketing head at Graphixstory, says that his tech-led advertising studio has created beauty filters — including Sonam Kapoor’s Cannes look with metallic smoky eyes — for celebrity make-up artist Namrata Soni. “Brands like Gucci and Lacoste have used AR in the past but we’re yet to see interest from high-end Indian fashion labels,” he says. Tell me a story In this milieu, brands that tell relevant stories are able to break through the clutter. “Today, consumers aren’t only looking to buy a garment, accessory or a shoe. They need a product for a reason, with a reason. They need to be convinced of why they should be on your side,” says Shefalee Vasudev, editor, The Voice of Fashion . Glasgow-based Indian designer Ayush Kejriwal’s virtual campaign, titled Rakhwaali , showed silk-clad women multi-tasking at home: a comment on how gender identities govern domestic responsibilities and the burden on women in the lockdown. “Such innovative ideas rivet brands closer to the minds of a consumer. Luxury brands in India will have to find such messaging and storytelling, and do it well,” she adds. Bigger brands could also take cues from niche labels like Srila Chatterjee’s Baro Market, that seems to have cracked the code. After shutting down her Mumbai-based lifestyle store during the pandemic, she launched an online marketplace of products by Indian craftspersons and artisans, telling their stories through an online magazine, newsletters and other media. “She doesn’t just send you a list of products, but tells you why it is best for you,” says Shahani. “So, when this is over, we will remember her authentic, personal connection. Will that translate into better business for Baro in future? Certainly,” he concludes.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The importance of being online||We’re in 2020. So it strikes me as strange that a majority of India’s fashion designers did not have their own e-commerce websites till the realities of the Covid-19 pandemic brought that point home. Many still don’t. A report by the Indian Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF) says that India’s e-commerce market is expected to grow from $38.5 billion in 2017 to $200 billion by 2026. Even the most traditional touch-and-feel retailers, our high-end jewellers, took to e-commerce years ago. But it is only in the past six months that we’ve seen designer websites pop up one after another. Finally. From established names like JJ Valaya, Gaurav Gupta, and Amit Aggarwal to upcoming ones like Kshitij Jalori and Qbik, many have taken this time to launch their e-com platforms. Rishab Mehra, Founder of Growify, a company that provides end-to-end e-commerce solutions, counts over 15 fashion labels, big and small — from Namrata Joshipura to Rabani & Rakha, Keerthi Kadire to Nikita Mahisalkar — who’ve worked with his firm to launch their websites since the lockdown. He has 10 more in the works. But what held them back so far? A virtual translation The answer may lie in the simple problem of perception. “Most designers who came to us sought to translate their real-life experiences online,” says Mehra. “But brand-centric websites are often optimised for the desktop or laptop, while the majority of traffic now comes from mobile devices.” A website dedicated to replicating a brand ‘experience’ is rarely successful at achieving conversions — tech-speak for selling. There is just too much storytelling involved; retail tends to take a back seat. Besides, a website needs constant investment — targeted digital ads and promotions to reach and build the intended audience and analytics that need constant crunching to widen the reach. Back in 1994, JJ Valaya was the first Indian designer to launch a simple website to introduce his brand to the world. It lay fallow in that avatar till he started working on his comeback collection (he’d taken a two-year sabbatical in 2017) which he showed in September 2019. “Our plans for the revamped site were on since then, and the pandemic made having a global touch-point all the more important,” he says. On August 27, valaya.com went live once again with a renewed focus on e-commerce and an online ‘couture’ experience of customising the ‘Ika’ jacket. “Since then, it has been a journey of revelations,” says the couturier, adding that it has allowed him to dress brides from Nairobi and Sri Lanka in the past few weeks alone. “And this is when we haven’t even started advertising.” Web tactics Aweek later, Instagram was flooded with congratulatory posts from top Bollywood celebrities, stylists, and influencers from across the world, celebrating the launch of gauravguptastudio.com. This Insta-storm overloaded Gaurav Gupta’s new site on day one itself. “It also got us about 200 new orders within a week,” adds the designer. The smart thing he did was to announce immediate online discounts going up to 70%. This ensured traffic and conversions. In return, the back-end team got a cache of invaluable data on which to base their next moves. While he admits that the initial rush of demand has plateaued — “which was expected” — the website is helping his five stores across the country by allowing interested customers to choose their preferences. They book appointments and visit the nearest store to buy the actual garments. Brand building For upcoming designer Kshitij Jalori, whose website went live on September 30, it was all about making his online retail experience as seamless as possible. “I wanted to cut out the clutter and focus on the clothes,” he says. Mehra says that young labels have the advantage of not needing to live up to brand expectations. “They can continue adding various services according to their specific learnings,” he offers. In the end, it is a mix of three things that makes for a success story. According to Mehra: an easy, retail-oriented interface; solid social media outreach and advertising; and pricing that works for your product online. While launching a website in itself guarantees nothing even at the best of times, it should by now be evident that having one is as essential as sewing labels onto the garments they produce. It takes an initial investment of Rs. 2 to 5 lakhs to start a website, on average (designers and developers are loath to share exact figures, though). And going by the recent bloom of website launches, it seems like an investment worth the name. Ongoing launches also shows that our designers aren’t sitting idle; that the business of selling clothes, on which millions depend for their livelihoods, will continue to thrive in the times to come.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Touch, feel & social distance||“I’ve really been grateful for lockdown; it has been my most amazing six months,” says Raul Rai, co-founder of lifestyle brand Nicobar. The pandemic may have pressed the reset button for many of us, but for several retail outfits it has been a time to revisit the consumer experience. “The only word that came to mind back then was ‘reimagine’,” says Rai, adding that for Nicobar, it meant ramping up training for its staff — helping them better understand the products so they can pivot as customers’ needs change. Why? “Ultimately that affects the in-store consumer experience.” Elsewhere, brands have been pulling out all the stops — from using augmented reality to throw open entire inventories to replacing sales consultants with QR codes, they are exploring both ends of the retail spectrum.  The lure of offline  Until just a few months ago, experiential retail ‘built relationships’ with customers through various experiments. Think Stefano Ricci’s VIP clubs with its own restaurants and cigar lounges, or Good Earth’s Paro, with a library, therapy rooms and customised playlists. But the pandemic, with social distancing protocols, threw a spanner in the works. Now, as physical stores once again welcome customers, change is the new constant. A few months ago, Amazon opened its first AI-powered grocery store in Seattle, while last month, e-commerce giant Alibaba wooed Paris with a pop-up store — complete with fashion, accessories and live ‘shoppertainment’ video streaming. Brands are packing in as much ‘experience’ as they can. Vivo’s new flagship store in Mumbai has zones dedicated to accessories, gaming, and virtual reality. “There will be some areas where the online space might get more traction, but that doesn’t mean an epitaph for offline retail,” asserts Nipun Marya, Director - Brand Strategy. Vivo India is planning to open 20 other flagships within the next six months. The lockdown has also resulted in different categories of customers, says Kavitha Rao, Country Commercial Manager of Ikea India — from exclusive online shoppers to those who like the best of both worlds. The retail veteran, known for its flat pack furniture, has introduced Click and Collect at its Hyderabad store (order a product online, pick it up, and design your space with the help of an Ikea staff through a remote planning feature). QR codes also help customers watch information videos on their phones. And going forward, the Swedish company is looking to open smaller stores in metros. “The world is looking at smaller format now; perhaps people want brands to be closer to them,” says Rao.  Shop at your doorstep  While some are reinventing the retail experience, others are taking it to the source. New Delhi-based fashion rental service, Stage3 — which had launched its flagship store last October, designed to mimic a walk-in closet — took to the road earlier this year. It revamped the back of a bus to “convert it into a sanitised store on wheels. Everyone in the van [including an in-house stylist and tailor] wears a PPE kit, and we admit one customer at a time,” says co-founder Sanchit Baweja. Levi’s also put its pedal to the metal.“With lockdown, there was an increased demand for apparel suitable for video calls,” says Sanjeev Mohanty, Managing Director (South Asia, Middle East & North Africa), so they took it to their clients. Levi’s on Wheels, currently operating in Delhi and Gurugram, offers tops, shorts and lightweight denim-led ‘work from home’ collections. And most recently, the India vertical of Xiaomi launched their Mi Store on Wheels, with the intent of bringing their products to customers in non-metros.  Reimagining the physical  Meanwhile, technology is stepping in to fill in the gaps. Aneeth Arora, for instance, launched péro’s (the Indian brand with a strong European market) latest disco-themed collection in a virtual reality store at Ogaan’s Delhi outlet. The 3D space attempts to recreate an in-store experience and allows buyers to walk through, browse, zoom and click on each piece for more details. Gaurav Baid, founder of Bengaluru-based digital marketing company Avataar.Me, says that augmented reality, artificial intelligence and virtual reality are finding more takers now. Business inquiries post-Covid have grown three times in the last quarter, with major traction from segments like home decor, consumer electronics, automobile and FMCG. Avataar.Me has several projects underway, including a two-way video calling technology, where a customer can tour multiple stores in a virtual 360-degree format (reminiscent of the digital boutique Swiss watchmaker Hublot created, enabling customers to connect with sales managers in real time). Though people are slow to adapt to such advances, Meghna Saraogi, co-founder at fashion tech start-up StyleDotMe — which uses AR to enable virtual try-ons in physical stores and online platforms — is positive they will embrace new shopping experiences. The company is now looking to expand to watches and eyewear, along with developing the technology to include 3D try-ons in the coming month.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking to the streets||“The pandemic has highlighted the importance of urban open spaces for recreation, mental health, and to enhance the liveability of a city,” says Aswathy Dilip, Senior Programme Manager, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy. She is part of the team that worked on the T Nagar Pedestrian Plaza in Chennai (conceptualised in 2011 and completed in November 2019, at an approximate cost of Rs. 38 crore). “As Covid-19 made it challenging for families to come together with almost minimal space for recreation, this street provided a host of opportunities for citizens to use the street as a public space,” adds Dilip. Similarly, the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Plan in Delhi is the first major commercial development in the city’s bustling shopping hub after 300 years. The plan is to decongest the 1.3-km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, facilitate free pedestrian movement, enhance greenery and transform it into a car-free zone. The project, launched in 2004, is nearing completion. Following suit, cities across the country are transforming existing shopping hubs into retail-friendly environments — Church Street in Bengaluru, DP Road and JM Road in Pune, SM Street in Kozhikode, MG Marg in Sikkim, to name a few. New shopping rules The pandemic, however, has changed the face of existing shopping areas, like Bengaluru’s Koramangala, where shuttered stores and empty windows are aplenty. In Commercial Street, the Smart Cities Mission, which began in May, is impacting footfalls because the roads are dug up. Mohammed Nazin, VP, Bangalore Commercial Association, says, “Business has been at 25% of what it was pre-pandemic.” In Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village, autos are not crowding around the boom barrier any more, and there are only a few people walking around. Ogaan has left its corner store and there are a several other ‘To let’ boards around. But people are adapting. Mahaveer Singh, 72, who has had a 1,000 gaj (yard) property in the Village for several generations, says he is looking at a monthly rent of Rs. 5 lakh for a 1,200 sq ft property he has culled out. However, he is clear that a boutique will not be able to pay these rates; perhaps a restaurant-bar can. His conditions: “Until December 2020, there will be no rent for whoever takes it now. The first six months of next year, they can pay half; thereafter, they will need to pay in full.” Sarojini Nagar Market, that Mecca of discounts where even fashion editors shop, is crowded enough, but Mukesh Yadav, who has been at the market since 1998, says footfalls is down to 50%. “I am not getting any new stock; most of us are finishing off our old maal. And if I sold something at Rs. 200, I now have to sell it for Rs. 150,” says the Uttar Pradesh native. Down South, at Begum Bazaar in Hyderabad’s Old City, one of the State’s biggest wholesale markets, the pandemic saw a few voluntary lockdowns (since the Charminar area is prone to large crowds). Now, most merchants have migrated to WhatsApp for contactless buying. Creating a safe bubble Laila Tyabji, chairperson and founder-member of Dastkar, hopes open spaces will become the norm for shopping. “People usually say [the venue of craft fair] Nature Bazaar is very far [in Chhattarpur, in Delhi’s South West], but this time they said, ‘We realise how nice it is to have this space, where people can socially distance’.” Creating more decentralised shopping areas — like Saket in Delhi or Vashi near Mumbai — should be the norm for open air retail streets, feels Siddhartha Benninger, Project Planner Centre for Development Studies and Activities, Pune. “Essentially, small commercial zones can help the community live relatively normal lives in an extended ‘bio-bubble’,” he concludes.  With inputs fromNidhi Adlakha, Sunalini Mathew, Surya Praphulla Kumar, Divya Kala Bhavani and Susanna Myrtle Lazarus
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Weekend travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Mumbai There seems to be a sharp divide between malls in South Mumbai (mostly deserted as they draw office goers and tourists) and those in the suburbs (where millennials and Gen Z are daring to step out). “Consumer behaviour has changed and though fear is still a factor, we are getting serious buyers now, so the conversion rate is high,” says Mukesh Kumar, CEO, Infiniti Mall, popular with the celebrity crowd. At Growel’s 1O1 Mall, facilities like live shopping services and ‘Mall on Wheels’ — where a selection of brands are brought to housing societies — have been introduced. Additionally, it is also organising pop-ups for customers who are apprehensive of stepping inside stores. “About 70% of business is coming from online channels, with deliveries happening through mall stores. This reinstates the fact that omnichannel as a trend is here to stay,” says Sachin Dhanawade, COO - Retail & Real Estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Ltd, which operates the mall. —Lalatendu Mishra We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SPECIAL EDITION||In a straw poll conducted on our Instagram, 70% of responders said they have not been to a mall yet, and a majority have no plans of heading to one any time soon. Not surprising, considering the Covid-19 numbers in India show no sign of a consistent downward trend. As one reader DM-ed us, "I haven't got it yet, and I would like to keep it that way." Anuj Kejriwal, MD & CEO – Anarock Retail, an advisory consultant firm, says, "In the pre-Covid-19 months early in 2020, organised retail accounted for just 10% of the market share and was expected to grow to 25% by 2025. However, now this may take longer.” Consumer spending has also dipped because of the overall economic gloom and employment uncertainty. That being said, there are also positives and new trends emerging. Local shops have gained significant customer confidence, open-air spaces are slowly gaining popularity, and mall owners are focussing on omnichannel retail options. Retailers are counting on festive season transactions to make up for lost time and business. Instagram has become a telemarketing platform; fashion designers are finally getting their own e-commerce sites; and stores are coming home. In this special issue, we explore these trends, with experts telling us what to expect in the coming months.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebirth of the salesman on Instagram||In early September, Sabyasachi Mukherjee hosted an Instagram Live with Beth Armata, Manager - Fine and Designer Jewellery, at New York’s luxury retailer Bergdorf Goodman. The virtual show featured staff in masks, modelling his 65-piece Haute Joaillerie collection (showcased exclusively at the store since January). The ace designer offered a running commentary — amount of gold, number of gemstones, cut, carat, colour — with the uncanny vibe of a late-night TV infomercial from the ’90s. The only differences? The medium, and an email ID instead of a toll-free number. Haute couture labels rely on plush brick-and-mortar stores and touch-and-feel experiences to woo the luxury buyer. Before Covid-19 struck, social media was largely a playground for niche labels to build an audience base, market collections or drive sales of single products. Even someone like Mukherjee, who regularly launches his collections on Instagram to over 4.5 million followers, admitted on-air that “it is very stressful”. No trials, only shopping Thirty two-year-old multi-designer boutique, Ensemble, launched their e-commerce portal in April, and their social media also saw a shift. Where executive director Tina Tahiliani Parikh had only occasionally appeared in photos with designers on their pre-lockdown Instagram feed, she was now going live with the likes of Anamika Khanna and Ruchika Sachdeva of Bodice. She is open to being part of the brand’s social media strategy. “It is a very personalised business, so whenever necessary, I’ll do it,” she says, adding that the reliance on PR consultants has reduced because you have a direct way to talk to your customer.     Tech check While Amazon’s livestream shopping function has videos by celebrity beauty brand founders such as Jessica Alba and Gabrielle Union, there has been a spurt of IG Lives closer home. Ogaan, a multi-brand store with branches in Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad, hosted Instagram Lives with designers Amrita Khanna and Gursi Singh of Lovebirds, and Rina Singh of Eka, showcasing their latest collections. Elsewhere, designers are crowding Instagram and Facebook feeds with virtual launches, using Reels and AR filters to further their reach. If you head to jewellery designer Roma Narsinghani’s profile, you can try on her collection, including headpieces and septum rings, showcased at Helsinki Fashion Week via filters. Arnab Samanta, marketing head at Graphixstory, says that his tech-led advertising studio has created beauty filters — including Sonam Kapoor’s Cannes look with metallic smoky eyes — for celebrity make-up artist Namrata Soni. “Brands like Gucci and Lacoste have used AR in the past but we’re yet to see interest from high-end Indian fashion labels,” he says. Tell me a story In this milieu, brands that tell relevant stories are able to break through the clutter. “Today, consumers aren’t only looking to buy a garment, accessory or a shoe. They need a product for a reason, with a reason. They need to be convinced of why they should be on your side,” says Shefalee Vasudev, editor, The Voice of Fashion . Glasgow-based Indian designer Ayush Kejriwal’s virtual campaign, titled Rakhwaali , showed silk-clad women multi-tasking at home: a comment on how gender identities govern domestic responsibilities and the burden on women in the lockdown. “Such innovative ideas rivet brands closer to the minds of a consumer. Luxury brands in India will have to find such messaging and storytelling, and do it well,” she adds. Bigger brands could also take cues from niche labels like Srila Chatterjee’s Baro Market. After shutting down her Mumbai-based lifestyle store during the pandemic, she launched an online marketplace of products by Indian craftspersons and artisans. “She doesn’t just send you a list of products, but tells you why it is best for you,” says Shahani. “So, when this is over, we will remember her authentic, personal connection. Will that translate into better business for Baro in future? Certainly,” he concludes.  Read the full article on weekend.thehindu.com
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Metroplus travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Coimbatore Malls in Coimbatore opened in September after being closed for six months. They have invested in fumigating machines, UV scanners, apps and temperature scanners. “We spent close to Rs. 50 lakhs for the same,” says Justin S, Marketing head, Prozone Mall. An app developed for the mall monitors the number of people inside the premises; the Brookefields mall’s app takes in contact details of visitors. “This helps us in contact tracing if necessary,” says Ashwin Balasubramaniam, COO. “The footfall has come down from 15,000 to 5,000 on weekdays. On weekends, it has fallen from 50,000 to 10,000,” says Justin. Ashwin adds that the closed down multiplexes are not helping matters either. “The longer they are shut, the harder it will be to revive the business for them and other dependent businesses,” he explains. In order to help retailers stay afloat and to keep them from vacating, malls have provided rent waivers for stores. — Susan Joe Philip We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SPECIAL EDITION||In a straw poll conducted on our Instagram, 70% of responders said they have not been to a mall yet, and a majority have no plans of heading to one any time soon. Not surprising, considering the Covid-19 numbers in India show no sign of a consistent downward trend. As one reader DM-ed us, "I haven't got it yet, and I would like to keep it that way." Anuj Kejriwal, MD & CEO – Anarock Retail, an advisory consultant firm, says, "In the pre-Covid-19 months early in 2020, organised retail accounted for just 10% of the market share and was expected to grow to 25% by 2025. However, now this may take longer.” Consumer spending has also dipped because of the overall economic gloom and employment uncertainty. That being said, there are also positives and new trends emerging. Local shops have gained significant customer confidence, open-air spaces are slowly gaining popularity, and mall owners are focussing on omnichannel retail options. Retailers are counting on festive season transactions to make up for lost time and business. Instagram has become a telemarketing platform; fashion designers are finally getting their own e-commerce sites; and stores are coming home. In this special issue, we explore these trends, with experts telling us what to expect in the coming months. For more stories, head to weekend.thehindu.com.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebirth of the salesman on Instagram||In early September, Sabyasachi Mukherjee hosted an Instagram Live with Beth Armata, Manager - Fine and Designer Jewellery, at New York’s luxury retailer Bergdorf Goodman. The virtual show featured staff in masks, modelling his 65-piece Haute Joaillerie collection (showcased exclusively at the store since January). The ace designer offered a running commentary — amount of gold, number of gemstones, cut, carat, colour — with the uncanny vibe of a late-night TV infomercial from the ’90s. The only differences? The medium, and an email ID instead of a toll-free number. Haute couture labels rely on plush brick-and-mortar stores and touch-and-feel experiences to woo the luxury buyer. Before Covid-19 struck, social media was largely a playground for niche labels to build an audience base, market collections or drive sales of single products. Even someone like Mukherjee, who regularly launches his collections on Instagram to over 4.5 million followers, admitted on-air that “it is very stressful”. No trials, only shopping Thirty two-year-old multi-designer boutique, Ensemble, launched their e-commerce portal in April, and their social media also saw a shift. Where executive director Tina Tahiliani Parikh had only occasionally appeared in photos with designers on their pre-lockdown Instagram feed, she was now going live with the likes of Anamika Khanna and Ruchika Sachdeva of Bodice. She is open to being part of the brand’s social media strategy. “It is a very personalised business, so whenever necessary, I’ll do it,” she says, adding that the reliance on PR consultants has reduced because you have a direct way to talk to your customer.     Tech check While Amazon’s livestream shopping function has videos by celebrity beauty brand founders such as Jessica Alba and Gabrielle Union, there has been a spurt of IG Lives closer home. Ogaan, a multi-brand store with branches in Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad, hosted Instagram Lives with designers Amrita Khanna and Gursi Singh of Lovebirds, and Rina Singh of Eka, showcasing their latest collections. Elsewhere, designers are crowding Instagram and Facebook feeds with virtual launches, using Reels and AR filters to further their reach. If you head to jewellery designer Roma Narsinghani’s profile, you can try on her collection, including headpieces and septum rings, showcased at Helsinki Fashion Week via filters. Arnab Samanta, marketing head at Graphixstory, says that his tech-led advertising studio has created beauty filters — including Sonam Kapoor’s Cannes look with metallic smoky eyes — for celebrity make-up artist Namrata Soni. “Brands like Gucci and Lacoste have used AR in the past but we’re yet to see interest from high-end Indian fashion labels,” he says. Tell me a story In this milieu, brands that tell relevant stories are able to break through the clutter. “Today, consumers aren’t only looking to buy a garment, accessory or a shoe. They need a product for a reason, with a reason. They need to be convinced of why they should be on your side,” says Shefalee Vasudev, editor, The Voice of Fashion . Glasgow-based Indian designer Ayush Kejriwal’s virtual campaign, titled Rakhwaali , showed silk-clad women multi-tasking at home: a comment on how gender identities govern domestic responsibilities and the burden on women in the lockdown. “Such innovative ideas rivet brands closer to the minds of a consumer. Luxury brands in India will have to find such messaging and storytelling, and do it well,” she adds. Bigger brands could also take cues from niche labels like Srila Chatterjee’s Baro Market. After shutting down her Mumbai-based lifestyle store during the pandemic, she launched an online marketplace of products by Indian craftspersons and artisans. “She doesn’t just send you a list of products, but tells you why it is best for you,” says Shahani. “So, when this is over, we will remember her authentic, personal connection. Will that translate into better business for Baro in future? Certainly,” he concludes.  Read the full article on weekend.thehindu.com
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Relook at the moral compass||‘Morality is a changing goalpost’ is the idea that binds together three short stories written by Siva Ananth for the Telugu web series Addham (mirror), which will première on Aha on October 16. The three-episode series produced by Sujatha Narayanan and E S Devasena has a Chennai-based cast and crew that worked on the project during the lockdown. Meet the three directors of Addham .      Siva Ananth has been associated with director Mani Ratnam since Dil Se , primarily in the direction and production departments. He also directed the Telugu film Chukkallo Chandrudu (2006). “Until a decade or two ago, several Telugu films were being produced from Chennai and we had a large pool of actors and technicians who worked in both Telugu and Tamil. Though my primary work is with Tamil cinema, I’d like to also think of myself as a Telugu film technician since I’ve directed a Telugu film,” he says. Since Aha was game to look beyond romance and crime capers, Siva wrote hard-hitting stories on morality as the thematic connection. “A theme like this helps us look inwards. There are grey areas; sometimes there’s no demarcation between what’s right and wrong. Each episode is of 20 minutes duration,” he explains. Siva directs the story titled The Unwhisperable Secret starring Varalaxmi Sarathkumar and Kishore: “Varalaxmi enacts the part of a mature and intelligent woman with an inner turmoil. I’ve been working with Kishore for Mani Ratnam’s next, Ponniyin Selvan , and he was game when I narrated this story.” After script readings on Zoom and meticulous planning, the team went to shoot in the first week of August. The filming was wrapped up within three days with a small crew. “We planned everything, down to the shot divisions and smallest details, so that we don’t waste time on set,” says Siva.    Sarjun has earned a steady following thanks to his Tamil short films (such as Lakshmi, Maa and Montage ) and feature films Airaa and Echcharikkai . Taking up a Telugu short for the first time, he recalls reading the script several times and listening to the dialogues to get familiar with Telugu words. “We had someone on set to guide me and the actors,” he shares. The story titled The Road That Never Ends stars Rohini and Jayaprakash along with Praveen, a teen actor. “It’s a sensitive story where it’s tough to judge what’s right and wrong. We filmed under constraints during the lockdown and my thoughts were all about wanting to translate the brilliant story I read into a good film,” says Sarjun. After months of lockdown, the actors were eager to face the camera. However, getting permissions to shoot outdoors wasn’t easy. After several attempts, the team got the go-ahead to shoot in a locality 25kilometres from Chennai. “We shot from 4am to 11pm one day and for 12 hours the following day. Only when editor Sreekar Prasad went through the footage and said we had good material, I was relieved,” says the director. Sarjun is also in talks to direct a Telugu film for Geetha Arts.      “When I read the story Crossroads written by Siva, I felt it almost had my voice. One of the main reasons I left my corporate career and became a filmmaker is to be able to put out my voice,” says Barath Neelakantan, who directed the Tamil film K-13 . “In the planning stages, we (the three directors) debated on plot points and what a character is likely to say in a certain situation. In the process, we became greater friends since we shared personal stories,” he says.  Crossroads stars Prasanna, Abirami Venkatachalam and Pavithrah Marimuthu. “When we talk of Crossroads , most of us talk about career and rarely do we acknowledge it in the context of our personal lives. This story deals with personal life,” says Barath. Taking up a story written by another writer for the first time, Siva was concerned that he should be able to do justice to the story. Though it’s his first Telugu project, he says it wasn’t tedious since his wife, a Telugu, was part of one of the script readings. Barath also took the help of friends in Telugu cinema.  (Addham streams on Aha)
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Garba in your living room||A few days ago, friends Disha Sethi and Bhavya Shah decked up in traditional attire to dance the garba and dandiya indoors to a 90-second mashup playlist competing at Garba Ni Ramjat, an all-India virtual competition held by city-based Bina Mehta. “This year’s Navratri be like no other,” says fashion graduate Disha. This year, the nine-day Dasara festival that begins on October 17 will make a new beginning with virtual prayers and online dandiya and garba sessions. Earlier, Dasara would take a colourful and exuberant form in these dance festivities organised across Hyderabad. Three three major Navratri events at SS Convention, Shamshabad, SNC Convention in Attapur and the hockey stadium in Secunderabad attracted thousands, dressed in their traditional best, dance to the songs belted out by DJs, live bands and orchestra. The pandemic changed all that. Disha who has been dancing at garba since a decade says, “Initially it felt weird to dance indoors. One feels energised in a large gathering and live music. In a virtual session, the magic of the crowd is missing but one can have fun by creating one’s own playlist and dance.” The spark in festivities can be rekindled with virtual sessions, observes Krupa Patel, an organiser of these garba/dandiya nights. “Fifty one women from across the country had sent their garba videos for the virtual garba competition; We did not expect this kind of participation,” she says. Buoyed by the response, Krupa is now organising a virtual garba session on October 18 for Rotary Club. The event will be judged by actress Ragini. Also on October 22, 23 and 24, Piyush Shah will host a Navratri photo contest to preserve a moment in time and relive memories. Dance teacher Ambica Jain of Rangmanch Studio in Himayatnagar will have a Dasara virtual garba camp for children from October 17. She is giving the annual workshop that she conducts a miss in favour of hosting online sessions. Last year the dane academy had called garba teacher Veeru Mallik to conduct classes. “Garba is all about moving according to the music. Move at your pace and the virtual session will be fun,” she promises.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||While aarti is virtual||As expected Durga Puja celebrations will be different in Hyderabad this year. Keeping in mind the physical distancing norms, festival organisers are looking at puja celebrations sans the crowds associated with puja pandals. Most puja committees will be going live on social media platforms to stream their everyday puja sessions and plan to restrict the number of visitors to 50. The Kalibari neighbourhood in Sianikpuri is wearing a deserted look unlike earlier festivities. With no people thronging and no buzz, the temple complex looks is anything but a Puja venue. Member of one of Hyderabad’s oldest Bengali Associations, Bangiya Sankskriti Sangha, Atin Chowdhary says that unlike pre-pandemic years, they are unable to get the protima (idol) from Kolkata. The Puja association which will shift to a different venue this year has a small idol that will be sourced locally: “We shifted our venue to Mehboob College and are keeping the size of the idol smaller.” Bengali women will be missing the fun and games at the pandal and the endless shopping at Puja stalls. Above all, it will be the ‘sindoor khela’ that will be missed the most. Atin Chowdhary says, “Core committee members and priest included, we’ll be about 20 people. In such a situation controlling people will be tough. So we have decided to stream the proceedings. But, keeping in mind Bengalis’ love for music and cultural activities, we have decided to keep that online as well. Artistes will perform from their respective homes and keep the Bengali folk entertained and bring home the puja-mood.” Attapur puja committee is, however, allowing visitors, owing to its sprawling venue but limiting the number of visitors to 50 with live streaming of puja proceedings including the sandhi puja, informs Soumitra Pahari, member of Attapur Bengali Association. Hoteliers have joined the celebrations by offering the much-loved pujor-bhog . Marigold hotel has a bhog-package of khichdi , dalna , begun bhaja , a selection of tok (the Bengali sweet dips). This apart, there is the much-loved ilish selection as well. Chef Partha is going all out with his team to make the bhog package a meal to remember in puja celebration - 2020. His ilish paturi is a win-win with a personal touch by the chef to the recipe. He says he’s also making sure to make the begun bhaja remind Bengalis of their grand meals by their dida s (grandmother) and moms. The khichdi comes with a lovely smokey flavour to give the feel of it being cooked at a puja pandal’s firewood kitchen. Chef Partha says, “I am also not forgetting the sweet deal. We have five-six Bengali sweets, all made in-house. This includes nolen gurer payesh and rosogolla .” The alu-dom and korai sutir kachori are likely to win hands down if fish and meat are part of your daily menu. The package is priced at Rs. 3,500. Sarita Sarkar’s ‘Sarkar Kitchen’ is shifting to Club Botanica at Gachibowli to host a Bengali food fest. Sarita, the proud restaurateur says, “We will be serving 16 dishes on a pre-plated thali every day that includes the Bengali snacks, fish curry, khichdi and mishti . We have a takeaway option as well. We priced the pre plated meal at Rs. 1200.” Mercure hotel has a compact menu, with the highlight of radha bollovi, and handpicked favourite snacks like chops and devil’s egg. In the main course the Chicken dak bungalow is a winner and other favourites include basundi pulao . For desserts, there is Bengali sandesh and Pantua. Mercure has priced their menu at Rs. 399. To recreate the Durga Puja ambienceThe Park will host Durga Puja food stalls in their hotel. The recreation of the food stalls allow Puja food revelry. Chef Thimma Reddy says, “Many people in the city look forward to Durga Puja for the annual break and to eat to their heart’s content. Since most of them won’t travel to their respective homes this year to celebrate with their extended families, we decided to give them the Puja feel here.”  We have five-six Bengali sweets, all made in house Chef Partha
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of the mall||As a teenager, I often teased my dad about how he shopped at a mall: he would go in with a list of things to buy (in order of priority) and visit only those stores. There was no window shopping; even dinner was slotted into this schedule. Fast forward to now and, in a post-Covid world, I am doing exactly the same. The couple of times I have been to Phoenix MarketCity, Chennai, I spent less than an hour inside, buying nothing but what I needed. This is the new normal across the country. Where once we loitered and racked up our daily Fitbit step count, the atmosphere in malls now is pure business. Contactless car parking, UV bag scanners, sanitisation stations and temperature checks are par for the course. Every industry has been forced to adapt in order to survive the pandemic, and the retail sector, including mall promoters, is no different. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, says, “It is similar to the time when malls were new; customers had to be attracted with different promotions.” Recent surveys, including one by multinational services network Deloitte, indicate that the future lies in malls becoming mixed-use projects, with “strong leisure and entertainment offerings that will help people find the social interaction they crave, especially now”. Food is also poised to become a game changer, since dining out appeals to all customer segments and cannot be replicated online. However, the next generation of food options will look beyond food courts to innovations such as “food halls featuring rising chefs or higher-profile restaurants clustered in common areas”. Meanwhile, closer home, preparing for customers has been a mammoth task. Even as footfalls across malls hover around the 30% mark, daily/weekly operational costs have gone up by over 20%. Investment in tech and equipment, including apps and UV scanners, is as high as Rs. 50 lakh per property. But Rajendra Kalkar, President (West) – Phoenix Mills Ltd, explains that this investment is crucial, as their first goal is confidence building. “Once people are comfortable with the idea of being in a mall, we will expand our offerings,” he says. This will include open-air shopping options, which seems to be the way forward. On the up side, as commercial space frees up (because of lesser rents and other factors), more stores are opening. Uniqlo India just launched two outlets — at DLF Avenue, Saket, and Vegas Mall, Dwaraka. The upcoming festive season will be crucial for malls to make up for their losses. The décor is already on point to tempt family selfies — such as a 50-footdiyain Phoenix MarketCity’s central atrium — but what else can we expect? Team Weekend travels across cities to find out how malls are faring, what people are buying, and if open-air shopping is winning over new customers. Chennai When Express Avenue opened on September 1, 210 of its 220 stores welcomed customers. Chief Revenue Officer Munish Khanna credits this to their waiving entire rentals during lockdown. “Now we have based rentals on sales percentages: if a store does 50% of what they did in October 2019, they can pay 50% of their rent,” he explains. Over at VR Chennai, Ranjana Ramakrishnan, GM – Marketing, is banking on genuine shoppers for footfalls. “We are seeing healthy trading densities that will likely improve with the festive season,” she says. Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, meanwhile, still have about half of their stores shut. (Across the board, Phoenix properties have offered a 30% waiver on rent.) But on the bright side, Pooja Patti, Centre Director, says that new stores — Birkenstock, Seiko, Mad over Donuts, OnePlus — are set to open in the coming weeks. Store assistants are also taking on new roles. For instance, at Montblanc, the staff is giving virtual tours.  Continued from page 1  Bengaluru Avisit to a mall after four months felt normal, and yet not. Talking points between my brother and I, as we went to 1 MG Road, included avoiding the elevator, using our feet to open doors and refusing clothing trials at H&M. Gajendra Singh Rathore, Senior Centre Director, Phoenix MarketCity, says that since July there has been a decent growth in footfall — about 8,000 on weekdays and double that on weekends (36% of what it was last year). Interestingly, consumption has grown over 55% of what it was last year, with some categories like electronics and home furnishings recording higher sales. Their current offerings include home deliveries, agents for tele-shopping, and curbside pickup. Performances by bands are being planned too. —Aparna Narrain  Hyderabad “As an IT hub, Hyderabad has made a fairly easy transition to the online retail space,” says Kabeer Arora, architect and researcher for Hyderabad Urban Labs. GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills is leveraging WhatsApp for contactless shopping. And, according to Gerald Mathew, Assistant Marketing Manager, retailers “have been offered waivers”. Malls in the outskirts, such as DSL Virtue Mall, Uppal, are enjoying more patronage. Shahansha N, Mall Manager, at DSL Virtue says, “We employ a QR code system [for quick shopping] so people don’t feel anxious spending too much time away from home.” —Divya Kala Bhavani Delhi Malls in Delhi opened in early June, giving them more time to prepare for the upcoming festive season. At DLF Emporio and The Chanakya, an omni-channel approach has been implemented. Prashant Gaurav Gupta, VP & Head, DLF Luxury Malls, says, “More than ever, it is imperative to maintain exclusivity to retain the fundamental role of luxury and balance it with the new ‘phygital’ experience, by taking the in-store experience online and the online experience in-store.” The most popular has been their on-call personal shopper for gift shopping, where customers browse via video call and then pick up their purchases. Select Citywalk was open through the lockdown for essential commodities, says Yogeshwar Sharma, Executive Director & CEO. “Customers ordered [via WhatsApp] from our digital catalogue, featuring the latest from beauty, home, lifestyle and fashion brands, and got them home-delivered,” he says. A festive catalogue is coming up soon. They have also added concierge service and personal shoppers. Meanwhile, DLF is partnering with FDCI to host the first-ever online Lotus Makeup India Fashion Week. “We have also partnered with top Bollywood celebrity stylists Aki Narula, Astha Sharma and Mohit Rai for one-on-one appointments [October 19-21],” says Gupta. Customers can register on dlfemporio.com. —Sunalini Mathew  Mumbai There seems to be a sharp divide between malls in South Mumbai (mostly deserted as they draw office goers and tourists) and those in the suburbs (where millennials and Gen Z are daring to step out). “Consumer behaviour has changed and though fear is still a factor, we are getting serious buyers now, so the conversion rate is high,” says Mukesh Kumar, CEO, Infiniti Mall, popular with the celebrity crowd. At Growel’s 1O1 Mall, facilities like live shopping services and ‘Mall on Wheels’ — where a selection of brands are brought to housing societies — have been introduced. Additionally, it is also organising pop-ups for customers who are apprehensive of stepping inside stores. “About 70% of business is coming from online channels, with deliveries happening through mall stores. This reinstates the fact that omnichannel as a trend is here to stay,” says Sachin Dhanawade, COO - Retail & Real Estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Ltd, which operates the mall. —Lalatendu Mishra We are organising a Dastkari Haat Crafts Bazaar next week at [the capital’s] Ojas Art Gallery. There will be a lot of open-air exhibits and well-distanced indoors — for things like textiles and paintings. It will be a nice pre-Diwali trial run. If things work out, we are also planning another bazaar at Dilli Haat in January Jaya Jaitly, Founder, Dastkari Haat Samiti Multiplex advantage Raichur gets its first multiplex next week, even as cinema halls reopen in many parts of the country after close to seven months. Are discounts on tickets, 50% occupancy, staggered show timings and social distancing enough to get moviegoers out of their homes? Mall owners hope so, as footfalls depend a lot on the multiplex crowd, even though many do not translate into retail sales.  (Clockwise from right) Palladium at High Street Phoenix, Mumbai; curbside pickup at Bengaluru; staff at DLF Emporio and The ChanakyaSpecial Arrangement and lalatendu Mishra Continued on page 2
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SPECIAL EDITION||In a straw poll conducted on our Instagram, 70% of responders said they have not been to a mall yet, and a majority have no plans of heading to one any time soon. Not surprising, considering the Covid-19 numbers in India show no sign of a consistent downward trend. As one reader DM-ed us, "I haven't got it yet, and I would like to keep it that way." Anuj Kejriwal, MD & CEO – Anarock Retail, an advisory consultant firm, says, "In the pre-Covid-19 months early in 2020, organised retail accounted for just 10% of the market share and was expected to grow to 25% by 2025. However, now this may take longer.” Consumer spending has also dipped because of the overall economic gloom and employment uncertainty. That being said, there are also positives and new trends emerging. Local shops have gained significant customer confidence, open-air spaces are slowly gaining popularity, and mall owners are focussing on omnichannel retail options. Retailers are counting on festive season transactions to make up for lost time and business. Instagram has become a telemarketing platform; fashion designers are finally getting their own e-commerce sites; and stores are coming home. In this special issue, we explore these trends, with experts telling us what to expect in the coming months. For more stories, head to weekend.thehindu.com.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||All eyes on festive sales||Previous year trends suggest that housing sales across top cities in the festive quarter (Oct.-Dec.) mostly saw an uptick — anywhere between 5-10% — over the preceding quarter. This is largely because the festive season is considered most auspicious for property buying in India and developers also roll out various schemes and offers to fuel the fervour. The years 2016 and 2017 were a marked contrast. Festive quarter sales in these years actually reduced against the preceding quarter, mainly because of structural reforms including demonetisation, RERA and GST. This year, the top seven cities can cumulatively witness a 35% jump in housing sales in the ongoing festive quarter (Oct.-Dec.) against the July to September period, says Santhosh Kumar, Vice Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. Boost in sales Despite spiralling COVID-19 cases in the second quarter of 2020, residential sales rose significantly. This provides sufficient reason to expect a marked increase during the upcoming festive season, which will prompt many fence-sitters to avail the best deals on offer. Developers have pulled out all the stops to attract buyers, announcing schemes for festive season — many of which result in an actual reduction in the cost of acquisition. These offers, however, come with an expiry date. When the housing market regains enough momentum, they will be withdrawn. Most end-users will aim to use this period to their advantage. The prevailing lowest-best home loan interest rates coupled with limited-period government incentives such as reduced stamp duty and registration charges in markets like MMR are added flavours to the festive treat. A look at Q3 Moreover, the Q3 2020 base period saw nearly 29,520 units sold across the top seven cities — much lower than the pre-COVID-19 quarter (Q1 2020) which saw nearly 45,200 homes sold. This effectively results in larger scope for growth. In all, housing sales are all set to rebound to 90% of the pre-COVID-19 levels (Q1 2020). Unsold inventory decreased by approx. 1% - from 6.44 lakh units in Q1 2020 to 6.36 lakh units by Q3 2020 and 3% on yearly basis – it was 6.56 lakh units in Q3 2019. On yearly basis, Bengaluru saw the maximum reduction of 3% in its unsold stock – from nearly 62,800 units in Q3 2019 to approx. 60,820 units in Q3 2020. In MMR, housing sales in Q3 2020 stood at 9,200 units. The ongoing Oct-Dec. period may see a 33-36% rise in sales with buyers looking to make the most of limited period offer of reduced stamp duty charges, developer discounts and freebies and prevailing low home loan interest rates. In Hyderabad, we expect a 20-24% jump in housing sales in Q4 2020 against the preceding quarter, when nearly 1,650 units were sold. In Bengaluru, housing sales in Q3 2020 stood at 5,400 units. We expect at least 30-35% rise in these numbers in the Oct.-Dec. period. In Delhi-NCR, we expect a between 27-31% jump in sales in the festive season. As many as 5,200 units were sold in Q3 2020. Pune may see housing sales rise by 34% in Q4 2020 as against Q3 2020 when sales stood at 4,850 units. Chennai may see a 20-25% rise in sales in Q4 2020 as against Q3 2020 when sales stood at 1,600 units. Kolkata is likely to see up to 30% jump in housing sales in the festive quarter. The previous quarter recorded sales of nearly 1,620 units.   Anarock Property Consultants
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||TrueView: a virtual property fair||If you’re planning to buy a home but apprehensive to step out for site visits, this virtual event is just for you. TrueView, powered byThe Hindu, is an online property fair to be held this month. Presented by Casagrand, the event will comprise digital showcases of a wide range of properties from reputed developers across Chennai and Bengaluru. As part of the fair, RoofandFloor will host a webinar on ‘Virtual Sales and Reality Tours — The High-Tech Future of Home Buying’ on Saturday, October 17, from 11 30 am to 12 30 pm. TrueView will be held online until October 31, 2020. To register for the webinar, please visit bit.ly/RandFTV or scan the QR Code.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebirth of the salesman on Instagram||In early September, Sabyasachi Mukherjee hosted an Instagram Live with Beth Armata, Manager - Fine and Designer Jewellery, at New York’s luxury retailer Bergdorf Goodman. The virtual show featured staff in masks, modelling his 65-piece Haute Joaillerie collection (showcased exclusively at the store since January). The ace designer offered a running commentary — amount of gold, number of gemstones, cut, carat, colour — with the uncanny vibe of a late-night TV infomercial from the ’90s. The only differences? The medium, and an email ID instead of a toll-free number. Haute couture labels rely on plush brick-and-mortar stores and touch-and-feel experiences to woo the luxury buyer. Before COVID-19 struck, social media was largely a playground for niche labels to build an audience base, market collections or drive sales of single products. Engaging audiences went beyond ‘Swipe up to win’. Even someone like Mukherjee, who regularly launches his collections on Instagram to over 4.5 million followers, admitted on-air that “it is very stressful”. No trials, only shopping Thirty two-year-old multi-designer boutique, Ensemble, launched their e-commerce portal in April, and their social media also saw a shift. Where executive director Tina Tahiliani Parikh had only occasionally appeared in photos with designers on their pre-lockdown Instagram feed, she was now going live with the likes of Anamika Khanna and Ruchika Sachdeva of Bodice. She is open to being part of the brand’s social media strategy. “It is a very personalised business, so whenever necessary, I’ll do it,” she says, adding that the reliance on PR consultants has reduced because you have a direct way to talk to your customer. “A luxury experience depends on the salesperson’s customer knowledge and intimacy, product exclusivity, and the narrative behind it. The brands able to translate these values digitally will succeed,” says Parmesh Shahani, author of Queeristan and head, Godrej India Culture Lab. For now, it is a work in progress. Like Mumbai-based multi-brand luxury house Le Mill: when lockdown eased in August, they got in-house stylists to share fall classics and curate wardrobe staples under Rs. 50,000 — all from their store, of course. Like, share, shop Designers have been focussing on launching e-commerce portals, but continue to rely on social media to spread the word. Bridal couture studio Jade by Monica and Karishma offers virtual consultations by appointment. Simultaneously, they’ve started an IGTV series called ‘Jade Closet’, where designers give styling tips on everything from ruffle saris to lehengas . Luxury sari labels, traditionally defined by a tactile approach, are also creating WhatsApp catalogues for virtual pop-ups and offering video call shopping, like Bengaluru-based heritage label The House of Angadi. “We discussed internally if it would take away from the physical experience of buying a handwovenkanjeevaramor Benarasi, but the connoisseur knows,” says Varun Rana, fashion commentator and Communications Director at the textile label. Tech check While Amazon’s livestream shopping function has videos by celebrity beauty brand founders such as Jessica Alba and Gabrielle Union, there has been a spurt of IG Lives closer home. Ogaan, a multi-brand store with branches in Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad, hosted Instagram Lives with designers Amrita Khanna and Gursi Singh of Lovebirds, and Rina Singh of Eka, showcasing their latest collections. Elsewhere, designers are crowding Instagram and Facebook feeds with virtual launches, using Reels and AR filters to further their reach. If you head to jewellery designer Roma Narsinghani’s profile, you can try on her collection, including headpieces and septum rings, showcased at Helsinki Fashion Week via filters. Arnab Samanta, marketing head at Graphixstory, says that his tech-led advertising studio has created beauty filters — including Sonam Kapoor’s Cannes look with metallic smoky eyes — for celebrity make-up artist Namrata Soni. “Brands like Gucci and Lacoste have used AR in the past but we’re yet to see interest from high-end Indian fashion labels,” he says. Tell me a story In this milieu, brands that tell relevant stories are able to break through the clutter. “Today, consumers aren’t only looking to buy a garment, accessory or a shoe. They need a product for a reason, with a reason. They need to be convinced of why they should be on your side,” says Shefalee Vasudev, editor, The Voice of Fashion . Glasgow-based Indian designer Ayush Kejriwal’s virtual campaign, titled Rakhwaali , showed silk-clad women multi-tasking at home: a comment on how gender identities govern domestic responsibilities and the burden on women in the lockdown. “Such innovative ideas rivet brands closer to the minds of a consumer. Luxury brands in India will have to find such messaging and storytelling, and do it well,” she adds. Bigger brands could also take cues from niche labels like Srila Chatterjee’s Baro Market that seems to have cracked the code. After shutting down her Mumbai-based lifestyle store during the coronavirus pandemic, she launched an online marketplace of products by Indian craftspersons and artisans, telling their stories through an online magazine, newsletters, and other media. “She doesn’t just send you a list of products, but tells you why it is best for you,” says Shahani. “So, when this is over, we will remember her authentic, personal connection. Will that translate into better business for Baro in future? Certainly,” he concludes.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The importance of being online||We’re in 2020. So it strikes me as strange that a majority of India’s fashion designers did not have their own e-commerce websites till the realities of the COVID-19 pandemic brought that point home. Many still don’t. A report by the Indian Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF) says that India’s e-commerce market is expected to grow from $38.5 billion in 2017 to $200 billion by 2026. Even the most traditional touch-and-feel retailers, our high-end jewellers, took to e-commerce years ago. But it is only in the past six months that we’ve seen designer websites pop up one after another. Finally. From established names like JJ Valaya, Gaurav Gupta, and Amit Aggarwal to upcoming ones like Kshitij Jalori and Qbik, many have taken this time to launch their e-com platforms. Rishab Mehra, Founder of Growify, a company that provides end-to-end e-commerce solutions, counts over 15 fashion labels, big and small — from Namrata Joshipura to Rabani & Rakha, Keerthi Kadire to Nikita Mahisalkar — who’ve worked with his firm to launch their websites since the lockdown. He has 10 more in the works. But what held them back so far? A virtual translation The answer may lie in the simple problem of perception. “Most designers who came to us sought to translate their real-life experiences online,” says Mehra. “But brand-centric websites are often optimised for the desktop or laptop, while the majority of traffic now comes from mobile devices.” A website dedicated to replicating a brand ‘experience’ is rarely successful at achieving conversions — tech-speak for selling. There is just too much storytelling involved; retail tends to take a back seat. Besides, a website needs constant investment — targeted digital ads and promotions to reach and build the intended audience and analytics that need constant crunching to widen the reach. Back in 1994, JJ Valaya was the first Indian designer to launch a simple website to introduce his brand to the world. It lay fallow in that avatar till he started working on his comeback collection (he’d taken a two-year sabbatical in 2017) which he showed in September 2019. “Our plans for the revamped site were on since then, and the pandemic made having a global touch-point all the more important,” he says. On August 27, valaya.com went live once again with a renewed focus on e-commerce and an online ‘couture’ experience of customising the ‘Ika’ jacket. “Since then, it has been a journey of revelations,” says the couturier, adding that it has allowed him to dress brides from Nairobi and Sri Lanka in the past few weeks alone. “And this is when we haven’t even started advertising.” Web tactics Aweek later, Instagram was flooded with congratulatory posts from top Bollywood celebrities, stylists, and influencers from across the world, celebrating the launch of gauravguptastudio.com. This Insta-storm overloaded Gaurav Gupta’s new site on day one itself. “It also got us about 200 new orders within a week,” adds the designer. The smart thing he did was to announce immediate online discounts going up to 70%. This ensured traffic and conversions. In return, the back-end team got a cache of invaluable data on which to base their next moves. While he admits that the initial rush of demand has plateaued — “which was expected” — the website is helping his five stores across the country by allowing interested customers to choose their preferences. They book appointments and visit the nearest store to buy the actual garments. Brand building For upcoming designer Kshitij Jalori, whose website went live on September 30, it was all about making his online retail experience as seamless as possible. “I wanted to cut out the clutter and focus on the clothes,” he says. Mehra says that young labels have the advantage of not needing to live up to brand expectations. “They can continue adding various services according to their specific learnings,” he offers. In the end, it is a mix of three things that makes for a success story. According to Mehra: an easy, retail-oriented interface; solid social media outreach and advertising; and pricing that works for your product online. While launching a website in itself guarantees nothing even at the best of times, it should by now be evident that having one is as essential as sewing labels onto the garments they produce. It takes an initial investment of Rs. 2 to 5 lakhs to start a website, on average (designers and developers are loath to share exact figures, though). And going by the recent bloom of website launches, it seems like an investment worth the name. Ongoing launches also shows that our designers aren’t sitting idle; that the business of selling clothes, on which millions depend for their livelihoods, will continue to thrive in the times to come.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Touch, feel & social distance||“I’ve really been grateful for lockdown; it has been my most amazing six months,” says Raul Rai, co-founder of lifestyle brand Nicobar. The pandemic may have pressed the reset button for many of us, but for several retail outfits it has been a time to revisit the consumer experience. “The only word that came to mind back then was ‘reimagine’,” says Rai, adding that for Nicobar, it meant ramping up training for its staff — helping them better understand the products so they can pivot as customers’ needs change. Why? “Ultimately that affects the in-store consumer experience.” Elsewhere, brands have been pulling out all the stops — from using augmented reality to throwing open inventories to replacing sales consultants with QR codes, they are exploring both ends of the retail spectrum.  The lure of offline  Until just a few months ago, experiential retail ‘built relationships’ with customers through various experiments. Think Stefano Ricci’s VIP clubs with its own restaurants and cigar lounges, or Good Earth’s Paro, with a library, therapy rooms and customised playlists. But the pandemic, with social distancing protocols, threw a spanner in the works. Now, as physical stores once again welcome customers, change is the new constant. A few months ago, Amazon opened its first AI-powered grocery store in Seattle, while last month, e-commerce giant Alibaba wooed Paris with a pop-up store — complete with fashion, accessories and live ‘shoppertainment’ video streaming. Brands are packing in as much ‘experience’ as they can. Vivo’s new flagship store in Mumbai has zones dedicated to accessories, gaming, and virtual reality. “There will be some areas where the online space might get more traction, but that doesn’t mean an epitaph for offline retail,” asserts Nipun Marya, Director - Brand Strategy. Vivo India is planning to open 20 other flagships within the next six months. The lockdown has also resulted in different categories of customers, says Kavitha Rao — country commercial manager of Ikea India — from exclusive online shoppers to those who like the best of both worlds. The retail veteran, known for its flat pack furniture, has introduced Click and Collect at its Hyderabad store (order a product online, pick it up, and design your space with the help of an Ikea staff through a remote planning feature). QR codes also help customers watch information videos on their phones. And going forward, the Swedish company is looking to open smaller stores in metros. “The world is looking at smaller format now; perhaps people want brands to be closer to them,” says Rao.  Shop at your doorstep  While some are reinventing the retail experience, others are taking it to the source. New Delhi-based fashion rental service, Stage3 — which had launched its flagship store last October, designed to mimic a walk-in closet — took to the road earlier this year. It revamped the back of a bus to “convert it into a sanitised store on wheels. Everyone in the van [including an in-house stylist and tailor] wears a PPE kit, and we admit one customer at a time,” says co-founder Sanchit Baweja. Levi’s also put its pedal to the metal.“With lockdown, there was an increased demand for apparel suitable for video calls,” says Sanjeev Mohanty, managing director (South Asia, Middle East & North Africa), so they took it to their clients. Levi’s on Wheels, currently operating in Delhi and Gurugram, offers tops, shorts and lightweight denim-led ‘work from home’ collections. And most recently, the India vertical of Xiaomi launched their Mi Store on Wheels, with the intent of bringing their products to customers in non-metros.  Reimagining the physical  Meanwhile, technology is stepping in to fill in the gaps. Aneeth Arora, for instance, launched péro’s (the Indian brand with a strong European market) latest disco-themed collection in a virtual reality store at Ogaan’s Delhi outlet. The 3D space attempts to recreate an in-store experience and allows buyers to walk through, browse, zoom and click on each piece for more details. Gaurav Baid, founder of Bengaluru-based digital marketing company Avataar.Me, says that augmented reality, artificial intelligence and virtual reality are finding more takers now. Business inquiries post COVID-19 have grown three times in the last quarter, with major traction from segments like home decor, consumer electronics, automobile and FMCG. Avataar.Me has several projects under way, including a two-way video calling technology, where a customer can tour multiple stores in a virtual 360-degree format (reminiscent of the digital boutique Swiss watchmaker Hublot created, enabling customers to connect with sales managers in real time). Though people are slow to adapt to such advances, Meghna Saraogi, co-founder at fashion tech start-up StyleDotMe — which uses AR to enable virtual try-ons in physical stores and online platforms — is positive they will embrace new shopping experiences. The company is now looking to expand to watches and eyewear, along with developing the technology to include 3D try-ons in the coming month.
22 October 2020||October 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking to the streets||“The pandemic has highlighted the importance of urban open spaces for recreation, mental health, and to enhance the liveability of a city,” says Aswathy Dilip, Senior Programme Manager, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy. She is part of the team that worked on the T Nagar Pedestrian Plaza in Chennai (conceptualised in 2011 and completed in November 2019, at an approximate cost of Rs. 38 crore). “As COVID-19 made it challenging for families to come together with almost minimal space for recreation, this street provided a host of opportunities for citizens to use the street as a public space,” adds Dilip. Similarly, the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Plan in Delhi is the first major commercial development in the city’s bustling shopping hub after 300 years. The plan is to decongest the 1.3-km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, facilitate free pedestrian movement, enhance greenery and transform it into a car-free zone. The project, launched in 2004, is nearing completion. Following suit, cities across the country are transforming existing shopping hubs into retail-friendly environments — Church Street in Bengaluru, DP Road and JM Road in Pune, SM Street in Kozhikode, MG Marg in Sikkim, to name a few. New shopping rules The pandemic, however, has changed the face of existing shopping areas, like Bengaluru’s Koramangala, where shuttered stores and empty windows are aplenty. In Commercial Street, the Smart Cities Mission, which began in May, is impacting footfalls because the roads are dug up. Mohammed Nazin, VP, Bangalore Commercial Association, says, “Business has been at 25% of what it was pre-pandemic.” In Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village, autos are not crowding around the boom barrier any more, and there are only a few people walking around. Ogaan has left its corner store and there are a several other ‘To let’ boards around. A couple of kilometres away in Shahpur Jat, blingy lehengas adorn shop windows, but there’s hardly anyone inside. But people are adapting. Mahaveer Singh, 72, who has a 1,000 gaj (yard) property in the Village for several generations, says he is looking at a monthly rent of Rs. 5 lakh for a 1,200 sq ft property he has culled out from the larger space. However, he is clear that a boutique will not be able to pay these rates; perhaps a restaurant-bar can. His conditions: “Until December 2020, there will be no rent for whoever takes it now. The first six months of next year, they can pay half; thereafter, they will need to pay in full.” Sarojini Nagar Market, that Mecca of discounts where even fashion editors shop, is crowded enough, but Mukesh Yadav, who has been at the market since 1998, says footfall is down to 50%. “I am not getting any new stock; most of us are finishing off our old maal. And if I sold something at Rs. 200, I now have to sell it for Rs. 150,” says the Uttar Pradesh native, who went home to Jaunpur, with his family of four during lockdown. Down South, at Begum Bazaar in Hyderabad’s Old City, one of the State’s biggest wholesale markets, the pandemic saw a few voluntary lockdowns (since the Charminar area is prone to large crowds). Now, most merchants have migrated to WhatsApp for contactless buying. Creating a safe bubble Laila Tyabji, chairperson and founder-member of Dastkar, hopes open spaces will become the norm for shopping. “People usually say [the venue of craft fair] Nature Bazaar is very far [in Chhattarpur, in Delhi’s South West], but this time they said, ‘We realise how nice it is to have this space, where people can socially distance’.” Creating more decentralised shopping areas — like Vashi near Mumbai — should be the norm for open air retail streets, feels Siddhartha Benninger, Project Planner Centre for Development Studies and Activities, Pune. “Essentially, small commercial zones can help the community live relatively normal lives in an extended ‘bio-bubble’. I do not think there is a need for huge malls. Though they might achieve economies of scale for buyers and sellers, they do the same for germs and bacteria,” he concludes.  With inputs fromNidhi Adlakha, Sunalini Mathew, Surya Praphulla Kumar, Divya Kala Bhavani and Susanna Myrtle Lazarus
22 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||BJP, Congress candidates file nominations for Baroda bypoll||The battle lines for the Baroda bypoll were drawn on Friday with the Congress and the BJP candidates filing their papers on the last date of nominations. However, making the contest triangular, BJP rebel Kapoor Singh Narwal, also a strong contender for the Congress ticket, entered the fray as an Independent at the eleventh hour after he was snubbed by both the national parties. Though the Congress put its bets on Induraj Narwal, the BJP again reposed faith in Olympic medalist and renowned wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt as the joint candidate of the ruling coalition. Mr. Dutt had lost to Congress’ Shri Krishan Hooda by a margin of around 4,800 votes in the Assembly election last year. The bypoll has been necessitated due to demise of the Congress MLA in April. Accompanying the party candidate for his filing of nomination, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Congress had given ticket to a grassroots worker from a common farmer family on the demand of the people of Baroda. He said this was not just an election to make an MLA but a fight for the honour of Baroda and the future of Haryana. The State party chief Kumari Selja and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda were also present. Though the Hoodas strongly favoured Mr. Kapoor Singh Narwal’s candidature, the party decided on the name of Mr. Induraj Narwal after Ms. Selja insisted on a party worker as the candidate, party sources said. Since the Hoodas have strong political influence in the region, they have higher stakes than the party itself. However, with four major Jat candidates in the fray, the odds are stacked against the Congress. Though the result for the election will have little political bearing with the ruling coalition having a comfortable majority. Mr. Kapoor Singh Narwal, who was also among the BJP probables for the seat, has filed his nomination as an Independent with support from Meham Independent MLA Balraj Kundu. Mr. Kundu said the Congress had fielded a “dummy” candidate and Mr. Narwal, with the support of the locals, would record a landslide win. Addressing a gathering prior to the nomination of Mr. Dutt, BJP State chief O.P. Dhankar said the people of Baroda had accepted the young, honest and eminent wrestler as the party’s candidate rising above the caste politics. While the Indian National Lok Dal fielded Joginder Malik, former BJP MP and Loktantra Suraksha Party chief RajKumar Saini is also in the fray. A total of 24 nominations were filed for the bypoll. Last date to withdraw nominations is October 19. The polling will be held on November 3, a week before the counting of votes on November 10.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Amend DU Act for more colleges: Kejriwal to Centre||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the city needs more colleges and universities, especially in the light of high cut-offs set by most Delhi University colleges for admissions this academic season. He said he had written to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal seeking the abolition of Section 5(2) of the Delhi University Act, 1922 so that new colleges and universities can be opened here. The Act, made during the British era, states that a new college needs to be affiliated with Delhi University. This was amended in 1998 and allowed IP University to allow affiliation. Since then, IP University, which also has 127 affiliated colleges, has surpassed its capacity. “There is a need to amend this Act further. Today I wrote a letter to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and appealed to delete the section in order to facilitate opening new colleges in the city for students across the nation,” he said. With cut-offs touching 100%, what will happen to students who secure less than 95%, he asked. “If we only talk about Delhi, every year 2.5 lakh students pass Class XII. However, only 1.25 lakh students can secure admission in Delhi colleges. If we talk numerically, it means two students are fighting for one seat, leading to cut-throat competition, leaving behind the other 1.25 lakh students without any resources. This means that colleges in Delhi can only accommodate 50% of students. Where will the other 50% go?” the CM asked. “Students trying to get admission in colleges are facing trouble given the 100% cut-offs. High cut-offs are not the fault of students, it’s our fault — the Delhi government, previous governments and Central government. This is happening because of the lack of universities and colleges in Delhi in comparison to the ever-rising number of students. There is a stark imbalance in the ratio of the number of universities to the number of students,” he said. ‘Govt. ready to invest’ The Delhi government, he said, was ready to invest in these but there was a legal impediment. Delhi University already has 91 affiliated colleges and has not opened a new college in the last 30 years as it has already exceeded its capacity, he added. “I am hopeful that the Central government will definitely ponder over this and will definitely alter this act to suit the need of the hour. I believe the stress factor is escalating in students because of this system,” he also said.  “Students trying to get admission in colleges are facing trouble given the 100% cut-offs. High cut-offs are not the fault of students, it’s our fault... Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister
22 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Brother of Ballia gunman held; BJP MLA backs accused||A day after a man was shot dead in Ballia even as police and district officials looked on, the brother of the main accused, who is linked to the BJP, was arrested. The local BJP MLA meanwhile defended the murder as an act of “self-defence” and accused the administration of “one-sided” action. The police also face allegations of letting the accused flee from the spot after he fired the fatal shots. The victim was shot dead after a dispute broke out between two groups during a village meeting over the selection process of a government ration shop in Ballia on Thursday. Tej Pratap Pal, the brother of the deceased Jai Prakash, alleged that immediately after the firing in Durjanpur village, the police caught the accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh but then let him escape. “When he was fleeing after firing, the administration caught him from behind but took him to a nearby embankment and allowed him to escape,” Mr. Tej Pratap told reporters. Bairia MLA Surendra Singh admitted that the accused was an associate of his and also that he supported the BJP during both the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections as a karyakarta . “How can I say he is not my associate? The truth is he was an associate of the BJP, too. But since the firing incident is unfortunate, we can’t call it good,” he said. Mr. Singh said though he condemned the firing incident, he was also against the “one-sided” action by the administration and media coverage. The supporters of the deceased person has initiated the violence and used lathis and rods, injuring six men and two women on the side of Dhirendra Pratap Singh, he claimed. “If Dhirendra Singh had not fired in self-defence, dozens of his relatives would have been killed,” the MLA claimed, demanding action also against the victim’s supporters. The brother of the deceased also accused the police of shielding the accused during the incident and instead hitting the people on the victim side.  ‘None will be spared’ Braj Bhushan, ADG Varanasi, said Devendra Pratap Singh, the brother of Dhirendra Pratap, was arrested while 10 teams had been formed to nab the other accused. The FIR names eight accused persons while others are unidentified. “None of the accused will be spared,” he said, adding that all the police personnel posted on the spot have been suspended.  If Dhirendra Singh had not fired in self-defence, dozens of his relatives would have been killed Surendra SinghBairia MLA
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU closes admissions under first cut-off list||Delhi University on Friday closed the admissions to its merit-based undergraduate courses with nearly 49% of seats getting filled in the first list. According to DU data, a total of 59,730 students applied under the first list — of which 34,814 aspirants paid the fees and completed the admission process.  Several colleges are likely to close admissions for courses like political science despite the cut-offs being high. Promila Kumar, principal of Gargi College, said: “As many as 1,600 admissions have taken place against 1,500 seats. The unreserved category in most courses will close with the first cut-off itself. A few of the reserved seats are left and the list will be opening up for those seats. Political science, economics, mathematics and BA (programme) are among the most popular courses in the college.” At Ramjas College, 145 admissions have taken place for political science against 78 seats, said principal Manoj Khanna. “As of Friday, there had been 409 admissions under the unreserved category and 500 under the reserved category,” said Ms. Khanna. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu college, said, “Around 900 admissions have taken place till Friday evening. Courses like physics, chemistry, political science and English are a few of the most sought-after ones. It is unlikely that we will open the lists for these courses in the second list.” At Miranda House, acting principal Bijayalakshmi Nanda, said seats for political science and geography have been filled for the unreserved category. Notably, admissions under the second list will begin on Monday. DU has around 70,000 undergraduate seats. Due to the pandemic, the admission process has been entirely online this year and students were advised to not visit college campuses.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPCB expects dip in pollution levels in Delhi||Officials at the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) have said that they are expecting a decrease in instances of stubble burning, a major contributor to Delhi’s winter pollution. October has seen a rise in instances of stubble burning, where farmers in Punjab and Haryana burn paddy straw, compared to last year. Its contribution to the Delhi National Capital Region’s overall pollution burden has grown from 6% on Wednesday to 20% on Thursday, according to data from SAFAR, a regional weather forecast service by the Ministry of Earth Sciences. “There has been early harvesting this year. Pollution worsens when burning combines with adverse weather and we are hoping that because of early harvesting these two don’t coincide as much when winter progresses,” said CPCB Chairman Shiv Das Meena at a press briefing on Friday. The ventilation index, a metric that indicates how efficiently pollutants are dispersed in the atmosphere, was lower this October compared to the last, says Member-Secretary of CPCB Prashant Gargava. There were also fewer rainy days in September and October so far, compared to last year. “These factors have contributed to the spike in stubble burning related pollution this year and the expectation is that along with measures taken to discourage famers from burning and less acreage under non-basmati rice, there should hopefully be some reduction in severe pollution.” The number of days with ‘poor’ or ‘very poor’ air quality had declined from 246 in 2016 to 183 in 2019. Last year, stubble burning — at its peak — contributed to 44% of the pollution in Delhi and on average ranged from 13-25% during October and November, the months that saw the most burning. Other sources Road dust, construction and demolition waste and biomass burning were other major sources of pollution in the region though there weren’t fresh estimates on their relative contribution.
22 October 2020||Guwahati,||New group to revive Bodoland movement||A new organisation has announced the revival of the Bodoland statehood movement ahead of the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). The five-decade-old demand for a separate State for the Bodos, the largest plains tribe in the Northeast, was said to have ended with the signing of the third peace accord on January 27 for transforming the BTC into the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) with more powers. But the All India Bodo People’s National League for Bodoland Statehood has vowed to rekindle the statehood movement. Members of this league, formed on October 15, panned the BTR accord, which they said would spell disaster for the Bodo community. “Unlike the 2003 accord that gave us the BTC, the new accord has been a betrayal of the Bodo people. Besides being an inferior accord, it prescribes a reduction of the area currently under the BTC,” said Sansuma Khunggur Bwiswmuthiary, former MP and president of the new group. The accord has a provision for excluding from the BTR villages with more than 50% non-Bodos and including villages with more than 50% Bodo people left out of the BTC map after the 2003 accord. The Bodoland statehood movement has its roots in the 1967 Udayachal stir seeking self-rule for the areas dominated by the Bodo community. First Bodo Accord The movement was doused temporarily with the signing of the first Bodo Accord in February 1993 between the government and moderate leaders of the movement. This resulted in the creation of the Bodoland Autonomous Council (BAC). The extremist National Democratic Front of Boroland (NDFB), which split into four factions later on, rejected this “trivial” accord. The discontent bred another outfit, the Bodo Liberation Tigers (BLT), which rivalled the NDFB. The Centre signed the second Bodo peace accord with the BLT in February 2003, elevating the BAC to the BTC.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||AQI improves in Delhi, neighbouring States||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida improved to the “poor” category on Friday from “very poor” a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality is expected to improve in Delhi on Saturday and Sunday, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi was 239 and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 216 and 247 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin on Friday, which is an average of the past 24 hours. All the values are in the “orange” category and it can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”, said CPCB. Marginal improvement in surface wind speed has led to improved ventilation and AQI in Delhi. “Low surface winds are expected on Friday and AQI is likely to stay in higher-end poor to the lower end of very poor for Saturday. Marginal improvement in surface winds is expected by 17th October and poor AQI is forecast. Air quality is forecast to further improve to lower end of poor category by 18th October,” SAFAR said. The contribution of stubble burning to the PM2.5, a chief pollutant, is estimated to be around 18% in Delhi. Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said he has directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to impose a fine of Rs. 1 crore on the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) for inaction against garbage burning on a side of a main road in Kirari. Mr. Rai said the situation of air pollution in Delhi is gradually getting serious, despite this, various agencies are not serious about strictly following the government guidelines. “Today [Friday] during my inspection, I found garbage burning beside the main road of Baba Vidya Pati Marg. The garbage was burning from the morning, but the North MCD officials have not taken any action. Any such burning is completely prohibited in Delhi now. We will not tolerate such inaction, therefore, I have directed the DPCC to impose a penalty of Rs. 1 crore against the North civic body. The way we found the inaction of the civic body, which is unacceptable and that’s why the penalty should be imposed against it,” Mr. Rai said.
22 October 2020||chennai,||T.N. reports 4,295 fresh COVID-19 cases||Eleven districts accounted for nearly 70% of the 4,295 new COVID-19 cases reported on Saturday. Chennai reported 1,132 cases, while 389 persons tested positive for the infection in Coimbatore.
22 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Residents demand ban on open waste burning||With gradual rise in pollution levels over the last few days in the National Capital Region, Gurugram residents have demanded that a ban on open burning of waste be strictly enforced to prevent situation from getting worse, especially in view of the pandemic. The residents including volunteers of Citizens for Clean Air, a citizens’ collective, have been spotting and reporting waste burning at many open dumping sites as well as at small spots in and around neighbourhoods. They have been actively calling up their respective councillors as well as the administration to put a stop to this harmful practice. The residents said given the pandemic situation and COVID-19 attacking the respiratory system, there is a need to stop local sources of pollution particles from entering their breathing zone. Demanding that the administration and the government prioritise public health and stop waste burning, Ruchika Sethi, a member of Citizens for Clean Air, in a post on the Facebook page of the group wrote: “Despite many protests by the citizen’s collective, Citizens for Clean Air in 2016, 2017 and 2019; a signature campaign signed by 25,000 residents; several representations and meetings with the administration, MP Rao Inderjit Singh, Principal Secretary and a letter to the Chief Minister, none of the solutions for scientific Solid Waste Management have been implemented. Residents are now frustrated and unhappy with the lack of response. They say if the Government can impose such strict measures for the Covid 19 pandemic, surely it can stop a harmful practice like waste burning [sic].” The group, in a tweet, said that challans and FIRs were not the solutions since waste burning was not sporadic, but a rampant practice. It said there was a need for a scientific de-centralised solid waste management mechanism to effectively deal with the menace.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Landlady ‘abused’ previous tenant too||The woman who allegedly called her Kashmiri tenant a “terrorist”, allegedly meted out similar treatment to a 20-year-old student in 2019. In September last year, Vasundhara Singh said she was abused, threatened and called a “spoilt girl, who takes drugs with boys” by Taruna Makhija, the owner of the accommodation. Ms. Singh said that when she moved into the house, she faced several issues like a non-functional AC, and soon decided to leave the house. “Ms. Makhija refused to return my security deposit at that time,” Ms. Singh said. On September 7, Ms. Makhija “barged into my room, abused me, pulled my hair and tore my pyjamas,” said Ms. Singh, who is now preparing for her Masters She had complained to the police but “have not heard from them since then”. Ms. Singh added that Ms. Makhija had also complained about her to the police. On Wednesday night, Noor Bhatt, a resident of Ms. Makhija’s house in East of Kailash, alleged that she was attacked and abused by the owner. A case was registered based on Ms. Bhatt’s complaint. Ms. Makhija too complained about her. The complaints are being examined, the police said.
22 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Move to delist some categories from updated NRC is contempt of SC’||The opposition Congress in Assam has said the move to delist certain categories of people from the updated National Register of Citizens was tantamount to “contempt of the Supreme Court”. NRC State Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma had on October 13 asked deputy commissioners and district registrars of citizen registration to prepare a list of “ineligible” people belonging to the “categories of DF/DV/PFT” and their descendants who have been included in the complete NRC published on August 31, 2019. DF, DV and PFT expand to Declared Foreigners, Doubtful Voters and Pending in Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs). Congress MLA and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Debabrata Saikia on Friday said the NRC authorities did not obtain permission from the Supreme Court to issue the directive. “An earnest desire of the people of Assam was fulfilled when the NRC was updated under the supervision of the Supreme Court and, as such, both the Central and State governments share a responsibility towards the NRC. However, news has been published that the incumbent Coordinator has instructed various district magistrates to prepare a list of D-voters, persons facing trial in FTs, children younger than 14 years who have one parent of dubious nationality, and the like,” Mr. Saikia said. He said the directive was tantamount to contempt of the Supreme Court as he had not taken the court’s leave to do so.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Civic bodies need funds from govt. to combat pollution: BJP||The Opposition BJP on Friday said the civic bodies are taking various steps to combat pollution but need funds from the Delhi government to carry on. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said air pollution recurs every year and the Delhi government makes new announcements but never implements what it promises. “The people of Delhi do not have any benefit of the Kejriwal government’s schemes because their plans are limited to just photography and publicity,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “It is the responsibility of the Delhi government to stop the pollution from increasing,” he added.
22 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen arrested for hitting man with bat||A 19-year-old youth was arrested for allegedly hitting a man with a bat following a quarrel over playing cricket in south-east Delhi’s Abu Fazal, the police said on Friday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the accused has been identified as Bilal from Abul Fazal Enclave-I. On Thursday, the police got information that a man named Arslam was admitted to Al-Shifa Hospital after getting injured during a quarrel. On reaching the hospital, they were told the incident happened when the victim was loading water bottles on his cart. Arslam had asked three boys, including Bilal, to spot their game as he was working on the lane. But they continued to play and later Bilal hit him.
22 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha plans to ban beggars at tourist places||The Odisha government has started consultation to fine tune its ‘The Draft Odisha Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Bill, 2020’ in which begging is proposed to be banned at tourist places. Tourist police personnel will disperse people who will be found begging at any place of tourist importance, says the draft Bill. Police will also prevent beggars or body of such persons, whose activities are prohibited, from entering the tourist areas and these persons will be asked to leave the area immediately. No touting Similarly, as per the draft Bill, people who will be found touting at any place or around the tourist area will be produced before a judicial magistrate. Upon conviction, these people will be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend up to 15 days along with fine.
22 October 2020||New Delhi,||Two Delhi govt school students among top 10 rankers in ISRO competition, Dy CM meets them||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday met two Delhi government school students, who are among the top 10 rankers in the All-India ISRO Cyberspace essay writing competition. Varun Kumar Verma of RPVV, Paschim Vihar and Manisha Raikawar from Sharda Sen Rajkiya Kanya Sarvodaya Vidyalaya ranked third and seventh in the competitions.
