17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SC moots panel for farmer-govt. talks||Talks between the Union government and farmer leaders on the three controversial agriculture laws had broken no ground and were bound to fail, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, proposed the setting up of a committee of farmer leaders from across the country, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that has been at the forefront of the protests, and government representatives to resolve the issue. “The committee can talk and resolve this issue. Secure the names of some farmers’ unions who want to join... It should include the BKU and other farmer leaders. They should be drawn from across the country. It affects all and this will soon become a national issue,” the CJI said. The court has impleaded BKU (Rakesh Tikait), BKU-Sidhupur (Jagjeet S. Dallewal), BKU-Rajewal (Balbeer Singh Rajewal), BKU-Lakhowal (Harinder Singh Lakhowal), BKU-Dakaunda (Buta Singh Burjgill), BKU-Doaba (Manjit Singh Rai) and Kul Hind Kisan Federation (Prem Singh Bhangu). Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the farmers had turned their back on the government’s efforts to talk. “The government is ready and was ready. But they [farmers] say ‘either you repeal or not repeal’. They came to talks with placards saying ‘yes or no’. Ministers tried to talk, but they turned their chairs and sat with their backs turned to the Ministers... It is my duty to tell this court some other interests have taken over... We want a positive, constructive talk on a clause-to-clause basis,” he submitted. Chief Justice Bobde responded, “Farmers perceive that it [the legislation] is against them... Your negotiations have not worked, they are bound to fail. If you [government] are willing to negotiate, have some farmer leaders before us who want to negotiate...” Three petitions Thousands of farmers, young and old, from various parts of the country, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have braved the onset of winter and blocked the entry points to the national capital since late November. The Bench scheduled the case for urgent hearing on December 17. “December 18 is the last day before we close for vacation,” the CJI noted. The court was hearing three separate petitions filed by lawyers and law students for and against the long blockade caused by the protests. One of them said the protests had restricted the fundamental right to free movement for the public. However, the court expressed keenness to directly engage with the farmers first, saying they were the people on the ground. In the absence of the farmers, the Bench turned to the government and asked: “Have you blocked the road?” “The government has not blocked the road,” Mr. Mehta replied.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Teacher to take a shot at national record in swimming tomorrow||A government primary school teacher from Kalmanja in Bantwal taluk has planned to get his name entered in the India Book of records by swimming in the Padmasana posture with his legs tied, in the Arabian Sea for a distance of one kilometre. Nagaraj Kharvi, a native of Kanchugodu, Gujjadi village in Kundapur taluk, would make this attempt at the Tannirbhavi Beach in Mangaluru at 8 a.m. on Friday. Mr. Kharvi, who learnt swimming when he was in Class 3, was the swimming instructor at Sri Satya Sai Educational Institutions, Alike in Dakshina Kannada for nine years. He is a working at the government school since the last four-and-a-half years. Mr. Kharvi told reporters here that he improved his swimming techniques under B.K. Naik, who was an inspector with the Sericulture Department. He also underwent Yoga training at Shanthivana Trust, Dharmasthala. Having won gold medals in 200 m breast stroke and 100 m breast stroke and bronze medal in 50 m breast stroke in the national-level swimming event conducted by the Master Games Federation of India this January at Vadodara, Gujarat, Mr. Kharvi planned to combine Yoga and swimming to create a national record. He has been practising breast stroke swimming at Tannirbhavi for two months now. The Sports and Youth Empowerment Department, the Government Employees Association and other departments have extended support to his initiative, Mr. Kharvi said. India Book of Records responded positively too, he added.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Decision on new PCC president may be delayed||The announcement of the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief may be delayed by a few days despite the party’s efforts to complete the process by December-end with the aspirants continuing to put pressure in New Delhi. The delay, according to sources, was to pacify the aspirants whose name might not be considered for various reasons. AICC incharge Manickam Tagore who submitted the result of the exercise he had undertaken for four days in Hyderabad has now gone back to Chennai. He is likely to return to New Delhi on December 22. So the process is likely to move further only after that. A senior leader also said buying some time will also heal the hurt feelings of aspirants who may be indicated through various sources as to why their names were not being considered. They will also be involved in the final consultation process to give them some assurance. “We want to take a right decision and not an early decision,” a senior leader said wishing anonymity. The outcome of the exercise is with AICC president Sonia Gandhi and whenever she gives time the process will get expedited. Party sources said she is not giving appointment to anyone for health reasons as of now. Meanwhile, some of the aspirants were in New Delhi to lobby even after the AICC in-charge conducted a massive exercise of meeting 162 people right from Parliaments members, AICC members, PCC members to the district Congress chiefs. “They expressed varied opinions without fear and suggested some names despite not having good relations with them. So ultimately it was in the interests of the party.” The top contenders for the post Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, A. Revanth Reddy, D. Sreedhar Babu and Bhatti Vikramarka continued their efforts. Mr. Venkata Reddy met Rahul Gandhi and apparently explained his position. He is also said to have met AICC president, Sonia Gandhi though there was no confirmation. Revanth Reddy was in New Delhi for the meeting of Parliamentary Committee on Defence in which he is a member along with Rahul Gandhi. He had a chance to speak to him during their meeting but what transpired in that meeting is not known. Revanth Reddy has been maintaining a stoic silence eversince the selection exercise was taken up by Mr. Tagore and did not openly staked claim with the media or Congress workers.
17 December 2020||Kochi,||Left may return to power in Kochi||Four Independent candidates who won the election will hold the key to governance in the Kochi Corporation, as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) fell short of the simple majority to return to power after a decade. When counting of votes ended by 1.30 p.m., the LDF had won 34 seats and its rival, the UDF, 31 seats. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) doubled its tally when five of its representatives got elected to the 74-member council. M. Anilkumar, a CPI(M) representative and a three-time councillor, is likely to put on the Mayoral gown when the house will be called to order. Hectic negotiations to woo Independent candidates began soon after the election results were out. Among the four Independents who scripted success was K.P. Antony, a CPI(M) rebel who won the Manassery seat. Mr. Antony, a former local committee member of the party, may stand by the LDF in the council, hoped party sources. Riding on his popularity, T.K. Ashraf, a three-time councillor of the IUML, who chose to contest as an Independent, surprised the UDF by winning the division. J. Sanilmon, another Independent from Panayapally, too won. The response of Independent candidates on their support for political fronts is yet to be known. The results proved a shock for the UDF, which was hoping to retain power, as many of its prominent leaders were defeated. Though V4 Kochi, an apolitical formation, failed to win even a single seat, it ensured the defeat of a few UDF candidates by eating into their votes. Besides T. Padmakumari, who won the Island North Division, the BJP has Raghuram Pai (Cheralayi), P.A. Priya (Amaravathy), Mini R. Menon (Ernakulam South), and Sudha Dileep Kumar (Ernakulam Central) as its representatives in the council. The winner in the Kaloor South Division had to be decided by tossing the coin, as there was a tie between LDF and UDF candidates. Lady Luck smiled on Rajani Mani of the UDF.
17 December 2020||Mumbai,||HC stay on Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed the construction work for an integrated Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg for Metro lines 6, 4 and 14. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni stayed the order passed by the Mumbai Suburban District Collector transferring 102 acres of salt pan land to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The Bench was hearing a plea filed by the Union government challenging an order passed by the revenue minister stating that not all salt pans were owned by the State with some owned by private members. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni representing the State government said it stood by the Collector’s order but was open to suggestions from the parties in the case and the Collector could hear them. However, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Union government, opposed this and said the court should set aside the collector’s order. MMRDA’s counsel senior advocate Milind Sathe, urged the court to allow continuation of work as the car shed was essential for the project. He said MMRDA would have to spend an additional Rs. 2,300 crore on land acquisition and Rs. 1,600 crore as operational costs if the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed project was stayed by the court. The Bench however said an interesting fact was brought to the court’s notice that the State government had applied for salt pan land for the shed earlier in a case of Suresh Bafna, who owns a portion of land in Kanjurmarg. The court said, it would hear the same with the Centre’s petition in February 2021. The Bench added, “You must await the decision of that application. After looking at the maps, we feel it is the same plot. Every day there is a twist and turn in the events.” The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led State government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked for constructing the car depot which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony. Later in the day, Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “Hon’ble HC has granted a stay to Kanjurmarg work. We await the detailed written order to decide the future course of action. This land is crucial for Metro Line 6, 4 and 14, apart from 3, as it will save almost Rs. 5500 crores of Govt and be a nodal point for 1 crore citizens.”
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Amaravati JAC’s ‘Jana Rana Bheri’ at Rayapudi today||The week-long protests being staged by farmers and residents of Amaravati region in support of their demand that Amaravati be retained as the permanent and sole capital of the State, will culminate into a “Jana Rana Bheri” at Rayapudi on Thursday. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi conveners A. Siva Reddy and G. Tirupati Reddy claimed an overwhelming public response to their protest programmes organised to mark completion of one year of the farmers’ fight against the government's decision to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam. They said all political parties, barring the ruling YSR Congress Party, had actively participated in the demonstrations pledging their full support to the farmers' cause. They said the response to their Praja Pada Yatra on Tuesday was a reflection of people’s desire and urged people of all sections to participate in the Thursday’s meeting, scheduled to be held at the place where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for construction of the new capital. They said the success of this public meeting should force a rethink by the government on the capital. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, BJP State president Somu Veerraju, Congress leaders N. Thulasi Reddy and S Sailajanath, Jana Sena State leader Nadendla Manohar, CPI(M) State secretary P Madhu, CPI State secretary Ramakrishna, leaders of Aam Aadmi Party, Lok Satta, farmer leaders, members of trade and commercial organisations, women, youth and student bodies and other are likely to participate in the meeting.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Three more COVID deaths, 478 new infections in State||The State witnessed three more deaths and 478 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The toll increased to 7,067 and tally reached 8,76,814 with a death rate of 0.81% and recovery rate of 98.69%. The number of recoveries increased to 8,65,327 as 715 more patients recovered in the past day. As many as 4,420 patients are undergoing treatment for the disease across the State. Two of the new deaths were witnessed in Visakhapatnam and one from Kadapa district, while the remaining districts saw no new death in the past day. The positivity rate of the 64,099 samples tested in the past day was at 0.74% while the overall positivity rate of 1.10 crore samples tested so far came down to 7.97%. The tests per million ratio also increased to 2,06,020. Chittoor again reported highest single-day infection tally of 89 cases among the districts. It was followed by West Godavari (63), Krishna (62), East Godavari (58), Guntur (48), Visakhapatnam (44), Anantapur (30), Kadapa (19), Nellore (17), Vizianagaram (17), Srikakulam (13), Prakasam (12) and Kurnool (6). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,23,121 ), West Godavari (93,523 ), Chittoor ( 85,066), Guntur ( 74,071), Anantapur (67,063 ), Nellore(61,848 ), Prakasam (61,842 ), Kurnool ( 60,431), Visakhapatnam (58,719 ), Kadapa( 54,706), Krishna (46,860 ), Srikakulam (45,757 ) and Vizianagaram (40,912 ).
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM requests Centre to approve Polavaram project revised cost||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy met Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Wednesday and sought approval for the revised cost of the Polavaram project, which is pegged at approximately Rs. 55,655 crore. Mr. Jagan informed Mr. Shekhawat that the project cost had ballooned from the previously estimated figure due to a substantial increase in the number of families facing displacement (to over 1.06 lakh) and habitations that would be submerged. The Union government would be helping the State in completing the national project at the earliest by giving expeditious financial clearance, Mr. Jagan told Mr. Shekhawat. The Chief Minister said the Centre was due to reimburse about Rs. 1,780 crore spent by the State on the project, including bills that were pending since 2018. Mr. Jagan observed that the costs would escalate further if the Union Ministry dragged its feet on the Revised Cost Estimate (RCE) and the State would be the sufferer. Later, Mr. Jagan called on Sriram Vedire, adviser of the Ministry of Jal Shakti, and deliberated on the inter-linking of Godavari and Cauvery rivers.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears spectrum auction||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum with a reserve price of Rs. 3.92 lakh crore, a move that should help boost the quality of 4G telecom services in the country. Spectrum in the frequency bands of 700MHz, 800MHz, 900MHz, 1,800MHz, 2,100MHz, 2,300MHz and 2,500MHz would be offered for 20 years, said Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. He said the notice inviting applications would be issued this month and the auction conducted by March 2021. Network boost “By winning right to use spectrum through the auction, incumbent telecom service providers will be able to augment their network capacity, whereas new players will be able to start services,” the government said. Mr. Prasad said the conditions for the auction would be the same as those during the last round in 2016. Bidders will have to comply with conditions, including block size, in which bidders will be able to submit their bids, spectrum cap or the maximum amount of spectrum that can be held by a bidder after completion of auction, roll-out obligations and payment terms.  The notice inviting applications will be issued this month and the auction conducted by March 2021. Ravi Shankar Prasad Communications Minister
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Counselling for MBBS/BDS under management quota from Dec.19||Ccounselling for admission to MBBS/BDS courses under management quota will be held from December 19. According to the schedule released by the selection committee, Directorate of Medical Education, the counselling would be held on December 19 and 21 to 23 at the Nehru Outdoor Stadium, Periamedu. Candidates can download the call letters for counselling fromwww.tnmedicalselection.organdwww.tnhealth.tn.gov.in. No individual calls letters would be sent. Candidates should produce a demand draft payable at Chennai for Rs. 1,000 drawn in favour of ‘Secretary, Selection Committee, Chennai-10’ at the time of counselling as processing fee. Those who are selected should pay Rs. 1 lakh as registration fee by means of demand draft only at the time of receipt of allotment order. After receipt of joining report from the deans of the respective colleges, this amount would be transferred to the colleges. Tentative vacancy position would be displayed in the two websites. Following representations from candidates, the selection committee has postponed the counselling for NRI candidates to December 18. The counselling was scheduled to be held on December 17. 30 seats allotted Of the total 86 candidates called for counselling for admission to Government Erode Medical College Hospital (IRT, Perundurai), 48 attended. Thirty seats were allotted and 18 candidates were waitlisted. A total of 82 seats were allotted at Christian Medical College, Vellore, during the counselling. Of the 212 candidates called for counselling, 135 attended. As many as 53 candidates were waitlisted.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Haveri jail staff lodge complaints accusing one another of assault||Two employees of the District Prison at Kerimattihalli on the outskirts of Haveri are said to have fought with each other and consequently, filed police complaints against each other. The incident reportedly happened on Monday night and came to light after both lodged their complaints with the Haveri Rural Police Station. Jail Superintendent Thimmanna Bhajantri has accused jail watcher Pundalik Phakirappa Pawar of assaulting him and insulting him by his caste when he questioned him (Pundalik Pawar) for consuming food meant for the jail inmates. Mr. Bhajantri has in his complaint said that Punadlik Pawar was consuming food at a place other than his designated one for work and he questioned him as there was shortage of food for the inmates. He has also said that Pundalik Pawar assaulted him at the behest of M. Marigouda who is serving at Central Prison in Dharwad. However, Pundalik Pawar has stated a different version in his complaint. He has said that Mr. Bhajantri called him to his office and rebuked him using abusive language accusing him of making false allegations against him before senior officials and the Dharwad Jail Superintendent. Mr. Bhajantri has also issued a life threat to him, along with a undertrial, Pundalik Pawar has said in the complaint. Both Mr. Bhajantri and Pundalik Pawar received treatment as outpatients at the District Hospital in Haveri. Haveri Rural Police have registered a case. Following a direction from the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police, Jail Superintendent of Shivamogga P. Ranganath visited the District Prison on Tuesday. Following the incident, some of the prison staff staged a protest in front of the prison on Tuesday for a few minutes.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Now, get salon sewa at Singhu border||A ‘salon sewa ’ was added on Wednesday by a Haryana-based youth to the long list of services being offered at the Singhu border protest site. On the right side of the road, where thousands of protesters are agitating agai-nst the new farm laws, it is hard to miss three salon chairs, put up next to a banner reading ‘Crazy Beauty Salon’. The protesters can be seen waiting for their turn to get a haircut or shave done by salon staffers brought by Sunny Vartiya, 26, a resident of Kurukshetra and the owner of the salon. Mr. Vartiya, who reached the Singhu border with his workers in the morning, said he is here to stay. “These people are our brothers and we are because they are. Also, this is possibly the only sewa which has not been offered here yet. People are also in need of this service,” he said. Mr. Vartiya said he has come with five of his employees and there are more on their way. When the three workers take rest, the others would work, he said, adding that they started the sewa at 9 a.m. and would continue till 9 p.m. “We have come equipped with our scissors, hair gels, creams and cleaning material. We offer most services which an open salon can offer — haircuts, hairstyles, beard trimming, shaving, facials etc.,” he said. People are mostly coming for beard trimming and haircuts. “I haven’t sat since morning,” said Mr. Vartiya while cutting the hair of a protester. Rahul, one of the employees, said he is here because he believes in the protesters’ cause. “They are asking for their rights and the government should listen to them,” he said. A protester who identified himself as Sukhdev Singh (23), a resident of Moga, said he was glad he could get his beard trimmed by the workers. “It’s [salon service] not a necessity here. But because this man is offering the service, we are getting it done.”
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Covaxin Phase-1 trials show promising results||Phase-1 results show that Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine candidate, is safe. It was well-tolerated in all dose groups and generated robust immune response, according to the results released in a preprint paper, titled‘A Phase 1: Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of an Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine - BBV152’. The interim findings from the Phase-1 placebo-controlled randomised double-blind trial on the safety and immunogenicity of three different formulations of BBV152 reported the results of the trial on 375 participants, with one adverse event which was found to be unrelated to the vaccine. The indigenous vaccine is being developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A preprint is a version of a scientific manuscript posted on a public server prior to formal peer review. The preprint paper on MedRxiv noted: “Reactogenicity was absent in the majority of participants, with mild events. The majority of adverse events were mild and were resolved. One serious adverse event was reported, which was found to be unrelated to vaccination. All three vaccine formulations resulted in robust immune responses comparable to a panel of convalescent serum.” Researchers from Bharat Biotech, ICMR, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at New Delhi and Patna, and several other institutes participated in the analyses. “We conducted a double-blind randomized controlled phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of BBV152. A total of 375 participants were randomized equally to receive three vaccine formulations. Vaccines were administered on a two-dose intramuscular accelerated schedule on day 0 (baseline) and day 14. The primary outcomes were reactogenicity and safety,” the study noted.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. withdraws online betting permission given to BTC||The State government on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that it has withdrawn its decision that was taken in June-July permitting the Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) Ltd. to conduct online betting for horse racing.  ‘Contradicting stand’ The court during first week of December found strange the government’s “contradicting stand” that there was no provision in law empowering it to grant permission to Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. (BTC) to conduct online betting for horse racing and that the BTC need not seek permission from the government for online betting. As the government withdrew its July 2 communication sent to the BTC allowing online betting, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty disposed of a PIL petition, filed by one C. Gopal, which had questioned permission for online betting. However, the Bench said that disposal of the petition will not prevent the BTC from making appropriate application to the government while making it clear that the government will have to consider such application according to the law.
17 December 2020||Press Trust of India Coochbehar,||BJP calling up TMC leaders, trying to coerce them to join it : Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called the deserters of ruling TMC “opportunists and cowards” and accused BJP of trying to coerce Trinamool Congress leaders to join the saffron party. She also blamed BJP for trying to break TMC by using “moneybags”. Ms. Banerjee, who is also the TMC supremo, urged the people to give their mandate against the “outsider” BJP, which she said has come here to loot the Bengalis and leave after the elections are over. “Imagine the audacity of the BJP leaders — they are calling up my (TMC) state president Subrata Bakshi and asking him to join the party. The BJP does not have any political courtesy or ideology. And, there are one or two opportunists who only work for their own benefits,” she said at a rally here. “The old-timers of the party are our real assets. We have an ideology, those who are deserting the party don’t have any ideological conviction. The BJP is trying to coerce TMC leaders to join. It is using moneybags to break opposition parties... But, we will fight and defeat them in the assembly polls,” she asserted. Her comments come in the backdrop of growing resentment in the TMC with several senior leaders, ministers and MLAs openly speaking out against the party leadership and the state government.  Continuing her tirade, the CM said, “Some are acting as fence sitters; they are apprehensive that they may not get tickets as they have been non-performers as MLAs. The BJP is calling up party leaders and telling them do you want to stay in jail or in active politics.”
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Head constable attacked in city||A head constable attached to the Mangaluru North Police Station was attacked with a sharp weapon by an unidentified man near New Chitra Cinema in the city at noon on Wednesday. The police said that head constable Ganesh Kamath was on patrolling duty along with his colleague near the cinema. At noon, two persons came on a scooter from Alake. The rider dropped the pillion rider near the place where Kamath was standing and rode away. The pillion rider then assaulted Kamath on the right hand with a sharp weapon and fled. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that Kamath has suffered a cut on his right hand and is being treated at a private hospital. “I met Kamath. He is fine,” he said. The accused involved in the crime has been identified and a special team has been formed to arrest him. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru East Police Station under Sections 332, 353 and 307 of IPC, he said. On April 5, 2017, an Assistant Sub Inspector of Police, Aithappa, was assaulted by two men when he was on night patrolling near Lady Hill Circle. In another case, an Assistant Sub Inspector and three policemen were assaulted by a truck driver at Melkar near BC Road on July 10, 2020.
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||Puducherry schools will reopen on January 18||The Puducherry government has decided to resume regular academic activities in all schools from January 18 next. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Minister for Education R. Kamalakannan said that after the Union Territory registered a dip in COVID-19 cases, there was a demand from parents and students for resuming academic activities. The Department of Education had now decided to start the partial resumption of classes from January 4 next year. The students could visit schools from January 4 to 17 to get their doubts cleared. From January 18, regular classes would start for all sections, he said. A Standard Operating Procedure would be issued for partial and regular reopening of schools, Mr. Kamalakannan said. “We have taken the decision based on the number of [COVID-19] cases reported now. The decision will be subject to the spread of the contagion. The Centre has bestowed upon the States and the Union Territories the right to decide on the resumption of academic activities,” he said.  The classes for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students would start from Thursday, he said. Mr. Kamalakannan, who also holds the Power portfolio, said that despite the objections from the staff of the Electricity Department and the Puducherry government, the Centre was going ahead with its privatisation plan. Recently, the Department received a communication from the Centre on the appointment of a transaction adviser to initiate the process, he said.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Thumping victory for LDF in city Corporation||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation, touted as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) gateway to power in Kerala, has remained elusive for the party, as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) coasted to a thumping victory. Considering the circumstances and the challenges facing it, including anti-incumbency, its improvement in tally from 43 wards in 2015 to a simple majority of 51 wards this year is an achievement for the LDF. The BJP which had made major gains in 2015, improving its tally from six seats to 35, remained almost static at 34 seats. Though it lost a few sitting seats, it managed to retain many of its wards in the Nemom Assembly constituency as well as win a few sitting seats of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the LDF. The party’s massive, expensive campaign of “a BJP Mayor for Thiruvananthapuram,” featuring celebrities, failed to garner the desired results. It is for the UDF that the results have come as a major jolt, as it was pushed to the third place for a second consecutive term, with a mere 10 wards. The result could lead to rumblings within the front as well as within the Congress. In the Nedumcaud ward, the UDF candidate of the Forward Bloc, polled only 74 votes, thus paving the way for LDF Mayor candidate S. Pushpalatha’a narrow defeat to BJP’s Ajithkumar, even though she polled 3,442 votes. The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a party floated by a collective of capital-based social media groups, real estate, trade and professional organisations, failed to make any impact in the 14 seats it contested. The party got only double digit votes in five wards and scored above thousand in a ward. High-profile defeats Though the LDF achieved a commendable victory, some of the sheen was taken away by the defeats of outgoing Mayor K. Sreekumar as well as possible Mayor candidates S. Pushpalatha and A.G. Oleena. The victory of another possible Mayor candidate P. Jameela has come as a relief. The LDF won in some Congress strongholds in the coast, such as Valiyathura, and in the urban areas, in Kesavadasapuram and Pattom.
17 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,||Lead found in milk samples in Eluru||Scientists of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have revealed that lead was noticed in the milk samples collected in Eluru town and neighbouring villages in West Godavari district. With the outbreak of the undiagnosed illness in Eluru and the adjoining areas on December 4, experts and doctors from various organisations rushed to West Godavari district and collected food, water, milk, blood and other samples. The AIIMS New Delhi officials, who tested the samples reportedly found the presence of lead in milk, and the experts recommended geo-tagging of the samples collected from the affected areas. Officials of National Institute of Nutrition, who tested the sample of food items, meat, chicken, fish and shrimp and vegetables, found the presence of pesticide contents in some vegetables.  CM reviews situation  “Pesticides which are harmful to human beings were found found in tomatoes and brinjals. We suspect that the patients suffered epileptic attack, seizures, convulsions, vomitings, fever, dizziness and other symptoms due to the pesticides,” the NIN authorities opined. Experts revealed their findings during a virtual review meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, District Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla and other officials in Eluru on Wednesday. They gave a presentation on the analysis of various food items, water, milk, urine, blood and smear samples in the video conference. Doctors suggested a thorough investigation and observation on the samples in the affected areas to find out the reason for the mysterious illness. AIIMS doctors said that presence of lead was also found in the blood samples, collected from the patient’s family members, who did not show any disease symptoms. “Samples collected from the affected areas should be tested continuously for a few months to find out the exact reasons for the cause of the illness,” the scientists said. Municipal Administration and Urban Developent Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) Adityanath Das, Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal, Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar and others participated in the video conference.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||DJB, power dept. workers in first phase vaccine list||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that orders have been issued to add workers of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and Electricity Department to the list of front-line workers who will be vaccinated in the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive. “Yesterday, the Delhi government issued orders that DJB and electricity department workers should be included in the list of the front-line workers the first phase of vaccine will be rolled out to. During the lockdown, all these workers were on duty and working 24x7. Hence, they too have been duly included in the list of front-line workers along with police, civil defence and sanitation workers,” said Mr. Jain. 1,547 new cases Delhi reported 1,547 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 6,11,994, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 32 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 10,147. Mr. Jain said according to WHO parameters, Delhi is in a safe zone. “For the first time since May, the positivity rate is 1.9%. A positivity of 5% is supposed to be good and being at 2%, we are at an ideal condition. As per WHO parameters, Delhi is in a safe zone,” Mr. Jain said. Of the total COVID-19 cases, 5,88,586 people have recovered and there are 13,261 active cases.
17 December 2020||Pune,||‘Symbolic’ celebration at Bhima-Koregaon this year||In wake of the COVID-19 situation, Pune district administration and Ambedkarite outfits have appealed to the public to avoid mass congregations on January 1 at the obelisk at Bhima-Koregaon ahead of the 202nd celebrations of the Koregaon-Bhima battle of 1818. Rahul Dambale, president of Republican Yuva Morcha (RYM), said all celebrations had been cancelled. “Instead, we will only hold a symbolic celebration at the vijaystambh [victory pillar] at Perne. I appeal to all to stay at home and avoid congregating at Bhima-Koregaon village. We will be arranging paying of homage through online,” said Mr. Dambale, who is also chairman of the Bhima Koregaon Vijayasthambha Shaurya Din Coordinating Committee. Pune district has around 9,000 active cases and has reported more than 8,000 fatalities since March. “Every year the day is celebrated with great enthusiasm on January 1. For the last few years, the footfalls have increased, with as many as 20 lakh visitors in the last few years. Given that all festivities have been cancelled due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, it is not proper to go ahead with the traditional celebrations at Bhima-Koregaon,” Mr. Dambale said. Given the sensitivity of the occasion following the violent clashes of January 1, 2018, he urged fellow Ambedkarites to not fall prey to rumours that the administration had cancelled celebrations. Last week, Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh had reviewed the arrangements for the annual event. Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh too said that people should cooperate with the administration.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Vidyagama programme to be re-launched on Jan. 1||The Vidyagama continuous learning programme will be re-launched from January 1 in all schools — government, aided, and private — across Karnataka. Under the programme, students can come to their school campus to attend classes in small batches. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the Department of Public Instruction said that Vidyagama was relaunched as there was a delay in the reopening of schools. The decision on whether schools across Karnataka will reopen in January or not is likely to be taken on Thursday. The COVID-19 technical advisory committee and department officials will be meeting to discuss the modalities. Many States have restarted schools, and there is a growing demand in Karnataka to do the same, especially for students in classes 10 and 12 who have to write the board examinations next year. For now, however, schools can start holding classes under Vidyagama. A senior official in the department said that it would be mandatory for all government teachers to conduct classes under this programme. “But we cannot force private schools to conduct classes under Vidyagama,” the official said. The department in the circular reiterated that schools can start Vidygama after ensuring that all safety measures are in place. Classes will have to be conducted in batches and as per the timetable issued by the department. They can be held in classrooms, libraries, and verandas. The programme, which was initially introduced on August 8 for government school students, was put on hold on October 10 after there were reports of teachers and children contracting COVID-19. The department on Tuesday issued revised guidelines for the re-launch of Vidyagama by extending it to private unaided schools as well. When it first started, private school managements had criticised the government for opening it to only for government schools.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Online registration of non-farm properties gathers steam||Registration process pertaining to non-agricultural properties online has gathered momentum in the State. Barring minor hiccups, the process has progressed smoothly on the third day of resumption of registration process. The Registration and Stamps department has made it clear that slot booking is mandatory for registration of documents. Applicants are directed to fill in meta data giving details of the transferor, transferee and the property transacted. Based on property details entered, the market value of the property would be auto-populated by the system at the time of slot booking. “Stamp duty, transfer duty, registration fee and other charges payable are auto-calculated by the system and should be paid in full,” a circular issued by the Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps said.
17 December 2020||Srinagar,||57% turnout in 7th phase of DDC poll in J&K||Voters continued to turn up in large numbers for the District Development Council (DDC) election in Jammu and Kashmir with the seventh phase on Wednesday registering the highest turnout of 57.22%.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from the pandemic: 2020||The pandemic has upended our lives, changing the way we work, play, socialise and travel. As we get ready for a hopefully better 2021, experts from across sectors weigh in on the cost of COVID-19 and what it has taught us, in The Hindu 's year-ender series, ‘Lessons from the pandemic: 2020’.
17 December 2020||Kolkata,||No major face-off in the east, says GoC||Lt. Gen. Anil Chauhan, General Officer Commanding, Eastern Command, on Wednesday said there had been no intrusion or a major face-off in the area under the Command since the Ladakh incident involving the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army. “The Eastern Command is responsible for defending the LAC [Line of Actual Control] in the Sikkim and Arunachal sectors. There has been no intrusion in this part,” he said.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Justice Hima Kohli to be new CJ||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the elevation of Delhi High Court Judge Hima Kohli as the new Chief Justice of Telangana High Court in place of Chief Justice R.S.Chauhan, who is now proposed to be transferred to Uttarakhand High Court. She will be the first woman Chief Justice of Telangana High Court. Justice Kohli was appointed as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Delhi on May 29, 2006 and took oath as a permanent Judge on August 29, 2007.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. watching closely: Raab||Agricultural reforms are India’s internal matter but the protests here are part of British politics too, said British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who “discussed” the ongoing farmer protests with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Wednesday. He said the U.K. respected India’s “heritage” of protests and debates, and was watching the situation closely.page 11
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Moral victory, say farmers||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court’s observations on Wednesday as a “moral victory” but added that setting up a new panel would not resolve their concerns. “Committee formation will be fruitful only after the laws are withdrawn and the representatives of all national and regional farmers’ organisations are represented in a decisive manner and should therefore be done only after repeal of the Acts,” said a statement from the AIKSCC.page 11
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Beating the chill||
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||JEE (Main) to be held four times in 2021||The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) will be held in February, March, April and May of 2021. With school syllabi having been reduced due to the pandemic, the question paper pattern has also been changed. The dates are: February 23-26, March 15-18, April 27-30, and May 24-28. “This will give multiple opportunities to the candidates to improve their scores in the examination if they are not able to give their best in one attempt,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. The candidate’s highest score would be used for the entrance rankings. According to the National Testing Agency, which conducts the exam, online applications can be submitted till January 16, with the application portal reopening after each session. “The NTA has decided that the question paper will contain 90 questions, in which the candidate will have to attempt a total of 75 questions,” the testing agency said. Every subject would have two sections. One would have multiple choice questions, while the second would require students to fill in a numerical value. The choice would be given in this second section, which would also not have any negative marking. It would be a computer-based test, except for the drawing test for B.Arch. .
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||T.N. eases curbs||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced relaxation of the COVID-19 restrictions, allowing social, political, educational, cultural, and religious gatherings, not exceeding 50% of seating, from December 19. In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said permission must be sought from the Collectors for the events.PAGE 4
17 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,||‘Operations against Maoists yielding result’||This year, despite COVID-19, joint operations by the security forces of A.P. and Odisha have been the highlight in the fight against Maoists in the AOB region. For the last couple of years, the Ministry of Home Affairs has been pushing the agenda of intelligence sharing and joint operations between the LWE-affected States.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF pushed to the periphery: CM||The people have pushed the Congress to the periphery of State politics, as is evident from the results of the local body polls, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The electorate had also confined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a few isolated pockets. The Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) win transcended religious, regional, and caste barriers, he said on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Anger against govt. fails to reflect: UDF||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that the anger against the government did not reflect fully in the local body polls. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had little to cheer. At the same time, the Congress was not “satisfied” by the party’s performance at the hustings. The people had not whitewashed the LDF’s corruption or given it the nod for a second innings in power. Local issues and neighbourhood-level acceptance of candidates had informed voters more than State and national concerns.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Several violations of labour laws’||Inspection reports after violence at a Wistron facility recently, point to serious violations of the provisions of various labour laws in force.
17 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Owaisi in U.P. to stitch alliances for election||After winning five Assembly seats in Bihar, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has set its sights on stitching alliances in Uttar Pradesh as its president Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday held talks with OBC leader Om Prakash Rajbhar here and praised Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav.
17 December 2020||Kolkata,||HC asks CID to trace missing baby||Expressing its displeasure at the failure of the West Bengal CID to trace a missing newborn child, the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday asked the investigating agency to explore all possible angles to trace the baby boy. Hearing the case moved by the paternal grandfather of the child, a Division Bench comprising Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee said that it hopes the State will come up with something positive by the next date of hearing on December 22.  It has been submitted by the State that a driver arrested in connection with the case has claimed that the newborn had died and was thrown into Dwarakeswar river. The court noted that the body of the child has not been recovered.PTI .
17 December 2020||Srinagar,||57.22% turnout in 7th phase of DDC poll in J&K||The seventh phase of District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday registered the highest turnout of 57.22%. “A voter percentage of 57.22% was recorded in 31 constituencies with the Kashmir division witnessing 39.52% and the Jammu division 71.93% voting,” said State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma.
17 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Owaisi in U.P. to stitch alliances for election||Fifty-four people were arrested for allegedly running a fake call centre in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar and duping foreign nationals by impersonating as officers of law enforcement agencies, police said on Wednesday. The accused duped more than 4,500 people to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. They illegally induced foreigners to transfer money through Bitcoins and gift cards.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Setting a time-frame for start-ups emphasised||The former Deputy Head of Start-Up Karnataka Satyanarayana B.V. has emphasised the need for start-ups to set a time-frame and adhere to it for making such new ventures successful.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni moves HC||After the Special CBI Court in Dharwad rejecting his bail application, Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who is in judicial custody, has approached the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, for bail.
17 December 2020||YADGIR,||‘Start procurement centres for red gram’||Additional Deputy Commissioner of Raichur K.H. Durugesh has asked officials of the department concerned to start procurement centres to purchase red gram under minimum support price (MSP) scheme in the district. Mr. Durugesh said that FAQ red gram would be purchased at 40 procurement centres across the district. The price for the crop has been fixed at Rs. 6,000 per quintal.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,||MUDA razes illegal commercial complex||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority, in an early morning operation, demolished a commercial complex consisting of five shops which was being illegally constructed near the Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway, here on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Private school teachers demand relief package||Following agitations by farmers and transport workers, Freedom Park on Wednesday saw yet another disgruntled section of employees staging protests. This time, it was private school teachers whose salaries and jobs have been affected by the pandemic.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC on appointments on compassionate grounds||The High Court has declared as unconstitutional the provisions of the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996 that excludes ‘married daughters’ from eligible family members of a government employee to secure appointment.
17 December 2020||KARUR,||AIADMK-led alliance intact, says CM||Recoveries continued to exceed new cases, with as many as 4,678 patients discharged across Maharashtra on Wednesday as opposed to 4,304 fresh COVID-19 cases. As per State Health Department figures, the active cases have declined to 61,454 while the total case tally now stands at 18,80,893. With 95 deaths, the fatalities touched 48,434. The cumulative recoveries stand at 17,69,897. The State’s recovery rate crossed 94% rising to 94.1%.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Eight more cases take IIT-M tally to 191||Eight more persons tested positive for COVID-19 at IIT, Madras, taking the tally to 191. All those at the hostels, including the workers, were tested, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Only six of the 550 persons tested at Anna University were positive, he added.
17 December 2020||ERODE,||Only 65% of syllabus for Classes 10-12: Minister||Jailed activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case who has sought default bail, on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that the period he spent in house arrest must be considered as time spent in custody. Mr. Navlakha’s lawyer Kapil Sibal and the counsel of NIA, the prosecuting agency, made oral arguments over the petition before a Bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik. The HC reserved its verdict on the petition.PTI
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||LDF gets upper hand in local body polls in Kerala||The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) has managed to gain a clear upper hand in the local body elections in Kerala, leaving the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) with a serious setback, in one of the most intense electoral battles witnessed by the State. Despite making some inroads, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) failed to live up to its expectations. The party retained the Palakkad municipality and wrested the Pandalam municipality from the LDF but failed to make significant headway in the Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur Corporations where it hoped to come to power. It also lost face in the defeat of two prominent leaders, party spokesman B. Gopalakrishnan in the Thrissur Corporation and S. Suresh in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat. As per the latest updates on election results published by the State Election Commission (SEC), the LDF holds a clear majority in three of the six Corporations, 10 of the 14 district panchayats and 35 of the 86 municipalities, in addition to a majority of the block and grama panchayats. The LDF has won in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kozhikode Corporations, while it holds an advantage in Kochi and Thrissur Corporations. The UDF seized the Kannur Corporation winning 34 seats. The BJP failed in its bid to seize the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, having been pushed to second place. The LDF also won 35 of the municipalities and 10 district panchayats, in addition to wresting 108 of the 152 blocks and 514 of the 941 grama panchayats. The UDF was able to put in a decent performance in the municipalities, winning 45 against the LDF’s tally of 35. Meanwhile, the UDF has lost significant ground in the State compared with the 2015 election. In the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, for instance, the UDF’s seat tally has slipped further from 21 to 10. The BJP retained the Palakkad municipality and seized the Pandalam municipality by winning 18 of the 33 wards. The BJP candidates also won in 23 of the grama panchayats. Meanwhile, the SEC has announced repolling in one booth in the Thoduvetti ward of the Sulthan Bathery municipality and one booth in the Kisan Kendran ward in Tirurangadi. The repoll, to be held on December 18, was ordered after the votes polled here could not be counted due to defective EVMs. The votes will be counted on the same day. All newly elected members will be sworn in on December 21, the commission said. The commission on Wednesday also issued guidelines for the swearing-in of the elected members.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC move a moral victory: farmer unions||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court’s observations on Wednesday as a “moral victory”, but said that setting up a new committee as proposed by the top court would not resolve their concerns. They also sent an official rejection of the Centre’s proposals to amend the three farm Acts, vowing to continue their agitation until the laws are repealed. “The Supreme Court advice to the government is a moral victory for farmers,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farmer groups. “Committee formation will be fruitful only after the laws are withdrawn and the representatives of all national and regional farmers’ organisations are represented in a decisive manner and should therefore be done only after repeal of the Acts,” it said. Several farm leaders refused to comment until they had seen a copy of the SC proposal, but others seemed to reject the proposal. In private, they expressed fear that the petition in the court had been stage-managed by the government to end the protests. “The SC can and must decide on the constitutionality of the three farm Acts. But it is not for the judiciary to decide on the feasibility and desirability of these laws. That’s between the farmers and their elected leaders. SC-monitored negotiation would be a wrong path,” Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said in a tweet. “Setting up a new committee by the court is not a solution,” said Abhimanyu Kohar, spokesperson for the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, adding that a committee of farm unions have been engaging in several rounds of talks with the government. Earlier in the morning, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha officially rejected the Centre’s written proposal for amendments. “We want the government to stop maligning the movement and stop parallel negotiations with other farmer organisations,” said the email. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, addressing a farmers’ gathering organised by the BJP in Gwalior, said the farmers of Punjab were being misled, and confusion was being created among them. “However, millions of farmers are supporting the agrarian reforms. Farmers are eager to use these laws, so the Congress and some other Opposition parties are creating a deadlock,” he stated.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India goes down two ranks in Human Development Index||India dropped two ranks in the United Nations’ Human Development Index this year, standing at 131 out of 189 countries. However, if the Index were adjusted to assess the planetary pressures caused by each nation’s development, India would move up eight places in the ranking, according to the report. For the first time, the United Nations Development Programme introduced a new metric to reflect the impact caused by each country’s per-capita carbon emissions and its material footprint, which measures the amount of fossil fuels, metals and other resources used to make the goods and services it consumes. This paints a “less rosy, but clearer assessment” of human progress, said UNDP India’s representative Shoko Nada. Norway, which tops the HDI, falls 15 places if this metric is used, leaving Ireland at the top of the table. In fact, 50 countries would drop entirely out of the “very high human development group” category, using this new metric, called the Planetary Pressures-adjusted HDI, or PHDI. Australia falls 72 places in the ranking, while the United States and Canada would fall 45 and 40 places respectively, reflecting their disproportionate impact on natural resources. The oil and gas-rich Gulf States also fell steeply. China would drop 16 places from its current ranking of 85. China’s net emissions (8 gigatonnes) are 34% below its territorial emissions (12.5 gigatonnes) compared with 19% in India and 15% in Sub-Saharan Africa. Strain on resources “No country has yet been able to achieve a very high level of development without putting a huge strain on natural resources. We have to be the first generation to do things right,” said Ms. Nada. She praised India’s record in achieving its carbon emissions goals so far, and urged Indian policy makers to take the path of sustainable development. The HDI itself is an assessment of a nation’s health, education and standards of living. Although this year’s report covers 2019 only, and does not account for the impact of COVID, it projected that in 2020, global HDI would fall below for the first time in the three decades since the Index was introduced.
17 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||‘Sexual abuse’ by headmaster triggers outrage||The horrific incident of the “sexual abuse” of five girl students of a State-run school in Laxmidevipalli mandal allegedly by the headmaster has sparked outrage and exposed the glaring inadequacies in supervisory mechanism for monitoring the administration of such schools. The alleged serial sexual abuse of the five girl students by the 40-year-old headmaster on the pretext of “online instruction assistance” in the last couple of days triggered anger among various student unions and women’s organisations. Beaten up The accused was booked under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act based on a complaint lodged by the parents of a Class 2 student on Tuesday. He was arrested on Wednesday The headmaster was allegedly beaten up by the aggrieved parents of a Class 2 girl student on the school premises on Tuesday. The accused allegedly took advantage of the poor financial condition of the parents of the five students. He asked them to send their children to the school on alternate days for online classes as they did not own smart phones, sources said. He is said to have repeatedly subjected the hapless children, all under 12 years, to sexual abuse. One of the girls, who suffered the intimidating tactics of the accused headmaster in silence, fell seriously ill on Tuesday. That was when the brutality of the accused came to light, sources said. The incident exposed the serious lapses such as acute shortage of supervisory officials in the School Education Department, says SFI district convener Bhupendra. Not a single mandal in the tribal-dominated district has a full time Mandal Education Officer (MEO), he said. Key district-level posts have remained vacant for a long time, he pointed out. “The accused responsible for the cruel act against children of the State-run school should be dismissed from service as he has no right to continue in the noble profession of teaching,” said the AIDWA district president M. Renuka. A detailed probe should be ordered into the horrific incident, including the allegations of the previous instances of immoral behaviour and misuse of smartphones by the accused and also into the attempts by some of his associates to hush up the heinous offence, said a student union leader of Kothagudem.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Study warns of vaccine hesitancy||As the country readies to implement its COVID-19 vaccination programme, vaccine hesitancy could be an issue that the government needs to address forthwith. The results of an online survey showed that there was considerable hesitation even among the medical community to take the vaccine as soon as it is available. In an online study conducted by Abdul Ghafur, coordinator of the Chennai Declaration, and infectious diseases consultant at Apollo Hospital, Chennai, among 1,424 health professionals, only 45% said they will take the COVID vaccine as soon as it becomes available. Fifty-five per cent will either defer the vaccination or are yet to decide what to do. About one-tenth of the respondents said they will never take the vaccine. Interestingly, 869 of the respondents had worked in a COVID hospital or unit. In India, it is expected that about one crore healthcare workers will be vaccinated first. “It is the healthcare professionals who should be educating the public on the need for COVID vaccines, since they closely follow the developments and their word carries weight with the people,” Dr. Ghafur says. Therefore, vaccine hesitancy in this group is worrisome, also because it might percolate down to the general population. Responses from participants reflected their concerns about the efficacy of the vaccine and fear of side effects. “We need to address this urgently, scientifically,” he adds, quoting from another recent online survey by the agency Local Circles, where 59% of the public surveyed said they preferred to defer vaccination. “A vaccine is one of the essential weapons in the armamentarium in our war against the pandemic,” Dr. Ghafur says. “Any hesitation in accepting the vaccine will have a negative consequence on our effort to control the pandemic. We should proactively address the reasons behind this hesitancy.” Chirag Trivedi, president, Indian Society for Clinical Research, adds: “It is very important to give confidence to the public by discussing the robustness of various processes involved in drug/vaccine development — clinical trial designs, conduct, monitoring, analysis, reporting and the regulatory reviews that happen before it is approved. This will make the public aware about the rigorous processes followed for clinical trials, and the approval, as followed by regulators.” Dr. Ghafur points to a mathematical model done by a team of U.S. scientists that has recommended preferentially vaccinating sero-negative individuals first. His survey among health professionals also indicated that 64% prefer to do an antibody test before vaccination. That is also an option the government could use, he adds.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||5-year-old ‘farmer’ wields the mike||Among the youngest protesters at the Singhu border is five-year-old Prabh Vir Singh Dhillon, who has come with his family of 10 to join the farmers’ agitation. On a small speaker given to him, he demands his rights. “ Sadda haq , aithe rakh (it’s our right, keep it here),” he shouts on the speaker, while sitting inside a tractor with his 11-year-old brother Uday Pratap Singh Dhillon and father Jasbir Singh, 35, residents of Roop Nagar. Prabh does not understand much of what is happening or why he is here but he knows, “We are here against black laws”, and he is very excited to be part of the protest, his father said. “We keep coming and going. This is my third time here. These two were crying to come here since the first round but I brought them only now, a week ago,” Mr. Singh said. Uday, on the other hand, understands a little, and said that he had wanted to be a part of the struggle his father and elders of the village were going through. “I know what my father and grandfather are here for. They are against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s laws for farming,” he said hesitantly. The family of 10, which includes Mr. Singh’s brothers, uncles and cousins, have come equipped with items the children could need, including a laptop that the older child uses for his online classes. “My younger cousin sets up the laptop using phone Internet. He [Uday] has classes for two hours in the morning and then the teacher gives homework also, which he tries to do in the evening,” Mr. Singh said. Talking about little Prabh’s online classes for pre-nursery, Mr. Singh laughed and said that all he was doing these days was shouting into the speaker. “I also eat kadhi chawal and poori ,” Prabh chimed in.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Farmer protests part of U.K. politics because of diaspora’||Agricultural reforms are India’s internal matter but the protests here are part of British politics too, said the visiting British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who “discussed” the ongoing farmers protests at Delhi’s borders during talks with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Mr. Raab, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, said the U.K. respected India’s “heritage” of protests and debates, and was watching the situation closely. “We [U.K. government] respect the fact that the reforms going through [the Indian] system here are domestic reforms,” he said in response to a question from The Hindu on whether the protests had come up in bilateral talks in Delhi. “Your [Indian] politics is in some sense, because of the Indian diaspora in Britain, our [U.K.’s] politics,” Mr. Raab emphasised in an interaction with journalists. India had a “vibrant heritage of peaceful protests and vigorous debate”, which the U.K. has “watched…with interest”, he observed. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) did not refer to the issue in its press statement on the meeting between the Indian and U.K. Foreign Ministers on Tuesday. Nor did it respond to a request for a comment on Mr. Raab’s remarks. ‘Internal issue’ Earlier in the month, the MEA spokesperson said that remarks by foreign leaders, including Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and other foreign politicians, on the farmers protests were “ill-informed” and “unwarranted”, and the matter was an “internal” issue for India. However, Mr. Raab said that given that members of the Indian diaspora had joined protests in the U.K. over the farm Bills, this was now an issue in British politics as well. Over the past two weeks, 36 British Members of Parliament, mostly from the Opposition Labour Party had written to Mr. Raab, asking him to raise the agricultural laws, which they called a “death warrant” for farmers, while the leader of the Liberal Democratic party Ed Davey reportedly criticised the handling of the protests by Indian “militarised police” and the need to respect “human rights”. The latest position in cases against Indian fugitives currently in the U.K., including former Kingfisher group owner Vijay Mallya, whose extradition to India has been held up by the British government for more than six months now, had also been discussed during the British Foreign Secretary’s two-day visit to Delhi, he said. “There’s still some legal issues outstanding. Obviously, they are independent from politics or political intervention. But we would like to see those expedited as swiftly as possible,” Mr. Raab told journalists. Mr. Raab is in Delhi to prepare for the visit of Prime Minister Boris Johnson to India as the chief guest of the Republic Day parade next month. He said that the U.K.-India ties on trade, maritime cooperation in the Indo-Pacific as a “force for good” and climate change cooperation, were all set to grow, and welcomed the India-U.K. collaboration on vaccines for COVID-19. Vaccine collaboration During his visit, Mr. Raab announced an expert-level India-U.K. “vaccine hub”, and visited a Delhi health clinic where the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccines would be administered once they are made available by the Pune-based Serum Institute. Mr. Raab said the “Serum Institute and Oxford University partnership demonstrates the UK-India relationship at its best.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Daily COVID-19 fatalities on a sustained fall, says Ministry||India reported 387 COVID-19 case fatalities in the past 24 hours, with 10 States and Union Territories accounting for 75.19% of the new deaths, according to data released by the Health Ministry on Wednesday. Maharashtra saw the most casualties (70 deaths), followed by West Bengal (45) and Delhi (41). The Ministry noted that daily deaths by COVID-19 in India were on a sustained decline, with fewer than 500 daily deaths registered for the last 11 days. “New deaths per million population in India in the last seven days is among the lowest in the world,” the Ministry said. Providing details of the ongoing trend of a fall in number of total active cases, the Ministry’s data showed that the active case load of the country stood at 3,32,002. The share of active cases in the positive cases had further shrunk to 3.34%. In the last 24 hours, 26,382 persons were found to be infected. In the corresponding period, 33,813 new recoveries were registered, ensuring a net decline of 7,818 cases. India recorded fewer than 40,000 daily new cases in the past 17 days. The new cases per million population in the past seven days is one of the lowest in the world (147). Total recoveries surpassed 94.5 lakh (9,456,449) and the recovery rate has increased to 95.21%. Of the new recovered cases, 76.43% are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories. According to the Ministry, Kerala reported the most single-day recoveries, with 5,066 newly recovered cases. In the past 24 hours, 4,395 people recovered in Maharashtra, followed by 2,965 in West Bengal. Of the new cases, 75.84% are from 10 States and UTs. .
17 December 2020||Srinagar,||57.22% turnout in J&K 7th phase poll||Voters continued to turn up in large numbers for the District Development Council (DDC) election in Jammu and Kashmir with the seventh phase on Wednesday registering the highest turnout of 57.22%. “A voter percentage of 57.22% was recorded in 31 constituencies with the Kashmir division witnessing 39.52% and the Jammu division 71.93%,” State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma said. The polling pace was slow in the morning in the Kashmir Valley, which is reeling under a cold wave. Polling booths in Bandipora witnessed long queues. The constituencies in the district saw the highest polling in the Valley at 70.47% followed by Baramulla (59.53%) and Kupwara (59.23%). “It’s a welcome development that people are coming out to vote. There is anger against the Centre and the BJP among the voters. This election means little to our party that is fighting a bigger cause,” senior Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said. The volatile south Kashmir showed a rise in voting percentage in this phase, with Anantnag recording 22.46%, followed by Kulgam 17.98%, Shopian 6.55% and Pulwama 11.06%. Apni Party candidate Anees ul Islam Ganai, who was shot at by suspected militants on December 3, voted in Anantnag. Officials said the Internet remained suspended in Anantnag for two days. “In the Jammu division, a 74.38% turnout was recorded in Samba, 72.85% in Kathua, 67.75% in Ramban, 73.10% in Rajouri, 69.89% in Kishtwar and 68.66% in Jammu district,” Mr. Sharma said. The final phase will be held on December 19 and the results declared on December 22.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banks haven’t shown apathy, says RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday maintained in the Supreme Court that there had not been a single case of COVID-19-related financial stress to which banks have shown an “apathetic” attitude. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, is hearing several pleas by industry and business sectors, including power and real estate, to extend the moratorium or even waive the interest on their debts due to their losses during the pandemic. The Indian Banks Association, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, said these pleas extend beyond the financial stress caused by the pandemic. He asked whether some of these sectors had placed on record anything to reveal how wobbly they were even before the pandemic. Mr. Salve submitted that any resolution had to be through restructuring of debt. Private banks dealt with resolutions in line with their norms. Public banks too were listed companies. Reliefs to these sectors should be on the basis of the Kamath Committee recommendations, he said. In his turn, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the State Bank of India, made a rather impassioned plea in support of the small depositors, who form the “backbone” of the banking system. “Small depositors are faceless in these proceedings. It is not a case of borrowers versus bank. They are the backbone of the financial system. Banks have to give interest to these depositors,” he stated. Earlier, the RBI had told the court that extending the date of the loan moratorium was “not viable”. The court will resume the hearing on Thursday.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Mangaluru football, cricket grounds declared as play-fields’||The State government on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that both the football and the cricket grounds at Nehru Maidan in Mangaluru city have been now declared as ‘play-fields’ under the Karnataka Parks, Play-fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1985. The government counsel submitted a copy of the gazette notification, dated December 10, 2020, declaring both the grounds as ‘play-fields’ under the Act. While the extent of cricket ground has been declared as 6 acres and 5 guntas in survey number 291/2A3 of Attavara, the extent of football ground has been declared as 3 acres and 22 guntas in the survey number 291/2A3 of Attavara. Following this submission, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty disposed of a PIL petition, filed by Vijaya Suvarna and 10 others from Mangaluru. Temporary structures The petitioners had moved the court in May questioning the decision of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to put up temporary structures in a portion of Nehru Maidan to shift shopkeepers from Central Market to enable redevelopment of the market complex under the Smart City project. It was pointed out during the hearing of the petition earlier that though the MCC had recommended inclusion of Nehru Maidan grounds under the 1985 Act, the government had not taken a decision. Restrained While the court in June restrained the MCC from putting up any temporary structures till the government decided on inclusion of the grounds under the Act, the government on October 19, 2020 accepted the MCC Commissioner’s October 15 proposal to declare both the grounds as ‘play-fields’ as per Section 4(2) of the Act. Finally, the government gazetted its decision on December 10.
17 December 2020||hyderabad,||Gita, who returned from Pak, fails to locate family in Basar||Gita, a deaf and mute woman, who returned from Pakistan five years ago, visited Basar town in Telangana along with her care-takers as part of efforts to locate her family from which she had got separated as a child. However, it turned out to be another disappointing mission as she could not connect with any of the spots in the town, about 200 km from here on the Telangana-Maharashtra border. An official of the NGO, Anand Service Society in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, taking care of Gita, had last month said they would conduct a fresh search after efforts to find her family had borne no fruit since her return in 2015. Society’s director Gyanendra Purohit, a sign-language expert, had then said that during communication with Gita they got some vital clues about her geographical background which indicated the region around Nanded in Maharashtra and Telangana. Gita, now around 30, and the NGO organisers on Tuesday visited Basar in Nirmal district, home to a famous goddess Saraswati temple and river Godavari, based on some clues given by her about the place where she had lived decades ago. They had approached the police and a revenue official for their visit, a police official in Basar said on Wednesday. The clues given by her included the presence of a river, temple, railway station, widespread cultivation of paddy and people’s habit of eating ‘idlis’, the police official said. Gita was believed to have boarded the wrong train when she was around 10 years old and ended up in Lahore. Though more than 10 families had claimed that Gita was their missing daughter, none of them could substantiate it.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Minimum 48 days to wrap up phase-I of COVID vaccination||The first phase of COVID-19 vaccination in Telangana would last for a minimum of 48 days, according to initial plans of the Health department. Around 80 lakh people would receive two doses each with 28-day gap between both, in the first phase. The officials said that the vaccine will be rolled out any time in mid-January, 2021. Earlier, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao had said 10,000 health workers will be tasked with the job of administering vaccine. Each vaccinator can give 100 jabs a day, which effectively means 10,000 vaccinators can manage to give 10 lakh doses in a day. The senior official said that they are aiming at giving the first dose in 10 days. With 10 days for the first and second doses and the 28-day gap in between, the first round of vaccination drive is expected to take at least 48 days. Should there be any more gaps in between, the programme will get extended. If the vaccines are rolled out in mid-January, the first phase will run into first week of first week of March next year at the very least. In the first phase, healthcare workers from government and private hospitals, frontline workers such as municipal and sanitation staff, people aged above 50 years and those under 50 years with co-morbidities will be given the vaccine. People in the four sub-groups constitute around 80 lakh. As each beneficiary needs two doses, a total of 1.6 crore doses would be required. Dr Srinivasa Rao said the vaccination is not mandatory, and it is the beneficiary’s choice to take it.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Reports cite violations of labour laws at Wistron factory in Kolar||Inspection reports, separately prepared by the Labour Department and the Factories and Boilers Departments, after violence broke out at the Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing Ltd. facility at Narasapura in Kolar district recently, point to serious violations of the provisions of various labour laws in force. While the Labour Department inspected the premises, that manufactures iPhones, on December 12, the day when the violence broke out, the Factories Department prepared a separate inspection report on December 13. The Labour Department’s report submitted by officials at Kolar point to a host of violations of Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and Rules 1958, Equal Wages Act, 1976, and Rules 1976 and The Industrial Employment (Standing Order) Act, 1946. The report from Factories Department points at the manpower in the factory increasing from the license capacity of 5,000 to 10,500 in a short span of time. “The change in working hours of the factory from 8 hours to 12 hours shift on continuous basis has not been brought to the notice of the department, and necessary exemptions under the Factories Act has not been taken to carry out overtime work from the workers,” the report noted. The report also observed that additional construction of huge buildings and other facilities have been started without obtaining permission. Further, the report said that statutory compliance pertaining to requisite number of safety officers, welfare officers, and medical officers as stipulated under Factories Act are found not complied. Meanwhile, the meeting in the Labour Department post the violence noted that educational qualification was not kept as a yardstick since workers with educational qualification of PUC, ITI, diploma and B.E. have been hired, and a common salary of Rs. 15,000 fixed. It noted that there were 1,343 permanent workers, and 8,490 contract workers hired through six contractors. The meeting proceedings note that women workers have been deployed in night shift without taking consent letter. It was also noted that contract workers lacked training, and the company was more dependent on contract workers over permanent workers. The company had taken workers from outside the State on a permanent basis, which has incensed local workers, the meeting proceedings said. Labour Commissioner Akram Pasha did not respond to calls and text message while Director of Factories K. Srinivas said he was unaware of the report. All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has urged formation of an investigation team, involving trade union representatives to probe the violence. It pointed out that hiring disproportionately high number of contract workers, irregularities in payment of wages and 12-hour shifts were illegal, and the company had a flawed personnel and human resources policies.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||VHP to collect funds for work on Ram temple||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Wednesday announced a fund raising drive across the country for the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. The drive and a mass contact programme will start on January 15, according to senior office-bearer and Ramjanmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai. Only domestic funds would be sought as the trust did not have required approvals for accepting funds from abroad. “Donations will be collected from general public through the mass contact and contribution campaign starting from January 15,” Mr. Rai said. He underlined that the Ram temple would actually take the form of a ‘rashtra temple’ (national temple). A photo of the temple model would reach crores of households. “Voluntary donations from Rambhakts will be accepted for which coupons of Rs. 10, Rs. 100 and Rs. 1,000 will be made available,” he said. To maintain transparency, the trust had printed four crore coupons of Rs. 10, eight crore of Rs. 100 and 12 lakh of Rs. 1,000. CSR funds could be considered for adjoining temple buildings.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 new commands to be finalised soon||An Air Defence Command (ADC) and a Maritime Theatre Command (MTC) are in advanced stages of being finalised, according to two official sources. The MTC Commander would operationally report to the Chiefs of Staff Committee consisting of the three Service Chiefs and the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) as its permanent Chairman, one of the sources said. In contrast, it has been proposed that the ADC Commander would operationally report to the Chief of the Air Staff, the other source said. As per a study undertaken, the Navy chief would focus on raise, train and sustain functions and will have a say in the operational aspects of the MTC through the Chiefs of Staff Committee. Study groups set up Study groups headed by vice chiefs of the three Services had been set up to work out the modalities of the various theatres and come up with suggestions. The creation of integrated triservice theatre commands is in the charter of the CDS. The MTC would be a geographic command bringing together the Navy’s Eastern and Western commands, air elements and two amphibious infantry brigades and elements of the Coast Guard. The current triservice Andaman Nicobar command would also be brought under it. The MTC Commander would based in Karwar, with the Eastern and Western Naval commanders reporting to him. The MTC will cover India’s entire maritime interests. The country’s first CDS, Gen. Bipin Rawat, recently said the joint study groups have brought out their papers, which were “being iterated, deliberated and further refined so that firm steps can be taken to operationalise them in the next 2-3 years.” The proposals would soon be sent to the government, one of the source stated. Land based theatre commands are also in the works and Gen. Rawat has called for integrated training and logistics commands as well.  Papers are being deliberated and refined so that firm steps can be taken to operationalise them in 2-3 years General Bipin Rawat Chief of Defence Staff
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul walks out of defence panel meet||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, along with two party colleagues, walked out of a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence on Wednesday after a sharp exchange in which Mr. Gandhi alleged that the panel’s time was being wasted by discussing about uniforms of the Armed Forces instead of ‘strategic issues of national security’. Sources said panel chairman Jual Oram (BJP) didn’t allow Mr. Gandhi to speak on issues such as providing better equipment to soldiers on the border in Ladakh. Officials of the Defence Ministry had made a presentation to the panel on the colour of uniforms in the Army, Navy and the Air Force. Soon after the presentation, when Mr. Oram asked if members had any comments to make, BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Lt. Gen. (retd.) D.P. Vats raised the issue of disparity in uniforms among the three forces and cited the example of the United States armed forces. Mr. Gandhi said politicians should not tell the Army, Navy or the Air Force which uniform to wear. “It is neither their [politicians’] jurisdiction nor domain and [they] should not belittle them or insult them,” Mr. Gandhi was quoted as saying by an MP present at the meeting. “The leadership should also focus on how to push back the enemy and support and strengthen the armed forces rather than dictating the colour of their uniforms... The political leadership should instead provide hot tents, boots and equip the soldiers who are braving out at the border and are fighting the Chinese in Ladakh,” he added. Though Congress MP Rajeev Satav asked the chairman to allow the Congress leader to speak his mind and other Opposition members backed Mr. Gandhi, the chairman of the panel didn’t allow. In protest, the Congress members informed Mr. Oram that they were walking out.
17 December 2020||Kolkata,||No major face-off in the east, says GoC||Lt. Gen. Anil Chauhan, General-Officer-Commanding, Eastern Command, on Wednesday said there had been no intrusion or a major face-off in the area under the Command since the Ladakh incident involving the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). “The Eastern Command is responsible for defending the LAC [Line of Actual Control] in the Sikkim and Arunachal sector. There has been no intrusion in this part of the LAC,” he told presspersons on the sidelines of an event to mark Vijay Divas at Fort William. Both the Armies had taken “ some precautionary deployment” but there was gradual de-escalation due to the winter. “Neither they nor we can deploy because of the snow alongside the LAC”. The Indian Army was fully “prepared to beat any challenge during winter”, he asserted. Deployment on the LAC, especially in Arunachal, was a bit different from the eyeball to eyeball deployment on the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, he pointed out. Asked about the Doklam issue, he stressed that it was “classically a bilateral issue between China and Bhutan”, and India’s involvement came ‘only when we have to decide the trijunction between the three nations’. The Royal Government of Bhutan and the Royal Bhutan Army have taken sufficient steps to protect their interest in this particular region, he said.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Literary festival to go online||As the pandemic takes a toll on social and cultural life in the city, some of the organisations are exploring online and hybrid options to keep the events calendar going. Distancing difficult The annual Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF) scheduled for January 22-24 in 2021 will be an online affair considering the COVID-19 physical distancing norms. “It is not possible to have an event with people gathering in large numbers. I don’t think we can do that for the next six to 12 months,” explained Ajay Gandhi, one of the key drivers behind HLF’s success, explaining the reason behind taking the annual event to the online realm. One of the USPs of the virtual literary festival is ‘attending in your pajamas’. Some events dropped “It will be a full-fledged event but not in the physical format that people are used to. Though all the events like exhibitions, chats and panel discussions will be there we are dropping some of the events,” said Amita Desai, one of the festival directors. “It will be a challenge to keep people engaged for long hours for more than two days. We will handhold the participants and will have a technical team on standby to iron out glitches,” said Ms. Desai about the event which is into its 11th edition. Hybrid do The urban techno-arts fest ‘Do-Din’ hosted by Hyderabad Urban Labs (HUL) is going to be the hybrid event with both online and physical events. “We will do Do Din 2020 (December 26-27), at two or three locations in Hyderabad, especially accessible to groups of people worst affected by some of the surprises that the year has thrown at us (This will include at least one non-local workers’ settlement and one flood-affected area among others). COVID protocols will be followed in their entirety,” said a spokesperson of HUL.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC for uniform divorce, alimony rules||The Supreme Court on Wednesday, while expressing “great caution”, agreed to examine a plea to frame uniform guidelines on divorce, maintenance and alimony for all religions. The petitioner, advocate A.K. Upadhyay, argued that divorce, maintenance and alimony laws in certain religions discriminated and marginalised women. These anomalies, varying from one religion to another, were violative of the right to equality (Article 14 of the Constitution) and right against discrimination (Article 15) on the basis of religion and gender and right to dignity. Mr. Upadhyay wants the laws on divorce, maintenance and alimony to be “gender-neutral and religion-neutral”. However, a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde asked Mr. Upadhyay if what he really wanted was the “destruction of personal laws” itself. “You want all personal laws to be abolished,” Chief Justice Bobde asked senior advocate Pinky Anand, who argued the plea for uniform grounds of divorce. Ms. Anand said the petitioner was only asking for removal of the anomalies in the varied laws of divorce followed in the land. “But it cannot be done without abolishing personal laws... You are actually asking the court to demolish personal laws”, the CJI said. Uniform Civil Code “Personal laws are not protected under Article 13,” Ms. Anand argued. She then referred to the Uniform Civil Code (UCC). Chief Justice Bobde said, “That [UCC] is for the government to do... The government can do anything. The government has the pulse of the people, or at least, that is what they should have... How can we as a court destroy personal law? ”
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||5 HC judges named for promotion, 9 for transfer||The Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, has recommended appointment of five judges as Chief Justices of High Courts, and the transfer of nine judges. If the government agrees with the recommendations, the judges of Orissa, Telangana, Madras, Jammu and Kashmir and Gauhati High Courts will be newly appointed as Chief Justices. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, who is the number two judge in the Calcutta High Court, has been tipped for appointment as Madras High Court Chief Justice. Justice Dr. S. Muralidhar, who was transferred from Delhi to the Punjab and Haryana HC, has been recommended for chief justiceship of the Orissa HC. He has been part of many impactful decisions, including the 2009 judgment of the Delhi High Court decriminalising homosexuality.. The other judges who have been recommended as Chief Justices are Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi High Court for Telangana; Justice Pankaj Mithal of Allahabad as Jammu and Kashmir Chief Justice; and Sudhanshu Dhulia of the Uttarakhand High Court to take over as Gauhati Chief Justice. In a second recommendation, the Collegium proposed the transfer of Telangana High Court Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan to Uttarakhand; Andhra High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari to Sikkim; Orissa HC Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq to Madhya Pradesh; and Sikkim HC Chief Justice A.K. Goswami to Andhra Pradesh.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Cabinet clears auction of telecom spectrum||Successful bidders would have the option of paying the entire amount upfront or a certain amount in 16 equated annual instalments after a two-year moratorium, it said. They would also have to pay 3% of the adjusted gross revenue, excluding wireline services, as the spectrum usage charge. The auction would help boost spectrum availability with telecom operators enabling improvements in 4G services, said V. Sridhar, Professor at the Centre for IT and Public Policy at IIIT-Bangalore. “Spectrum holding per operator in a service area in our country is well below the international average,” observed Mr. Sridhar. “So any further auctioning of spectrum is welcome,” he added. “Today’s approval will help increase spectrum holding for provisioning of 4G to a larger part of the user base even while improving the quality of telecom services. We need to improve 4G penetration. There are about 700 million mobile broadband subscribers in the country, some of whom are on 3G. Subscriber count needs to go up for 4G given that our total mobile subscriber base is 1,149 million,” Mr. Sridhar said. “We need 4G in every nook and corner... However, the bands, especially the 700 Mhz band, must be priced appropriately and it must be picked up. In the last round, the reserve price was too high and no operator picked up spectrum in this band,” he added.
17 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Mani proves his worth||Three months before the local body elections in the State, the least likely scenario that the United Democratic Front (UDF) would have foreseen was the Kerala Congress (M)-led by Jose K. Mani breaking away from its fold to join the rival coalition. And even when it happened, they hardly regarded it as a challenge. The Congress, as the lead partner of the UDF, instead saw it as an opportunity to firm up the party’s position in Central Travancore, known for its predominantly anti-Left positioning. But as results of the local body polls came out on Wednesday, the outfit has evidently demonstrated its might once again by winning the majority of the seats where it contested. More importantly, the KC(M) helped the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to make significant inroads into the region and breach many a UDF bastions, including the Kottayam district panchayat and the Pala municipality, in the process. As if these were not enough to upset the UDF, the faction also wrested a couple of seats from the UDF in the Thodupuzha municipality – a bastion of the rival KC(M) group led by P.J. Joseph, besides helping the LDF to score a historic win at Puthuppally, the home turf of none other than Congress stalwart Oommen Chandy. “The results have clearly proven which is the real Kerala Congress (M). This victory will go a long way in changing the overall political discourse of Central Kerala,” remarked Mr.Mani. Though the party has seen litmus tests before – during the bar bribery case or during the byelection after the death of K.M. Mani – the election this time was primarily watched as a battle for prestige between the splinter groups of the KC(M). In Kottayam In Kottayam alone, the Mani group fielded candidates in as many as 424 seats, including 327 panchayat and 41 municipal wards. The Joseph faction, on the other hand, contested from 320 seats, including 242 panchayat and 33 municipal wards. And in seats where the rivals squared up to each other, the Mani group has mostly rendered the opponent inconsequential. At the same time, the regional outfit has consolidated its position within the LDF, while also raising the stakes over the Pala seat in the Assembly elections due next year.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Covaxin Phase-1 trials show promising results||It added that the secondary outcomes were immunogenicity based on the anti-IgG S1 response (detected with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay or ELISA, and wild-type virus neutralisation or microneutralisation and plaque reduction neutralisation assays). Cell-mediated responses were also evaluated. The paper stated that, to date, 180 vaccine candidates are being developed to prevent the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The virus strain (NIV-2020-770) was isolated from a COVID-19 patient and sequenced at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV). Bio-Safety Level-3 manufacturing facilities and a well-established Vero cell manufacturing platform, with proven safety in other licenced live and inactivated vaccines, aided in the rapid development of BBV152. One serious adverse event was reported. The participant was vaccinated on July 30. Five days later, the participant reported symptoms of COVID-19 and was found to be positive for SARS-CoV-2, according to the findings. The symptoms were mild in nature, but the patient was admitted to hospital on August 15. The participant was discharged on August 22 following a negative nucleic acid result. The event was not causally associated with the vaccine, the findings showed. Bharat Biotech is currently conducting Phase-3 trials of its vaccine and has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation., as have Pfizer and the Serum Institute of India for vaccines they are developing, respectively.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||SC moots panel for farmer-govt. talks||Chief Justice Bobde responded, “Farmers perceive that it [the legislation] is against them... Your negotiations have not worked, they are bound to fail. If you [government] are willing to negotiate, have some farmer leaders before us who want to negotiate...” Thousands of farmers, young and old, from various parts of the country, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have braved the onset of winter and blocked the entry points to the national capital since late November. The Bench scheduled the case for urgent hearing on December 17. “December 18 is the last day before we close for vacation,” the CJI noted. The court was hearing three separate petitions filed by lawyers and law students for and against the long blockade caused by the protests. One of them said the protests had restricted the fundamental right to free movement for the public. However, the court expressed keenness to directly engage with the farmers first, saying they were the people on the ground. In the absence of the farmers, the Bench turned to the government and asked: “Have you blocked the road?” “The government has not blocked the road,” Mr. Mehta replied. “Then who has prevented the farmers from coming...,” Chief Justice Bobde asked the law officer. Advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, submitted that the farmers were suffering largely in the interest of the country. A severe winter was setting in, he pointed out. Mr. Mehta interjected to say that Mr. Mehra was submitting as if he was appearing for the protesting farmers. Chief Justice Bobde asked the lawyers to take their exchange outside the court while noting that the Delhi government had “nothing to do with the resolution of the dispute [on the farm laws]”.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||JEE (Main) to be held four times in 2021||Online applications can be submitted till January 16, with the application portal reopening after each session. “This will give multiple opportunities to the candidates to improve their scores in the examination if they are not able to give their best in one attempt. In case, a candidate has a board examination in a particular month, or is unable to appear due to COVID-19, the candidate can choose a different month to take JEE (Main)-2021,” said Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Wednesday evening. The candidate’s highest score would be used for the entrance rankings. There would be several changes in the question paper pattern. “Keeping in mind various decisions taken by various boards across the country regarding amendments to the syllabus, the NTA has decided that the question paper will contain 90 questions, in which the candidate will have to attempt a total of 75 questions,” said the testing agency. The Central Board of Secondary Education had reduced its syllabus by 30% due to the lockdown, and other State boards have also left out different sections of their syllabi. Every subject would have two sections. One would have multiple choice questions, while the second would require students to fill in a numerical value. The choice would be given in this second section, which would also not have any negative marking, said the NTA. The examination would be a computer-based test only, except for the drawing test for B.Arch entrance, which would be conducted in the pen and paper mode. The examination would be held in 13 languages for the first time, drawing from the National Education Policy’s emphasis on linguistic diversity. English, Hindi and Urdu would be available in all the States.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Communications satellite to be launched today||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will launch a communications satellite, CMS-01, on board the PSLV-C50 from the second launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR on Thursday. The launch is scheduled to take place at 3.41 p.m. and the 25-hour countdown for the launch began at 2.21 p.m. on Wednesday. Frequency spectrum CMS-01 is a communications satellite envisaged for providing services in extended C Band of the frequency spectrum and its coverage will include the Indian mainland, and the Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands, ISRO said. The satellite is expected to have a life of more than seven years.  ‘XL’ mode CMS-01 is the 42nd communication satellite of India and the PSLV, on its 52nd mission, has been configured in its ‘XL’ mode with six strap-on motors. The satellite is expected to be placed into the orbit around 20 minutes after lift-off. On November 7, ISRO had placed into orbit India’s Earth Observation Satellite, EOS-01, and nine other customer satellites.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to discuss Vista project||The Central Public Works Department’s proposal for constructing a new common central secretariat and redeveloping Rajpath was considered by the Central Vista Committee on Wednesday, however, no decision was taken, according to a source familiar with the matter. The source added the members of the committee gave their observations on the proposal. Meanwhile, the CPWD’s re-worked proposal for the common central secretariat buildings, Prime Minister’s Residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President’s Enclave are on the agenda of the Environment Ministry’s expert appraisal committee on Thursday.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute||
17 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. leader says BJP tears society apart||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Wednesday said while the Congress had divided an enemy nation into two parts in 1971, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to tear the social fabric of its own country. “Tukde-tukde is the characteristic theme of BJP’s strategy to survive by dividing people,” said Mr. Jakhar, while accusing the BJP of trying to divide people in the name of region and religion for its survival. In a statement on the 49th Vijay Divas celebrated to mark the birth of Bangladesh, Mr. Jakhar said the BJP should learn from the Congress as to how it united the people to defeat an “enemy-nation”.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS legislator holds German passport: govt.||The Ministry of Home Affairs has informed the Telangana High Court that the TRS MLA from Vemulawada Chennamaneni Ramesh holds a German passport that is valid till February 25, 2023 During the hearing of the case by Justice Challa Kodanda Ram on a petition filed by Congress leader Adi Srinivas raising objections about the German citizenship of the MLA, Assistant Solicitor General N.Rajeswara Rao filed a memo and other documents furnished by the Union Home Minister before the court. The petitioner’s counsel V.Ravi Kiran Rao accused the TRS MLA of perpetuating the fraud even today. He pointed out that Mr. Ramesh has given up his German citizenship a decade ago when he made political foray in Karimnagar district. “Today, it has been proved wrong. Centre has cancelled his Indian citizenship as he hid information while filing the citizenship form,” the petitioners counsel told the court. After going through the documents, Justice Kodanda Ram observed tht the Union Home Secretary had not done any fresh exercise such as seeking information about the status of Mr. Ramesh from the German embassy. He direct the Centre to file an affidavit informing the court about the status of the TRS legislator by January 20 next. It may be mentioned here that the Judge during the earlier hearing had directed Mr. Ramesh to file an affidavit. His counsel said that the affidavit had already been filed. Justice Kodanda Ram further said he wanted sworn affidavits from the Union Home Secretary and the legislator as well this time before adjourning the case.
17 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurdwara leader dies near Singhu||A 65-year-old director of a gurdwara in Karnal allegedly died by suicide at the Singhu border here on Wednesday. He was reportedly perturbed over the plight of the farmers agitating against the new laws. Baba Ram Singh, a Sikh religious leader, is said to have shot himself around 3 p.m. and was declared dead at a hospital in Panipat, said Sant Gurmeet Singh, who took him to the hospital. “He left behind a note which we handed over to the police,” he said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 am -7.30 pm
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||List of ‘trusted’ telecom gear firms planned||The Cabinet Committee on Security on Wednesday approved the National Security Directive on Telecommunication Sector mandating telecom service providers to procure equipment from sources designated to be “trusted”, Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said here on Wednesday. “In order to maintain the integrity of the supply chain security, the government will declare a list of trusted sources/products for the benefit of telecom service providers,” Mr. Prasad said at a press conference. The Minister said the National Cyber Security Coordinator, the designated authority, would devise the methodology for the process. The designated authority would make a determination based on the recommendations of a National Security Committee on Telecommunication, which would be headed by the Deputy National Security Adviser and include two representatives of industry and an independent expert, apart from officials from the departments and Ministries. Mr. Prasad said that a list of sources from which no procurement could be done may also be created. This directive does not envisage mandatory replacement of equipment already inducted and also does not affect annual maintenance contracts and planned updates, he said. Those meeting the criteria of the preferential market access scheme of the Department of Telecommunications would be designated “India-trusted sources”, the Minister said.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SOP issued for evidence in rape cases||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for proper collection and handling of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases, after it observed that many cases don’t end in convictions due to inadequate scientific evidence. The NHRC said in a statement on Wednesday that it had issued the SOP to all the States and Union Territories (UTs) “in order to ensure effective prosecution leading to conviction in cases of sexual assault on women”. The document was prepared after consulting medical experts and sent to the States and UTs for implementation, it said. The SOP, which was sent to the States and UTs on December 9 by NHRC secretary general Bimbadhar Pradhan, covers victim care, collection of samples and handing over samples to the forensic science laboratories by doctors.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC orders action in M.P. cash seizure||The Election Commission on Wednesday said it had directed the authorities to take action on a report by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) about the use of unaccounted-for cash during the 2019 Madhya Pradesh election. In a statement, the EC said it had discussed the report by the CBDT that included details of search operations and the “extensive use of unaccounted cash”. “It is reported that these entities/individuals engaged in unauthorised and unaccounted cash contributions to individuals on behalf of certain political party, which is reported to be corroborated during searches against persons by Income Tax department under Section 132 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The report specifically mentions instances of prima facie involvement/nexus of public/govt. servants in unauthorised/unaccounted cash transactions,” the EC said.
17 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Centre’s failure stands exposed’||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the Centre was depend-ing on “motivated pleas in the Supreme Court to forci-bly remove the congregation of peaceful farmers”. This highlighted the failure of the NDA government, he said.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,||Increase number of Sabarimala pilgrims: HC||A Division Bench of the High Court on Wednesday ordered that the number of pilgrims allowed to have darshan at Sabarimala be enhanced to 5,000 from 2,000 a day from December 20. The Bench issued the directive on a batch of writ petitions by the Ayyappa Seva Sanghom and others seeking to raise the limit of pilgrims being allowed to visit Sabarimala by the State government in view of the COVID-19 situation. The court made it clear that the pilgrims should undergo RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to the visit to Sabarimala. The court said the high-level committee could take a decision on increasing the number of pilgrims on Saturdays and Sundays. Revised advisory The State government on Tuesday informed the court that a revised advisory of the COVID-19 Outbreak Control and Prevention State Cell recommended against raising the number of Sabarimala pilgrims till Mandala puja day. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), however, suggested that the number of devotees be increased to 10,000. In fact, there was sufficient space to accommodate those many devotees adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. The number of pilgrims was earlier raised from 1,000 to 2,000 on weekdays and from 2,000 to 3,000 on weekends on the recommendations of the high-level committee meeting. The Home Secretary and the State Police Chief also told the meeting that based on the experience during the first 10 days of the pilgrimage season, the number of pilgrims could be increased. The government also submitted that there was already a possibility of an increase in COVID-19 cases after the local body elections and it would review the situation by December end.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,||CCB busts gang hoarding Rs. 1 crore worth of drugs for New Year revellers||The Central Crime Branch police, who have intensified their crackdown on the drug menace in anticipation of demand increasing for New Year celebrations, busted another inter-State drug racket and arrested four dealers. The accused were allegedly hoarding a huge stash of drugs worth Rs. 1 crore in a rented house for New Year revellers. The police seized 5.6 kg of hashish oil and 3.3 kg of marijuana during the raid.  Vigil stepped up “We have stepped up vigil as huge caches of drugs are being smuggled into the city for private parties that are held on December 31,” said a senior official with the CCB’s narcotics wing. Acting on a tip-off, a CCB team on Tuesday raided a house at Venkategowda Layout in Kempapura near Hebbal and arrested M. Thirupal Reddy, 32, from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, who is reportedly heading the operations. The other accused have been identified as Kamalesan, 31, and Satish Kumar, 27, from Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu and Afzal Pasha from R.T. Nagar. The CCB team after seizing four mobile phones during the raid discovered that the gang has a customer list comprising mainly college students and software engineers. “Many have paid an advance for the drugs to be delivered at the end of the month,” said a police official. According to the police Reddy, a high school dropout, is the brains behind the operation. “A habitual offender who has been peddling drugs for five years, he had been arrested by the police in Andhra Pradesh last year. While he was in prison, he befriended some peddlers who introduced him to Kamslesan and Satish Kumar. After coming out on bail, Reddy partnered with them and decided to operate in Bengaluru due to the high demand and lucrative market,” said a senior police officer.  Rented house The gang rented a house in the city, while Reddy sourced drugs from his contacts in Visakhapatnam. “Kamakesan claimed he studied B.Tech. while Satish is an M.Tech. graduate. Both work for private forms and started dealing in drugs to make extra money,” the officer added. All four accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. The police have taken Reddy into custody to ascertain his drug network. Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant, while appreciating the CCB’s efforts, instructed the police to step up vigil and monitor sensitive areas including party places, pubs and hotels.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC notice to Centre, States on regularisation of illegal constructions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre and States to respond to a plea alleging that regularisation of unauthorised constructions is resulting in massive corruption and damage to natural resources. A Bench issued notice to the Ministries of Environment and Forests and Housing and Urban Affairs, the CBI, the National Disaster Management Authority and the Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh governments.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Congress slams hike in price of LPG cylinders||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that the Narendra Modi government has not only launched an all-out attack on annadata s (farmers) but also on annapurna s (homemakers) with a Rs. 100 increase in the price cooking gas within a span of 15 days. At an official briefing, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said that increasing the price of LPG cylinders is the “most insensitive move when the economy is officially in recession”.
17 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar Cong. leader urges Nitish to scrap prohibition laws||State Congress Legislature Party leader Ajit Sharma on Wednesday wrote a letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asking for prohibition laws to be scrapped as they were a “tool” to mint money. He alleged that liquor had been available at a price two-three times higher than the original price.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. searches pharma company, associated concerns in Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai||The Income Tax Department has searched a pharmaceutical company and its associated concerns in Chandigarh, Delhi and Mumbai, on the allegation that it acquired 117 acres of “benami” land in Indore. The searches were carried out at 11 places from December 13. The agency gathered evidence establishing that the “benami” entity was a conduit of the company. It also seized Rs. 4.29 crore in cash and jewellery worth Rs. 2.21 crore.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cabinet approves N-E power grid project||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved the revised estimate of the North Eastern Region Power System Improvement Project at Rs. 6,700 crore. At a press briefing, I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar said the project would add 2,100 km of transmission lines and 2,000 km of distribution lines.
17 December 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool Congress heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari resigns as MLA||Suvendu Adhikari of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday submitted his resignation as an MLA. He had earlier resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet in West Bengal. “I do hereby tender my resignation from the member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” a hand-written letter addressed to Speaker Biman Banerjee read. Mr. Adhikari, who was elected from the Nandigram constituency in Purba Medinipur district in 2016 arrived in the Assembly and was there for 15 minutes. He did not respond to questions by journalists about his next political move, including joining the BJP. The TMC leadership described Mr. Adhikari’s action as betrayal. “Suvendu has betrayed the party… I do not know what deals the BJP has made with him, but we were expecting this and, in our minds,, it is not a setback,” Saugata Roy, senior TMC MP, said. With speculations rife that Mr. Adhikari will join the BJP, the party leadership welcomed the developments. Its State president Dilip Ghosh dismissed the TMC allegation that the BJP was breaking that party. “Mamata Banerjee is blaming the BJP [for people leaving her party]. We have no part in this. If people, seeing our activities and our fight, feel inspired to join us, there is no harm in it. We are not even in power here,” he said. Amidst the political development and war of words, confusion remained over the manner in which Mr. Adhikari tendered his resignation. A person resigning from the Assembly must be present in person in front of the Speaker and hand over his resignation letter to him. The Speaker was not present in the Assembly when Mr Adhikari tendered his resignation. During the day, Mr Adhikari also wrote a letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, alleging that that his change of political stand was “spurring those in authority to be in political vendetta mode” against him . He sought the Governor’s intervention so that police and administration was “dissuaded from implicating me and my associate followers in criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta”. “Surely, bonhomie with the ruling party or dispensation cannot be essential requisite for enjoying liberty and human rights, as is the situation presently,” Mr. Adhikari said. He added that he quit the Ministry “dictated by sense of duty and public welfare”. The Governor assured him that he would take necessary steps.
17 December 2020||C HENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry student moves HC seeking Centre’s approval for 10% reservation in medical admissions||A Class 12 student from Puducherry has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the Union Home Ministry to approve, forthwith, a decision taken by the Cabinet of the Union Territory to provide 10% horizontal reservation in medical admissions to those who had studied in government schools. The petition filed by the minor, Subulakshmi, has been listed for admission before Justice N. Anand Venkatesh on Thursday. Filing an affidavit on behalf of the petitioner, her mother Mahalakshmi stated that her daughter completed Class 12 at the Thanthai Periyar Government Higher Secondary School in March. She secured 72% marks in her Class 12 examinations and a 47.95 percentile in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Stating that government school students stand a feeble chance of getting admitted in medical colleges, compared to private school students, she said just 16-22 government school students got admissions, every year, since 2016-17. ‘Feeble chance’ On the other hand, the number of private school students admitted in medical colleges, every year, has hovered between 243 and 402, since 2016-17, she said, referring to a legislation passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly, this year, for providing 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical seats to students from government, Corporation and municipality schools. Stating that the Puducherry Cabinet too had followed suit and recommended 10% horizontal reservation for government school students in medical admissions this year, the petitioner said Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi had referred the recommendation to the Union Home Ministry, without either concurring or differing with it. Further, impressing upon the need to take a quick decision on the issue, the petitioner sought a direction to the Centre to approve the proposal, forthwith. She also sought an interim injunction, restraining the government of Puducherry from conducting counselling for medical admissions, this year, until the disposal of her writ petition.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anaikattucherry residents launch drive to save the Cooum||Residents of Anaikattuchery near Pattabiram have launched an online campaign “Let’s drink from Cooum” to protect the unpolluted stretch of the river. The initial 40 km of the river that originates in Tiruvallur district still remains largely unpolluted till it reaches Paruthipattu. It runs for 72 km before it drains into the sea. Residents said the river continues to be the main source for agriculture and drinking water needs for several villages along the banks. However, a few pockets of the river upstream of Paruthipattu have started facing issues of sewage pollution. Residents said flow in the river for just three or four months helped villages such as Sorancheri, Karunakarachery, Thirumanam and Annambedu to take care of water needs throughout the year. In a bid to create awareness of the unpolluted stretch of the Cooum and the significance of maintaining its cleanliness, the Unpolluted Cooum River Protection Committee has started a campaign online. It plans to share more videos on the clean stretch of the Cooum and activities around the waterway. K. Mugundhan, committee’s coordinator, said farmers and panchayat authorities used water from the borewells sunk along the river banks for irrigation and drinking water supply. “We want to spread awareness that Cooum could be a source for drinking water if maintained properly and control sewage released into it. There are plans to hold programmes for children in neighbouring villages about waterbodies and the river later,” he said. The river now gets floodwater from tanks upstream. However, several waterbodies downstream such as Vayalanellore, Kolappanchery, Kannapalayam and Mettupalayam are yet to fill up as channels bringing water from the river have been encroached upon. Residents demanded that sewage pollution in pockets such as Avadi Kamaraj Nagar and Putlur must be arrested and check-dams must be maintained properly. The committee suggested that a pipeline could be laid along the banks of the unpolluted stretch of the Cooum to carry treated sewage instead of releasing it into the river. Officials of the Water Resources Department said measures were being taken to control sewage release in areas like Putlur and allow only treated sewage. Floodwater helped flush the sewage this season. However, the cooperation of local bodies is essential in curbing pollution, officials said. World Bank aid “We have sought funds from the World Bank to reconstruct a dilapidated check-dam across the Cooum at Sorancheri and also improve the network of tanks starting from Tiruninravur and create a channel to divert water to the tanks from the Cooum,” said an official.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 1,181 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu reported 1,181 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 8,02,342. Chennai and five other districts accounted for over half of the fresh infections. Chennai topped the table with 344 cases (including three imported ones), taking its total count to 2,20,903. Five other districts had more than 50 cases each — Coimbatore (111), Chengalpattu (74), Tiruppur (70), Erode (53), and Tiruvallur (52). Salem and Kancheepuram reported 49 and 40 cases each. Perambalur recorded no fresh case, while 12 other districts had less than 10 cases each. The number of active cases stood at 9,880. These included 3,093 persons in Chennai and 1,051 in Coimbatore. The number of persons discharged so far reached 7,80,531 as 1,240 more were discharged on Wednesday. The State registered 12 more deaths — seven at private hospitals and five at government hospitals — taking the toll to 11,931. Drop in deaths The number of fatalities dropped to two in Chennai. Dharmapuri and Salem reported two deaths each, while Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Krishnagiri, Theni and Tiruvannamalai had one death each. Two of the 12 persons did not have co-morbidities. One of them was a 26-year-old woman from Krishnagiri, who was admitted to a private hospital in Salem with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for a day on December 12. She died on December 15 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 47-year-old woman from Chennai, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on December 14, died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute cerebrovascular accident, massive intracranial haemorrhage, bicytopenia and respiratory failure. With 73,015 samples tested in the last 24 hours, a total of 1,31,59,822 samples had so far been tested in the State.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle gets stuck under Chennai bridge||An over dimension vehicle (ODV) carrying an old transformer on its way to Poonamallee from Sulurpet in Andhra Pradesh got stuck beneath the Maduravoyal grade separator on Wednesday. It remained stuck for over five hours from 8 a.m. When the staff of the private firm attempted to cut the upper portion of the transformer with a welding machine, the tap changer caught fire as there was some residual oil in the transformer. The road was cordoned off to prevent any untoward incident. Fire breaks out Vehicles from Koyambedu, Maduravoyal and Ambattur fire stations were pressed into service. The blaze was put out around 3 p.m. Traffic Investigation Wing, Koyambedu, has registered a case. Sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which manages the flyover, said the vehicle got stuck on the bottom of a girder beneath the structure. “It managed to clear one girder. Though we need to have clearance of 5.5 m, we have 5.7 m at that spot, but this vehicle was 5.8 m tall,” said an engineer, who is part of the maintenance team. Had the transporter informed the NHAI Regional Office in Chennai, which was the highway administrator, they could have avoided getting stranded for a few hours and the damage to the structure and to their cargo, which they had to cut. “The air from tyres was reduced to bring down the height of the vehicle, which caused the axle to scrape the road. Such vehicles have to take permission from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and the concurrence of the highway administrator. They should take taken a route without any flyovers,” added another official. The NHAI will assess the damage and claim it from the person who transported the cargo.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4.7 kg gold seized at Chennai airport||Seven passengers have been arrested and 4.77 kg gold worth Rs. 2.41 crore was seized by Chennai Air Customs. Mohammed Rabeek, Mohamed Yazeer Khan, Mujeebur Rahman and Bilal who came from Dubai were held at the exit on suspicion and officials recovered 198 grams of gold cut bits, four gold chains, six gold paste packets from their jeans. Also, iPhone 12, cigarettes, health supplement worth Rs. 9.8 lakh from their handbags were seized, according to a press release. “Eight bundles of gold paste weighing 1.92 kg were recovered from the rectum of Mujeebur and Bilal. The paste yielded 1.72 kg gold. Both were arrested. Mohamed Rabeek was also arrested,” the release said. In another case, Fasil Rahuman, Ashok Kumar and Mathan Kumar had come down from Dubai and when officials checked, they found these passengers had concealed 1.38 kg of gold in the form of seven bundles of gold paste and a 49 g gold chain as well. They found iPhones and cigarettes worth Rs. 9.35 lakh and the three passengers were arrested, the release said. Mohamed Vaaris and Ihsanullah from Sharjah were intercepted and officials got three bundles of gold paste from them. In one more case, passenger Sayed Mohamed was found to have hidden six gold chains in handbag, two gold washers and one gold coin in two wrist watches totally weighing 526 g and was arrested. Another passenger Rasuldeen who was to travel to Dubai was found to have hidden 5,000 pounds and 500 Singapore dollars worth Rs. 5.13 lakh.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M sees 8 more cases; six test positive at Anna varsity||Eight more persons tested positive for COVID-19 at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M), taking its tally to 191. All those at the hostels, including the workers, were tested for the infection, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said after inspecting the campus on Wednesday. The results of only six of the 550 persons tested at Anna University returned positive, he added. Till Tuesday, 183 persons — a majority of them students — had tested positive for COVID-19 at IIT-M. Of the samples lifted from 141 more persons on Tuesday, only eight returned positive. This brought the total number of persons tested at the institution to 1,104, of which a total of 191 were found to be infected. Testing hostellers “Two persons were symptomatic at Anna University, but they tested negative for COVID-19. Of the 550 persons tested at the university, results of only six — that is 1% — returned positive. There is no need to panic,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Those residing in hostels of educational institutions will be tested, in a phased manner, while colleges with a common mess and dining hall should arrange takeaway food, he added. He said that 100% checks would be conducted at construction sites. The main issue was people not wearing masks. He cautioned firms of action if they did not adhere to the standard operating procedures. The Health Secretary also said the Public Health Department would take up random testing in places where over 20 persons congregate. “The government is keen on testing 70,000 samples, on average, every day,” he added. The Greater Chennai Corporation has deployed teams, in various places, such as entry points of hostels and shopping complexes. “We will undertake intensive testing, isolation, treatment and contact tracing. We have started saturation testing,” he said. Though there are a few clusters, COVID-19 cases are under control and are on the decline in the State, he added. Inspection held Following this, the Health Secretary conducted an inspection in Chengalpattu district. Speaking to reporters, he said active cases had dropped under 10,000. “Presently, there are 9,951 persons in hospitals and under home isolation. At one point, we had nearly 60,000 active cases. The decline was made possible due to cooperation from the people. People wore masks, adhered to physical distancing and public health norms. However, recently, we are seeing that people have not been wearing masks when they have food in groups, and just wear masks when they spot officials. They keep masks in their pockets. These are wrong public health practices,” the Health Secretary said. This is a pandemic and a vaccine is yet to come, he said, stressing the need to wear masks. “In Chengalpattu district, the number of cases has gradually reduced from 400, to a daily average of 75 and below. We need to bring this to zero. One person can spread the infection to 100 persons. For instance, the infection spread to many persons at the mess in IIT-M, and it has reduced now. This is why we are carrying out the mask campaign. Wearing masks is mandatory at any place where over 20 persons come together,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stone nagaswarams a feature in temples||Thanumalayan Temple at Suchindram in Kanniyakumari district, Nellaiappar Temple in Tirunelveli and Polinthunindrapiran Temple in Alwarthirunagari have stone pillars that can produce music. But artisans of ancient Tamil Nadu went a step further and produced a nagaswaram made of stone. There are two such nagaswarams — one in the Adi Kumbeshwarar temple in Kumbakonam and another in the Alwarthirunagari temples. “We do not have details about when the instruments were made,” said historian Kudavasal Balasubramanian. The instrument is similar to the ‘timiri’, or the shorter version of the nagaswaram, that was used before Thiruvavaduthurai T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai designed the ‘paari’ version of the nagaswaram. “The uzhau — the middle pipe of the instrument — is made of stone. The front portion, known as the anusu or the volume enhancer, and the end portion where the reed is fit while playing are made of brass,” said Swaminthan, the nagaswaram player at the Kumbeshwaran temple. He also plays the stone nagaswaram. But unlike other nagaswarams, the stone nagaswaram only has six holes. “When we handle this instrument, we consciously choose particular scales and ragas conducive to its structure and body,” Mr. Swaminathan said. “For instance, we take time in the lower octaves and often choose ragas with the prati madhymam, or the sharper variant of the note ‘ma’, like in Kalyani , Shanmugapriya and Panthuvaralai, ” he added. Though it is a rare instrument, there is no particular occasion during which the instrument is played. “The last time I played the instrument was in 2017 during Saraswathi puja ,” said Mr. Swaminathan. “The actor Prabhu had once visited the temple and wanted to listen to the instrument as his father Sivaji Ganesan, a connoisseur of music, had told him about the instrument. I played it for him then,” said Mr. Swaminathan.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors take out bike rally to raise awareness on stroke||Two neurologists from the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram completed a 2,000 km motorcycle rally to raise awareness on importance of time in stroke care. The doctors, Prabash and Arunkumar, took part in the road show from Chennai to Kanniyakumari from December 12 to 15. C. Sylendra Babu, Director- General of Police, Railways, on Wednesday felicitated the doctors on completion of the rally. The treatment for stroke is highly dependent on “time of presentation” to a hospital. If a patient with ischemic stroke is brought to a comprehensive stroke care centre within 4.5 hours, the patient is eligible to receive clot bursting medication (thrombolysis). If there is a demonstrable clot in the angiogram and if the patient is brought to the centre in six hours, then he/she is eligible for thrombectomy, in which the clot is removed mechanically, a press release said. The stroke window has now been extended from six to 24 hours, in selected patients. Awareness on the importance of time in the management of stroke is abysmally low in the State. As part of the rally, 40 awareness talks were held in districts, including Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruchi, Madurai and Kanniyakumari, the release added.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC questions medical college on issue of transfer certificate||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Dean of the Government Medical College in Theni to report to the court about the manner in which a MBBS student, now under suspension after being accused of gaining admission through impersonation in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), could be relieved from the college. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh wanted the Dean to take into consideration the student’s willingness to pay Rs. 10 lakh towards the discontinuation fees, as per the 2019 admission norms, and inform the court whether he could be issued with a transfer certificate (TC). The judge wanted the information to be provided by December 21.  Criminal case The interim directions were issued on a writ petition filed by the student against the refusal of the Dean to issue the transfer certificate since he was facing a criminal case under investigation by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department. He had also been arrested and released on bail thereafter. A Special Government Pleader told the court that the student had undergone the MBBS course last year for just one month and 10 days before being suspended due to the criminal case. However, the student’s counsel argued that his client could not be prevented from pursuing his education until the completion of the investigation. He said the transfer certificate was essential for the student to gain admission in other educational institutions and it was not proper on the part of the authorities to deny that to him.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 pushed up spending on essentials by 80%||The pandemic has led to a more than 80% rise in the expenditure of the State government on food and civil supplies during seven months of the current financial year, over the corresponding period in 2019-20. Between April and October, the government spent Rs. 11,384 crore to ensure the steady supply of essentials through the public distribution system, as against an expenditure of Rs. 6,254 crore in 2019, an official in the Finance Department said. Among the measures taken by the government were the provision of free ‘tur dal’, edible oil and sugar, along with rice, to all cardholders from April to July; cash support of Rs. 1,000 each to cardholders across the State; another Rs. 1,000 to cardholders in badly-hit districts in June, and the doubling of rice entitlement, even to non-priority household cards, up to November. Other departments Likewise, with respect to the Health and Family Welfare Department, which was also crucial in tackling COVID-19, the expenditure went up by around 30%. While the Department spent around Rs. 6,136 crore during the seven months in 2019, its bill rose to Rs. 7,967 crore this year. With regard to relief and disaster management, the spending touched around Rs. 2,490 crore, against the previous year’s Rs. 500 crore — a hike of almost 400%. On crucial sectors, the government, even amid an overall resource crunch, not just sustained the expenditure, but also stepped it up, the official said. There are other departments such as Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, where spending rose by 26% this year; Animal Husbandry by 7%, and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) by 23.5%, compared to the last year. In the overall analysis, the government’s revenue expenditure fell by 6.5% this year. In absolute figures, this year’s figure was Rs. 1.07 lakh crore, whereas it was around Rs. 1.15 lakh crore last year. This is natural in view of measures such as non-payment of two additional installments of dearness allowance and enhancement of the retirement age, the official said. On the revenue front, the collections through the State’s Own Tax netted around Rs. 48,340 crore, up to October, marking a fall of 20.5% over the previous year. Similarly, the share in Central taxes registered a decline of about 15%, with the State getting Rs. 12,448 crore. ‘Expenses met by State’ The official pointed out that a large portion of the additional expenditure, on account of the pandemic, was being met by the State government, on its own. “This is why it has to resort to borrowings,” he said. In the area of healthcare, the Centre has allotted around Rs. 712 crore, under the COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package, and 5% of the cost of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) testing kits.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advocates protest near HC premises||Members of the Advocates’ Forum for Social Justice (AFSJ) staged a demonstration outside the Madras High Court premises on Wednesday, condemning the alleged non-consideration of advocates and district judges from the Vanniyar community while appointing judges. AFSJ president and Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader K. Balu led the protest. He claimed that not a single advocate or district judge belonging to the Vanniyar community had been appointed as a judge for nearly two years. According to Mr. Balu, only five from the Vanniyar community were now serving as judges of the High Court.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students oppose recommendation to scrap quota in IIT faculty recruitment||A number of student bodies have strongly condemned the recommendation to scrap reservations in recruitment of faculty in IITs, made by the committee constituted by Ministry of Education (MoE). They urged the Union government to completely reject the panel’s recommendations. On December 16, The Hindu had carried areporton the MoE panel’s recommendation that faculty quotas be done away with at the IITs. Condemnation also came from Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan of CPI (M), who had previously raised questions about the functioning of the committee, and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK). ChintaBar, a students collective from IIT-Madras, said that the recommendations were “utterly disappointing.” “IITs should delve deeper into the problems and issues of under representation rather than coming up with regressive proposals to withdraw reservations,” it said. Highlighting that the committee was formed to suggest measures for effective implementation of reservation policies, Ambedkar Periyar Study Circle of IIT-Madras said that the committee has, however, done the opposite. “Reservation policies are already not implemented properly in IITs for admissions to M.S and Ph.D programmes and faculty appointments,” it said. Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle (APPSC) of IIT-Bombay blamed the committee for its claim that IITs were following reservation norms in all academic levels. Arguing that APPSC has repeatedly highlighted several violation of reservation policies in IITs through data obtained under the Right to Information Act, it said, “Instead of highlighting wrongs in the existing selection process and recommending ways to correct those, the committee carries their casteist ignorance and leaves the blame on the candidates from reserved categories for not being 'qualified enough'.” Students Federation of India (SFI), in a statement released by its national president V.P. Sannu and general secretary Mayukhs Biswas, blamed the committee for its “lack of seriousness” in analysing the issue. Claiming that SFI’s intervention played a key role in MoE acknowledging the issue of severe lack of students from reserved categories in Ph. D admissions, the statement urged the government to reevaluate the bottlenecks and biases in the selection process. Mr. Venkatesan said that the committee has acted against the purpose for which it was constituted. “The report shows that the committee has not shown any seriousness. A minimum expectation of such a committee will be to go into the actual data on the representation of students and faculty members of reserved categories in IITs. It has not even done that,” he said.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teynampet police arrest man for raping 19-year-old teenager||The All Women Police, Teynampet, on Wednesday arrested a 37-year-old man on the charge of raping a 19-year-old teenager. The police said V. Silambarasan, 37, of S.M. Nagar lured the victim, who was mentally unsound, and took her to his house, where he raped her on Tuesday. The victim reported the incident to her mother. On her complaint, the All Women Police arrested him.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. govt. eases norms on gatherings from Dec. 19||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced a further relaxation of the restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19, allowing social, political, educational, cultural, and religious events and gatherings, not exceeding 50% of seating, from December 19. In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that permission must be sought from the Collectors, or the Greater Chennai Police Commissioner in respect of Chennai, for conducting these events, which should be organised in compliance with the norms to check the spread of the contagion.  ‘Don’t lower guard’ The CM reiterated that people must wear masks while going out, wash their hands regularly and adhere to physical distancing norms.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK opposes scrapping of quota in IIT/IIM recruitment||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday urged the Union government not to accept the recommendation of an expert committee that the reservation in the recruitment of faculty members for the IITs and the IIMs be scrapped. In a statement, he said such a decision would destroy social justice and the government must implement the reservation for the SCs/STs and the OBCs in the recruitment of faculty members for the institutions under its control. For long, the policy of reservation had not been followed in the recruitment of faculty members for the Central government-funded institutions, including the IITs and the IIMs, he said. Only in July 2019 did the Centre pass the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act. According to Section 3 of the Act, in direct recruitment to faculty positions in the Central government institutions, reservation must be implemented for the SCs/STs and the OBCs, he said. Despite the Act having into force, there had been no change in the situation, Mr. Thirumavalavan said.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MGM Healthcare signs MoU with Surat hospital||MGM Healthcare hospital here has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Maitreya Medicare Private Limited to provide specialised assistance to the latter’s multi superspecialty hospital in Surat. A statement issued by MGM Healthcare said the MoU will enable it to provide specialised cardiology, cardiothoracic and heart-lung transplant-related services for patients of Maitreya Multi Superspecialty Hospital (MMSH). The hospital has already provided assistance to MMSH, Harish Manian, chief executive officer, said. “Our urge to help patients with critical heart and lung conditions and end-stage heart problems in our region was immediately recognised by MGM Healthcare from the outset. Our relationship, which had developed while sharing medical services on a few previous cases, helped in finalising the MoU,” said Narendra Tanwar, director, Maitreya Medicare Private Limited.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for GST fraud||The GST and Central Excise Department, Chennai North, have arrested three persons in connection with GST fraud to the tune of Rs. 10 crore. The two departments detected a case of GST fraud related to taking and passing on input credit on the basis of bogus invoices. The case is against a business entity that sells readymade garments through its retail outlets. The managing director of the establishment and two others involved in the fraud were on the run for more than a month. They were produced before the additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Egmore, and remanded in judicial custody till December 22.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 209 cr. for widening GST Road||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has sanctioned Rs. 209.32 crore for widening three stretches of the GST Road running to 13 km. Sources said the work to widen the stretches of highway between the Guduvanchery and Chettipunyam into 8-lane width would be carried out by the National Highways wing of the State Highways department. Utility lines The cost of shifting of utility lines and transplanting trees along the route would be Rs. 21.37 crore and the work would take about one year to complete. This widening is being taken up as part of the upgrade of 121 km of the Tambaram-Tindivanam stretch of the GST Road to be carried out by the NHAI.
17 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-judge to conduct KCI elections||The Madras High Court on Wednesday appointed Justice K. Kannan, former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, as an Election Officer to conduct elections to Kennel Club of India, registered in 1959, within three months. Justice N. Sathish Kumar passed the order on a civil suit preferred by KCI represented by its secretary-cum-treasurer C.V. Sudarshan. The judge also permitted the existing office-bearers to administer the club till the new office-bearers assume charge. He, however, made it clear that the existing office-bearers should not sign cheques involving major financial requirements but for those that were required for the regular administration of the club such as paying salaries to the staff and so on. The judge also ordered postponement of the Annual General Meeting which was scheduled to be held virtually on Friday. He further directed that the Government Orders issued recently regarding KCI should not be used by anyone for canvassing votes.
17 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Siruvani remains a cause for concern||With the North-East Monsoon season drawing to a close in another couple of weeks the city’s water managers in the Corporation have turned their attention towards the water position in the Siruvani reservoir. As of December 12, the water level is at 41.76 feet in the reservoir where the full reservoir is 49.54 feet. A good 7.78 feet lower than what it should be. The level is even below the 44.5 feet mark - the level that the Kerala Irrigation Department officials had told their counterparts here in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board that they would maintain for the city’s water needs. The Kerala Government had reduced a couple of years ago the water level in Siruvani and other reservoirs by 1.5m or five feet citing safety after floods. The loss of five feet water equalled 15% reduction in storage or 25 days’ supply. Now, the loss has increased by five to 10% and that means a reduction in storage of another 10 days’ supply, to say the least, the Corporation sources say. Or, in other words, Siruvani Reservoir will have water not until June but only till May because of the reduced storage level and this will have a cascading effect on Pilloor and other water sources as the Corporation diverts water from such sources to meet the shortfall in Siruvani-fed wards, the sources say and add that Siruvani caters to at least 20 wards in full and another 10 wards in part. Had the Kerala Government allowed the water level to touch the full reservoir level, as it did prior to 2018, Siruvani water would last till July. This would help the Board and the Corporation tide over crisis even in a poor South-West Monsoon year. But, this is no longer possible as under the current situation the Siruvani water will meet the city’s requirements only for a shorter duration. And, the Corporation and the Board that gradually reduce the quantity of water drawn from Siruvani from 80 million litres a day from March or April will have to start an early reduction in supply to keep the Siruvani supply going, the sources add.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 400 small-scale foundries stop production||Nearly 400 small-scale foundries here stopped production on Wednesday demanding measures to control prices of raw materials. Pig iron, coke, and scrap are the main raw materials consumed at foundries. While prices of pig iron are up by more than 25 %, that of coke and scrap have increased by nearly 30 %, says Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners’ Association (COSMAFAN) president A. Sivashanmuga Kumar. When foundries resumed operations after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed, the industries operated at 40 % to 50 % capacity because migrant workers had returned home. Orders picked up gradually and the units now operate at 70 % to 80 % capacity. However, it is unviable as the foundry operators are shelling out 10 % to 15 % from their pocket because of the raw material price hike. “If we committed to an order in October, we are unable to supply now at the same price because of the steep increase in prices of raw materials. It is unviable,” he says. The government should take steps immediately to control prices, there should be an active system to monitor prices, and the industries that buy castings should also pay more, he adds. The total production loss is estimated at Rs. 30 crore a day because of the strike. Several micro units that are members of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises’ Association also stopped production for a day on Wednesday in support of the indefinite strike by the foundries. “Most of the industries that supply to wet grinder, pumpset, automobile units buy castings from the small foundries. With the strike by the foundries, these units will not get castings,” according to C. Sivakumar, president of the Association. The larger industries have started cutting down on orders because of the prices. “We waited for the raw material prices to climb down. However, there is no such indication. We are unable to absorb the loss,” he says.
17 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chain-snatching incidents on the rise||Chain-snatchers continue to prowl in the city with repeated instances of them targeting women, even those standing in front of their houses, getting reported. On Tuesday, two youths who came in a two-wheeler snatched 4.5 sovereign gold chain of K. Pushpa (58), a resident of Ayya Samy Kovil Street at Kempatty Colony, when she was standing on the road in front of her house after dinner. The police said that the rider wore a helmet and the pillion rider who snatched the chain wore a mask. The Bazaar Street police have started investigation based on a complaint lodged by the woman. In another incident, two-wheeler-borne miscreants snatched the chain of a 50-year-old woman from Madukkarai Market Road, near Kuniyamuthur, on Tuesday evening. According to the police, two men targeted P. Rajasevi, a resident of the housing unit at Kurichi, when she was standing in front of her grocery store at Kamaraj Nagar on Madukkarai market road around 6.30 p.m. The police said that the woman managed to hold her seven sovereign gold chain which the pillion-rider tried to lift. However, the snatchers got away with a major portion of the chain weighing around five sovereign. The Kuniyamuthur police have registered a case based on the woman’s complaint. On Monday, two men had snatched five-sovereign gold chain of a woman at Muthu Nagar, near Eachanari, within the limits of the Podanur police station.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hunters target birds in grasslands of Kalangal near Coimbatore||Two days after some men were seen catching spot-billed pelicans at Ukkadam tank in the heart of Coimbatore city, long stretches of nets were found laid to trap birds in the dry grasslands at Kalangal near Sulur, recently. Nature enthusiast R. Mohammed Saleem, who went to the grasslands for birding, saw nets laid over large areas. The place is a known habitat of several species of birds including migratory ones. “The nets were found fixed about a foot off the ground. As I waited, a group of men came in on two-wheelers and inspected the nets. When questioned, the men removed the nets and left the place,” alleged Mr. Saleem. Mr. Saleem immediately alerted the Forest Department about the incident and shared photographs. Though the Department sent its staff to the location, there was no trace of the hunters. “We have received a few photographs of the persons involved in the act whose whereabouts are yet to be gathered. The Department will ensure frequent monitoring in the area,” said Assistant Conservator of Forests M. Senthil Kumar. According to Mr. Saleem, one of the men told him that they laid the nets to trap birds like lapwing. “The grassland is an ideal habitat for larks, lapwings, chestnut-bellied sandgrouse, grey francolin and Indian courser among others,” he said. Recently, birders had spotted the migratory raptor Steppe eagle and local migrant Tawny eagle at the grasslands of Kalangal, an ideal ground for them to hunt small birds, animals and reptiles. The two raptors are listed as ‘endangered’ and ‘vulnerable’ in the IUCN Red List of Endangered Species. Black-naped hare also forage grasslands in large numbers and hunters target them for meat.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Nearly 25,000 trucks to participate in strike’||Nearly 25,000 trucks across Coimbatore district will stay off the roads as part of the State-wide strike from December 27, according to the Coimbatore Lorry Owners Association. A spokesperson said that the association president N. Murugesan convened a meeting here on Wednesday ahead of the strike. Around 120 members of the association and its affiliates participated. The demands included the implementation of the Madras High Court verdicts on installation of speed governors and reflective tapes, waiver of road tax amid COVID-19 pandemic and reducing the value added tax for diesel. The association recently submitted petitions to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Minister S.P. Velumani regarding these demands, the spokesperson said.
17 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||16 held for bid to wave black flags at Vice-President’s convoy||The Race Course police arrested 16 members of Naam Tamilar Katchi who attempted to wave black flags at the convoy of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who arrived here on Wednesday. The police said that the party workers attempted to wave black flags at the Vice-President's convoy in protest against the controversial farm laws. According to the police, the party workers staged the unexpected protest at the Lakshmi Mills Junction through which the Vice-President's convoy passed in the evening. They staged the protest in two groups under the leadership of Vijayaragavan and Rizwan, the police said. They were removed from the spot and later arrested. The VVIP convoy reached safely at the Circuit House at Race Course where Mr. Naidu's stay was arranged. Mr. Naidu is scheduled to attend the convocation ceremony at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on Thursday. A senior police officer said that of the 16 arrested for attempting to stage the protest, two women were released and others were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held||A meeting for HIV positive patients was recently organised by Nirmala College for Women as part of its ‘Sneha Positive Faces’ outreach programme. As many as 101 HIV positive patients took part. Cultural programmes and medical consultation were also organised. Minu Pramod, Commissioner (Audit) of GST and Central Excise, Coimbatore; K. Mahadevan, Dermatologist, PSG Hospitals; Sr. Dr. Agnes, St. Mary’s Hospital, Podanur, Mother Joseph Benedicta, Superior General, Presentation Convent and M. Helen, Principal of Nirmala College for Women attended, a release said.
17 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ailing male elephant dies||An ailing male elephant, around three years of age, which was found at Manombolly near Valparai on Monday, died without responding to treatment on Wednesday. Officials of the Forest Department said the elephant's hind legs were injured, and it was unable to move. It also had an injury on its head. Though a team, led by veterinarian Meiyarasan, treated the elephant, it died on Wednesday morning. According to officials, the elephant could have sustained the injuries during a fall.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ailing elephant dies||An ailing male elephant aged around three that was found at Manombolly near Valparai on Monday died without responding to treatment on Wednesday. Officials with the Forest Department said that the elephant’s hind legs were injured and it was unable to move. It also had an injury in its head. Though a team led by veterinarian Meiyarasan from Valparai treated the elephant, it died on Wednesday morning. The carcass was autopsied on Wednesday afternoon. Injuries from a fall According to officials, the elephant could have suffered the injuries from a fall.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Office of Asst. Commissioner of Customs shifted||The office of the Assistant Commissioner of Customs, Customs Preventive Unit, Coimbatore, has been shifted to Nethaji Nagar on Nanjundapuram Road. According to a release, the office was earlier functioning at GST Bhavan, Race Course. Rajesh Sodhi, Principal Commissioner of CGST and Central Excise, inaugurated the office.
17 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident near Pollachi||Two persons were killed after two cars collided at Gedimedu on Pollachi – Udumalpet Road in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. According to the Gomangalam police, Vijayakumar (46) from Nattukalpayalam and his friend Annamalai (46) from Zamin Uthukuli were killed in the accident. A third person, who travelled with them namely Muruganandam from Suleeswaranpatti, suffered severe injuries. The police said that the accident occurred when the trio was heading towards Udumalpet. As they reached Gedimedu near Pollachi, a car which came from the opposite side veered off its lane and collided with the car in which the victims were travelling. The other car involved in the accident had Madurai native Satheesh (26) at the wheel. His wife was sitting next to him. They escaped with minor injuries.
17 December 2020||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||India must demonstrate goodwill in fishermen issue, says SL Minister||Citing India’s request for the release of fishermen recently arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on the charge of illegal fishing, Sri Lanka on Wednesday said it is India that needs to demonstrate goodwill by preventing its fishermen from trespassing into Sri Lankan waters. Addressing a press conference in Vavuniya in the Northern Province, Sri Lanka’s Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda said the Indian authorities had approached the Sri Lankan government, requesting the release of the recently arrested fishermen as a goodwill gesture before a bilateral virtual discussion on the persisting conflict involving the fishermen of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka’s Tamil-majority Northern Province. The discussion is scheduled for December 30, a statement from the Minister’s office said. “Honestly, it is India that has to demonstrate goodwill by putting an end to their fishermen’s trespassing activities. Further, since Indian fishermen use banned fishing practices, it poses a great threat to marine biodiversity in the region,” the Minister, who represents the northern Jaffna district in Parliament, said. The Minister’s statement comes a day after the Sri Lankan Navy arrested 36 Indian fishermen for allegedly poaching on the Sri Lankan side of the International Maritime Boundary Line, a demarcation of the Palk Strait mutually agreed by the neighbouring countries in the 1970s. The Navy also apprehended five fishing vessels, or bottom trawlers, known to virtually scoop out the ocean bed and destroy marine organisms. The Palk Bay fisheries conflict has been a dominant bilateral concern, especially since Sri Lanka’s civil war ended in 2009 and fishermen from the war-affected areas in the north and the east began returning to the sea — which they could not access during the years of strife — to rebuild their livelihoods. Three years ago, Sri Lanka banned bottom trawling and introduced high fines for offenders and foreign fishing vessels found in the island nation’s territorial waters. The measures, in addition to Colombo’s decision to apprehend seized Indian fishing trawlers for long periods, saw a drop in the number of Indian fishermen being arrested. However, sections of northern fishermen say they are now spotting Indian trawlers along their coast yet again, after the SL Navy reportedly relaxed surveillance of the seas in the past few months, fearing that trespassers who are arrested could be carriers of COVID-19.  Since Indian fishermen use banned fishing practices, they pose a great threat to marine biodiversity in the regionDouglas DevanandaSri Lanka’s Fisheries Minister
17 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Toxic waste being discharged into stormwater drain in SIPCOT’||The direct discharge of untreated toxic sludge into a stormwater drain in Echangadu located in the Cuddalore SIPCOT industrial estate that empties into the Uppanar River, has kicked up a controversy with local residents and environmentalists expressing serious concern over the continuing pollution levels and water quality. Residents of Echangadu said that they noticed the discharge of untreated waste into the stormwater drain a few days ago. Constructed for the purpose of discharging excess rain water run off during the monsoon, the drain has, for the past few years, been carrying untreated effluents and toxic sludge discharged directly by pharmaceutical and chemical industries in SIPCOT, said G.K. Amirthalingam, a resident of Echangadu. He alleged that the pollution had now reached alarming levels and the waste was flowing through both sides of the drain. The water in the drain has turned green and black in a few places. A foul smell has been emanating from the area, he said. Action sought Members of the environment watchdog SIPCOT Area Community Environmental Monitors (SACEM) have also lodged a complaint with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) seeking action against the units. SACEM charged that effluents from three other industrial units that drained through another canal flowing in the north to south direction also joined the Echangadu canal before draining into the Uppanar. “For the most part, the Echangadu canal is located close to the compound wall of a pharmaceutical unit that has remained closed for years now. This has triggered suspicion that untreated and hazardous waste buried within the premises of the closed industry could have been illegally discharged into the Echangadu canal,” SACEM said in a complaint to the District Environmental Engineer of TNPCB. Representations Though repeated representations have been made to authorities concerned there seems to be no end to the menace, SACEM said. According to S. Pugazhenthi, former member of the Local Area Environment Committee, “The discharge of untreated effluents could impact and threaten the livelihood of local fisherfolk who depend on the Uppanar and Paravanar Rivers for fishing. An intensive drive should be held to track those recklessly discharging effluents or covertly engaging in activities resulting in water contamination.” Apart from slapping hefty fines, action should be initiated against the polluters under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution Act), 1981, he said. A senior official in the TNPCB said that the Board had taken cognisance of the complaints and water samples had been lifted from the site. Most of the industries in SIPCOT have Zero Liquid Discharge treatment facilities. The sludge from a closed pharmaceutical industry is suspected to have been released into the canal. A probe is underway, the official said. According to T. Arul Selvam of SACEM, a report of the Comprehensive Pollution Control Index (CEPI) submitted by the Central Pollution Control Board to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) shows that no tangible measures have been taken to bring down pollution levels in Cuddalore SIPCOT. While there has been a slight improvement in the pollution levels of land and air over the years, there has been no improvement in the water quality, he added.
17 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Police to probe fake email account||The district administration has lodged a complaint with the Cuddalore New Town police to probe a fake email account created in the name of Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri. According to an official, the fake email account: executivecdirector50@ gmail.com, claiming to be the Collector’s had been mailing links and messages not related to the district administration. The official said the fake email id was the handiwork of some unscrupulous elements. “We have lodged a complaint with the police to trace the IP address of the person,” he said. “The official email of the Cuddalore Collector is collrcud@nic.in and cudcollector@gmail.com. If anybody gets an email from any other other email address claiming to be from the Collector, they should not open it,” said the Collector.  It is the handiwork of unscrupulous elements. We have lodged a complaint with the police to trace the IP address of the person
17 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP attacked by PMK cadres in Nathamedu||DMK MP Dr. Senthil Kumar came under attack from the PMK cadres in Nathamedu village in Paapireddypatty here on Wednesday. The MP was on the campaign trail as part of the DMK’s ‘Vidiyalainokki Stalinin Kural’ in Paapireddypatty at the time of the incident. He was scheduled to make a stop at Nathamedu village, a PMK stronghold, where a memorial pillar for PMK member Subramani was erected. Subramani was among the 21 persons killed in the police shootout during the Vanniyars’ agitation for reservation in the late 1980s. Dr. Kumar intended to pay respects at the memorial and also visit the family of Subramani to hand over a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh to his destitute wife. However, the police advised him against entering the village, stating that the PMK men were objecting to his visit. But the Dharmapuri MP persisted and pushed forward, when a group of PMK youth jostled with the police and shoved him away. Many others surrounded the MP and manhandled him while the police struggled to keep them away. Dr. Kumar was later escorted to the community hall in Nathamedu. Speaking to the media, the MP said, “I came to pay respects to Subramani’s memorial and meet his wife to hand over a cheque. But the PMK partymen stopped me saying the memorial was on a private land belonging to Vanniyar Sangam and that I cannot set my foot there.” He said the family of Kaduvetti Guru, the leader behind Vanniyar Sangam, was opposed to the PMK today. “Even during the elections, they tried to stop us from entering the village,” he added. He alleged that Subramani’s wife was shifted from the village so that he could not meet her. “I will keep this cheque with me and she can collect it any time.”
17 December 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||DMK will provide clean governance: Stalin||DMK president M. K. Stalin said his party would provide clean governance if voted to power next year. According to him, people in Tamil Nadu were fed up with the AIADMK government and the ‘corrupt and inefficient’ administration would be thrown out of power. Addressing party cadre in Dindigul through video conferencing on Tuesday, he said that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, ‘who claims to be a farmer’, had not opposed the ‘controversial’ farm laws. “On the contrary, he has welcomed the Act. This is nothing but atrocious”, Mr Stalin charged. The Union government has been misleading the people since 2014 that they have implemented many projects for the common man, he alleged. In reality, the Centre had done nothing. They have been attempting to disintegrate the nation and the AIADMK was hand in glove with the Centre, he claimed. “The people of Tamil Nadu had shown their disapproval during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, and this will be repeated in the Assembly polls in 2021”, Mr. Stalin said. The DMK president charged that in every sphere, the people were deprived of their rights. Corruption had touched a new high and the law and order situation had taken a severe beating. Minorities were living in constant fear. He raised doubts on contracts for various works awarded during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The DMK, if elected, will definitely scrutinise these contracts,” he said. Taking a dig at the TN Forests Minister ‘Dindigul’ Srinivasan, Mr. Stalin asked, “what has the Minister done for Dindigul in the last five years...can he list it out?” The only good thing Mr. Srinivasan had done was the confession that they (AIADMK leaders) suppressed the actual information about Jayalalithaa, when she was ailing at the Apollo Hospital in Chennai. “The AIADMK announced Dindigul as a Corporation. Have they upgraded the basic amenities? Under the guise of the Smart City Project, they have looted money in a smart way”, he claimed. The UGD works were still going on without any deadline in Dindigul and this had resulted in hardships. Similarly, for several years, the authorities have been building the bridge in Balakrishnapuram. “Will the residents see the completion of it”, he asked. All these years, the AIADMK ministers claimed to have desilted tanks, but many waterbodies remain dry, he said and demanded an explanation from Mr. Srinivasan.
17 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bar-headed geese sighted at Gobichettipalayam||A flock of bar-headed geese, one of the world’s high-flying birds, was spotted in Gobichettipalayam here recently. Bird watchers and photographers, G.J.C. Moulie and V.R. Sundaramanikkam, who spotted the birds on Bungalow Pudur Road on December 14, said that the winter bird breeds in Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan and crosses the Himalayas to reach India. “They are high-altitude flyers and cross the mountains again during their return journey”, said Mr. Moulie, who was excited spotting them in Gobichettipalayam for the first time. The birds are capable of flying through the passes of the highest mountains at a height of above 12,000 feet and can travel 1,500 km in a single day, they said. Paddy harvesting has begun in Gobichettipalayam areas and more migratory birds were sighted in the last few weeks. Birders said that arrival of birds was expected till January-end after which they start their return journey.
17 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||65% syllabus will be taught in Classes 10-12: Minister||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said that in view of the pandemic, only 50% of the prescribed syllabus would be taught to students up to Class 9, while 65% of the syllabus would be taught to students from Classes 10 to 12, this academic year. Addressing the media at the Erode Collectorate after distributing cash incentives of Rs. 35.50 lakh to 23 students who won medals at the 64th national school games, the Minister said the syllabus was reduced after approval from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “Since students from Classes 10 to 12 have to compete with students from other States, 65% of the syllabus will be taught to them,” he added. He reiterated that half-yearly exams for students of government and government-aided schools had been postponed, while private schools could conduct the exams online, if needed. To a question on the possibility of reopening of schools in January, the Minister said any decision regarding this would be taken by the Chief Minister, after discussions with educationists, parents and students. Asked about government schools lacking toilet facilities, he said all schools had toilets, but only additional ones were needed, based on student strength. When schools were constructed in rural areas, earlier, toilets were built away from the premises. “In the last 10 years, all school buildings were constructed with toilet facilities,” he said. Mr. Sengottaiyan, who also holds the Sports Development portfolio, said the government had hiked reservation for sportspersons in government jobs to 3% and created facilities worth Rs. 67 crore in local bodies.
17 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Statues of MGR, Jayalalithaa unveiled||Statues of former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa were unveiled at Panneerselvam Park and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s party office here on Wednesday. Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise P. Thangamani unveiled the life-sized bronze statue of Jayalalithaa at Panneerselvam Park. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan and Deputy Speaker of the State Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman unveiled the bronze statues of the two former Chief Ministers at the party office in the presence of Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan and MLAs. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the precautionary measures taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami protected many lives during Cyclone Burevi in the State. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the party would be back in power after the State Assembly elections. The Minister highlighted the welfare schemes implemented by the government and credited the Chief Minister for various schemes that benefit the people.
17 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Owing to maintenance work at Gangapuram sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 17 at Perodu, Nochipalayam, Nochipalayam Pudur, Aychiyampalayam, Chellapampalayam, Kumilanparapu, Kongampalayam, Avudaiyankadu, N. Tayirpalayam, Gangapuram, Texvalley, Kolathupalayam, Villarasampatti Semmampalayam, Ondikaranpalayam and Vettuvapalayam.
17 December 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK-led alliance intact: Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said the AIADMK alliance in the State was intact and it would continue for the Assembly election too. “All the constituents of the AIADMK-led alliance that fought the Parliament elections are together. No one has left. There is no problem in that,” Mr. Palaniswami told reporters here after reviewing measures taken to control COVID-19 and development works in the district. To a question on the BJP national leadership being non-committal on the alliance, Mr. Palaniswami said the BJP had not said the alliance did not exist. Rebuts criticism Commenting on the criticism by the Opposition parties that the AIADMK had been blindly supporting the “programmes and policies” of the BJP government at the Centre, Mr. Palaniswami said it was the DMK that simply toed the lines of the earlier Congress-led government at the Centre. The National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) was introduced by the Congress government in 2010 and the DMK which was an alliance partner, did not oppose it then as it wanted to reap the benefits of being in power at the Centre. On the other hand, the AIADMK opposed the exam. But, it did not succeed. However, to ensure justice to those studying in government schools, his regime had enacted a law to provide 7.5% reservation to them. To a question on DMK president M.K. Stalin seeking his resignation for supporting the three new farm laws, Mr. Palaniswami said there was no need for him to prove that he was a true farmer as everyone in the State knew it to be a fact. No farmer in the State would be affected by the new laws. Many farmers in the State had welcomed the laws, the Chief Minister claimed. It was with the aim of gaining political advantage that the Opposition parties were staging protests against the laws. They were protesting in support of upcountry farmers, who could sell their produce only to agents. “It is the agents who are spearheading the protests in some parts of the country. The political parties who protest in the State are actually supporting the agents. It is a conspiracy by the political parties in view of the Assembly elections,” the Chief Minister alleged. False propaganda Denying that the government had planned to withdraw free electricity to farmers, Mr. Palaniswami said it was a false and mischievous propaganda by the Opposition parties to gain advantage in the Assembly elections. Free power would not be stopped under any circumstances. The AIADMK government would not take any steps that would be detrimental to the interests of the farmers, he maintained. COVID vaccination Mr. Palaniswami contended that the spread of COVID-19 had been effectively controlled in the State. The Health Department was working on the modalities of carrying out the vaccination programme. It would launch the free vaccination programme as soon as it was available here. Ministers P. Thangamani (Electricity), C. Vijayabaskar (Health), M.R. Vijayabhaskar (Transport) and Collector S. Malarvizhi participated in the review meeting.
17 December 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Walker’s path inaugurated||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami inaugurated a ‘KVB Walk-n-Jog’ facility here on Wednesday. A press release says the bank, as part of its CSR initiative, had converted the old Amaravati Bridge as a walker’s path for the benefit of the people. The work was completed at a cost of about Rs. 2 crore. The bank had improved the aesthetics at the facility. Paver blocks have been laid to enhance the walking experience. A park with a fountain and kids play area have been developed adjacent to the bridge. A Miyawaki forest has been raised to provide green cover. M.R.Vijayabhaskar, Transport Minister, P.Thangamani, Electricity Minister, S. Malarvizhi, Collector, B.Ramesh Babu, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Karur Vysya Bank, were present.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Thirumalai Nayak Palace reopens to public after a gap of over 9 months||The famed Thirumalai Nayak Palace, one of the important tourist attractions in the city, reopened to public on Wednesday after a gap of over nine months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. However, the palace, where major restoration work is almost completed, saw very few visitors. King Thirumalai Nayak built the palace in 1636 AD. The present structure was the main portion where he lived and held his court. It has a rectangular courtyard flanked by huge and tall colonnades, natakasala (theatre), palace shrine and sculptural yard. According to officials of the State Archaeological Department, the original palace was four times the size of the present structure. A tourist notice board at the venue said the then governor of Madras, Lord Napier, took steps to restore the palace from further ruin. Deputy Director of Archaeology R. Sivanandam said that around 90% of restoration work at the palace had been completed. “The remaining works will be completed within the next few days.” The restoration work was undertaken through a loan of Rs. 3.3 crore received from Asian Development Bank. The facelift was necessitated as the majestic monument was defaced over the years — pillars ruined by pigeon droppings, paintings on the walls peeling off, and graffiti covering walls and pillars. Mr. Sivanandam said the damaged portions of the domes had been restored. “Earlier, the water seeped into the palace from the domes. We have taken steps to address the issue,” he said. The massive pillars along the courtyard had also been restored and whitewashed. “The unique aspect of the restoration work was that all damaged portions were repaired using the material originally used,” he said. Pointing to a damaged portion in one of the pillars along the courtyard, Mr. Sivanandam said the first layer of the pillar was made of granite, the second was made of bricks and the final layer was made of limestone. “The limestone was brought from Kazhugumalai and Pollachi. Materials like chebulic myrobalan and jaggery were also used for the restoration work,” he added. A huge net has been fixed to cover the open courtyard to prevent pigeons from entering the palace. An official from the State Archaeological Department said that it was important that the public refrain from vandalising the walls and pillars of the palace, which was being restored with great difficulty. Although the restoration was scheduled to be completed earlier, shortage of labour and difficulty in transporting raw material during the lockdown led to delay in completion of the project, said officials. The State Archaeological Department also received funds from the Central government for restoration of the natakasala , palace shrine and sculptural yard. “These works will begin from January,” said Mr. Sivanandam. Apart from this, the department had also submitted a proposal for construction of wooden boxes for pigeons on top of the net fixed in the open courtyard, he added.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protest against new farm laws enters third day in Madurai||Farmers and members of Left parties staged a protest for the third consecutive day near the Collectorate here on Wednesday, in solidarity with farmers protesting in New Delhi against the recently passed farm laws. Members of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association, Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers' Association, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), and other organisations took part in the protest. The protesters raised slogans against the Central government. They demanded that the government repeal the agriculture laws. President of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers' Association N. Palanichamy said that according to the laws there was no guarantee or safety assured for farmers who sign a contract with private companies. “At present, many sugarcane farmers from Madurai district have signed a contract with private mills. However, the farmers have to fight every single time for settlement of their dues. This will be the case when farmers sign an agreement with private corporates under the laws,” he pointed out. The customers would also be affected as private companies would procure the agricultural produce at a low cost from the farmers, but sell them at higher cost to the customers, Mr. Palanichamy added.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway gatekeepers report sick en masse in Virudhunagar, Madurai||Railway gatekeepers on Madurai-Kovilpatti broad gauge section reported sick en masse on Wednesday. They complained of fatigue caused by extended hours of work. Senior railway officials held talks with their representatives and promised to settle their demand in a week’s time. Following the assurance, the gatekeepers returned to work. The protest started with the gatekeepers reporting at Railway Hospital in Madurai and Virudhunagar, seeking that they be allowed to take sick leave en masse . When doctors refused, they lay down on the floor on the hospital premises. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union divisional secretary J.M. Rafi, who took part in the talks, said the single-line section classified as “essential intermittent” was upgraded to “continuous route” based on rail/road traffic in 2018 after a job analysis done by railway officials. Under the EI roaster, gatekeepers should work for 12 hours a day and six days a week if they were provided with official quarters at the work spot. If no quarters was provided, they should work for five days a week. However, after the section was upgraded, the working hours were reduced to eight hours for six days a week. Thereby, the gatekeepers who were working on two shifts should be made to work on three. Due to shortage of manpower, officials then insisted on two-shift working pattern for a brief while. However, it had not been changed for the last two years. “Since, gatekeepers have an important role in safety and punctuality, any minor lapse in their work is viewed seriously. As the workers complain of fatigue due to long working hours in a busy section, SRMU intervened in the issue,” union assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar said. Stating that 10 gatekeepers had been removed from service for lapses during the last year, Mr. Rafi said railway authorities should show the same concern on safety aspect by allowing them to work as per rules. It would reduce their burden and allow them to fully focus on their work.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police issue warning to share autos||Madurai City Traffic Police have warned share-auto drivers of stringent action for overloading and alteration of seats as per High Court direction. At a meeting organised by the police to explain to owners and drivers of share-autos the guidelines issued by the High Court, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) K. Sugumaran said the police would not impose fine on the vehicles for loading more than three passengers. Similarly, no fine would be imposed for altering the seat arrangement in the vehicles. “As per the High Court direction, the vehicles that violate the two traffic rules would be impounded and sent to Regional Transport Office for suspension of permit of the vehicle,” he said. The city police would keep a close vigil on share-autos for violation of the two rules. Regional Transport Officer (Madurai North) Selvam said Madurai district had issued permits for 16,000 autorickshaws. To protect the livelihood of autodrivers, no new permits were being issued. The autodrivers must abide by the road rules. Assistant Commissioners A. Tirumalai and Mariappan (Traffic), Soorakumar (Law and Order), RTO (South) Singaravelan, were among those who took part in the meeting.
17 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State yet to transfer land to Centre for AIIMS||The State government has not yet transferred the land to the Central government for setting up All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur in Madurai, reveals a Right to Information (RTI) Act reply obtained by an activist, R. Pandiaraja. The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for the Rs. 1,264-crore project in January 2019. It was scheduled to be completed in 45 months since the commencement of construction work. “Although almost two years have passed since the laying of the foundation stone, there has not been much progress on the project,” Mr. Pandiaraja said. When he asked 17 questions regarding funding, design and project deadline, the Department of Health and Family Welfare gave only a brief reply. The RTI reply said construction work would commence only after the loan was sanctioned by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The process was on, it added. The JICA conducted a preparatory survey at Thoppur in February. An RTI reply obtained by Mr. Pandiaraja in August said the loan agreement was likely to be signed with JICA by December 2020. “The State government can intervene to address the issue by funding the project,” he said. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan accused the State of showing a lackadaisical attitude towards setting up AIIMS. He said he had written to the Chief Minister in June 2019 regarding transfer of land. “There is no official appointed by the State to supervise the project,” he said. Setting up AIIMS at Jammu was announced at the same time when the announcement for Madurai was made. “Admissions to medical courses in Jammu AIIMS commenced this year,” he said. People’s Movement for AIIMS Madurai chief coordinator V.S. Manimaran said if the State government was sure of receiving funds from the JICA, then it must commence floating tenders for the construction of AIIMS without delay.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench recalls remarks against advocate||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday recalled the remarks made against an advocate who cried out ‘injustice’ following pronouncement of a judgment that went against her during a virtual hearing last week. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi said the remarks made against the advocate stands recalled. It also recalled the order that was pronounced and directed the matter to be placed before another bench. The judges said the court would not be justified in taking up the matter and observed, “we do not want anyone to get the impression that we are biased. Post the matter before another Bench.” The court had observed that the outcry of the counsel amounted to contempt of court and also needed a reference to Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for taking disciplinary proceedings against her. “Whatever may be the proceedings or the result of the proceedings, a senior member of the Bar ought not to have stooped down to the level of making allegations against this court. We are pained by the representation made by counsel appearing for the respondent, who was a leader of the bar for some time and also a senior member. If this kind of attitude is going to be encouraged, it will send a wrong message to the juniors, who are all watching the court proceedings,” the judges said. The remark was recalled. Taking into consideration that the counsel had a grievance that she needed to be heard, the court agreed to give her an opportunity to put forth her further arguments. Last week, following the pronouncement of the order, counsel submitted that it was unfortunate that the court passed the judgment in the writ appeal without hearing her arguments and she was under the impression that the writ appeal preferred against her would be dismissed.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Seven-year RI for bank fraud||Special Judge for CBI Cases, Madurai, M. Sivaprakasam on Tuesday sentenced Niyaz Khan alias Abdul Razack to undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 35 lakh for his involvement in a bank fraud case. The CBI had registered a case in 2002 based on a complaint from Canara Bank alleging that the accused, including a senior manager and other officials of the bank and private persons, in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy presented 20 forged cheques for the total amount of Rs. 1,17,69,751 and withdrew the amount in respect of 13 cheques. An alleged loss to the tune of Rs. 6.58 lakh was caused to the Bank. Earlier the Special Judge for CBI Cases, Madurai had convicted three accused in the case and sentenced them to undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment. A fine of Rs. 35 lakh was also imposed on them. Since accused Niyaz Khan was absconding at the time, the case against him was split. After apprehending Niyaz Khan, he was made to face the trial leading to the present conviction, said a CBI release.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SI aspirants file writ appeal||A group of Sub-Inspector of Police aspirants preferred a writ appeal before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday against a single bench order that had concluded that the Indian currency was devalued thrice since 1947. The single bench had directed 0.5 marks be awarded to two petitioners who had challenged the expert committee’s answer: four times. The contention was the answer to the question: How many times the Indian rupee was devalued since 1947 ? that was asked in Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board examination. While in the preliminary answer key it was given out as three times, in the final answer key it was given out as four times by the expert committee. The single bench hearing the writ petition filed by two SI aspirants had held that the expert committee apart from the devaluation of the currency thrice has also taken into account the demonetisation of (Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000) currency in 2016. Therefore, the expert committee had concluded that the answer was four times instead of three times, the single judge had observed. The appellants who had answered the question as four times appealed against the order of the single judge and sought permission to take part in the interview that was scheduled to commence this week. The court was informed that the interview for the selection to the post of Sub-Inspector of Police would go on for three weeks. The judges adjourned further hearing till December 21.
17 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs CBI to file counter affidavit||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file a counter affidavit in the bail petition filed by suspended police officer P. Raghu Ganesh, accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the CBI to file a counter affidavit and adjourned the hearing in the case to January next. The earlier bail petition that was filed at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court by a suspended Sub-Inspector of Police was dismissed. All nine accused in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks are lodged in Madurai Central Prison.
17 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Amur falcon sighted near Point Calimere||An Amur falcon was sighted earlier this week on the campus of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) at Kodiakkarai, abutting the Point Calimere Sanctuary, in Nagapattinam district. The bird, sighted for the first time in the area, was photographed by BNHS researcher Subhiksha Lakshmi Maxima. “It is unusual to find the bird in south India. Usually, it takes the path of central India on its lengthy migration from the breeding grounds in Russia and China to South Africa,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director, BNHS. The small, resilient birds make the daring voyage to winter in southern Africa. “The falcons are supposed to cross the Arabian Sea during their migration, but much is still unknown about the patterns of their estimated 22,000 km journey,” Mr. Balachandran said. A change in the wind pattern, caused by Cyclones Nivar and Burevi, could have been the reason for the lone falcon to find its way to Point Calimere. Migratory birds have gathered in and around Point Calimere this northeast monsoon season. For long-distance migratory shorebirds, staging as well as stopover sites are of critical importance. Shorebirds are sensitive indicators of global climate change, and the populations of many long-distance migrants are in decline, Mr. Balachandran said. Rising sea level “The rising sea level is certainly affecting migratory and wintering shorebirds, perhaps favouring some and not others. The birds seen here include flamingoes, painted storks, pelicans, gulls, ducks, terns, and a variety of shorebirds,” he added. In early September, 85% of the migratory birds sighted were curlew sandpipers, an Arctic breeding species. During November, a change came about after the northeast monsoon hit the saltpans, swamps and marshes, bringing life to the region. Due to the flooding of the bird areas in the Kodiakkarai region, the smaller waders had shifted to Siruthalaikadu, where mudflats are open. Kodiakkarai now has more longer and larger migratory birds, like Eurasian curlews and bar-tailed godwits, while the less flooded area of Siruthalaikadu has about 30,000 small waders and migratory ducks like northern pintails and garganeys. The waders, like sanderlings, Temminck’s stints, long-toed stints and oriental pratincoles, which were uncommon in Point Calimere, are being sighted now. The duration of stay of the migratory birds depends on the retention of rainwater and the inflow of seawater into the swamp.
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records one death and 32 new cases||Puducherry recorded one COVID-19 death and 32 new cases on Wednesday. A 57-year old woman from neighbouring Uzhavarkarai village succumbed to coronavirus infection to take the toll in the Union Territory to 622. The Covid death count in the capital is 509, followed by Karaikal (60), Yanam (45) and Mahe (eight). Puducherry accounted for 16 of the new cases, Mahe 13 and Karaikal while testing 3,477 samples. After 28 patients recovered and were discharged, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 299. The cumulative cases aggregated to 37,582 cases while 36,661 patients have recovered so far. The test positivity rate dropped to 0.92 per cent, case fatality rate stood at 1.66 per cent and recovery rate at 97.55 per cent. However, though the actual numbers in Karaikal were low (three), the test positivity rate (from 114 samples) was at 2.63 per cent which was much higher than that of the Union Territory. The Health Department has so far carried out 4.40 lakh tests with 3.99 lakh samples returning negative. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has tasked the Special Secretary, Relief and Rehabilitation to evolve a factsheet highlighting the preparatory measures to rolling out a mass vaccination programme for Covid-19. Refresher training would be held for health personnel in this regard and steps taken to ensure that workers in the outlying regions are coopted in the exercise. Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported 12 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,466. While 24,100 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 56. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 14,811. Kallakurichi district reported four positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,742.
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) writes to EC on ‘biased’ postings by L-G||The CPI(M) has written to the Election Commission alleging that Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi is trying to meddle in the appointment of officials for election duty. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Tuesday, CPI(M) State Committee member T. Murugan said Ms. Bedi was trying to post IAS officers in key posts and for election duty. He also requested the ECI to restrain Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh from “biased and unfair” acts of posting favoured officers for election duty. According to Mr. Murugan, the bias of the CEO was evident from the link arrangement for officers holding the post of District Election Officers and Electoral Registration Officers. The electoral roll revision was fully managed by the Electoral Registration Officers, and the District Election Officers only played a supervisory role. In an order issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms on December 8, the link officers were given the additional charge as Electoral Registration Officers until an officer took charge. But the District Election Officers, who played a minor role, had been given the additional charge of a special summary revision of the rolls. The order had made it clear that the District Election Officers would look after duties till the completion of the revision. Mr. Murugan said Purva Garg, who was given the additional charge as District Election Officer, had re-tweeted a message posted by the BJP on its Twitter handle. Additional charge He also flagged the additional charge given to Director of Art and Culture P. Ragini as the Electoral Registration Officer for three Assembly constituencies. The officer is the wife of the Lt. Governor’s Private Secretary, the letter said. “This creates suspicion among the public and parties that there is an attempt to include bogus voters in the list to favour the BJP,” he said.
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Complete MBBS admissions by Dec. 31, L-G tells CENTAC||The Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has instructed the Centralised Admission Committee (CENTAC) to complete the MBBS admission process in adherence to the recent order of the Madras High Court by December 31. The Lt. Governor, who had convened a meeting at the Raj Nivas, to discuss the issue of reserving 50% MBBS/BDS seats in private unaided medical colleges for government quota in the wake of the judicial ruling, said the Health Department would communicate the seat matrix to CENTAC by strictly adhering to the order of the High Court. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, officials at the meeting said there would be three rounds of counselling, followed by mop-up counselling, before completion of admission process by CENTAC. They also stated that the information regarding government seats and rules of reservation were given to the applicants in brochure 2020-21 (Vol. I & Vol. II). The officials also briefed the Lt. Governor that the brochure 2020-21 regarding admission was published soon after the declaration of results of Plus 2 board examinations and the said brochure contained details of government quota and management quota of seats in private unaided medical colleges and also the reservation pattern, namely horizontal and vertical. The last date for filing application for medical courses was over on November 2. The 50% seat sharing by private medical colleges and horizontal reservation of 10% for government school children were not included in the brochure issued by CENTAC as the policy decision taken by the Cabinet were yet to be approved by the Central Government. The High Court had passed an order on December 11 stating that it was too late in the day to change the rules of the game after the selection process had commenced for medical courses. The court also noted that the draft Bill submitted by the Government of Puducherry to the Central Government for sharing of 50% seats by private unaided medical colleges was yet to be approved. Ms. Bedi has instructed officials to closely follow up with the Centre about the draft Bill for 50% sharing of seats with government by private unaided medical colleges and also approval for 10% horizontal reservation for government schoolchildren. The fee for the year 2020-21 should be the same as that of the previous year. In future the CENTAC Committee should submit the draft Information Brochure to the government for approval before the same is published. Among those who attended the meeting were Ashwani Kumar, Chief Secretary, A. Anbarasu, Development Commissioner/Chairman, CENTAC, J. Juliet Puspha, Secretary (Law), Chaudhari Abhijit Vijay, Secretary (Health), S. Mohankumar, Director (Health), P.T. Rudra Goud, Director (School Education)/Co-ordinator, CENTAC and S. Punithamary, Under Secretary (Health).
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry schools to resume regular activities from January 18||The government has decided to resume regular academic activities in all schools from January 18 next year. Addressing a press conference at the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, Minister for Education R. Kamalakannan said after the Union Territory started showing a dip in novel coronavirus cases, there had been a demand from parents and students to resume academic activities. The department has now decided to start partial resumption of classes from January 4. The students would be given the option to visit schools from January 4 to 17 to clear doubts. From January 18, there would be regular classes for all sections in the Union Territory, he said. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure would be issued regarding partial and regular reopening of schools in the coming days, he said. “We have taken the decision based on the number of cases reported now. The decision on partial and regular reopening will be subject to the outcome of the spread of the virus. The Centre has bestowed upon States and Union Territories the right to take a decision on resumption of academic activities,” Mr. Kamalakannan said.
17 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University professor felicitated||S. A. Abbasi, CSIR Emeritus Professor at Pondicherry University, has been ranked among the top 100 Indian scientists in a recently published Stanford University study, a press note from the Pondicherry University said. Prof. Abbasi, who is Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge, UK, and considered to be among the world’s most senior environmental experts, was felicitated on the achievement by the Pondicherry University Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh. Besides serving on committees of the UGC and the AICTE which assess upcoming universities for accreditation, Prof. Abbasi is also advisor on faculty selection and PG programmes at the University of Malaya. Besides, with over 300 research papers and 43 books which have received close to 13,000 citations from all over the world, he is one of the most-cited Indian researchers.
17 December 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Teacher ends life, usury suspected||A 52-year-old man identified as Poomariappan of Akkalmadam, near here allegedly committed suicide at his house on Tuesday night. Police said that he was a teacher in a government school in the locality. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the teacher was married and had three children. He had borrowed money from a few financiers for high rates of interest and he was unable to settle the amount. However, there was ‘undue’ pressure and threat from the financiers, the relatives charged and that had forced the teacher to end his life by hanging. Pamban police have registered a case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. Engineer held for bribe Boominathan (51) working as Assistant Executive Engineer, Tangedco at Chinnamanur was arrested under charges of corruption by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths. According to a complaint from Chinnapandi (30) son of Karnan of Paramathevanpatti, he had applied for fresh electricity connection to his house bought 10 years ago by his mother through the Central government scheme. All these years, the family did not have electricity and had now planned to get one. When Chinnapandi had approached the official, he had reportedly asked him to fill a form and pay Rs. 2,818 as fee to the government and demanded Rs. 3,000 as bribe. After negotiation, Boominathan settled for Rs. 2500. However, in a bid to expose the corrupt official, Chinnapandi filed a complaint with the Vigilance officers. DSP Satyaseelan, Inspectors Kannan and Geetha and team laid a trap when the accused received the money from the complainant. According to the police, the TANGEDCO officer’s house in Madurai was also raided on Tuesday late night.
17 December 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Teacher ends life||A 52-year-old man, Poomariappan of Akkalmadam, allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his house on Tuesday night. Police said he was a teacher in a government school in the locality. Preliminary inquiry revealed that he was married and had three children. He had borrowed money from moneylenders for high rates of interest and was unable to repay. There were threats from moneylenders, his relatives said. Pamban police have registered a case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
17 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||2,000 Amma mini clinics to be opened across State in 10 days||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that 2,000 Amma mini clinics would be inaugurated across the State in 10 days. Inaugurating a Amma mini clinic at Kondalampatti here on Wednesday, Mr. Palaniswami said that 34 such clinics would be inaugurated in the first phase in Salem and it would be gradually increased to 100 clinics in about 10 days. Explaining the contributions made by the government to the health department, including the 7.5% reservation for government school students and 11 new medical colleges, the Chief Minister said that the new medical colleges and hospitals being constructed in State would be modern and surpass the facilities available in foreign countries. Countering the charges made by Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi, at Edappadi recently, that there was no development in Salem, Mr. Palaniswami listed the various development schemes carried out in Salem and alleged that the Opposition was spreading lies about the government. “People are watching and they are benefiting from the various schemes of this government. No one can cheat the public and they are the kings. People should teach a befitting lesson to the Opposition,” he said. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar addressed Mr. Palaniswami as ‘Superfast Chief Minister’ for the way he conceptualised and implemented various schemes . Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, District Collector S.A. Raman, AIADMK legislators and other senior officials were present.
17 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CII favours farm Acts||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) favoured the farm Acts, saying that agriculture reforms will improve market access and increase income for farmers. In a release, CII said that the reforms would catalyse private investment and modernise supply chains. The recent measures were part of a larger set of coordinated and comprehensive initiatives taken by the government by introducing risk mitigation measures, reducing post-harvest losses and augmenting market and income for farmers, a release said. The release further said that the recent policy interventions around farmer producer organisations, agro clusters and agri infrastructure fund created and enabled an ecosystem for aggregation, collaboration and access to open alternate markets. CII said that the agriculture reforms were setting the sector on the right growth trajectory.
17 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Dr. Agarwal’s eye hospital inaugurated||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital at Five Roads junction in Salem on Wednesday. This is the 96th branch of the group. In his address at the event, Mr. Palaniswami highlighted the importance of the eye and eye care and appreciated the services of Dr. Agarwal’s hospitals. He appreciated the free medical camps organised by the group, especially in rural areas. He appealed to the hospital to ensure quality healthcare to its patients. Talking at the event, Amar Agarwal, chairman, said that the hospital has been set up at a cost of Rs. 15 crore with state-of-art facilities to provide treatment to patients from Salem and nearby areas. Complicated surgeries like Glued IOL could be conducted at the hospital, he said and added that the group is planning to expand to 150 hospitals. Over 50,000 patients are visiting their hospitals each day, Dr. Agarwal said. The hospital organised s free eye check-up for patients aged 50 years and above on the inaugural day. S. Kaladevi, Regional Medical Director, said that the hospital has a viewing gallery system where attenders of patients can observe entire surgery procedures. E. Karpagavalli, Head, Clinical Services, said that patients from Salem would not have to to travel cities like Chennai or Coimbatore for availing of eye care treatment as all facilities are available at the hospital. District Collector S.A. Raman, Adil Agarwal, CEO and others attended the event.
17 December 2020||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Protests in support of farmers continue||The All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee’s (AIKSCC) protest in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi against the three farm laws entered its second day here on Wednesday. In Namakkal, the AIKSCC members staged protest at Park Road demanding the Centre to repeal the three laws. The protesters alleged that the new laws would make farmers slaves of the Corporates. The new laws will lead to stoppage of Minimum Support Price, State government subsidies and free electricity, they alleged. The protesters alleged that the laws posed challenge to food security of the country. In Salem, the members protested in front of the Salem Collectorate. In Krishnagiri, the protests staged by AIKSCC and the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam entered its third day on Wednesday. Krishnagiri MP A.Chellakumar addressed the protesters.
17 December 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized during DVAC raid||In a surprise check, officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 39,000 unaccounted money from the premises of the office of Assistant Executive Engineer, Rural Development, Srivilliputur, on Wednesday. Based on information that bribe was being paid to officials by panchayat presidents, secretaries and contractors, a team led by Deputy Inspection Cell Officer Senthivel and Deputy Superintendent of Police, P. Karuppiah, conducted a surprise check. The officials found Rs. 12,000 unaccounted money in possession of a contractor, Vignesh Ramana and Rs. 27,000 in the two-wheeler of a retired office assistant, Alagumuthu. The check was conducted in the presence of AEE, Sivagami and AE, Maheswari.
17 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mausoleum complex of Maratha kings to be renovated||Around 20 mausoleums at the Kailash Mahal, known as “Raja Gori,” (exclusive burial ground of Maratha rulers and their lineage) here would be renovated. The project was conceived by Shri Jayamala Rani Charitable and Educational Trust of Sadar Mahal Palace, Thanjavur, as mausoleums display a fusion of Maratha, Mugal and Dravidian architecture built with bricks, terracotta and lime plaster on granite and laterite base. Some have intricate ornament works and carry stone inscriptions providing details of the Maratha dynasty including the name and titles of the kings, queens and their date of demise and others. Among them the mausoleums of King Tulaja, Pratap Sing, Sarfoji II and Shivaji II and some of their queens were prominent. The “Raja Gori” situated at Vambulancholai on the southern bank of the Vadavar, is considered to be one among various sites in the country where memorial shrines of dynastic lineage have been built. This unique group of heritage structures with archaeological, historical, architectural and epigraphical importance have lost their sheen due to ravage of time, according to Sadar Mahal Palace sources. So, the trust decided to renovate the mausoleums and revive the glory of the “Kailash Mahal” which had borne the brunt of unplanned urbanisation around the complex in the recent past. Sundarraj, a former resident of Vadakkuvasal, who had moved to Nanjikottai Road, recalled that three decades ago he used to visit the mausoleum complex almost daily to receive the ‘prasadams’ - the cooked food offered to Lingam and Goddess Parvathi idols installed in the free-standing buildings constructed above the burial chambers of kings and queens and distributed to the public. Participating in the bhoomi Ppja for the renovation here recently, Collector M.Govinda Rao urged the public to preserve the heritage structures in the district which have immense potential to attract tourists. Stating that the trust aims to renovate and restore the glory of “Raja Gori” with the donation from public and heritage lovers, Sadar Mahal Palace sources welcomed liberal contributions to the Renovation Committee of Monuments.
17 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Do not set up liquor shop, say residents||A group of villagers, who opposed the setting up of a liquor shop at Umaiyaval Arcot hamlet near here, staged a road roko on Wednesday. Residents of Umaiyaval Arcot, Panaveli and Nagaththi villages near here came to know that the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC) was planning to set up a liquor shop at Umaiyaval Arcot hamlet. They submitted representations to the authorities concerned seeking cancellation of the move. As the authorities did not give up, the villagers squatted on Thanjavur-Ariyalur Road at Ammanpettai. Traffic was disrupted for more than three hours. Police officials rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the villagers in vain. As the demonstrators insisted on a written assurance from the officials that the proposal to open the shop would be shelved, the police arrested around 150 persons and released them later in the evening.
17 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Theni-Chennai train service may become a reality by June: DRM||Madurai Divisional Railway Manager V. R. Lenin has said that a direct train from Theni to Chennai via Madurai may commence from June 2021. Speaking to reporters, after inspecting the broad gauge (BG) works between Madurai and Bodi, he said that the project, which was planned in 2009, had been completed up to Andipatti and the rest of the stretch would be completed in the next 100 days. “We are keen to see it through,” he added. The 37 km-stretch between Madurai and Usilampatti has been completed and a trial run would be conducted soon. Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Abhai Kumar Rai, along with the DRM and other divisional officials, inspected the second stretch of the new broad gauge section between Usilampatti and Andipatti covering 21 kms on Wednesday. After a trolley inspection, he also conducted a speed trial on the track. Work on the Andipatti-Theni section is on at a faster pace. In all probability, from June 2021, a direct train service from Theni to Chennai via Madurai may become functional, he responded to a query. He hoped that by October 2021, the service could be extended up to Bodinayakkanur. The administration would examine the modalities to run a service between Madurai and Theni too by May next, he said. The Madurai-Bodi metre gauge, which had been there since the British era was closed in January 2011 after the Ministry of Railways announced gauge conversion work. Though the project should have been completed long back, it was delayed due to non-allocation of funds. For almost seven years, it remained a non-starter. Several political parties and elected representatives from Madurai, Theni, Dindigul and other pockets had raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly and in the Parliament demanding completion of the project. Trade and industry bodies had also submitted a memorandum to the Union ministers in this regard in the past. Recently, Theni Lok Sabha MP O. P. Raveendranath had appealed to the Minister of Railways to sanction funds for the project without any more delay.
17 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Farmer killed||A 58-year-old man identified as Ammasi of Maanar Hills here was found dead in the early hours of Wednesday. Police said that following a complaint that the man was missing, a hunt was on. It is suspected that an elephant roaming in the Highwavys may have trampled the farmer to death. The body was identified by the family and sent for postmortem.
17 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||7 fishermen detained by Sri Lankan Navy||Seven fishermen from Tharuvaikulam fishing harbour with their mechanised boat have been detained by the Sri Lankan navy as they allegedly entered Sri Lankan waters. The seven fishermen – S. Velraj, 39, of Tharuvaikulam, A. Dhanush, 21, and P. Ananth, 40, of Thaalamuthu Nagar, M. Umaiya Eswaran, 38, of Rameswaran, M. Thangapandi, 30, of Melagaram near Tenkasi, S. Anbu, 43, and P. Pandi of Siluvaipatti – had gone for fishing in a mechanised boat from their base on December 11. As they allegedly entered the Sri Lankan waters, the Sri Lakan navy detained the boat with the fishermen and took them to the Kalpitti naval base on Tuesday, where they have been isolated in the wake of pandemic threat. Representations have been forwarded to the Collector to ensure the safe and early release of the detained fishermen with the boat, sources in Tharuvaikulam Fishing Harbour said.
17 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber seized||The Soorankudi police seized a cargo autorickhsaw with 955 kg of sea cucumber as it was about to be smuggled to an undisclosed destination. The police who were on a patrol, spotted the cargo vehicle near Vembar around 2 a.m. When the police approached the vehicle, five persons fled the spot while one K. Avulmaideen, 43, of nearby Nariappaiyoor was picked-up. On checking the vehicle, they found that sea cucumber, a Schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, had been loaded. Avulmaideen told the police that he and his associates had purchased sea cucumber from a person in Thoothukudi and had come to Vembar, a coastal hamlet, to sell it to a local person. Police suspect that the sea cucumber was on its way to Sri Lanka.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Progress of development works reviewed||The Assembly Public Accounts Committee, led by its chairman Duraimurugan, MLA, reviewed development works being executed by various government departments in the district on Wednesday. A press release said the committee reviewed the works and schemes implemented by the Department of Adi Dravida Welfare, Highways, Agriculture and Tiruchi Corporation, among others, at a meeting of officials led by Collector S.Sivarasu. Mr.Duraimurugan said that the committee is empowered to verify whether the funds allotted under grants for various departments have been utilised properly. The committee examined the stalemate over the construction of the multi-level road over bridge near the Railway Junction in the city, which remains suspended for the past few years pending the transfer of Defence land. In an informal chat with reporters later, he said the issue could have been easily sorted out when Nirmala Sitharaman held the Defence portfolio earlier. “Even now she can recommend,” he observed. Any project should be started only after acquisition of land. If the norm had been followed, the project would have been completed, he added. Later, the committee inspected the progress of redevelopment of the Chathiram Bus Stand under the Smart City project, supply of food to prisoners at the Central Prison and cultivation of a new rice variety at the TNAU Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, .
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seasonal infections under control in Tiruchi district||Seasonal infections, including dengue are under check due to COVID-19 awareness, say health authorities. The number of cases of seasonal flu reported this year is significantly less so far due to measures undertaken to keep COVID-19 in check, they say. In Tiruchi, a team from the Directorate of Public Health led by the District Medical Officer has been delegated to conduct awareness programmes on seasonal diseases such as dengue and malaria which are usually on the rise during the monsoons. However, they have only recorded a handful of cases so far, said A. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi. The use of bleaching powder and disinfectants by the civic body and the public has resulted in rare cases of mosquito breeding, which are being controlled by the team. ‘The public are aware of the health risks and are keeping their surroundings neat and clean,’ he said. There are only a few active cases at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and the various private hospitals in the district. ‘Usually, clusters of patients affected by dengue are identified at schools, colleges or places of work. With most of these buildings closed and the people staying home, the effect is low,’ a health official said. However, disinfection, fogging, identifying areas which were hotspots over the previous years are under way. Similar patterns were reported in nearby districts including Thanjavur and Pudukottai. However, some officials noted that cases for seasonal flu are reported a week or two after rains have subsided. ‘Mosquitoes breed in stagnant water and cases are only identified after a week of when they are infected,’ a health official said. General fear of fever, triggered by apprehension of contracting COVID-19 has led to awareness, said B. Kalaivani, DDHS, Pudukottai. Hospitals in Pudukottai have been instructed to run tests for COVID-19, typhoid and dengue simultaneously, when a patient complains of fever.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Officials to increase contact with farmers||Agriculture and Horticulture Departments will implement an outreach programme for closer interaction between officials and farmers at the village level. Officials would visit fields to offer technical support and advice on various agriculture related issues. “Though such interactions were taking place already, the programme aims at increasing the frequency of visits and strengthen the interaction,” an official said. The officers would provide inputs to farmers on latest farm technologies and best practices and various government schemes implemented for their benefit. “At least 10 progressive farmers would be selected in each panchayat and trained. These farmers, in turn, will serve as a bridge between farmers and officials,” the official said. A press release from Perambalur said that taluk level agriculture extension committees, comprising an agriculture scientist, agriculture officers and assistant agricultural officers to carry out the outreach programme have been formed. Each committee will be headed by officers in the rank of assistant directors of agriculture. Similarly, horticulture extension committees have been formed at the taluk level. The committee members would carry out the extension activities four days a week by visiting fields between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.and offer necessary advice and support. They would brief farmers on weather updates so that they can take appropriate actions. Agriculture Department officials in Thanjavur said at least two of the 10 progressive farmers to be identified would be from Scheduled Caste. Officers visiting the villages would organise field demonstrations, conduct farm schools and arrange study tours. The schedule of officers’ visits would be fixed and conveyed to farmers so that they can make best use of the programme.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 89 cases||The central region on Wednesday recorded 89 fresh cases of COVID-19. No COVID-19 death was reported in the region according to the bulletin released by the State Health Department. All districts in the region reported less than 25 fresh cases for the viral infection on Wednesday. Tiruchi reported 25 fresh cases, a slight spike for the viral infection among whom were primary contacts and isolated cases with no history of travel or contacts. Meanwhile, 13 patients who were being treated at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for COVID were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Wednesday. Thanjavur reported 16 fresh cases while Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam reported 15 cases each. Among them were patients with a history of respiratory illnesses, primary contacts and local index cases. Pudukottai reported nine cases and Karur eight. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Pugalur, Vengampatti among other localities. In Ariyalur, one patient tested positive while in Perambalur no fresh case was reported.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to revive MSME sector||The BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) has urged the Central government to form a high level committee involving ministries of MSME, heavy industry, finance and defence, and representatives of industry bodies to re-activate the MSME sector. A team led by its president Rajappa Rajkumar met the Union Minister for MSME and Transport Nitin Gadkari for the second time in two months and submitted a petition seeking formation of such a committee to arrive at suitable policies suiting the present scenario. MSME units have been pushed into a difficult situation due to steep increase in steel prices, GST issues and other problems, he explained to the Minister. The BHELSIA sought an end to the current ‘lowest bidder’ (L1) since it does not give sufficient weightage to quality parameters. In the current system, which is called Least Cost Selection Method, the bidder quoting the lowest price wins the contract. A base price ought to be fixed before the bidding process, he said. For instance, the welding quality of cabins manufactured by the Integral Coach Factory is not up to the mark due to the L1 system of tendering. The infrastructure of over 400 fabrication industries in Tiruchi region that have a conversion capacity for seven lakh tonnes is so underutilised. The industries are handling only two lakh tonnes, he said. The Central Vigilance Commission has advocated a revisit to current norm and an all inclusive public procurement strategy, in sync with a rapidly changing world. A concept paper has suggested that conventional L1 method is not suited for major infrastructure projects. As for defence corridor project, the capacity in terms of high-end heavy-duty manufacturing and fabrication will suit well the requirements of manufacturers of ship hulls, tanks and armoured personnel carriers. There is a sense of disappointment in industry circles over the slow progress of the defence corridor project in Tamil Nadu. According to industry bodies, Uttar Pradesh is far ahead in giving a shape to its defence corridor project. IAS officers must be assigned the responsibility to pursue the project to expedite its implementation, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online orientation on safety begins||A schedule of online orientation for headmasters and teachers of government schools on safety of students and personal care got off to a start on Wednesday. The training by the School Education Department envisages disseminating to students safety measures to prevent COVID-19 infection. It will cover heads and teachers of all government elementary, middle, high and higher secondary schools. Safety precautions on school campus, health and hygiene of students and role of teachers in students’ safety are among the thrust areas to be covered in the training programme, according to a circular issued to the school heads. The participation of school heads and teachers will be monitored through the Tamil Nadu Teachers Platform (TNTP) and EMIS (Education Management Information System) portals, sources said. As per the schedule, school heads underwent the orientation on Wednesday. The programme will cover all PG teachers on December 17, Graduate Assistants on December 18 and 19, and Secondary teachers on December 21 and 22. According to reliable sources, the School Education Department is contemplating start of regular classes for students of IX to XII standards from the first week of January, 2021. The latest update for the school heads is that the portions will be reduced to the extent of 50 %. Earlier this year, the department had announced reduction of 40% of syllabus. The recommendation for reduction in school syllabus for the current academic year was made by a 18-member panel formed during May.
17 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fire drill conducted at LPG yard||A fire drill was conducted at the LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) yard of the High Pressure Boiler Plant of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) on Tuesday to check the preparedness of the fire-safety, security and rescue systems of the factory for dealing with emergencies. S Malathi, Joint Director, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), and P Tamilselvan, Deputy Director, witnessed the fire drill conducted by the BHEL Fire Services in which fire tenders and fire-fighting teams from the Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP), Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi (OFT) and Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) participated under the Mutual Aid Scheme between government enterprises. Personnel from the Tiruchi divisions of the IOC and the Airports Authority of India observed the drill involving simulation of an emergency situation in the LPG yard which has two bullet tanks of 50 tonnes capacity each. I Kamalakkannan, General Manager, Boiler Shops and site controller for the mock drill, said that LPG storage at BHEL was being done as per the stringent norms of the Explosives Inspectorate and that the LPG yard was being maintained and operated in strict accordance with all applicable safety standards. S Prabakaran, General Manager, Spares Business and Renovation and Modernisation (SB and R&M), Seamless Steel Tube Plant (SSTP), Welding Research Institute (WRI) and Labs, who holds additional charge of Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), said observations during the mock drill will be incorporated into the standard operating procedure.
17 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘MNM will form Third Front’||The Makkal Neethi Maiam will form a Third Front for the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls aligning with the “upright and respectable electoral partners”, said party founder Kamal Haasan in Tirunelveli on Wednesday. Concluding the first phase of his electioneering in the southern districts, he told mediapersons that MNM would certainly form a formidable Third Front. If actor Rajinikanth also joined the front, the Chief Ministerial candidate would be decided after discussing it with him. On reports about a possible tie-up with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen, Mr. Haasan said no such talks were on between them. He reiterated that corruption that had been made a part of life in Tamil Nadu should be uprooted and the guilty be punished. “That’s why we have entered politics and are enjoying overwhelming backing of the electorate, particularly the women and the youth, who will ensure the much-awaited change – the clean administration - in Tamil Nadu. Like David, we’ll ensure the fall of corrupt Goliaths in this electoral battle,” Mr.Haasan said. Mr. Haasan said the MNM’s manifesto would assure the people that they would get their basic necessities like protected drinking water free of cost. The MNM would give salary to housewives, who were donning a range of roles everyday in their families without any incentive. The fishermen, whose grievances had not been addressed properly, would be given due representation in the Assembly by fielding them in adequate numbers. On the delay in getting the party symbol, Mr. Haasan said the party would decide on approaching the court shortly if the issue was not resolved by the Election Commission of India. He held discussion with the women’s wing members and the youth in a private marriage hall at Anbu Nagar in Palayamkottai before leaving for Kanniyakumari district.
17 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Anti-farm law protests held||The All Indian Kisan Sabha’s wait-in protest in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi against the Farm Act continued in front of the Collectorate for the third day on Wednesday. The protestors, who started their agitation in front of the Collectorate, raised slogans against the Acts and demanded its unconditional and immediate repeal. The police arrested 55 persons including seven women. Terming the farm laws as designed in favour of corporates for robbing the farmers of their produce and even their small holdings in due course, the protestors said it should be withdrawn completely instead of making any corrections or amendments in it. In Thoothukudi, the police arrested 125 persons, including 13 women, when they organised a wait-in in front of the Collectorate on Wednesday. In Tenkasi, Opposition parties including the DMK, MDMK, Congress, CPI, CPI (M), Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Indian Union Muslim League, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai staged demonstration near the Collectorate campus.
17 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Will make T.N. ‘one trillion economy’: Kamal Haasan||Making Tamil Nadu a ‘one trillion economy’ through transparent and corruption-free administration at all levels is the goal of Makkal Needhi Maiam, its founder Kamal Haasan said in Tirunelveli on Wednesday. Interacting with party’s women’s wing members and the youth in a private marriage hall, Mr. Haasan said Tamil Nadu could be revamped. Right from finalisation of tenders to transfer of officials, everything would be done in a transparent fashion if MNM was voted to power, he said. He promised to take welfare schemes to the beneficiaries. Youth would be trained to be ‘job providers’ and farming would be modernised to make it profitable. “If the funds allocated for any project is spent in a transparent manner while implementing development projects as per rule, the State will become a ‘one trillion economy’,” he said calling for an end to corruption at all levels. He reiterated that people should not back those forcibly thrusting upon ‘one nation, one religion, one election, one examination, one language’ idea. The concept of ‘oneness’ would always lead to autocracy, anarchy and oppression, he said. Tamils, who were always open to learn any language, would not accept any new language if they were forced to learn. “Promoting the concept of ‘oneness’ in every aspect in the country with the hidden agenda of promoting ‘one Prime Minister’ cannot be allowed,” Mr.Haasan said without naming anyone.
17 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Woman gets life term for murder||A court here has awarded life imprisonment to a woman, who murdered her husband for sexually harassing her under the influence of alcohol everyday. According to prosecution, Gandhimathi of Paattapaththu near Tirunelveli Town married painter Radhakrishnan of Kovilpatti in 2007. Radhakrishnan, under the influence of alcohol, used to sexually harass Gandhimathi in the presence of their children, who are studying in school. When a drunk Radhakrishnan tortured the woman on May 8, 2019 in the presence of their three children, Gandhimathi resisted it. Angered over it, Radhakrishnan forced the woman to comply with his sexual demands. An agitated Gandhimathi dashed Radhakrishnan’s head against the floor and strangulated him with a rope and he died on the spot. Fourth Additional Sessions Judge Vijayakanth awarded Gandhimathi life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Make use of proposed textile park at Vedaranyam: Minister||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles O.S. Manian urged industrialists from Tiruppur to utilise the upcoming Vedha Textile Park at Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district, during a meeting here on Wednesday. According to a press release, Mr. Manian said that as Nagapattinam was agriculture-intensive area, other industries remain underdeveloped. The Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department, along with Tiruppur Exporters and Manufacturers Association and Nagapattinam District Administration identified a 46.5-hectare site at Ayakkaranpulam 4th Sethi village in Vedaranyam Block for setting up the park. The park, comprising 34 readymade garment and two knitwear units, is to be constructed at Rs. 96.86 crore. The Central government will offer a subsidy of Rs. 37.8 crore and the State government Rs. 23.62 crore. Training The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation has been requested to arrange training for 4,000 employees at the textile park and organisations such as K.P.R. Mills and Tiruppur Exporters Association have volunteered to provide it, according to the release. The Minister told mediapersons after the meeting that the first phase of training was scheduled to begin on December 29. The State government was unable to set up an industrial park in Tiruppur district due to the large population and inadequate space for setting up industries and accommodation for workers. “Even the construction of ESI Hospital [in Tiruppur] was delayed due to lack of space,” he said. A press release said that industrialists from Tiruppur, Principal Secretary of Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department Shambu Kallolikar, Director of Handlooms and Textiles M. Karunakaran, District Collectors K. Vijayakarthikeyan (Tiruppur) and Praveen P. Nair (Nagapattinam) and other officials participated in the meeting.
17 December 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Newborn handed over to CWC in Tiruvannamalai||A baby boy, which was surrendered by parents as they were unable to take care of him, was handed over to the Child Welfare Committee by Tiruvannamalai Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Wednesday. He named the baby as Shiva. Ever since the Cradle Baby Scheme was introduced in Tiruvannamalai in 1992, 110 babies have been rescued. Shiva was born on December 5 at the Tiruvannamalai Government Medical College and Hospital and as the parents were not in a position to take care of the infant, they decided to leave him with the hospital under the Cradle Baby Scheme. The baby was handed over to the Collector on Wednesday. “He gave the child to us. Last week too, a child was abandoned in the Thellar Primary Health Centre and was transferred to Cheyyar Government Hospital. The child was taken under the Cradle Baby Scheme and is now under the care of the Social Welfare Department,” said an official from the Social Welfare Department. He said that as on date, 110 children have been rescued as part of the Cradle Baby Scheme and out of them, 72 are girls. Many mothers leave the child in the hospital or elsewhere. “A total of 98 children out of the 110 have been adopted,” added the official. He said sustained efforts had resulted in the reduction of female infanticide in the district. “We have been monitoring scanning centres in the district to check if sex determination tests were being done. Action has been taken against those who carried out illegal abortion. The village health nurses also monitor antenatal mothers in their jurisdiction and create awareness about raising a girl child and initiate action against illegal abortions,” the official said. Childline operates a toll-free helpline-1098-for children in distress across the country.
17 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gudalur elephant ‘Shankar’ eludes capture||Efforts made by the Forest Department on Wednesday to tranquillise and capture a male elephant nicknamed ‘Shankar’, which killed three persons in Gudalur in the Nilgiris recently, went in vain on Wednesday as the animal was guarded by other elephants. Though the elephant was administered with an initial dose of tranquilliser in the afternoon, veterinarians could not shoot a dart with a top up dose in time due to the difficult terrain and the presence of the elephant herd. Officials who took part in the operation said that a herd consisting of three male elephants, five female elephants and a calf guarded the tusker after the first dart hit it. First dart “Two female elephants escorted the tusker after it was given the first dart. The veterinarians could not approach the tusker to administer a top up dart due to the presence of the herd,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, who oversaw the operation along with D. Gurusamy, District Forest Officer of Nilgiris Forest Division (in-charge of Gudalur division). N.S. Manoharan, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired), shot the dart at the tusker at Cheppanthodu near Cherambadi at 2.24 p.m. Difficult terrain “After the first dart was shot, the tusker moved to a difficult terrain of the forest. Trackers from the department could not restrain its movement due to the presence of the herd,” said A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division. Though the department used a drone to monitor the darted tusker and scare other elephants using its buzzing sound, the herd stood firm. Due to the delay caused in administering the second shot of tranquilliser, the tusker revived from the sedation induced by the first shot within an hour and the department was forced to halt the operation in the evening. The department has planned to bring in one more kumki named Vijay from Theppakadu camp of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve to the location on Thursday for the operation. There kumkis -- Bomman and Wasim from Theppakadu and Kaleem from Kozhikamuthi camp of Anamalai Tiger Reserve -- are already part of the operation.
17 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||60 recruits attested into Madras Regiment||A total of 60 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment of the Indian Army at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington near Coonoor in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. Colonel B.N. Nayak, Deputy Commandant of MRC, reviewed the attestation parade held at the drill ground of Shriganesh Barracks and awarded medals to the outstanding recruits. The recruits were attested into the oldest infantry regiment of the Indian Army after completing year-long basic and advanced military training. At the ceremony, Col. Nayak made special mention of the efforts taken by MRC to train the soldiers under the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation and commended all stakeholders for their hard work. He said that MRC had not missed out a single day of training since the outbreak of the pandemic and it continued to despatch highly trained young soldiers to all the battalions of the Regiment deployed all over the forward areas of India. The officer appreciated the instructors and the staff at MRC who imparted training to the recruits. He also lauded the parents of the young soldiers who could not witness the parade because of the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic. The attestation parade was carried out maintaining appropriate social distancing, said a release issued by MRC.
17 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||NGOs come up with immediate relief for livestock losses||The recent killings of a tigress and five dholes (Asiatic wild dogs) within the limits of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) were the latest instances of retaliatory poisoning by farmers who lost their livestock in the attacks by carnivores. Since such killings and the delay in getting the compensation could trigger farmers to resort to retaliatory poisoning, Karnataka-based Mariamma Charitable Trust has now joined hands with the Nilgiris-based Arulagam , which is into vulture conservation, and the Forest Department to offer immediate compensation to farmers for the losses. With the joint effort of the two NGOs, the Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone) L.C.S. Srikanth recently handed over compensation of Rs. 5,000 each to five persons who had lost their cows in the attacks of carnivores recently. “Mariamma Charitable Trust has been offering compensation to farmers for livestock losses in villages around the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Now the Trust has agreed to provide a similar compensation package in MTR in coordination with Arulagam ,” said S. Manikandan, a biologist with Arulagam . Vulture expert B. Ramakrishnan said that retaliatory poisoning can be fatal for carnivores like tiger, leopard, dholes and different species of vultures that scavenger carcasses. “Out of nine vulture species in India, four namely White-backed vulture, Long-billed vulture, Egyptian vulture and Red-headed vulture are residents in places like the Moyar valley in the Nilgiris. Three species namely Eurasian griffon vulture, Himalayan griffon vulture and Cinereous vulture also visit the Nilgiris,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. According to him, the immediate financial relief of Rs. 5,000 will help win the confidence in the farmers though the amount is not sufficient for the loss. Mr. Srikanth said that poisoning was the reason for the deaths of the five dholes and a tigress reported in MTR in September and November this year. “Incidents of carnivores such as tigers and leopards killing cattle usually occur in forest boundaries or inside the forest where people animals for grazing,” he said. The maximum amount offered by the Forest Department for the loss of a cow is Rs. 30,000 for which the owner of the animal has to submit an application along with the post-mortem report and a letter from the forest range officer. “The amount can be sanctioned in a week if enough money is available with the Department under the compensation package. Now we have around 20 applications pending,” said Mr. Srikanth.
17 December 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Soil health awareness camp organised||A soil health awareness camp-cum-exhibition was organised at Madithurai near Udhagamandalam, recently 5 to mark the World Soil Day. A function was organised by ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (ICAR-IISWC), Research Centre, Ooty, at the community hall in Madithurai village which was attended by about 60 farmers of the village. V. Kasthurithilagam, Scientist (Soil Science), in her address stressed the need to protect microbial communities in the soil to keep the soil alive, a press release from the IISWC stated. H.C. Hombe Gowda, Senior Scientist (Forestry), expressed the need to protect forests and for the judicious application of fertilizers. P. Raja, Principal Scientist (Soil Science), emphasised the significance of protecting soil health.
17 December 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||33 families from landslip-hit area of Kundah get house site patta||As many as 33 families from a landslip-hit area of Kundah taluk in Udhagamandalam received house site patta allotted by the State government through the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department recently. District Collector J. Innocent Divya distributed the pattas to the beneficiaries from Shree Ram Nagar in the presence of officials from the Revenue and Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. The Collector said that a total of 126 house site pattas will be given to residents of Shree Ram Nagar. Other beneficiaries identified by the district administration will also get house site pattas soon, she said.
17 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||34 persons test positive in Vellore, tally at 19,886||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,886 with 34 new cases reported on December 16. While 19,247 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 301. The district’s death toll is 338. In Ranipet district, 13 cases were reported taking the total to 15,791. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,355 with two new cases on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 13 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,951. Out of these, 18,564 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 110 .
17 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac manager’s house raided||The sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Wednesday searched the house of Murugan, Tasmac south district manager, in Koyambedu. Searches were conducted at the official residence of his wife K. Jayabharathi, who is the DIG of Prisons, Vellore. According to DVAC sources, on Tuesday the vigilance officers conducted checks at elite Tasmac shops in Velachery, Ayanavaram, Aminjikarai, Phoenix Marketcity mall and Alsa Mall in Chennai. “Subsequently since Wednesday morning, the DVAC officers conducted raids in the rented house of Murugan. Searches were also conducted in the official residence of his wife near Vellore prison,” said a DVAC official.  VAO trapped Meanwhile, the DVAC officials trapped a Village Administrative Officer (VAO) for demanding bribe in Vellore district on Wednesday. According to DVAC officers, a man approached its Vellore detachment and complained that Revathi, VAO of Elavambadi village, Anaicut taluk, Vellore district, had demanded a bribe of Rs. 2,500 for recommending a house site patta transfer application. A case was registered on Wednesday, and a trap was laid. When Ms. Revathy reiterated her demand and accepted the bribe, she was caught red-handed and arrested. Further investigation is on.
17 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Army man held for child marriage||A military man, K. Kamaraj (30) and his family members were booked under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, after he was found to have married a minor girl, on Monday. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, said that the army man, hailing from Somaiyapuram had married the 15-year-old girl. On getting a tip-off about the marriage through Childline 1098, the District Social Welfare Officer conducted an inquiry into the incident. Based on the instruction of the secretary of District Legal Services Authority, the case was registered. The Collector said that stringent action would be taken against those who marry minor girls and those who help such marriages.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||49 new cases, four deaths in Salem district||Salem district on Wednesday reported 49 COVID-19 positive cases and four deaths. According to health officials, 48 cases, including 23 in Salem Corporation limits, were indigenous. One person had returned from Namakkal. As per bulletin, a 26-year-old woman, and a 41-year-old man died at private hospitals. A 60-year-old man died at the Mettur Government Headquarters Hospital, while another man aged 62 died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Namakkal district reported 34 cases. Five patients had returned from Chennai, Salem, Karur and Kanchipuram. Erode district reported 53 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,176. While 49 persons were discharged, 348 continued to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 16 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 150 and the total number of infections in the district to 7,688. . Nineteen persons were discharged after recovery on Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded four new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 96 and the total number of infections so far to 6,264. The district saw 13 discharges on the day. Coimbatore district reported 111 new cases, the lowest daily caseload it had recorded in the last several months. The district had 1,051 COVID-19 patients under institutional care as on Wednesday. According to the Health Department, 109 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. The district’s toll increased to 632 after an 84-year-old man succumbed to the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Tiruppur district had 567 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Wednesday, including the 70 persons who tested positive for the disease on the day. As many as 47 persons from the district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease on Wednesday. The 21 new cases reported in Udhagamandalam took the number of active cases in the district to 139. Sixteen persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district adds 111 new cases||Coimbatore on Wednesday reported 111 new cases of COVID-19, the lowest daily caseload it had in the last several months. The district had 1,051 patients under institutional care on Wednesday. According to the Health Department, 109 persons from the district recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. The district's death toll increased to 632 after an 84-year-old man succumbed to COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Tiruppur district had 567 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Wednesday, including the 70 persons who tested positive for the disease on the day. As many as 47 persons from the district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease on Wednesday. Erode district reported 53 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,176. While 49 persons were discharged, 348 continue to be under treatment. As many as 49 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 48 were indigenous, including 23 in Salem Corporation limits and one person has returned from Namakkal. As per bulletin, a 26-year-old woman, and a 41-year-old man died at private hospitals. A 60-year-old man died at Mettur Government Headquarters Hospital, while another man aged 62 died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. In Namakkal, 34 cases were reported. Five patients have returned from Chennai, Salem, Karur and Kanchipuram. The 21 new cases reported in Udhagamandalam took the number of active cases in the district to 139. Sixteen persons, who recovered from the disease, got discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. Krishnagiri recorded 16 new cases and 19 persons were discharged. This has taken the total number of current cases to 150 and the total number of infections in the district to 7,688. Dharmapuri recorded four new cases and 13 discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 96 cases and the total number of infections to 6,264.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunta Ekadasi: devotees advised to register online||Devotees who wish to visit the Aranganathar Swami Temple in Namakkal on Vaikunta Ekadasi, which falls on December 25, have been advised to register online. According to a press release from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, only those who register online will be allowed inside the temple between 6 a.m and 8 p.m. Only 750 persons will be allowed every one hour. If the number of online registrations till December 24 was lesser, tokens would be issued by the Temple authorities. Safety measures According to a release, persons from containment zones and those who do not follow standard safety protocols such as wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing will not be allowed inside the temple. Persons above 65 years, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those with co-morbidities have been advised to avoid visiting the temple. Visitors will be allowed inside the temple only after temperature check and they will not be given any prasadam including kumkum and flowers. Visitors should not bring coconut or flowers and no one will be allowed to sit on the temple premises during pujas or abishekams , a release said.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Extending support||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. schools to reopen on January 18||Classes for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students would start from Thursday, he said. Mr. Kamalakannan, who also holds the Power portfolio, said that despite the objections from the staff of the Electricity Department and the Puducherry government, the Centre was going ahead with its privatisation plan. The Department received a communication from the Centre on the appointment of a transaction adviser to initiate the process, he said.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Married daughters too eligible for appointment on compassionate grounds||The High Court of Karnataka has declared as unconstitutional the provisions of the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996 that excludes ‘married daughters’ from the ambit of eligible family members of a government employee to secure appointment on compassionate grounds. The court struck down the word ‘unmarried’ from the Rules 2(1)(a)(i), 2(1)(b) and Rule 3(2)(i)(c) of the 1996 Rules while holding that denying appointment on compassionate grounds to ‘unmarried daughters’ is violative of Article 14 (equality before law) and Article 15 (prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth) of the Constitution. “If the marital status of a son does not make any difference in law to his entitlement for seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, the marital status of a daughter should make no difference, as the married daughter does not cease to be a part of the family and law cannot make an assumption that married sons alone continue to be the part of the family,” the court held. Woman’s petition Justice M. Nagaprasanna delivered the verdict while allowing a petition filed by 31-year-old Bhuvaneshwari V. Puranik, daughter of Ashok Adiveppa Madivalar, who was working as secretary of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee at Kudachi in Belagavi district before his death in May 2016. The petitioner, who was married before the death of her father, had sought appointment under compassionate grounds as her brother did not opt for the appointment. The government, however, rejected her representation based on the provisions of the 1996 Rules which state that only the ‘unmarried daughters’ are eligible to seek appointment on compassionate grounds apart from the spouse and the son of the deceased public servant. Giving an illustration on how the exclusion of ‘married daughter’ defeats of the purpose giving compassionate appointments, Mr. Justice Nagaprasanna pointed out that in a case where the deceased government servant has two daughters, if both of whom are married, there can be no appointment given to such a family, and thereby defeating the very object of compassionate appointment. “Marriage does not determine the continuance of the relationship of a child with the parent, whether son or a daughter. Son continues to be a son both before and after marriage and a daughter also should continue to be a daughter both before and after marriage. This relationship does not get effaced by the fact of marriage, as marriage does not severe the relationship of the daughter with the parent. These relationships are neither governed nor defined by marital status. This notion on which the rule is framed cannot answer the tests of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution,” the court observed. The rules, the court said, insofar as it creates division of the same object of appointment on the basis of gender by granting appointment to a son without any qualification and denying the same to a daughter with the qualification of ‘marriage’ cannot but be held to be discriminatory. “It should be remembered that nature bestows so much on women; the law cannot bestow too little,” the judge observed.  If the marital status of a son does not make any difference in law to his entitlement for seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, the marital status of a daughter should make no difference... High Court of Karnataka
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic: Private school teachers demand relief package||Following agitations by farmers and transport workers, Freedom Park on Wednesday saw yet another disgruntled section of employees staging protests. This time, it was private school teachers whose salaries and jobs have been affected by the pandemic. Hundreds of teachers staged a protest demanding a relief package from the State government. Using placards, banners and shouting slogans, the protesters brought vegetable carts to sell produce in the hope of getting their message across. Sushma C., a teacher who participated in the protest, said the authorities were apathetic to their plight. While some teachers have had to take salary cuts, a large number had found themselves without a job, their contracts terminated. Stories of teachers taking up multiple jobs or trying to learn new skills to eke out a living have become common in the past few months. Some of the messages on the placards read, ‘Teacher yesterday, driver today’, ‘Teachers are COVID-19 warriors’. “The past several months have been a struggle for us. We are also parents and have families to take care of and bills to pay,” said another teacher who was part of the protest. Demands made The protest was carried under the banner of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Some of their demands include providing them an honorarium, separate insurance and food kits. They have also demanded that the State government recognise them as COVID-19 warriors and give them free vaccination during the first phase of vaccine roll-out. “The State government has not released the Teacher Welfare Fund during this crucial time. The fund is collected by the institutions and given to the Department of Public Instruction. This is reserved exclusively for the welfare of the teachers. This is the most testing time and teachers should be allowed to avail of this fund,” said a management member of a private school association. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who visited Freedom Park, said they will address the demands of private school teachers.  The past several months have been a struggle for us. We are also parents and have families to take care of and bills to pay. A teacher at the protest
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many private schools averse to starting Vidyagama in January||While the State government has said that all schools — government, aided, and unaided ones — can conduct classes on the school campus starting January, many private schools have decided to stick to online classes, particularly for primary school students. Sumanth Narayan, vice-chairman of Shanthinikethana School, said they would not start Vidyagama (the continuous learning programme) as the school management does not want to take any risk till students were vaccinated. “Even though we take a consent letter from the parents before conducting classes, we will be accountable if the COVID-19 infection spreads on our campus. So, we have decided not to launch this programme,” he said. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said the school had conducted two surveys and 90% of the parents did not want to send their children to school. “Our online classes are going on very well. We will continue with it. We will have a meeting and consider conducting classes for students between classes nine and 12 with parent consent,” she said. Managements of many schools are yet to decide if they should provide transport facility if classes start.  ‘Issue SOP’ B.R. Supreeth, secretary, Oxford Universal Public School, said they would start classes only for students from class nine and urged the department to issue the standard operating procedures and norms to be followed. “Parents will not be mentally prepared to send the students below class five. So, we are not considering doing this,” he said. However, parents are disappointed that many private schools will not be conducting the Vidyagama programme. Shruthi S.R., mother of a class five student, said, “Although teachers conduct online classes, my son is finding it really hard to cope. I hope that schools start the classes with all precautionary measures.”  If my son’s school decides to conduct classes on the campus, I will not give consent for him to attend. He is comfortable with online classes. Akash S.,software professional and father of a class three student   My daughter misses online classes as there are no gadgets in the house and her learning has been hampered. It will be convenient if classes are held on school campus. Sharath S.,autorickshaw driver and father of a class two student
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi among first to greet Kumaraswamy on his birthday||While the developments in the Legislative Council on Tuesday, with the BJP’s no-confidence motion against chairperson K. Pratapchandra Shetty being supported by the JD(S), highlighted the increasing bonhomie between the parties, senior BJP leaders wishing former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy(in picture)on his 61st birthday on Wednesday further corroborated it. A slew of BJP leaders, starting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wished Mr. Kumaraswamy. “Best wishes to former Karnataka Chief Minister Shri @hd_kumaraswamy ji on his birthday. May Almighty bless him with a long life, filled with the best health,” Mr. Modi said in his tweet.  While there has been speculation for a while about the growing closeness between the two parties, several recent developments such as the regional outfit supporting the Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, and Tuesday’s events in the Council have only strengthened it. But, not all within the JD(S) are happy with what they see as confusing signals that the party has been sending out. Some legislators blamed the party for the confusion on Tuesday. “Had the JD(S) announced its intention to support the no-confidence motion earlier, the chairman might have stepped down since the Congress does not have enough numbers. Many of us are also disappointed with the way the party is conducting itself,” a legislator said. “The party wants to move towards the BJP, but without making much noise... What kind of message are you giving your party workers and leaders? It is confusing when the party votes in favour of one Bill while opposing another, but joins hands with the ruling party to unsettle the chairman. What will you tell voters about your ideology?” asked another legislator. Another senior legislator of the party said the top party leaders were not taking them into confidence and were only issuing instructions. “When JDLP leader (former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy) does not attend the Assembly but guides from outside, what do you make of the leadership?” he asked. Loser in the long run? He expressed fear that the JD(S) could be the loser in the long run. “The Congress and the BJP got whatever they wanted at our cost,” he said.  He argued that the BJP would get the chairman’s post now and have the hold over Old Mysore region in the long run. On the other hand, the Congress has achieved its intention of “exposing” the JD(S)’ proximity to the saffron party through this episode, he said.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold a water adalat on Thursday (December 17) between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. to address grievances relating to water billing, delay in supply of water, sanitary connections and other related issues.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Change in land law reason for State getting 42% FDI’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday claimed that amendments to the Land Reforms Act brought about by his government were mainly responsible for Karnataka accounting for 42% FDI that has flown to the country despite COVID-19. Addressing the general body meeting of FKCCI in Bengaluru, he described the amendments as reformative and said such changes had now made it easy for investors to buy farm land. He said the State government had brought in changes to the legislation concerned under ease of doing business to simplify various procedures related to getting clearances for investors. Accordingly, now there is no need for the investors to get immediate clearances from authorities and it can be obtained just before commencement of their units, he noted. Expressing concern that COVID-19 had pushed the global economy to a level of serious crisis apart from impacting the public health, he described the resuming of work by commercial institutions, MSMEs and big industries as a development that has created a new hope.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘We are completely against anti-cow slaughter Bill’||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda has said that his party “completely opposed” the anti-cow slaughter Bill passed in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. In a statement, Mr. Gowda said the BJP had gone ahead and passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly and it would “cause unrest in society”. The Bill is yet to be passed in the Council and the government is contemplating bringing out an Ordinance on it. Mr. Gowda recalled that in 2010 too, the BJP had tried to bring in such a Bill, which was opposed by the JD(S). He pointed out that the State already had the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, in force.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Horatti tenders apology||Senior-most member in the Karnataka Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti, who has been elected a record seven times, on Wednesday tendered apology to the people on behalf of the Council for the unsavoury incidents that took place on Tuesday. In an open letter, he said the Council with a history of 113 years, which was started by Maharajas of Mysuru, has been called the best in the country. “Tuesday’s incident is a black mark on the Council and people believe that the dignity and respect of the Council has come down. Many senior legislators are feeling hurt at the developments and believe that people may not forgive us. We will make all efforts to protect the dignity of the House. On behalf of the Council, I tender apology for the incident,” he said in the open letter.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||EV charging station||Tarun Kapoor, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, on Monday launched an Indigreen Electric Vehicle Charging Station (EVCS) at Indian Oil’s Retail Outlet Fuel Zone on airport road in Bengaluru. Executive Director and State Head, Indian Oil and State-level Coordinator Karnataka D.L Pramodh and senior officials from Indian Oil and PowerGrid were present. So far, 19 EVCS and battery swapping facilities at various Indian Oil retail outlets in Bengaluru have been provided.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Plant will restart in a fortnight’||Wistron Infocomm unit at Narasapura could restart in a fortnight’s time, government sources said. “The focus now is to get it restarted as 10,000 workers are on the streets, anxiously waiting if they will be able to save their jobs,” sources said. “At the same time, all the pending issues will be addressed.”
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaint against textbook||The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurppa alleging that State syllabus textbooks of classes 6 and 9 contained material that was “insulting” to the community. Board chairman H.S. Sacchidanandamurthy made the allegation in the letter submitted to the CM.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||GP polls: SEC directive to political parties||The State Election Commission has sought to remind all political parties and their leaders that campaigning either directly or indirectly for any of the candidates or holding campaign meetings for the forthcoming gram panchayat polls would amount to violation of model code of conduct. In a release, the SEC pointed out that the gram panchayat elections are to be held on a non-partisan basis and has appealed to political parties and leaders to help conduct these rural grassroots elections in such a manner. It has also indicated that the candidates are not supposed to use the party flag or emblem in their pamphlets. It pointed out that the candidates have been given “open symbols” in a bid to ensure that the elections are not linked to their parties. In the fray Meanwhile, the SEC noted that 1,17,383 candidates were in the fray for the first phase of elections to be held on December 22 for 43,238 wards from 117 taluks that are going for polling. Already, 4,377 candidates had been declared elected unopposed, the release by SEC said. Nominations have not been filed for 432 wards.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. officers cannot turn visitors away||Now it is mandatory for the heads of all the government offices to not only allow visitors inside, but also treat them with courtesy. The State government has issued a circular in this regard on Tuesday asking all the authorities including the secretariat level officers to allow visitors in and offer them seats without discrimination. Sources said such instructions had been issued at the behest of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the wake of pouring complaints that several government offices, including civic authority offices like the BBMP, were still continuing to restrict the visitors citing the COVID-19 threat. Though there was a need to follow precautions, some officials were misusing such provisions to shirk work and keep visitors away, sources said. Several MLAs too had expressed concern over various government offices still being out of bounds for visitors, sources added. The circular issued by the under secretary to the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms does not refer to such complaints or the pandemic. However, it has asked the authorities to treat all who visit the offices to find solutions with courtesy and patience.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 1,240 cases, six deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,240 new cases of COVID-19 and six deaths. This took the total number of infections to 9,04,665 and the toll to 11,971. The day also saw 1,403 patients getting discharged. Of the new cases reported, 676 were from Bengaluru Urban district alone. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, four out of the six deaths were were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Ballari and Chikkamagaluru which reported one each. Across Karnataka, a total of 1,26,11,493 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,01,750 were done on Wednesday. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,80,247 infections, followed by Mysuru with 51,551 and Ballari with 38,564. Bengaluru Urban has the most number of total discharges too with at 3,65,579, followed by Mysuru at 50,196 and Ballari at 37,761.
17 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ministerial status to media adviser||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has directed the authorities to grant the status of Cabinet Minister to his media adviser Brungesh. A retired Information Department officer, Mr. Brungesh was appointed adviser after the earlier adviser Mahadev Prakash quit citing personal reasons.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Engineering student arrested for sexually assaulting friend at his house||The R.R. Nagar police arrested a 22-year-old engineering student from Chhattisgarh for allegedly sexually harassing his female friend following a party at his house on December 10. The accused was absconding soon after the complaint was filed, but the police arrested him on Monday. As it was getting late, Tushar suggested that the victim, also 22, and her friends, both male, spend the night at his place. He assaulted her while she was asleep. Her friends came to her aid when she started screaming. Tushar has been remanded in judicial custody.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provisional selection list||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) has announced the provisional selection list in respect of three posts (Kalyana Karnataka) of Assistant Scientific Officer and a Law Assistant (Kalyana Karnataka) in Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, along with cut off marks. Objections, if any, can be submitted to the Secretary, KPSC, Udyoga Soudha, Bengaluru 560001, within seven days. Visithttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in, said an official release.
17 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||The National Institute of Unani Medicine (NIUM) has signed an MoU with All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, Chhattisgarh, for collaboration in academics, research, and patient care for bilateral development of both institutes by improvising an integrative approach, according to a press release. NIUM in a release said that the MoU will strengthen research activities to achieve excellence in medical education, research and patient care as a common mission of both the institutes. The MoU is aimed at facilitating collaboration towards advancement of knowledge, its application, mutual benefits and frequent interaction. Both the institutes have also agreed to utilise their expertise for the development of the AYUSH Department in AIIMS.
17 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Sports village to come up at Tavarekoppa||A sports village will come up on 30 acres at Tavarekoppa on the outskirts of Shivamogga city, said B.Y. Raghavendra, MP, on Wednesday. He spoke to journalists after holding a meeting with officers at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga. The land will be developed under the ‘Khelo India’ programme of the Union government. The infrastructure facilities necessary for national and international sports events would come up. Earlier a proposal was sent for the project when K.S. Eshwarappa held the Ministry of Sports and Youth Services. “Union Minister of State for Sports Kiren Rijiju has responded positively to the proposal,” he said. A team of officials from Sports Authority of India have come to Shivamogga to inspect the place. They have been briefed about the facilities coming up in Shviamogga, the MP said. The sports village will have facilities for athletics, volleyball, football, hockey, judo, wrestling, and other games. The Union government had been approached to provide funds for the project in the current year, he said.  Mayor Suvarna Shankar and others were present.
17 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat to be held in Shivamogga on Dec. 19||The courts of Shivamogga district will hold Lok Adalat on December 19, said Principal District and Sessions Judge Mustafa Hussain. In a press conference in Shivamogga on Wednesday, the judge said the courts have identified 7,966 pending cases to take up. Both parties of the cases would be called and the disputes would be settled with mutual consent. “This would help the clients as well as clear the pendency of cases,” he said. There are about 51,800 cases pending in the district. Among them, 27,030 had been identified for clearing through an amicable solution. As many as 7,966 would be taken up during the event, he said. In the earlier adalat held on September 19, the courts had identified 3,207 cases and among them, 1,057 were cleared, he said, and appealed to the public to make use of the adalat. District Legal Services Authority member secretary K.N. Saraswathi, Additional District and Session judge B. Jayanth Kumar, Bar Council vice-president P.N. Rajaram were present at the press conference.
17 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||34 new cases of COVID-19 reported in Hassan dist.||As many as 34 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Hassan on Wednesday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 27,598. As of Wednesday, 268 are undergoing treatment. So far 26,873 have recovered from the infection after treatment. Among those infected people, 14 are under treatment in the intensive care unit. Since the outbreak of the infection 457 people have died in the district.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Setting a time-frame for start-up ventures emphasised||The former Deputy Head of Start-Up Karnataka Satyanarayana B.V. has emphasised the need for start-ups to set a time-frame and to adhere to it for making such new ventures successful. Inaugurating a “National Workshop on Start-Ups” organised at the College of Agriculture, University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), in Dharwad on Wednesday, he said that new ideas should be implemented without any delay in order to gain advantage over others in business. The workshop was held under the World Bank-assisted ICAR-NAHEP-Institutional Development Plan (IDP) project. Mr. Satyanarayan pointed out that as every other person in business would be coming up with newer ideas, implementing the ideas without any delay was crucial for success. Presiding over the programme, Vice-Chancellor of UAS Dharwad M.B. Chetti said that a good network that would facilitate effective marketing of products through negotiations was crucial for a successful entrepreneur. Referring to the government’s goal of 5,000 new start-ups in the State and 50,000 in the country, Prof. Chetti urged students to come up with innovative ideas and work towards converting their ideas into a business model. Founder and CEO of CreditAI Ptv Ltd., Singapore, Sangram Nayaka elaborated on start-up opportunities in the field of agriculture and allied sectors. He also pointed out at the diverse areas where there was scope for innovation. Founder and CEO of Agril 10x, Pune, Pankaj Ghode narrated his own experience of running a successful venture and asked students to look at the failures of others and learn lessons from them to become successful entrepreneurs. Manager (Marketing and Outreach) of KITS Start-Up Cell, Government of Karnataka, Jaikrishna Ramesh gave an overview of Karnataka Start-Up Policy 2020 and briefed about various aspects of the policy, including the government’s initiatives in innovation and global innovation alliances. Resource persons S.B. Kalaghtagi, P.U. Krishnaraj and K.V. Ashalatha delivered talks.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni approaches High Court for bail in murder case||After the Special CBI Court in Dharwad rejecting his bail application, Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who is in judicial custody, has approached the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, for bail. Vinay Kulkarni has been arrested by the CBI in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar and is lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi. Vinay Kulkarni’s counsel filed the bail application in the High Court in Dharwad on Wednesday. Court sources said that the bail application had been scrutinised and it is likely to come up for hearing in the next two days. On Monday, CBI Special Court Judge C.M. Gangadhar passed an order rejecting the bail plea after hearing both the sides. Counsel for Vinay Kulkarni had on November 26 moved the bail application and the court had heard arguments on December 4. On December 9, filing objections to granting bail, counsel for CBI argued that Vinay Kulkarni was the key conspirator along with another accused Basavaraj Mutagi in the murder case. He said that the Congress leader had already intimidated witnesses and being a former Minister, he had taken the entire system for a ride and misused the police in his favour. The court through its order on December 14 had upheld the CBI argument. Meanwhile, the court has allowed the CBI to take Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu Mama, an uncle of Vinay Kulkarni, into custody for two days for further questioning. Chandrashekhar Indi was arrested by the CBI on Sunday. He was produced before court on Monday which then remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. On Tuesday, the CBI Special Court Judge [Mr. Gangadhar] granted his custody for two days and asked the CBI to present him before court by Thursday evening.
17 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NPCIL at Kaiga warns job aspirants against fraudsters||In the wake of fraudsters cheating job aspirants by promising them jobs at Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), Kaiga, the authorities concerned have asked the general public to be beware of such people and not to pay any money in the name of fee or any charges towards NPCIL. In a press release, Deputy Chief Manager of NPCIL, Kaiga, Ashok S. Shindhe has said that they had received information regarding some fraudsters contacting job aspirants via email and telephone telling them that there were job vacancies in NPCIL, Kaiga, and that they were required to pay through bank a certain amount as fee. Mr. Shindhe has clarified that NPCIL conducted the recruitment process based on the educational and professional qualifications of candidates in a very transparent manner and any such recruitment process would be duly notified on the official website of the corporation,www.npcilcareers.co.in. Regarding the details of the recruitment process, the corporation’s Human Resources Department could also be contacted viarecruit.kgs.@npcil.co.in. Mr. Shindhe has appealed to the general public to lodge complaints with the local police, if they received any call or email promising employment opportunities at NPCIL, Kaiga. He has also requested the public not to pay any amount to any bank account without proper scrutiny. And, NPCIL would not be accountable for any such payments, he has said in the release.
17 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KKRDB chairman’s announcement termed violation of poll code||Taking serious exception to the announcement made by BJP MLA from Kalaburagi South and Chairman of Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) Dattatreya Patil Revoor that the board would release Rs. 1 crore to each gram panchayats whose members would be elected unopposed, Kalaburagi District Congress Committee lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission on Tuesday. MLA from Chittapur and former Minister Priyank Kharge and former MLC Allamprabhu Patil submitted the complaint copy, which was signed by Kalaburagi District Congress Committee president Jagadev Guttedar, to the State Chief Election Officer Basavaraju in Bengaluru. Terming the announcement by the KKRDB Chairman as “misuse of power” and a violation of the Model Code of Conduct in force for the gram panchayat elections, Mr. Guttedar urged the Chief Election Officer to take action against Mr. Revoor. “Announcing Rs. 1 crore to those gram panchayats whose members are elected unopposed will provoke contenders from withdrawing their nomination papers for the elections. Contesting or withdrawing nomination papers is the choice and right of the candidates. The provocation to withdraw nomination papers to ensure that all members in the gram panchayats are elected unopposed amounts to a violation of the Model Code of Conduct in force as well as Section 171 of Indian Penal Code,” Mr. Kharge told The Hindu after submitting the complaint copy. The Congress has in the complaint said that the funds allocated to KKRDB, which was established in 2013 as part of implementing Special Status accorded to Kalyana Karnataka region under Article 371(J) of the Constitution, could be used only for development projects.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCF switches over to LNG as feedstock to produce urea||Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers (MCF) Ltd., State’s only chemical fertilizer manufacturer, recorded a milestone on Tuesday after it completely switched over to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as feedstock to produce urea, instead of naphtha. MCF has an installed capacity to produce 3.75 lakh tonnes of urea using naphtha as feedstock. Besides, it produces about 3 lakh tonnes of DAP and other agricultural inputs. It was using naphtha as feedstock since its inception in 1976. MCF Director (Production) Prabhakar Rao told reporters here on Wednesday that the company entered into an agreement with GAIL India way back in 2011 to avail of LNG through a pipeline. The Government of India in 2017 mandated all urea production units in the country to switch over to LNG from naphtha to save on energy as well as foreign exchange. However, MCF could not do so as the GAIL pipeline between Kochi and Mangaluru was (then) yet to be completed. After GAIL completed the pipeline work, MCF received LNG for the first time on November 23 this year and began trial production on December 12, Mr. Rao said. Besides being energy efficient, the use of LNG as feedstock for urea was also environment-friendly, he said. While MCF could produce a maximum of 3.75 lakh tonnes of urea a year using naphtha, production could go up to 4.3 lakh tonnes using LNG as feedstock, Mr. Rao said. The Union Ministry of Petroleum regulates LNG prices and it has kept the price uniform across the country. MCF’s Chief Financial Officer T.M. Muralidharan said that switching over to LNG also reduces the subsidy burden on the Union government. In the last five years, the government was paying Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 subsidy per tonne of urea produced using naphtha to production units across the country. With LNG, the subsidy amount would be at the lowest, Rs. 15,000 per tonne, he said. Mr. Rao said that a project to improve the efficiency of the plant at an estimated cost of Rs. 400 crore was under way and it would be completed in one-and-a-half years. The company had spent Rs. 315 crore in 2014 itself to equip the plant for LNG usage. MCF requires 0.85 million standard cubic metres of per day (MSCMD) LNG to produce 13,000 tonnes of urea, Mr. Rao added.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Feasibility report on marina at Padukere to be sought||A meeting called by the district administration in Udupi on Wednesday decided to seek a feasibility report from the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), Pune, on constructing a marina, which could cost Rs. 800 crore, on Padukere beach. Speaking at the meeting, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that a 3.69-km-long marina could be developed on Padukere coast, which has natural islands, by constructing a 1.66 km to 2 km long breakwater. A detailed project report will be prepared after obtaining the feasibility report. The Coastal Development Authority will be the implementing agency for the project. The Deputy Commissioner said that the project will be implemented without damaging the local environment and without violating the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) rules. When the project comes up, it will be a major contributor for the growth of tourism and it would also create employment opportunities. At present, there is no full-scale international standard marina anywhere in the country. The Deputy Commissioner said that various types of cruise vessels and boats can anchor at the marina. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that if the district administration got the feasibility and detailed project report ready by February 2021, provision for construction can be made in the 2021-22 State Budget. Chairman of the Coastal Development Authority Mattar Ratnakara Hegde said that efforts would be made to get the reports by then.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer meets Governor seeking support for Ram Mandir work||Udupi Pejawar Mutt seer Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha on Wednesday met Governor Vaju Bhai Vala at the Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru and sought his support for the Ram Mandir construction at Ayodhya. The swamiji, one of the trustees of Sri Ram Janm Bhoomi Kshetra Trust, has been on a South India tour eliciting support for the construction of the temple. He submitted a letter to the Governor seeking his support, said a communiqué from the mutt. Mr. Vala recalled the days when Guruji Govalkar had given a call for ban on cow slaughter in 1953. As a young person, Mr. Vala had along with a friend visited households in Gujarat on bicycle and collected signatures in support of the call. The Governor also recalled his participation in various stages of Ayodhya movement, the communiqué said. Sri Vishwa Prasanna felicitated the Governor with a shawl and a memento. Vishwa Hindu Parishat regional organising secretary Keshav Hegde and the seer’s private secretaries Vishnu Acharya and Krishnamurthy Bhat accompanied the seer.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State govt. sanctions land at Thokkottu for Beary Bhavan||The State government has sanctioned 0.25 acre land to Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy to construct a Beary Bhavan at Thokkottu. The foundation stone for the building will be laid soon, according to chairman of the academy Rahim Uchil. The government has sanctioned Rs. 6 crore for building the bhavan. Of this amount, Rs. 3 crore has been released. Earlier, the academy had purchased 0.25 acres from Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) for building the Beary Bhavan at Baiturli village near Neerumarga. The design of the bhavan was ready. But it was later decided not to construct the bhavan there as the site was found not suitable and the area did not have much Beary-speaking people. Hence, the government was requested to allot free land for constructing the bhavan like how it gave free land to Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy and Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy to construct their own bhavans in the city. Now, the government has allotted the land in the area where many Beary-speaking people live. The academy will surrender the site purchased near Neerumarga to the MUDA and the money to be returned from the MUDA would be utilised for the activities of the academy, the chairman said. The proposed bhavan at Thokkottu will have a large and a mini hall, library, museum and the office of the academy. He said in a release that the academy thanks Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the former Minister for Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi for sanctioning the land and money for the Beary Bhavan.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Clinic to treat chronic pain comes up at KMC Hospital in Manipal||A Division of Chronic and Interventional Pain and Premium Cancer Care Clinic was inaugurated at the Kasturba Medical College Hospital in Manipal on Tuesday. Pro-Vice Chancellor (Health Sciences), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), P.L.N.G. Rao, who inaugurated it, said that the treatment of pain and cancer requires multidisciplinary approach. The new division will not only serve cancer patients but will also cater to the needs of other patients with chronic pain. The hospital has been instrumental in treating patients by adopting new approaches. Dean of Manipal TATA Medical College, Jamshedpur, Poornima Baliga B., who was the guest of honour, said that the Department of Manipal Comprehensive Cancer Care Centre has grown over the past two years. The new division will provide doctor consultation and treatment for patients without much waiting and delay. Dean of KMC Sharath Kumar Rao, Chief Operating Officer C.G. Muthana and Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital Avinash Shetty were present. A release from the hospital said on Tuesday that chronic pain can arise from different reasons such as degeneration, arthritis, inflammation, nerve damage, disc prolapse, injury, surgery, diabetes and cancer. Sometimes, in conditions such as fibromyalgia, pain can be a disease in itself, with no apparent cause. Interventional pain management manages chronic pain by using an image-guided injection of pain relieving drugs to specific areas of the body. Interventions are usually performed when pain is intense to interfere with daily activities or when other treatments are unsuccessful in reducing it. Pain management services or pain clinics are specialised health care services focusing upon appropriate diagnosis and management of different kinds of pain. The premium cancer care clinic is available on appointment from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. The purpose of this clinic is to provide a fast doctor consultation without waiting, the release from the Medical Superintendent said.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Worker suffers burns||A 21-year-old contract worker suffered burns while preparing caustic soda solution to clean milk tankers at the dairy of the Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union in Kulshekara here on Tuesday. As 21-year-old Satish was preparing the solution in a hot water container, the liquid overflowed. In anxiety, Satish tried to avoid it but he slipped and fell suffering burns on his chest and hands. He was rushed to a private hospital in Kuntikana where he is recovering.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘NEP focuses on research activities’||With the National Education Policy 2020 stressing on institutions to conduct research, there will be a good number of innovations, including development of indigenous technologies, in the coming days, said Pro Vice-Chancellor of Nitte (Deemed to be University) M.S. Moodithaya here on Wednesday. Speaking at a virtual orientation programme on NEP 2020 conducted by Nitte’s Institution Innovation Council, Mr. Moodithaya said that the NEP is trying to develop a conducive environment for imparting quality and outcome-based education. By providing multiple entry and exit options, the NEP is providing flexibility to learners from diverse background to study in institutions that will be multi-disciplinary. Apart from aiding innovation, the NEP helps in building entrepreneurship skills, he said. Vice-Chancellor of Nitte (Deemed to be University) Satheesh Kumar Bhandary and Director, Technical Research, Nitte, Srinikethan, spoke.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Yenepoya Foundation has invited online applications for its academic excellence awards 2020. Candidates who have excelled in SSLC/PUC and degree courses during the 2019–20 academic year can apply. The award is limited to students who have studied in any recognised institution in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Kasaragod (Kerala) districts. The award will be given on merit basis. Those who have scored 90% (CGPA 9.5) and above in SSLC/PUC, 75% (CGPA 7.9) and above in degree courses such as B.Com., B.Sc., BCA, and BBM, and 70% (CGPA 7.4) in B.A, B.Ed. and Afzal-Ulema examinations are eligible to apply. Log on to www.yenepoya.edu.in and later visit aea.yenepoya.in for applying. The online applications will have to be submitted by January 20, 2021, a release said.
17 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest in Udupi||Sanitation workers in the Koosamma Shambushetty-Haji Abdullah Memorial Women and Child Hospital in Udupi staged a protest on the hospital premises on Wednesday against non-payment of their salary for the last three months. The workers said that because of COVID-19 their salary was reduced from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 5,000. For the last three months, they have not been paid salary. The officials were dilly-dallying on the issue of payment of their salary. Despite representations, no action has been taken, they said.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ensure 80% seats are won by BJP-backed candidates: Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday called upon the party workers to ensure that 80% of seats of gram panchayats are won by BJP-backed candidates in the ensuing elections. Mr. Kateel was speaking at a meeting of leaders and party workers of Shakti Kendras and Maha Shakti Kendras in view of the forthcoming GP elections. He also inaugurated the State Executive Committee meeting of the State BJP OBC Morcha here. Minister in charge of Mysuru S.T. Somashekar, National OBC Morcha President Lakshman, MLAs S.A. Ramdas, L. Nagendra, Harshavardhan, MLC A.H. Vishwanath, and other leaders were present. Mr. Kateel and other leaders held meeting with the pramukhs of Shakti Kendras and Maha Shakti Kendras of the eight Assembly constituencies here to get to know the preparations done for the elections and the strategies developed for winning more seats. At the meeting, Mr. Kateel said there is a good team of leaders and party workers in Mysuru. Mr. Somashekar has been striving hard for building the party in the region. “There is a need to win more seats in the GP elections and also make a strong foundation for the party for the next Assembly elections,” he said. He claimed that the success of BJP’s Gram Swaraj programme would pave the way for winning more seats in the GP elections. “My party is reaching out to every section of the society. This has helped the party to grow and win elections,” he argued. Mr. Kateel said the Morchas had been formed by the party to develop leadership qualities among all party workers and also give responsibilities to them. “The political scenario in the country has changed with the BJP winning more States besides ruling the Centre.” Defending the farm laws, Mr. Kateel said the farmers can now market their produce without the menace of middlemen. “The Centre has ensured that farmers get the right price for their produce. The farm laws will provide justice to the country’s farmers,” he claimed. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vishwanath stressed the need for strengthening the party across the region. “Everyone in the party should work hard to build the party,” he said.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||JSS varsity signs MoU with AIWC||JSS Science and Technology University, Mysuru has signed an MoU with the Australia-India Water Centre (AIWC) to be one of the 15 Indian universities partnering with nine universities from Australia for collaboration in water research. Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati is the lead institute from India while Western Sydney University is from the Australian side. This collaboration will strive to develop longer-term collaboration in water research and improve water management for sustainable economic development focusing on water and food security, river health, water-energy-food nexus, and related aspects of mutual benefits to Australia and India, according to the university. AIWC was launched virtually last month in the presence of the High Commissioners from India and Australia, Ministers from Central and State governments, Directors, and other dignitaries. The collaboration, a release said here, will provide the faculty and students of JSS STU an international joint research platform to work and contribute in the important domain of water resource management and other trans-disciplinary areas. “This will result in the development of tools and techniques to tackle future water and food security challenges besides improved management of groundwater, springs, storm water, and coastal reservoirs. The proposed establishment of a joint master’s level programme in water resources management will benefit students and professionals. Student and staff exchange programmes under this initiative will enhance international exposure of students and staff to cutting-edge technology in water resource management,” the JSS S and T University Registrar said. Capacity building programmes including conduct of conferences, seminars/workshops/training with the support of resources from premier national and international institutions will strengthen water management initiatives.  This will result in the development of tools and techniques to tackle future water and food security challenges JSS S and T University Registrar
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GP elections: Kodagu polling staff to get extra security||The ensuing elections to gram panchayats in Kodagu has posed a challenge to the administration that is taking all measures for conducting the elections in areas prone to human-animal conflicts, and Naxal-prone areas. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy on Wednesday chaired a meeting in this connection in Madikeri and told the officials to take all precautions in the polling booths falling under these areas. Polling officers deputed to booths located in human-animal conflict areas will be escorted by personnel of rapid response team (RRT), she said. Ms. Joy said the personnel of the Anti-Naxal Force (ANF) will be providing security to polling staff and booths in Naxal-prone areas. “All necessary precautions will be taken in sensitive and hyper-sensitive booths.” Kodagu Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra and senior district officials attended the meeting. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner launched a voter awareness campaign. The Department of Information and Public Relations has launched the initiative to educate the voters on the importance of their vote. As a part of the campaign, voter awareness was done through street play and folk music. “Those who have attained 18 years of age can cast their vote to strengthen the democracy,” she said. District Information Officer Chinnaswamy said the voter awareness campaign will be carried out in all three taluks of Kodagu for the next 10 days.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No proposal before govt. to abolish Council: Somashekar||Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar said there was no proposal before the government to abolish the Legislative Council. Mr. Somashekar’s assertion on the continuation of the Council came here on Wednesday while he was fielding queries on the unprecedented chaos witnessed in the House on Tuesday. Mr. Somashekar accused the Congress of hatching a conspiracy to indulge in “rowdyism” in the Council on Tuesday. “It was cent per cent pre-planned. They (Congress MLCs) were told at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting to indulge in rowdyism and go on a rampage. Their actions do not behove the political class,” he alleged. ‘Should be suspended’ He added that The Council is considered an august Upper House of the State Legislature and if the Congress has any respect, it should suspend its members. He said that Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, “who sermonises everybody else”, should take up the matter seriously. He defended the move by Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda to occupy the seat of the Chairman in the Council on Tuesday as Chairman Pratap Chandra Shetty had not turned up. The Deputy Chairman had to conduct the proceedings of the House, but the Congress members did not permit the same, Mr. Somashekar said. He said the Congress had lost majority in the Council as the JD (S) had joined hands with the BJP. Instead of honourably giving up the post of the Chairman, the Congress manhandled the Deputy Chairman in the House, he said. Mr. Somashekar also questioned Mr. Shetty’s decision to adjourn the House indefinitely after entering the Council on Tuesday.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Area under tobacco cultivation shrank by over 20,000 hectares in 6 years||The area under tobacco cultivation in Mysuru district has shrunk by more than 20,000 hectares in six years, according to Agriculture Department officials. Speaking at programme on alternative crop for tobacco farmers organised by Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell recently, Joint Director of Agriculture Department, Mysuru, Mahantheshappa said the area under tobacco cultivation in Mysuru had decreased from over 85,000 hectares in 2014 to around 63,000 hectares at present. Hunsur and Periyapatna accounted for the highest area under tobacco cultivation in the district by growing 26,500 and 25,720 hectares respectively, followed by 8,000 hectares in K.R. Nagar. Nanjangud and H.D. Kote taluks too grew tobacco on 1,950 hectares and 1,560 hectares respectively. Horticulture Department officials pointed out that a total of 1,341 tobacco farmers had been given a subsidy of Rs. 171.61 lakh for growing alternative crop on 605 hectares of land since 2016-17. Farmers growing banana and pineapple as an alternative crop were entitled to a subsidy of Rs. 50,000 per hectare while those growing mangoes will get Rs. 40,000 per hectare. Cultivating papaya will fetch tobacco farmers Rs. 30,000 per hectare while growing vegetables will entitle them to receive a subsidy of Rs. 20,000 per hectare. To ensure good productivity, Mr. Mahantheshappa called upon farmers to use organic fertilizer in the form of cattle dung so that the soil does not become polluted. Regional Manager of Tobacco Board, Mysuru, Manjunath, said the Tobacco Board was ready to join hands with the Agriculture and Horticulture departments in finding suitable alternative crop for tobacco farmers. He said tobacco was a commercial crop that was found to be remunerative by the farmers in rain fed area. There are few crops that can match tobacco in ensuring good returns to the farmers of rain-fed areas. However, he said the Tobacco Board and the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI) were together working on reducing the area under tobacco cultivation. In view of the health hazards tobacco posed, India has signed the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) that seeks to reduce tobacco cultivation in the country.  In view of the health hazards tobacco posed, India has signed the World Health Organisation’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control that seeks to reduce tobacco cultivation in the country
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA razes commercial complex constructed illegally||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), in an early morning operation, demolished a commercial complex consisting of five shops which was being illegally constructed near the Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway, here on Wednesday. The MUDA claimed that the land on which the shops were being constructed belonged to it and the complex was constructed illegally. Under the police protection, the MUDA employed earth movers to raze the single-storied building. MUDA Commissioner D.B. Natesh, in a press release here, said the commercial complex was built at Belavatha village in Survey Number 295 near the Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway (to the north of Sobha Garden Layout). Despite warnings to stop the construction, the work was carried out and therefore an order for razing the structure was issued. The land was reclaimed, the release stated. MUDA Commissioner and engineers were present during the operation which began around 6 a.m.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BJP opposes inclusion of Muslims in OBC list’||The BJP is opposed to inclusion of Muslims in the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC), national president of BJP’s OBC Morcha Laxman said here on Wednesday. Mr. Laxman, who was in Mysuru in connection with the two-day State executive meet of the BJP’s Backward Classes Morcha, told reporters that the founding father of Indian Constitution Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had made it clear that reservation should be extended only to socially-discriminated and economically-backward sections of society. Hence, reservation cannot be extended on religious grounds, Mr. Laxman said, while justifying his opposition to including Muslims in the list of OBCs.  10% reservation The Centre has come forward to provide 10% reservation to economically poor from all castes, he said. In pursuit of his slogan ‘Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikaas’, Prime Minister Modi was introducing schemes meant to benefit the economically poor among even the forward communities besides socially-discriminated people, Mr. Laxman said. The State executive meet will discuss not only programmes pertaining to backward classes, but also create awareness among people about the “historical decisions taken by the Modi government,” he said. Presently, Muslims figure in the list of OBCs in both the State and Central lists for their social and economic backwardness. On farm Bills While referring to the farm Bills passed by the Centre, Mr. Laxman said the new laws that aimed at protecting farmers from the clutches of middlemen were being resisted by vested interests in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Akali Dal, the Congress in Punjab, and many other regional parties.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru student chosen for Rhodes scholarship||Vighnesh Hampapura, alumnus of VVS Golden Jubilee PU College, Mysuru and currently an undergraduate at Ashoka University, has been chosen for the prestigious Rhodes scholarship. Mr. Vighnesh is among five students from India selected for the chance to study at the University of Oxford. Mr. Vighnesh is currently residing in Mysuru. He is the son of Jayanth Hampapura, an associate professor, Yuvaraja’s College, Mysuru, and Namitha. His parents are both PhD holders in microbiology. His teacher Veena Ramesh, English lecturer at VVS Golden Jubilee PU College, said Mr. Vighnesh scored 97.6% in his PU exam with centums in Physics, Mathematics, and Sanskrit, but he decided to study English literature. “Today, at 21 years, he is a writer, a translator, and took part in the Jaipur Literary Festival 2020. He has researched about Rangayana, the theatre repertory in Mysuru, for Sahapedia, and is writing a thesis on modern Indian drama for his fourth year at Ashoka University,” said Ms. Veena, in a release.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath likens JD(S) to ‘child lured by a sweet’||A.H. Vishwanath, former Minister and BJP MLC, has likened the JD(S) to a child that can be lured by a sweet. “The JD(S) is like a child in the midst of the Congress and the BJP. It will go with whoever offers it a sweet,” Mr. Vishwanath remarked, but hastened to add that there was no need to talk much about the party. His remarks come in the wake of the JD(S) joining forces with the BJP in the Legislative Council. He condemned the developments that took place in the Council on Tuesday and said the special place that the Council had among the bicameral legislatures of the country was lost due to the behaviour of the very people, who swore by democracy and democratic traditions. He said he had watched with pain the developments unfolding before him in the Council.
17 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AIISH to start live preschool training sessions||The Department of Special Education, All-India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru has been carrying out online training sessions for over 200 children with various communication disorders since March 2020 in view of the pandemic. Henceforth, it will provide face-to-face sessions for preschool children from December 15. Standard Operating Procedures would be followed at the sessions, the institute said via a press release. Initially, the training was planned only for clients in Mysuru. However, those interested people can utilise the services by calling the department on 0821- 2502565, 2502566 and 250569 from Monday to Friday between 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
17 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Start procurement centres for red gram under MSP scheme, Raichur officials told||Additional Deputy Commissioner of Raichur K.H. Durugesh has asked officials of the department concerned to start procurement centres to purchase red gram under minimum support price (MSP) scheme in the district. Addressing a task force committee meeting in Raichur on Tuesday, Mr. Durugesh said that FAQ red gram would be purchased under the MSP scheme though the agencies under the Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation Limited at 40 procurement centres across the district. The price for the crop has been fixed at Rs. 6,000 per quintal. The process will be on till December 30, 2020 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Under the scheme, each farmer can sell 20 quintals of red gram at these centres. In Raichur taluk, eight procurement centres are opened in Raichur city, Mamadapur, Yergera, Gonal, Mallapur, Deosugur, Gillesugur and Kalmala. There are six centres in Deodurg taluk: Deodurg, Jalahalli, Arkera, Madarkal, Sunkeshwarhal and Gabbur. Manvi taluk has seven centres: Manvi, Kurdi, Kavital, Pamankallur, Hirehenagi, Kallur and Anwari. There are 14 centres in Lingsugur taluk: Lingsugur, Mudgal, Maski, Hirenaganur, Hatti, Gejjalagatti, Honnalli, Chikkahesaruru, Mavinabavi, Bayyapur, Gouduru, Nagalapur, Medakinal and Gurgunta, and Sindhanur taluk has five centres: Sindhanur, Ummallutti, Jawalagera, Gududur and Balaganur. Last year, 2,10,504 quintals of red gram were purchased through 38 procurement centres in the district, an officer said.  The process will be on till December 30, 2020 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Under the scheme, each farmer can sell 20 quintals of red gram at such centres
17 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||2,466 candidates remain in the fray in Yadgir for GP polls, 4,438 in Raichur||With only a few days left for the first phase of gram panchayat elections, the district administrations in both Yadgir and Raichur districts are preparing to ensure that there is fair and proper elections on December 22. According to information provided by officials, 2,466 candidates are in the election fray in a total of 1,247 seats in 63 gram panchayats in Yadgir district’s Shahapur, Surpur and Hunsagi taluks. Shahapur taluk has 24 gram panchayats with 495 seats and there are 1,030 candidates in the fray for 394 seats, as 81 members have already been elected unopposed. As many as 20 seats remain vacant as none has filed his nomination papers. Surpur taluk has 21 gram panchayats with 383 seats and there are 785 candidates contesting for 325 seats as 58 members have been elected unopposed. Hunsagi taluk has 18 gram panchayats with 369 seats and there are 651 candidates in the fray for 286 seats. As many as 81 members have been elected unopposed, while two seats remain vacant as none has filed his nomination papers. Of the 2,466 candidates in the district, 677 candidates are from Scheduled Castes followed by 413 from Scheduled Tribes, 174 from OBC A category, 37 from OBC B category and 1,165 candidates from the general category. In Raichur, a total of 4,438 candidates remain in the election fray in 92 gram panchayats in the four taluks of Manvi, Deodurg, Raichur and Sirwar. Manvi taluk has 17 gram panchayats with 341 seats. Now, after 30 members were elected unopposed, 853 candidates are in the fight for 311 seats. Deodurg taluk has 28 gram panchayats with 544 seats and there are 1,214 candidates in the fray for 485 seats. As many as 58 members have been elected unopposed, while one seat remains vacant as none has filed his nomination papers. Raichur taluk has 33 gram panchayats with 654 seats. There are 1,636 candidates in the field for 561 seats after 93 members were elected unopposed. Sirwar taluk has 14 gram panchayats with 277 seats and 735 candidates are in the poll battle for 255 seats after 22 members were elected unopposed.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Council fracas: All parties await Governor’s move||A day after the ruckus in Karnataka Legislative Council over taking up no-confidence motion against Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty, the BJP is awaiting the word from Governor Vajubhai R. Vala over the reconvening of the session. “The Governor is also seeking legal advice on the issue, while the Advocate-General has given his opinion that the Council can be reconvened. We are awaiting word from the Governor and we are hopeful that he will take a decision within a week,” N. Ravikumar, BJP spokesperson and MLC, told The Hindu . “At the moment, we are not keen on taking the legal route,” he added. Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the petition had requested the Governor, as per Article 175 of the Constitution, to direct Mr. Shetty to either resign or make arrangements for discussion of the matter in the Council again. Motion closed: Congress The Congress sources said the party would not make any move after Tuesday’s incident. Sources maintained that the notice of no-confidence motion had been “closed” with the response of the Chairman, and that a fresh notice had to be given now. “Once the House is adjourned sine die , the same notice, which has been closed, cannot be taken up again. Let us see if a fresh notice is given when the next session is convened,” said a Congress leader. Meanwhile, former Law Minister and former Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council M.C. Nanaiah felt that the legal move cannot be taken up as it is the House that has to decide on it. “Courts cannot intervene and it is very difficult. It is the proceedings of the House. Legislature is absolutely independent of the judiciary. These are internal matter,” said the veteran politician. Mr. Nanaiah acknowledged that the Governor has the power to summon the House. “However, in this particular issue, the House has been adjourned sine die . In this matter, the Governor has got no power. Only after the House is prorogued, subsequently calling the House becomes the prerogative of the Governor and a date is fixed.” Expressing dismay over the developments on Tuesday, which saw the Chairman being locked out by the BJP and the Congress members trying to unseat the deputy chairman who had occupied the place, Mr. Nanaiah said it was “a big Constitutional lapse” that has lowered the dignity and sanctity of the House. “Senior Ministers were in the House. They should have advised the deputy chairman. They should have allowed the House to function. Over a period of time, the Karnataka legislature had earned a good name. Such developments have marred the reputation,” he said. He suggested that leaders of all political parties should now join together to ensure that a similar situation is not repeated. “A resolution is possible involving all parties,” he said.    All political parties should now join together to ensure that a similar situation of chaos does not repeat. A resolution is possible involving all parties. M.C. Nanaiah Former Law Minister
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A wake-up call to invest in public health that cannot be ignored||The year 2020, defined as it is by the COVID-19 pandemic, has shown us more clearly than ever before that public health facilities are the first and arguably the only responders during a time of dire need. Consider this: Karnataka started its combat against the pandemic with the government-run Victoria Hospital catering to all the infected persons as the designated hospital, and it remained so for the longest time. Fighting against the disease has its share of lessons. These include strengthening the surveillance system for early detection and isolation, increased manpower and logistics for contact tracing and control measures and better information management and communication for managing the crisis. Mortality reduction was possible in Karnataka only by strengthening the public health facilities in terms of infrastructure and better clinical management protocols. All these efforts were done primarily by protecting vulnerable communities and preventing stigmatization. These lessons necessitate a booster of what I call ‘3As’ to public health systems: allocations, autonomy and accountability. Why more allocation? The coronavirus has dramatically changed the health sector landscape with the public sector severely drained of its resources. This constraint is artificial as the government allocates less than 2% of the State's GDP, with a significant proportion, to manage the curative illness. Greater allocations are needed for several reasons. Public health efforts involve evidence-based, multidisciplinary measures to assure that people of Karnataka are healthy. While medicine and reimbursements mainly focus on treating illness in individuals, public health activities ensure that societies remain healthy. Increased allocation to preventive and rehabilitative action is necessary by ensuring equity, partnerships, and social justice through organized efforts of society. A competent and well-oriented public health cadre is essential to steer the changes towards healthy Karnataka. More allocation is also necessary to ensure that salaries for doctors and healthcare professionals are comparable to that of the Union government. This will ensure that vacancies are filled with high quality, qualified and competent manpower. Greater financial allocation is needed for addressing the dynamic need of shortage in drug supplies, diagnostics, beds and other resources. The Health Department did a phenomenal job in responding to the crisis in 2020. However, sustained efforts in ensuring infrastructure and trained manpower in healthcare facilities can attract the patients to the public sector. It should be noted that urban areas are the worst hit during a pandemic and generally have deficient health workforce. There are only 135 health centres for 198 wards in Bengaluru with one health centre for 90,000 people. The city recruited 1,786 ASHA workers during the pandemic. The health manpower in urban areas needs to be strengthened to offer primary health care services. The State needs more resources to ensure that people with comorbidities, the most vulnerable, and their families are diagnosed and treated. The State should strengthen the Non-Communicable Diseases Registry, by registering every person with hypertension, high glucose levels and cancer. Early diagnosis and adequate treatment can reduce the costs of reimbursements and strain on the budget. Otherwise, we will very soon be spending greater allocation on reimbursements. Autonomy The public health system needs to be sensitive to citizens’ needs and changing realities. Autonomous institutions, modelled on the Jayadeva Institute, can ensure that efficient public institutions can be created to serve the community and respond quickly. Autonomous institutions can efficiently coordinate and communicate for rapidly deploying people and resources. Autonomy for the government functionaries can help efficiently run the health system, especially in a crisis such as a pandemic.  Accountability The public health systems should also be held accountable for their performance in ensuring adequate services of reasonable quality, and continuity of care. The goal should be to create inter-connected systems incorporating early warning systems and information sharing in real-time to manage routine functioning and contain the crises. Greater accountability is needed to ensure that funds and power allotted are subjected to proper checks and balances and audits. With increased allocations, autonomy and greater accountability, the public health system can be reconfigured to ensure healthier, resilient societies with proactive measures to tackle future pandemics. COVID-19 is a reminder to invest in public health. We can only ignore this call at the cost of another looming pandemic.  (The author is professor, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bengaluru. He is a member of State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee.)
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New Year party scene shifts to outskirts||With uncertainty over whether the government will allow gatherings in hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars on New Year’s Eve or impose time restrictions, the party scene has shifted to outside the city limits. A quick search on the internet throws up listings of treks and camping events outside Bengaluru. One company, for instance, is offering New Year-themed adventure sports activities, including rock climbing, rappelling and trekking in Ramanagaram, with pick up from five different points in the city. Others are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. For instance, an event planner has even roped in a DJ for the big day. The listing promises games, fireworks, bonfire, hiking and a party at Revanna Siddeshwara Betta, also near Ramanagaram. “There are rumours that a night curfew might be imposed from December 26 to 31. We are waiting for some clarity on this. Until then, no bookings are being accepted,” said the event planner. The Technical Advisory Committee has already recommended to the government a ban on all religious, political and public events from December 20 to January 2, including New Year celebrations. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) also holds a similar view, with the civic chief stating that these celebrations could result in another spike. That said, some restaurateurs in Bengaluru have already listed their New Year events and are accepting bookings. A restobar in H.S.R. Layout has planned live music and dinner for its patrons on December 31. Cover charge ranges from Rs. 750-Rs. 1,100, and the number of tables has been reduced by half to ensure social distancing, said a representative. A brewery and restaurant in Whitefield has booked a celebrity DJ from Mumbai for what it claims will be the “biggest party” in Bengaluru. On the list of attractions is a dance floor under the open sky, and exclusive rooms for those opting for the VIP package. Here too, the number of tables and bookings had been reduced by 50%, the representative claimed. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters that hotels, bars and other establishments could use just 50% of their capacity. A recommendation had been sent to the government, he added.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RERA-K secretary to look at unregistered projects||With over 2,000 complaints pending, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA-K) on Wednesday announced that the secretary will be delegated to conduct enquiry proceedings with respect to unregistered projects. The authority, in a press release, said that this delegation of powers under Section 81 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, will help expedite the disposal of cases. “It is seen that around 2,232 complaints against registered and unregistered projects are still pending for disposal. Earlier, efforts were made by the Chairman, RERA-K to expedite disposal of these cases by allocating them to the members, but still many complaints are pending for disposal. The Chairman and the members are already burdened with the enquiry proceedings in a number of cases for which court sittings are being held,” read the release. According to the authority, many of the promoters against whom complaints have been made are seeking exemption from registration under provisions of the Act and the Rules. A decision has been taken to permit the secretary, RERA-K either to refuse the exemptions or to grant the same. After this exercise, the cases have to be forwarded to the adjudicating officers and the authority.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||19-year-old murdered||A 19-year-year-old student, who came to the city from her hometown in another State to enrol in a college, was allegedly raped and murdered by her brother’s friend in Byadarahalli on Wednesday. “The accused is a college student in Bengaluru. We have detained him for questioning,” said Sanjeev M. Patil, DCP (west). The girl came to Bengaluru two days ago to enrol in an engineering course. The accused offered to help her with the admission process at her family’s request. According to the police, they went to the college on Tuesday. “They were only able to complete a part of the process, and the girl had planned to return the next day. On Wednesday, the accused called her and suggested that she come to his rented house so that they could leave together,” said a senior police officer. The victim took an auto to his house in Byadarahalli. Later, the accused rushed outside screaming for help. He told a neighbour that his friend was unconscious. “Preliminary probe revealed that the victim was raped and murdered,” said a police official.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Contractors damage cable||A telecom giant has filed a complaint against two of its sub-contractors who allegedly damaged its optical fiber cables after realising that the company was not going to extend their contract, which will end at the end of the year. Based on a complaint by Vodafone Idea (Vi), the police, on Tuesday, registered an FIR against Deepu Balakrishna and Manjunath, the sub-contractors. They have been charged with damaging public property. No arrest has been made so far. Contract was expiring According to the complainant, the duo had been awarded a contract to lay cables in and around Telecom Layout near Nagawara flyover in Thanisandra. “But the company wasn’t planning to renew their contract. When the accused learned about this, Deepu and Manjunath damaged the cables. As a result, the internet connection to consumers in the area was cut off,” said a police officer.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vijay Divas||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The headline of a report appearing in these columns on Wednesday should read: Nine arrested in Sindhanur for auctioning panchayat seats, and not as published.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yuletide begins||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for fraud||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Wednesday arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly posing as a functionary of a powerful right-wing organisation and duping people of huge sums of money after promising seats in Parliament, in government boards and government jobs. The accused, Yuvraj Swamy, is a resident of Nagarbhavi. In a raid conducted on Wednesday, the police seized Rs. 26 lakh in cash and cheques addressed to the accused amounting to Rs. 91 crore. Based on a complaint by a businessman from Bengaluru, the CCB raided Yuvraj’s house and arrested him. “Yuvraj falsely claimed to know some important people and either promised top government jobs or to get some important work done. He had cheated the complainant of Rs. 1 crore by promising him a high ranking post in the Transport Department,” said a senior police official. Claims of proximity to influential people “He claimed to be very close to Union ministers and the BJP high command,” said a police official. During interrogation, he claimed to have convinced people of his clout by booking rooms in five-star hotels. “He will be taken into custody and further investigation will be conducted,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime).
17 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Impressive performance by LDF in Alappuzha||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) showcased an impressive performance in the local body polls in the district, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. The LDF romped to victory in district panchayat, 11 block panchayats and 50 grama panchayats. It also stormed to power in Alappuzha, Cherthala and Kayamkulam municipalities. In Mavelikara municipality, the LDF, UDF and NDA won nine seats each. Trounced In the district panchayat, the CPI (M)-led LDF trounced the United Democratic Front (UDF) by winning 21 out of the total 23 seats. The LDF was voted to power in Ambalappuzha, Aryad, Bharanikavu, Chengannur, Haripad, Kanjikuzhy, Mavelikara, Muthukulam, Pattanakkad, Thycattusserry and Veliyanad block panchayats. In Champakulam block panchayat, both the LDF and UDF won six seats each. The Congress-led UDF, on the other hand, put up a poor show compared to the 2015 elections. It could only secure two seats in the district panchayat while emerging top in 18 grama panchayats as against 23 in the previous elections. Among the municipalities, the UDF retained Chengannur, while also emerging top in Haripad. Although it failed to live up to the high expectations while going into polls, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance made notable gains by emerging top in three grama panchayats of Kodamthuruth, Thiruvanvandoor and Pandanad. It also performed well in Mavelikara municipality and won eight seats in Chengannur municipality. NDA wins 200 seats The NDA won around 200 seats across local bodies in the district, an increase from the previous elections. The Left Democratic Front candidate K. Vinu of the CPI (M) won from Thiruperunthurai, the home ward of Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in Thripperumthura Chennithala grama panchayat. VS ex-staffer wins Latheesh B. Chandran, a former personal staff to V.S. Achuthanandan, defeated J. Jayalal, Muhamma grama panchayat president and CPI (M) candidate in Janakshemam ward of the local body.
17 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Hung municipal council in Mavelikara||The elections to the Mavelikara municipality have thrown up a hung council with the United Democratic Front (UDF), Left Democratic Front (UDF) and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) all winning nine seats each of the total 28. K.V. Sreekumar, an LDF rebel candidate won from the Umbarnnad ward by a margin of five votes, putting him on the spotlight. The LDF, which ruled the municipality in the last five years after winning 12 wards in 2015 elections, has lost seats this time around. Those won on the LDF ticket include seven CPI(M) candidates, one Janathipathya Kerala Congress and one Independent candidate. Meanwhile, the UDF improved its tally from six seats in 2015. The NDA, which had won nine seats in the previous elections, failed to further increase its number in the council. Elsewhere in the district, the UDF retained power in the Chengannur municipality by winning 14 out of the 27 seats. The NDA finished second with eight seats. The LDF won one seat, while others bagged four seats. The LDF wrested the Cherthala municipality from the UDF. The LDF won 18 wards, while the UDF bagged 10 seats, NDA three and others four. In the Kayamkulam municipality, the LDF won 20 out of the total 44 wards. The UDF had to settle for 17 and NDA three seats respectively. Others got four seats. The UDF emerged top in Haripad municipality by winning 13 of the total 29 seats. The LDF bagged 9 seats, while the NDA won five seats. Others won two wards.
17 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Thumping victory for LDF in Alappuzha municipality||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has registered a thumping victory in elections to the Alappuzha municipality. The LDF wrested the civic body from the United Democratic Front (UDF) by winning 35 out of the 52 seats. The UDF had to settle for 11 seats. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) bagged three seats, while others won three seats. Tastes defeat Former municipal chairman Thomas Joseph of the Congress tasted defeat in Kottamkulangara ward. He finished third behind eventual winner Manu Upendran of the BJP and CPI(M) candidate G. Moni. The BJP candidate defeated the CPI(M) candidate by a margin of 105 votes in Kottamkulangara. Mr. Joseph could only secure 597 votes of the total 2,194 votes polled. Illikkal Kunjumon of the Congress, who replaced Mr. Joseph as municipal chairman a year ago, won from the Vattayal ward. Mr. Kunjumon defeated his nearest rival K. Hamsa of the CPI (M) by a margin of 610 votes. While the UDF which had won 26 seats in the civic body in 2015 failed to repeat the performance, the LDF significantly improved its tally of 19 seats it had won in the previous elections. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, which was expecting to give a tough fight to both LDF and UDF, has failed to make any significant inroads. The NDA had won four seats in 2015. The Social Democratic Party of India and People’s Democratic Party won one seat each. B. Mehboob, a former Congress leader, who contested the elections as an Independent, won from the Poonthoppu ward. Draw of lots In the Punnamada ward, Sreelekha G. of the Congress was declared winner through a draw of lots after she and her rival Jayamol M.K. of the BJP were tied at 751 votes.
17 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pandemic takes a heavy toll on farm tourism in Munnar||Farm tourism in Munnar and Anchunadu, which witnessed a steady growth in the past five years, is in the doldrums now with COVID-19 taking a toll on the tourism sector. Farm tourism at Marayur, Kanthallur, and Vattavada grew in consonance with the growth in tourism in Munnar. Fruit farmers at Kanthallur say there used to be visitors even during the off-season to enjoy apple, orange, plum, peach, guava, mosambi, passion fruit, and tamarillo in orchards. They also purchase vegetables. “Once the apple season is over, comes the orange season, and it is the season of orange now,” says Chandran, a farmer at Guhanathapuram in Kanthallur. The tea gardens in Munnar are also blessed with oranges, grown as an inter-crop. Estate workers are given the right to harvest orange and fruit bundles are seen on roadsides now. Many farmers at Kanthallur and Marayur went into farm tourism with a view on additional income. “Those coming to Munnar prefer to stop for purchasing oranges and apples from orchards and we are paid a decent price,” says Mr. Chandran adding that an entire fruit season has gone waste now. He says farmers find it difficult to market traditional orange grown by them as it is smaller, though sweeter. Tourists prefer it as it has more shelf-life. There are also many takers for Marayur jaggery produced in units attached to sugarcane fields at Marayur and Kanthallur. “There is a noticeable decline in arrival of tourists,” says Rajeshkumar, who works at a unit. He says visitors not only purchase jaggery but also sugarcane juice and raw loose jaggery, known as pani in local parlance. Strawberry cultivation Many farmers who took to strawberry cultivation at Kanthallur and Vattavada are facing a crisis as there is no agency to procure the produce. The easily perishable crop needs more care unlike other crops. They say there is no takers for farm-fresh strawberry now. Around 200 farmers in Devikulam taluk are into strawberry farming in about 70 ha. The government had opened a strawberry park at Munnar to promote farm tourism. However, a Horticorp official says the agency could not find an alternative way to market strawberry after the slump in tourism.
17 December 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Shared laurels for two fronts in Idukki||While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) got an upper hand in the district panchayat here, the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) equally shared the block panchayats in the district, four each, and the UDF bagged more grama panchayats in the local body elections held on December 8. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) improved its tally in the three-tier local bodies. In the 35-seat Thodupuzha municipality, UDF got 13, LDF 12, NDA 8, and Independents 2. In Kattappana municipality, out of 34 seats, UDF got 22, LDF 9, NDA 2, and Independent 1. Of the 16 seats in the district panchayat, the LDF won10 and the UDF 6. In the 52 grama panchayats, UDF got 27 and LDF 25. The Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)]factions led by Jose K. Mani (LDF) and P.J. Joseph (UDF) got two seats each in Thodupuzha and Kattappana municipalities. However, in the grama panchayats many seats were won by the Jose K. Mani faction which had recently joined the LDF. The NDA got four additional seats compared to the last local body elections. In the last local body election, NDA won 33 seats, including in Thodupuzha and Kattappana municipalities. This time it got 37 seats in the two municipalities and in various grama panchayats. Blank for AIADMK The ruling party in Tamil Nadu, the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhakam (AIADMK), drew a blank in the the district. The AIADMK, which contested in 10 grama panchayats had fielded 66 candidates, including one in district panchayat and seven in block panchayats. The party contested at Vattavada, Chinnakanal, Marayur, Kanthalloor, Devikulam and Pallivasal grama panchayats in Devikulam and Udumbanchola taluks, in addition to Vandiperiyar, Upputhara, Peermade, and Elappara panchayats in Peerumade taluk. The block panchayats won by the UDF are Adimaly, Elamdesam, Idukki and Thodupuzha and those bagged by the LDF are Azhutha, Devikulam, Kattappana and Nedumkandam. In the 2015 elections, the UDF won 11 divisions in the district panchayat and the LDF, 5. In block panchayats, the UDF got 6 seats and the LDF, 2.
17 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||An ooru mooppan scores a first in polls||A tribal head (ooru mooppan) has won with flying colours that too in a general seat in the Idukki grama panchayat, a first in local body elections. Sukumaran Kani, who contested as United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate from the Mazhuvadi ward of the Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, won with a margin of 193 votes. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) fielded a representative of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M). Then there was the added pressure of a Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) local leader, who contested as a rebel. Sukumaran’s settlement is in the Mazhuvadi ward and it has a connection with the UDF. It has been named ‘Oommen Chandy Colony’ after the settlers there were issued title deeds in 1974. Chandy’s nominee Sukumaran said it was the intervention of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy that enabled his candidature in Ward 9.  He said he visited Mr. Chandy and informed him about his wish to contest the local body elections and the latter asked the District Congress Committee president to allot a seat to him. He said there were only 247 tribal voters among the 1,250 voters in the Mazhuvadi ward and his personal connection as a Congress worker helped him win the election. Normally tribal chieftains do not contest in elections. Sukumaran belongs to the Mannan community, the only one to have a King as its traditional ruler in southern India. Major community The Mannan tribe is one of the major tribal communities having settlements in Idukki and parts of Ernakulam and Kottayam. The headquarters of the community is at Kozhimala, where members under tribal King Raman Rajamannan celebrate annual festivals and other functions. The Mannan community lives deep in the forest and is mainly settled in the buffer zone of the Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary at Kozhimala.
17 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF improves tally, LDF loses strongholds in Wayanad||The United Democratic Front (UDF) put up a good performance in Wayanad district while the rival Left Democratic front lost many of its strongholds when results of the civic body polls were announced on Wednesday. However, both the fronts are in a fix as neither has got a clear majority in the Wayanad District Panchayat. However, the LDF has increased its seats in the civic body. In the 16-member district panchayat, both the fronts got 8 seats each. The UDF had an upper hand in the civic body in 2015 with the front winning 11 seats and LDF getting 5 seats in that election. Municipalities While the UDF captured two of the three municipalities, Kalpetta and Mananthavady, the LDF retained Sulthan Bathery Municipality with a better majority. When the UDF retains its supremacy in two of the four block panchayats including Kalpetta and Panamaram, the LDF got an upper hand in Sulthan Bathery block panchayat and captured Mananthavady block panchayat from the UDF, where the LDF got seven seats and UDF won in six seats. The UDF put up a better performance in grama panchayat elections this time. While the LDF won in seven of the 23 grama panchayats in the district, the UDF won in 16. In the previous election, the LDF had won in 11 grama panchayats. The NDA slightly improved its performance as it won in 13 seats in 9 grama panchayats as against eight seats in four grama panchayats in the previous poll.
17 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF maintains its hold in Kannur||Despite the LDF’s dominance in the district, block, and village panchayats in the local body elections, the UDF has managed to win the Kannur Municipal Corporation with a thumping majority. The UDF won the election by winning 34 of the 55 wards while the LDF could manage to win only 19 wards. The BJP pulled off its maiden win in the corporation election. In 2015, the UDF had lost the election between the cup and the lip. Even though the LDF and UDF had got an equal number of seats, the LDF came to power after the corporation was formed with the support of P.K. Ragesh, a Congress rebel, who stood as an independent candidate. The UDF, however, managed to persuade Mr. Ragesh to withdraw his support and get into power by passing a no-confidence motion against the first Mayor, E.P. Latha. However, this time, the UDF turned the tables by winning the majority of seats. The UDF defeated the previous opposition leader, N. Balakrishnan Master, who won the election from Kuruva division in 2015, but decided to contest in Thottada ward this time. The UDF managed to wrest eight of the LDF wards of Thulicheri, Kakkadu North, Valiyannoor, Macheri, Mele Chovva, Attadappa, Thottada, and Padanna. It also a won the Shadulipalli and Panjikkayil, which were earlier won by independent candidates. The LDF candidate, Chithira Sasidharan, managed to wrest the Thalikkavu ward from the UDF by receiving 703 votes. The UDF camp is already considering names for the mayoral post including those of Martin George, P.K. Ragesh, and P.O. Mohanan.  BJP makes gains The BJP made a considerable stride by winning seats in many panchayats, municipalities and corporations in the district. For the first time, the NDA candidate, V.K. Shaiju, won in Pallikunnu division of the Kannur Corporation, which is the sitting seat of the UDF. Likewise, the NDA improved its seat share in grama panchayats compared with the previous election. While in 2015, it had won 16 seats in grama panchayats, this time its seat share increased to 25, while in the municipalities, the share increased from 15 to 20 seats. Eight of the seats are in Thalassery municipality, where it had won 6 seats during the last election, making the NDA as the main opposition party.  LDF gains The LDF swept the election in the district and did extremely well in grama panchayats, blocks and municipalities. In Anthoor municipality, the LDF remained unchallenged as it won all the 28 seats by defeating the rival candidates of UDF and NDA. The LDF won 5 of the eight municipalities, while the UDF managed to win in only three municipalities. Likewise, the LDF clinched victory in 56 of the 71 grama panchayats. However, the LDF tasted defeat in two block panchayats, unlike in the past when it had won 11 block panchayats. It was no different in the district panchayat, where it won 17 divisions, while the UDF won the rest.
17 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Jumbo panels didn’t help: Sudhakaran||Congress leader K. Sudhakaran on Wednesday said the organisational structure of the CPI(M) and the BJP stood them in good stead in the elections while the Congress suffered from organisational weakness. “The Congress is not an organisation that can claim such excellence,” he said. The new jumbo committees of the KPCC did not help, he said. Kerala had the worst governance in the past four or five years. The organisational weakness of the Congress hampered it from exposing the shortcomings in governance, he said.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Welfare measures outweigh corruption charges||What’s the point in putting up a brave face when you have ceded your citadel, asks a Congress leader, exasperation palpable in his voice. The rhetorical question is what the political affairs committee of the Congress will be grappling with when it meets on Thursday to discuss the outcome the local body polls in which major strongholds of the United Democratic Front(UDF) in central Kerala gave way. “It’s unprecedented that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has pipped us in the Pala municipality and in six of the eight panchayats that are part of the Puthupally Assembly constituency held by Oommen Chandy for half a century,” says the Congress leader. Senior leader V.D. Satheesan thinks that it is the ‘organisational weakness’ that has impacted the party in all districts except Ernakulam and Malappuram, where along with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) it made a clean sweep. “The decision to sever ties with the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) was short-sighted and ill-informed, he maintains. K. Muraleedharan, MP, echoes the sentiment of United Democratic Front leaders P.K. Kunhalikkutty and P.J. Joseph when he says the Congress and the UDF are far from united. “Wrong alliances, factionalism in deciding candidature and Congress State chief president Mullappally Ramachandran’s needless remarks on [the tacit understanding with] the Welfare Party of India put us on the back foot,” he told The Hindu . Almost routed in south Kerala, the face-saver for the alliance is the win in 45 of the State’s 86 municipalities, but there too, it has lost about 150 wards in comparison with the 2015 results. Left wave For the Left Democratic Front, which found itself up against wall fighting a slew of charges going to the polls, the campaign surrounding the State’s track record in governance and welfare measures, especially in the fields of education and health, through the LIFE Mission and in times of disasters, helped in a big way. While its strength in rural areas remained largely intact, there was an erosion of Left votes in the municipalities. However, the front looked set to clinch municipalities such as Nilambur with the support of Independent candidates. In prestigious contests such as the one in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Kottayam district panchayat, Pathanamthitta municipality, Onchiyam panchayat in Kannur and in Kasaragod, the front put up a good show thanks to meticulous electioneering, giving room for alliance partners and strong Independents. “But there’s a need for the CPI(M) to guard its urban strongholds against the onslaught of the BJP,” says a party leader. “In Thiruvananthapuram, the rise of the BJP even in the rural areas, in the Kallikkad panchayat, to name one, remains a cause for concern. But it’s a stellar performance given the challenges, as the alliance has won over 10,000 seats like last time, surmounted the challenge in the Thrissur Corporation and emerged the single largest front in Kochi corporation,” he points out. Lacklustre show It is a lacklustre show by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which despite factionalism was hoping to get about 8,000 seats for the alliance led by it. As at 7 15 p.m., the tally for the BJP was 1,596, a marginal improvement from 1,223 secured by it in 2015. While it won Pandalam municipality besides Palakkad, its seat share in district panchayats dipped from three to two. The party fought rebel menace to emerge a close second in some urban local bodies such as Kodungallur and Varkala, but its hopes for a win in Thrissur remains stillborn.  The decision to sever ties with the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Cong. (M) was short-sighted V.D. Satheesan Congress MLA
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Lacklustre win for UDF in Ernakulam||The hat-trick win in the Ernakulam District Panchayat and victory in a majority of municipalities saved the face of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Ernakulam amid the State-wide drub, even as the scars left by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on its citadels in the Kochi Corporation will take a long time to heal. The Congress-led UDF will have much to ponder over the serious setback in the battle for the Corporation after the resurgent Left front dashed its hopes of scoring a hat-trick win. A lower voter turnout and the anti-incumbency factor combined with internal squabbles seemed to have turned the tide against the UDF, as its prominent leaders, including Mayor hopefuls N. Venugopal and K.R. Premakumar, failed to pass the electoral test. Lost divisions Despite ending the 10-year UDF rule in the corporation, the LDF could not cross the half-way mark of 38 after it lost some divisions in which it had hoped for an easy win. The CPI(M) district leadership made it clear that it would do some serious analysis of the lacklustre performance in municipalities, as the front could win only three against the six it had won in 2015. In the Ernakulam District Panchayat, the LDF’s report card registered a dip, as it could win only seven against the 11 in 2015. “The opposition at the grama panchayat level may have reflected in the poll outcome for the block and district panchayat,” said CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) emerged the dark horse this time, as it improved its performance in the corporation and municipalities, even though it failed to open account in the district panchayat. It managed to wrest control of three sitting seats of the Congress in Aluva while opening accounts in Kalamassery and Angamaly. “We are the principal opposition again in Thripunithura. The seat share in municipalities like Aluva, North Paravur, Eloor, and Perumbavoor has gone up compared to 2015,” said BJP district president S. Jayakrishnan. The rebel menace faced by both the UDF and the LDF had a cascading effect on the final verdict this time compared to the scenario in the previous elections. Besides, the Twenty20 juggernaut crushing its prospects, the rebels too delivered a blow to the rival fronts across grama panchayats and municipalities.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rude shock for UDF as heavyweights taste defeat at hustings||It did not begin well for the UDF. The first result announced on the day came as a rude shock to the Congress, as its Mayor candidate and senior leader N. Venugopal lost the contest by one vote. An electoral defeat in Island North, which Mr. Venugopal has always held as his home turf, was something unpalatable for the seasoned politician. Venugopal, who will turn 70 shortly, suffered defeat at the hands of a political novice, T. Padmakumari of the BJP. Many consider this election as the last opportunity for Mr. Venugopal, who was defeated by Tony Chammany in the UDF Parliamentary Party election in 2010 held after the civic polls, to become the Mayor. Though the UDF won majority of seats in 2010, most Congress councillors favoured Mr. Chammany over Mr. Venugopal. It took a long time for Mr. Venugopal to concede the defeat, as many of the Congress candidates, whom he supported in the election voted for Mr. Chammany at the crucial parliamentary party meeting. The 2020 elections witnessed many UDF heavyweights, including Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar, former town planning chairperson Shiny Mathew, who unsuccessfully bid for the post of Mayor, welfare standing committee chairperson P.D. Martin and Congress Parliamentary Party secretary M.B. Muralidharan kiss the dust. Mr. Premakumar was defeated by Sony Francis of the LDF. The Congress candidates who won include KPCC general secretary Deepthi Mary Varghese, former health standing committee chairperson V.K. Minimol, M.G. Aristotle, and Malini Kurup. Shibu Chammanikodathu, the V4 Kochi candidate who contested from Palarivattom, bagged 1,213 votes, the highest a candidate of a non-political formation could muster in the 74 divisions it contested in. Joji Kureekad, CPI local committee secretary and former councillor, who contested as an LDF-backed Independent, defeated Joshy Pallan, the UDF candidate. As many as 12 candidates fielded by the formation won over 500 seats in their divisions, which had influenced the poll outcome. Though none of the V4 Kochi candidates romped home victorious, they were instrumental in ensuring the defeat of at least a few candidates. The CPI has put up its all-time best performance in the Kochi Corporation by getting its four councillors, C.A. Shakkeer, who returned to the council after a gap of five years, Mr. Kureekad, C.N. Ranjith, and K.A. Ansiya elected to the council. The defeat of the two Deputy Mayor probables of the LDF, Poornima Narayan and Aji Francis, will force the CPI(M) to look for new faces from among the elected women councillors. While Ms. Narayan, the former chairperson of the education standing committee, suffered drubbing at the hands of Antony Painuthara, Prathibha Ansari, the former health standing committee chairperson, was defeated by Abhilash Thoppil in Edakochi South. Four former CPI(M) councillors returned to the council after a gap of five years to be part of the leading combination. While P.S. Viju won the Nambyapuram seat for the party, V.A. Sreejith won Kadebhagam, Deepa Varma, Edappally, and P.R. Renish, Thevara.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF gains in 10 municipalities; Left Front’s tally falls to three||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) suffered significant setbacks in elections to the 13 municipalities in the district, as it could manage to retain only half of the six municipalities they held, while the tally of the United Democratic Front (UDF) rose by three and reached 10 compared to the previous elections. The LDF was voted out in Angamaly, Thrikkakara and Muzattupuzha municipalities and could retain only Koothattukulam, Eloor, and Thripunithura. However, the front could muster simple majority in none of those municipalities and will be dependent on others to secure power. The United Democratic Front (UDF) wrested back Angamaly, Thrikkakara, and Muvattupuzha from the LDF. It also managed to secure simple majority in Aluva, Angamaly, North Paravur and Maradu municipalities and emerged the single biggest block in Thrikkakara, Perumbavoor, Piravom, Kothamangalam, and Kalamassery. However, it suffered a major blow in Thripunithura Municipality, where it was decisively dislodged as the principal Opposition by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and dropped to a distant third with just eight seats in the 49-member council. The NDA gave a close fight to the LDF in Thripunithura, where it bagged 15 seats. It also opened account in Angamaly by securing two seats, more than triple the seat share from two to six in Eloor and one to four in Aluva. Overall, it improved its tally to 34 divisions in eight municipalities from the previous 22 across seven municipalities. Independents made significant gains, assuming the role of kingmakers. However, the much-touted apolitical outfit, Janamunnettam, that fielded candidates in 33 divisions in Thrikkakara failed to win a single seat. The seat share of Independents is so significant in at least five municipalities that both the LDF and the UDF are in with a chance of mustering a simple majority, if they could woo in enough number of Independents irrespective of who emerged the single biggest block.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF wins 9 block panchayats, LDF bags 5 in Ernakulam||The United Democratic Front (UDF) won nine of the block panchayats in the district while the LDF bagged five blocks in the local body elections.   The Alangad block panchayat saw LDF win eight seats while the UDF won three seats. The NDA won one seat and an Independent bagged one seat. In the Angamaly block, the UDF secured nine seats, LDF three seats and an Independent one seat. The UDF won 11 seats in the Edappally block while the LDF and an Independent won one seat each. The UDF secured 11 seats in the Koovappady block panchayat while the LDF won two seats. The UDF won eight seats in the Kothamangalam block while the LDF secured six seats. The UDF won eight seats in the Mulanthuruthy block while the LDF bagged four seats. An independent candidate won one seat. The UDF won 13 seats in the Muvattupuzha block while the LDF won five seats and an Independent one seat. The UDF bagged five seats in Palluruthy block while the LDF won six seats and Independents two seats. The UDF secured six seats in Pampakuda block panchayat while the LDF won six seats. An independent won one seat in the block panchayat. The LDF won nine seats in the Parakkadavu block while the UDF won four seats. In the Paravur block, the UDF secured two seats and the LDF 10 seats. An independent won one seat. The UDF won four seats in the Vypin block panchayat while the LDF secured nine seats.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||9 municipalities return a hung verdict||The electorate seems determined not to give anyone a decisive backing, as nine out of the 13 municipalities in Ernakulam returned a hung verdict. Apart from Aluva, Angamaly, North Paravur, and Maradu, where the UDF managed to secure a simple majority, the single biggest fronts in all the remaining municipal bodies — UDF in six and LDF in three — fell short of the magic figure, leaving everything dependent on the dexterity of political manoeuvrings to sway potential fence-sitters, mainly among Independents. The UDF remains two short of simple majority in Piravom, three short each in Thrikkakara and Kothamangalam, two in Kalamassery, and one seat each short in Perumbavoor and Muvattupuzha. In comparison, the LDF remains seven short of the magic figure in Eloor, four in Thripunithura, and one short in Koothattukulam. What keeps both the fronts interested is that enough Independents have won in all these municipalities to swing the hung verdict decisively in favour of one side or the other, irrespective of who emerged the single biggest front. Eighty-nine Independents won across 13 municipalities, with their numbers hitting the double figure in Thrikkakara and Piravom (11 and 10 respectively), nine in Eloor and eight each in Kalamasserry and Maradu, six each in Perumbavoor and Aluva, and five each in North Paravur and Thripunithura. Technically, the LDF can turn around the verdict and grab power in Thrikkakara, Kothamangalam, Kalamassery, and Muvattupuzha, where they emerged the second best, if they manage to sway enough Independents, while the same holds true for the UDF in Koothattukulam and Eloor. However, in Perumbavoor, the LDF stands no chance, even if it brings over all the six panchayats, and similarly, the UDF’s tally is way too short to effect a turnaround using the five Independents in Thripunithura. This is also the time for rebels who pitched in as Independents and proved their party bosses wrong, to extract their pound of flesh by making hard bargains, though that could prove a headache for parties making compromises to secure power. A classic case of it was played out in Maradu in the last term, which saw five chairpersons and four vice chairmen keep the two Congress rebels who proved decisive in good humour after both the fronts ended up with 15 seats apiece. Then, there is the curious case of bemoaning the absence of rebels among victorious Independents like a senior Congress functionary in Piravom after the UDF was left just two short of retaining power in the municipality.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Twenty20 opens account as UDF wins district panchayat||The non-political Twenty20 made inroads into the strongholds of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Ernakulam District Panchayat despite a third-term for the Congress in 27 divisions. The UDF retained its overall tally of 16 seats registered in 2015, while the LDF’s graph went down to seven from 11 divisions it had won in the previous elections. Twenty20 romped home in two wards, including Kolencherry and Vengola, after its candidates bagged the sitting seats of the LDF and the UDF by a decisive margin. Two Independent candidates backed by the LDF won the Kadungalloor and Neriyamangalam divisions. The UDF won Karukutty, Malayattoor, Kodanad, Pulluvazhi, Varapetty, Avoly, Valakom, Pampakuda, Mulanthuruthy, Kumbalanghi, Puthencruz, Nedumbassery, Kottuvally, Vallarpadam, Keezhmad and Vypeen divisions, while the LDF bagged Cherai, Moothakunnam, Kalady, Bhoothathankettu, Udayamperoor, Edathala and Alangad divisions. In an interesting fight, the Kerala Congress (Joseph) candidate defeated the Kerala Congress (Mani) nominee in the Varapetty Division by 662 votes. Among the prominent winners, former president of the Ernakulam District Panchayat Asha Sanil of the Congress won the Pampakuda Division. Sarada Mohan, daughter of late CPI leader P.K. Vasudevan Nair, won the Kalady Division. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) failed to open its account despite improving its performance in municipalities and grama panchayats. The party leadership attributed it to the continuing trend of dominance by the UDF and the LDF and the pattern of voting favouring the two fronts for its poor performance in divisions under the Ernakulam District Panchayat.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actor rape case trial may resume in Jan.||With the Supreme Court dismissing the State government’s plea for a change of court in the actor rape case, stage has been set for resuming the trial. Though Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge considering the sensational case, has posted the case for December 22, it may take some more time for the resumption of the proceedings as the State government has sought time at the apex court for the appointment of a new special prosecutor in the case. The stand-off between the trial court and special prosecutor A. Sureshan over the alleged bias of the court had reached a flash point when he moved the Kerala High Court seeking the change of trial court. The survivor too had approached the High Court with the demand. After the Single Judge of the High Court rejected the prosecution plea, Mr. Sureshan had resigned. Special Prosecutor The trial could be resumed during the first week of January if the State appoints a special prosecutor before the next posting date of the case. If delayed, the trial court may have to give a reasonable time for the State for completing the process. In such a condition, there could be a further delay in resuming the proceedings. The Supreme Court has set February 4, 2021 as the deadline for completing the trial, legal sources indicated. The prosecution case is that the actor was abducted and raped in a moving car. Actor Dileep has been arraigned as the eighth accused in the case. He has been charged with conspiracy.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. challenges sessions court order||The State government has challenged in the Kerala High Court an order of the Ernakulam principal sessions court restricting the presence of jail authorities during the interrogation of Swapna Suresh, Sarith, and Sandeep Nair, all accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, by the Enforcement Directorate. When a petition filed by the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services came up for hearing before Justice V.G. Arun on Wednesday, senior special prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that these accused, remanded in judicial custody, were housed under the care and protection of jail authorities. The order of the sessions court that the jail authorities should not stand in audible distance of the interrogation was illegal. Such an order would defeat the very purpose of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, agencies such as the Customs and the NIA had interrogated the accused. No restriction on the presence of the jail authorities was imposed during their questioning of the accused. If the jail officials’ presence was controlled it would not be in the best interests of the safety of the prisoner, he argued.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Twenty20 clone puts up an impressive show in Chellanam||Chellanam Twenty20, a non-political group of young people, who contested the elections to the local self-government bodies won eight seats in the 21-strong Chellanam panchayat council, pushing the ruling United Democratic Front to the third position. Chellanam Twenty20 won eight seats while the LDF won nine seats. The UDF has won four seats. Biju Pavizham said that the non-political formation had challenged the counting of votes in one of the wards, where it had lost by just one vote. Role model Chellanam Twenty20 has taken a leaf out of the Kizhakkambalam Twenty20 formation, which won the panchayat for the second consecutive term on Wednesday. Mr. Biju said that the people of Chellanam had reposed their trust in the new formation as seen in the voting pattern. Nature’s fury The coastal village of Chellanam has been at the receiving end of severe sea erosion in the past. Cyclone Ockhi in 2017 December and subsequent problems have left people at the mercy of nature for long. Severe sea erosion and inundation of the coastal village has been a major problem in the area.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Twenty20 adds 3 more panchayats to its kitty||The non-political group Twenty20 has swept back to power in the Kizhakkambalam panchayat even as it has captured the imagination of voters in the neighbouring Mazhuvannoor, Aikkaranad, and Kunnathunadu grama panchayats, where it has won massive mandates. While the Twenty20 won 14 of the 15 wards in Kizhakkambalam, it won 11 of the 18 seats in Kunnathunad where the UDF won six seats and the CPI(M) one seat. In the Mazhuvannoor panchayat, the Twenty20 won 15 seats while in the Aikkaranad panchayat, it won all 14 seats in the panchayat. Proving its worth Sabu M. Jacob, founder of the group, said the non-political entity had proved its worth to the people, administering the Kizhakkambalam panchayat over the past five years in a non-biased, non-partisan manner and giving all benefits to the people without any political or other considerations. He said the Twenty20 had fielded candidates in the Kunnathunadu, Vengola, Aikkaranad, Mazhuvannoor, and Kizhakkambalam panchayats for the elections to the local bodies. “Kizhakkambalam Twenty20” was floated more than five years ago to turn the village into a model one by 2020. Since then, the group has been able to turn the village into an ideal for other panchayats, providing provisions at reasonable rates and building great quality infrastructure such as roads and storm water drains, besides protecting local sources of water supply. The Twenty20 group has also been able to make its presence felt in the Vengola panchayat where the UDF has won six seat and LDF two seats. The panchayat is now under UDF rule.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Most Corporations go LDF way||A majority of the municipal Corporations in the State stood with the Left Democratic Front, completing the front’s emphatic victory in the local body polls. While the LDF retained the Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Kozhikode Corporations with decisive wins, it has come close to power in the Kochi Corporation. The LDF continued its dominance in Thiruvananthapuram by bagging 51 of the 100 seats thus dashing the hopes of the BJP, which could win only 34 seats. The United Democratic Front suffered a humiliating defeat and ended up with just 10 seats, nearly half of its tally last time. 4-decade reign In Kozhikode, the LDF continued its four-decade legacy by winning 51 of the 75 seats. While the LDF increased its strength by one seat from the 2015 polls, the UDF lost one seat and had to be contented with 17 seats. The BJP retained the seven seats it had won last time. The only solace for the UDF was the Kannur Corporation where it consolidated its position by winning 34 of the 55 seats. It was a day of despair for the BJP, which had eyed the Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur Corporations. Though the party retained its seat share in the capital, it could not prevent the LDF from returning to power. In Thrissur, where the LDF has 24 councillors and the UDF 23, the support of the UDF rebel will decide the winner. Though the BJP retained its seat share of six, the party spokesperson and Mayoral candidate B. Gopalakrishnan was trounced at the Kuttankulangara division. The bypoll to be held in the Pullazhi division following the death of the LDF candidate M.K. Mukundan will also be decisive. Kollam continued to be a red citadel as the LDF won 39 of the 55 seats. The UDF was reduced to 9 seats against the 16 of the 2015. The BJP made a three-fold growth by winning six seats. The Social Democratic Party of India won one seat here. LDF hopeful in Kochi In Kochi, the LDF may return to power after a decade as the front has won 34 of the 74 divisions. While the UDF won 31 seats, the BJP improved its performance by winning 5 seats. As in the case of Thrissur, the support of Independent candidates will be crucial for the LDF to swing the fortune in its favour. The poll managers of both the UDF and the LDF have initiated negotiations with the independent candidates in both the Thrissur and Kochi Corporations to win over their trust.  (With inputs from the Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Thrissur, Kannur, and Kozhikode bureaus)
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. rubbishes allegation of Swapna Suresh||The State government on Wednesday rubbished the allegation of Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, that she was facing threat to life in prison. When a petition filed by the government seeking to expunge certain observations made by the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) came up before Justice V.G. Arun, senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted there had not been even a single incident or allegation that she was threatened or tortured in any of the prisons where she was housed. The magistrate court made the observation while ordering to provide effective and meaningful protection to the life and body of Swapna Suresh inside the prison when she was produced on December 8. The magistrate court order came on a petition filed by Swapna Suresh and the Customs Department seeking protection for her inside the jail. The senior public prosecutor further submitted that the magistrate’s observation that “during inquiry I find absolutely no ground to disbelieve the version of the petitioner” was against the law. The finding had been made without hearing or calling for a report from the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Home, Attakulangara. He also sought to expunge another observation of the court that “she is found to be worried as she is being sent to the very same prison from where she is likely to be threatened and tortured”. The court issued notice to Swapna Suresh and the Customs Department.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC reserves order on Raveendran’s plea||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday reserved its order on a petition by C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seeking to stay the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) directing him to appear on December 17 at its office in Kochi in connection with the ongoing probe into the money laundering case linked with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. When the petition came up for hearing before Justice V.G. Arun, counsel for Mr. Raveendran submitted that the petitioner feared that he would be detained for long hours for questioning when he appeared before the ED officials. He could not endure long hours of questioning as he was a sick person. In fact, the petitioner was willing to appear before the ED officials. But he should not be detained for long hours. Besides, he was an old man. Moreover, he was a witness and the ED officials could not subject him to custodial interrogation. After all, the proceeding under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act was civil in nature. Post-COVID illness In his petition, Mr. Raveendran said he had not yet recovered from his post-COVID illness. Besides, he feared that he would be coerced and compelled to make statements which were untrue and against his will. He also sought to allow him to have the presence of a legal practitioner of his choice during his appearance before the ED. Counsel for the ED submitted that the apprehensions of the petitioner were mere presumptions. The petitioner could not challenge the power of the ED officials to issue the summons.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 959 new COVID cases||The district on Wednesday recorded 959 new COVID-19 infections and 720 recoveries. A total of 261 new patients contracted the disease from an unknown source. There were nine health workers among the infected. Edathala recorded 25 new cases, followed by Rayamangalam and Kizhakkambalam (23 each), Thrikkkara and Manjapra (20 each), Amballur, Kuttampuzha and Chengamanad (19 each) and Palakkuzha and Sreemoolanagaram (18 each) infections. Five migrant workers, a police officer, a CISF official and an official of INHS also contracted the disease. There were 29,495 people in quarantine, with 1,121 placed in quarantine on Wednesday. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals stood at 199, while 218 recovered patients were discharged. The district had 8,029 patients as on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF leads in Ernakulam grama panchayats||The United Democratic Front (UDF) maintained its lead in grama panchayats in Ernakulam, winning 52 of the 82 grama panchayats. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) won in 20 panchayats, while other organisations, including Twenty20, won the remaining local bodies. The UDF had swept into power in 41 panchayats in the 2015 elections. The LDF had won in 40 panchayats, while the Kizhakkambalam Twenty20 had claimed Kizhakkambalam panchayat. The 2020 elections saw the UDF raise its tally from 41 to 52, while the LDF suffered a setback in similar proportion. Organisations without political affiliation too made their presence felt. While Twenty20 swept back into power in Kizhakkambalam, the people of Mazhuvannoor, Aikkaranadu and Kunnathunadu panchayats were also swayed by the non-political entity. Aikkaranadu was governed by an LDF-led council. Twenty20 won 14 of the 15 wards in Kizhakkambalam. It claimed 11 of the 18 seats in Kunnathunad where the UDF won six seats and the CPM, one. In Mazhuvannoor, Twenty20 won 15 seats, while in Aikkaranad, it won all the 14 seats. The combination of mostly young people also made a significant impact on Chellanam panchayat where they won eight seats.
17 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC extends stay on govt. decision on PwC||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday extended till January 7 its interim order staying the decision of the State government barring and blacklisting PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), an international consultancy, from participating in projects of the government for the next two years. The government also sought time to file counter affidavit. The State government's contract with PwC was terminated on November 30 for an alleged failure on the part of the company in ensuring due diligence in the deployment of resources.
17 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||LDF sweeps back to power in Kollam||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has swept back to power in Kollam by winning the Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, three municipalities, 10 out of the 11 block panchayats and 44 out of the total 68 grama panchayats. In 2015 the front had won Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, all four municipalities, all 11 block panchayats and grama panchayats. While the LDF bagged a solid number of votes in all three tiers, the NDA made a leap in terms vote share and number of seats pushing the UDF to the third position in many centres. Sterling performance CPI (M) district secretary S.Sudevan said that LDF could come up with a sterling electoral performance by recording a rise in seats and vote share alike. “Congress had to settle for just six seats in the Kollam Corporation, the same number asthe BJP and their dismal performance in the district indicates how weak the front has become. By helping BJP candidates to win they have taken a repulsive and opportunistic stand.” He added that BJP’s growth in the district is a matter of concern for the Front. “LDF shouldn't have lost any seats to BJP and the potential weakness in organisational structure will be scrutinised,” he said. Mr.Sudevan also pointed out that Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) had won several seats as an ally of the LDF, but now the party has only three members in the Kollam Corporation. “The voters wanted a continuity to the development and welfare oriented governance. Kollam MP, who had been engaged in a smear campaign against Kerala Chief Minister, should apologise,” he said. The NDA camp in the district is all elated as the Front could wrest power in 173 seats compared to the earlier 86. “We won six divisions in the Kollam Corporation and came in the second position in 15 divisions. For the first time we won two block panchayats and emerged as the single largest party in two panchayats. We could improve the performance in municipalities as well,” said B.B.Gopakumar, BJP district president. Internal feud Meanwhile, the internal feud in Congress has intensified with the leaders of youth organisations openly criticising the leadership. Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, has demanded a comprehensive probe into the election débâcle. “KPCC leadership and UDF should find the reasons behind the setback and analyse the situation. Causes for the voter's resentment should be addressed and rectified,” he said.
17 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||With more seats, LDF to helm Kollam Corporation||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) once again retained the Kollam Corporation with 39 seats while the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) made a notable headway by winning six divisions. When compared with 2015, the LDF fared better, winning three more seats and improving its vote share in many centres. Major setback The United Democratic Front (UDF), which earlier had 16 seats, faced a major setback with the tally coming down to 9. It is for the fifth consecutive term that the LDF is retaining power in the 55-member council. The front has been ruling the Kollam Corporation since it was formed in 2000. Prasanna Ernest, LDF’s Mayor candidate, also won by wresting the Thamarakkulam division from the UDF. Three for RSP While the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), which had four seats in the outgoing council, won three seats this time, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) retained the Chathinamkulam division. The NDA, which had opened its account in the Kollam Corporation in 2015 with two seats, this time managed to wrest power in six divisions, including Thevally, Asramam, Uliyakovil, Kadappakada, Mangadu, and Palathara. While Thevally is BJP’s sitting seat, UDF had won Palathara in the last local body polls, and the LDF in the four other seats. While the LDF has a clear majority in the Punalur, Kottarakara and Karunagappally municipalities, both the fronts are on equal footing in Paravur with 14 seats each. NDA candidates won a total of four seats there including the Town, Attinpuram, Maniyamkulam, and Kurumandal wards. Among the 35 wards in Karunagappally, the LDF won 25 while the UDF and NDA won six and four seats respectively. In Kottarakara, the LDF has 16 seats while UDF and NDA won eight and five out of the total 29 wards. In the 35-member Punalur municipality, the LDF has 21 seats while the UDF won the other 14 seats. Punalur is the only municipality where the NDA will have no representation in the council.  It is for the fifth consecutive term that the LDF is retaining power in the 55-member council
17 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||LDF makes deep inroads in Kottayam||In an election marked by major setbacks to the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Left Democratic Front (LDF) made significant advances in Kottayam to win majority of the local bodies. The LDF won the district panchayat, registered a clear edge in the majority of block and grama panchayats and two of the municipalities. Riding on a momentum triggered by the inclusion of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani into its fold, the Left coalition also went on to win the Pala municipality for the first time in the 68-year-old history of the civic body, besides the Puthupally panchayat after a long two-and-half decades. In the 22-member district panchayat, the LDF increased its tally to 14, from the eight it had in the outgoing council. UDF strength down At the same time, the strength of the UDF came down to seven from 14. For the first time, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance wrested power in three grama panchayats including Mutholi and Pallikathodu, besides enhancing its representation in four out of the six municipalities. At the same time, the coalition drew a blank across the 11 block panchayats and even lost three of its sitting seats there. Out of the 71 grama panchayats, the LDF increased its tally to 39 from 23 while the UDF has a clear majority in only 24 panchayats, down from 47 last year. The BJP, which had focussed its attention in grama panchayats, has 88 representatives across grama panchayats. Among the six municipalities, the LDF won the Pala municipality by a clear margin of 16 seats while independents will decide the fate of Changanassery, Ettumanur, Kottayam, Erattupetta and Vaikom. While the entry of KC(M) has helped the LDF to make deep inroads into the district, the infighting between the Congress and KC(M) Joseph group worsened the matters for the UDF. The BJP, meanwhile, has been able to increase its dormant vote bank, which had gone to the UDF kitty earlier.
17 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Tie-up with Welfare Party of India stands UDF in good stead||The pay-off in terms of the tactical local-level electoral adjustments between the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Welfare Party of India (WPI) of the Jamaat-e-Islami will be debated in the coming days. Be that as it may, the tie-up that continues to evoke divergent responses within the Congress leadership in the State has apparently turned advantageous to both sides in many parts of the Malabar region. The electoral outcome of the UDF-WPI adjustment in many parts of the region is keenly watched amid the differences between Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran and Congress MP K. Muraleedharan over the tie-up and the opposition from the prominent pro-UDF Sunni faction. It is premature to say that the tie-up solely helped the UDF manage to perform well in Malabar, especially in Kannur, Kasaragod and Malappuram. The WPI has claimed that it managed to increase its tally from 41 wards in the 2015 local body elections to around 65 now. The most notable of the ‘success story’ of the tie-up is the Mukkam municipality in Kozhikode which LDF had won in 2015 with the WPI support. Now the LDF and the UDF-WPI combine have won 15 seats each in the 33-member council, the other winners being two BJP-led National Democratic Alliance candidates and an IUML rebel. The UDF captured from the LDF nearby Karassery and Kodiyathur grama panchayats where the WPI backed the UDF. In Malappuram, the UDF recaptured the Koottilangadi grama panchayat from the LDF which won the local body with the WPI backing in 2015. The UDF’s recapture of the Parappul panchayat in the district is also seen as the result of the seat adjustment which the LDF termed as the UDF’s bonhomie with communal forces. Equally notable is the UDF’s recapture of the Tirur municipality. The WPI will not miss an opportunity to boast that its support played a role in the UDF’s spectacular victory in the 55-member Kannur Corporation in which both the UDF and LDF had 27 seats each in 2015, with a Congress rebel-turned Independent member alternately helping each side to secure majority. Now the UDF secured 34 seats in the council and LDF 19. The open differences within the Congress over whether or not the WPI and its parent organisation Jamaat-e-Islami are communal are likely to continue in the coming days. In 2015 the UDF accused the LDF of forging alliance with communal forces like the WPI. This time it is the turn of the UDF to be accused of 'communal blindness' by the LDF.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF retains power in Kozhikode Corporation||It is almost a repeat of 2015 in the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation this time. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) won 51 seats (including two LDF-supported Independents) to continue its 45-year-old reign in the corporation, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won 17 (including three UDF-supported Independents) and seven seats respectively. The LDF showed a clear winning trend right from the beginning of the counting. By around 2.30 p.m., almost all results were out, but some were delayed further due to technical issues. While the LDF and the UDF retained most of their sitting seats, the NDA lost four of its seats. However, all the fronts made up for the lost seats elsewhere, thus making little difference in the final tally. Prominent winners include all the Mayor candidates by all fronts, such as S. Jayasree and Beena Philip of the LDF, P.N. Ajitha, K.C. Shobhita and P. Ushadevi of the UDF and Navya Haridas of the NDA. Some of the surprising wins were that of Yuva Morcha leader T. Raneesh in Puthiyara, the sitting seat of the LDF, IUML Independent Kavita Arun in Kommeri, another LDF stronghold, CPI(M) capturing Beypore Port, Beypore and Marad, the sitting seats of the BJP and the BJP capturing Athanikkal, another sitting seat of the LDF. Prominent losers include that of sitting councillors E. Prashanth Kumar, N. Satheesh Kumar and Nambidi Narayanan of the BJP, former standing committee chairperson Anitha Rajan of the NCP and councillor Thomas Mathew of the LJD. The swearing-in ceremony of the elected members will be held on December 21 at Tagore Centenary Hall. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao will administer the pledge to the eldest member, who in turn will do the same to other members of the council. The Mayor and the Deputy Mayor will be elected at a later date, and standing committee members too. The date of the first council meeting will be announced later.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF continues its winning streak in Kozhikode||Bucking the anti-incumbency trend, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) almost swept the three-tier local body polls in Kozhikode district. The LDF won the Kozhikode Corporation and the District Panchayat, both with two-third majority in style like last time. Left parties, which have been ruling the Kozhikode Corporation for the past 45 years, could counter the campaigns of both the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP-led National Democratic Front (NDA) in the district. The Left front also won 10 out of the 12 block panchayats and emerged victorious in 43 out of the 70 grama panchayats. At the same time, it could retain only two municipalities — Vadakara and Koyilandy. In the 2015 polls, the LDF had won six out of the seven municipalities excluding Koduvally. This time, it lost Ramanattukara, Feroke and Payyoli municipalities to the UDF. It was a hung council in the Mukkom municipality whereas the UDF retained the Koduvally municipality. The electoral alliance the LDF had with the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Indian National League (INL) paid off successfully in the polls. Similarly, the local tie-up the UDF had with the Welfare Party of India, the political avatar of the Jamaat Islami Hind, worked in its favour in the municipalities and a few grama panchayats. An analysis of the poll results showed that the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine could not maintain the winning strategy they had adopted in the Lok Sabha polls held in 2019. Mixed response Also, the electorate gave a mixed response to its electoral association with the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India in rural belts of Vadakara. However, the UDF bagged 27 grama panchayats, three more than the previous polls. In the case of the BJP-led NDA, it won seven divisions and came second in another 22 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation. The party also won three seats each in Koyilandy and Vadakara municipalities, two at Mukkom and one each in Feroke and Payyoli. Overall, it won 18 wards across several grama panchayats. The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) won four seats including one each in Kozhikode Corporation and Vadakara municipality in the district.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP fails to impress again||Despite the BJP emerging as a force to reckon with in the polity of the State, the party failed to impress in the local body elections. The disunity of State-level leaders and blatant factionalism on the eve of the polls have failed to break the bipolar jinx that has been dampening the party in all elections. Each leader behaved like a separate entity without coming together on the same platform, thereby conveying a negative message to the cadres, according to party insiders. Thus the huge gap between the great expectation and gloomy outcome was again evident in the polls. The BJP failed to win the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation notwithstanding the muscular campaign in the State capital that attracted national attention. The party braved the odds between two established coalitions but failed to make it in the last lap. Lame excuse Its argument that the UDF and the LDF united to defeat the BJP-led NDA is like a whining school boy who flunked the examinations without adequate preparation, according to some leaders. Also, the party could not come out successful as anticipated in some municipalities other than retaining Palakkad and capturing Pandalam from the CPI(M)-led LDF. Its moderate presence in grama panchayats and block panchayats across the State reveals the party failed to strike a chord with the rural electorate. The much-hyped campaign of the BJP leadership that the party had fielded over 400 nominees of the minority communities also did not yield the desired results. The party neither could take the Muslim community into confidence nor make inroads into the Christian vote bank. How it fared  The BJP nominees won 23 grama panchayats, up from 14 last time. It won 1,181 grama panchayat wards, 37 block panchayat wards, two district panchayat divisions, 320 municipal wards and 59 Corporation divisions. In the 2015 polls, the BJP had won 933 grama panchayat wards, 21 block panchayat wards, three district panchayat divisions, 236 municipal wards and 51 Corporation divisions.
17 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Malabar region proves a saving grace for UDF||The leadership of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Malabar region can now breathe easier. For the Congress-led coalition managed to dodge the setback it faced in the in local body elections in the southern and central parts of the State. The UDF may not have been able to make any major dent in the LDF’s traditional domination in the region. But it remained largely intact here. In fact, it moderately improved its tally, if its victory in the Kannur Corporation and its capture of some panchayats in Kozhikode and Malappuram, among others, are anything to go by. In Malappuram The UDF’s better performance in Malappuram is attributed to the unity of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Congress in the district, unlike in the 2015 election when both parties had engaged in friendly contests. The UDF’s loss of Nilambur to the LDF is compensated by its recapture of Tirur from the LDF. Notably, the UDF won nearly 75 grama panchayats this time in Malappuram which is a stronghold of the IUML as against nearly 60 panchayats it secured in 2015. WPI tie-up The UDF made some headway in the Kozhikode district by winning more municipalities. In 2015, the LDF won six out of the seven municipalities in the district. This time, the LDF could secure only two municipalities – Koyilandy and Vadakara. The UDF won four and in the remaining one – Mukkom – improved its tally with its tie-up with the Welfare Party of India (WPI). The UDF’s capture of Thiruvallur, Kodiyathur, and Karassery panchayats in the district also gave it much comfort. Much to the UDF’s discomfiture, its tally in the Kozhikode Corporation decreased, despite its claim that it would make big gains in the civic body controlled by the LDF over 45 years. In Kannur The UDF’s winning of 34 seats out of 55 seats in the Kannur Corporation is also a morale booster for the front’s district leadership. So is its capture of two of the 11 block panchayats there: Iritty and Irikkur. In 2015, the LDF had won all the 11 block panchayats. In Kasaragod, there is no big change in the 2015 tally. Kasaragod municipality is retained by the UDF, while Neeleswaram and Kanhangad municipalities continue to be held by the LDF. The LDF and UDF nearly maintained its tally in the district panchayat.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF wrests power in 3 more municipalities||The United Democratic Front (UDF) made gains in Kozhikode district when results of the elections to the seven municipal councils were declared on Wednesday. While the UDF retained its hold over Koduvally, it also wrested Payyoli, Ramanattukara, and Feroke from the Left Democratic Front (LDF). But the UDF could not capture power in Mukkom, where its ‘tactical tie-up’ with the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party of India (WPI) had snowballed into a controversy. The LDF, which was in power in all municipalities except Koduvally last time, preserved its hold on Vadakara and Koyilandy. In Koduvally, which came into limelight with the candidature of Karat Faisal, an alleged kingpin in gold smuggling, the UDF won 21 seats, LDF five seats and others and Independents won 10 seats in the 36-member council. The ‘others’ and Independents include Mr. Faisal, who won from Chundappuram division, A.P. Abdul Majeed, Indian Union Muslim League leader and vice-chairperson of the outgoing council, who defied party diktat to contest the polls, and candidates belonging to the Left-aligned National Secular Conference. In the 2015 polls, the UDF and its Independents had 19 seats, LDF 16, and another Independent too had won. No majority No front seems to have a clear majority in Mukkom, where the LDF and the Independents it supported won 15 seats, while the UDF-WPI alliance too has won an equal number of seats in the 33-member council. One seat has gone to an IUML rebel candidate. Two seats have gone to the kitty of the National Democratic Alliance. Three WPI candidates supported by the UDF and two UDF candidates supported by the WPI have won. In the 2015 polls, the LDF had 18 seats, Lok Tantrik Janata Dal one, UDF 10 and WPI and Independents had won other seats. The UDF won 21 seats in Payyoli Municipality while the LDF was reduced to 14 seats, and the NDA won one seat. In Ramanattukara Municipality, the UDF won 17 seats and the LDF 12, and others two. In 2015, the LDF had 16 seats, UDF 13 and others two seats here. Meanwhile, the LDF continued its winning streak in Vadakara Municipality by emerging victorious in 27 seats, while the UDF won 16 seats and the NDA got three seats. The LDF won 25 seats in Koyilandy, while the UDF got 16 seats and the NDA got three seats.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bitter pill for UDF in block panchayats||A thumping victory in 10 of the 12 block panchayats in Kozhikode district put Left Democratic Front (LDF) campaigners on cloud nine on Wednesday. The biggest joy for them was the retention of all the seats which their candidates had won in the previous local body elections. The United Democratic Front (UDF) could not make any advancements in the red fortress other than just retaining the two seats. It tasted victory only in Koduvally and Kunnamangalam blocks. Blocks stood by the LDF included Balussery, Chelannur, Kozhikode, Kunnummal, Meladi, Panthalayani, Perambra, Thodannur, Thuneri and Vadakara. LDF leaders said the victory in block panchayats was also a reflection of the overall State trend in favour of the State government’s people-friendly policies. According to them, people at the grassroots-level were found coming closer to the LDF and appreciating its efforts. They also claimed that the victory of the LDF in three-tier panchayats actually reflected the happiness of people in villages over the government’s welfare programmes. N. Manojkumar, former president of the Kozhikode block panchayat, said the State government’s efforts to equip block panchayats with more powers under people’s planning actually helped them put up a better performance in the last term. “The benefits were directly visible in the areas of implementing innovative educational and health projects,” he said. Meanwhile, UDF campaigners said there were no considerable achievements as claimed by the LDF to boast of its victory in 10 seats. According to them, the lack of funds spoiled the completion of many projects during the LDF rule. Some of them claimed that restrictions on public campaigning in view of the COVID-19 scare also hit their efforts to expose such slips.
17 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||642 fresh COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 642 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday and there were 788 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, 5,948 samples were tested and the test positivity rate is 10.79%. The active case load dropped to 6,049. Of the fresh cases, 622 were locally acquired infections while the source was unknown in nine cases. Kuruvattoor and Atholi were the biggest clusters of infection. Meanwhile, three deaths each were reported on Tuesday and Wednesday at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. In Wayanad Wayand district saw the biggest spike ever in COVID-19 infection on Wednesday when it tested 361 positive cases. District Medical Officer R. Renuka said that all of them, including five health workers, got the infection through local contact. The district has so far reported 14,069 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 11,772 have recovered from the disease, including 156 persons on the day.   In Malappuram Malappuram district recorded 437 new COVID-19 cases and 943 recoveries on Wednesday. As many as 407 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. There were two health workers among the new cases. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 26 cases.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Left front wins fight for supremacy in rural areas||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won 43 out of the 70 grama panchayats in Kozhikode district by demonstrating an unquestionable supremacy in the majority of the rural areas. At the end of the fight on Wednesday, the United Democratic Front (UDF) had to be content with 27 seats after its strange coalitions and local tie-ups failed to make any significant advances against the ruling front. Slight advantage Though the LDF was fortunate to have 48 panchayats last time, it could not repeat the same magic because of the anti-incumbency factor and strong campaign by its political rivals. Meanwhile, the UDF had a slight advantage, improving from 22 panchayats to 27 in 2020. Some shockers Both the fronts had some shocking experiences as well in their own strongholds. For the LDF, Thiruvallur panchayat was one of the shockers, where its 35 years of supremacy came to an end. Giving priority to young candidates and deploying star campaigners, the UDF managed to secure 11 out of the 20 seats. The experience was almost the same for the LDF in Kodiyathur and Karassery panchayats, where the UDF came back to power with its successful campaign against rivals on environmental issues. In Karassery panchayat, a draw of lots also came in favour of the UDF to ensure the victory of one of its candidates and clear its route to power. A setback For the UDF, the failure of Revolutionary Marxist Party of India’s (RMPI) candidates in Onchiyam grama panchayat and Kallamala block panchayat division emerged as an unexpected political setback. At Onchiyam, RMPI’s Janakeeya Munnani supported by the UDF failed to retain two major seats. The seats were earlier represented by Onchiyam grama panchayat president P.V. Kavitha and vice president P. Jayarajan. A major kick in the face of the UDF was its failure to win the Kallamala block panchayat division, where it had stood by an RMPI candidate following a local political agreement. It had later emerged as a controversial alliance as KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran was in favour of fielding a Congress candidate, opposing local leaders’ plan to support the RMPI in its home turf. However, Mr. Ramachandran was later compelled to reconsider his decision considering the pressure of the local leadership. Congress leader and parliament member K. Muraleedharan had also opposed Mullappally’s stance. Though K.P. Jayakumar, the official UDF candidate, voluntarily withdrew from the campaign scene following the new alliance, his name and the Congress symbol were there on the ballot.
17 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M), BJP activists clash||A clash broke out between workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Communist Party of India (Marxist) during a victory celebration at Koyilandy. An irate crowd, which gathered in large numbers by 12 noon, resorted to stone throwing on the street. Vysakh, a BJP candidate, who won from Cheriyamangad ward, suffered head injuries in the heavy stone throwing. He was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Some of the CPI(M) workers also suffered injuries in the incident. Police sources said the area remained tensed and more policemen were deployed to avert further clashes. Some of those who allegedly threw stones at the police and their vehicles from a high-rise building were taken into custody. Clashes broke out in the area after the LDF workers came out in large numbers. The BJP had secured three seats by improving its presence. In a similar clash at Koottarakkoth near Puthuppadi, many United Democratic Front and Left Democratic Front workers sustained injuries. Police sources said some of the injured activists were admitted to the Thamarassery Government Hospital.
17 December 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram gives UDF reason to cheer||The United Democratic Front (UDF) staged a sterling performance in the elections to the three-tier local bodies in Malappuram district by winning 26 of the 32 district panchayat divisions, 12 of the 15 block panchayats, nine of the 12 municipalities and 74 of the 94 grama panchayats on Wednesday. While the UDF recaptured power in Tirur Municipality from the LDF, it lost power in Nilambur Municipality. The Congress lost power in Nilambur after several terms, thanks to the tactical ‘independent’ move by the LDF. When the LDF retained power in Ponnani and Perinthalmanna municipalities in the district, the UDF made emphatic victories in Kondotty, Kottakkal, Parappanangadi, Tirurangadi, Valanchery, Malappuram, Manjeri, Tirur and Tanur municpalities. Resounding win in Tanur While the UDF had its most resounding victory in Tanur Municipality, where it won 30 out of the 44 seats, apart from a few in independent banner, the LDF had an emphatic victory over its rival UDF in Ponnani. The LDF secured 38 of 51 seats. The UDF recaptured several grama panchayats from the LDF in Malappuram. From 51 panchayats in 2015, the UDF cruised to bag 73 panchayats in this election, jolting the LDF in many places. Although the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had ruled Thennala, Nannambra, Ponmundam, Perumanna Clari, Anakkayam and Cheekode panchayats alone without being part of the UDF in the 2015 local body polls, the situation changed drastically in the current election. In all those panchayats this time, the UDF has come to power.  Renewed unity A renewed unity within the UDF has brought victory for the front in such panchayats as Parappur and Chelembra, where the LDF had ruled by being part of an assorted front locally known as Sambhar Munnani or Aviyal Munnani. In Koottilangadi too, the UDF recaptured power in alliance with the Welfare Party of India. The LDF had ruled this panchayat with the help of the WPI in the last term. Although the BJP did not win any of the District Panchayat divisions or block panchayats, it won two seats in Kottakkal Municipality, one in Nilambur Municipality, three in Parappanangadi Municipality, seven in Tanur Municipality, three in Ponnani Municipality, and one each in Valanchery and Tirur municipalities.
17 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||UDF must introspect, says IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has called upon the UDF, particularly the Congress, to introspect its performance in the local body elections. IUML chairman and State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal and general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, said here on Wednesday that the IUML had succeeded in guarding its strongholds in Malabar. “We have protected our strongholds in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasargod districts. We have made huge gains in Malappuram,” they said. The IUML will meet in a day or two to evaluate the results in detail.
17 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||LDF makes sweeping gains in Palakkad||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) staged one of its best performances in recent times when it swept the elections to the three-tier local bodies in the district. It retained 27 of the 30 district panchayat divisions, 11 of the 13 block panchayats, and five of the seven municipalities, and 61 of the 88 grama panchayats in Palakkad district. The LDF supremacy in the district panchayat and block panchayats continued unquestioned, when the front staged unexpected fights in six of the seven municipalities. When the BJP retained the Palakkad municipality, the LDF wrested power from the United Democratic Front (UDF) at Cherpulassery, Pattambi and Chittur-Thathamangalam municipalities. The UDF could retain power only in Mannarkkad municipality. The Independent banner card played by the LDF in the district made huge gains for the front. While retaining the Shoranur and Ottappalam municipalities, the LDF wrested power at the Chittur-Thathamangalam, Cherpulassery, and Pattambi municipalities with the help of Independent candidates and UDF rebels. Histotic win The LDF victory at Chittur-Thathamangalam is viewed as historic as the municipality slipped out of the Congress’s hands for the first time in its long history. The capture of Pattambi and Cherpulassery municipalities too supported the phenomenal LDF performance in the district. However, at grama panchayats, the UDF improved its position from last year’s. The UDF has got 25 of the 88 grama panchayat and the LDF won 61. However, at two panchayats, the stage is set for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to come to power with the help of Independent candidates. The BJP appears poised to wrest the Parali panchayat from the UDF and Malampuzha panchayat from the LDF (if Independents support it). The UDF clocked a duck at the Ambalapara, Vaniyamkulam, Akathethara, and Keralassery panchayats. The BJP has made gains in all those panchayats.
17 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||BJP returns to power in Palakkad municipality||The Palakkad municipality continued to be in the State’s political focus when the Bharatiya Janata Party came back to power here with a clear majority. It won 28 out of the 52 seats in a keenly contested triangular fight in Palakkad, improving its position by four seats from 24 in 2015. The BJP, being the single largest party in spite of having no majority, had ruled the Palakkad muncipality for five years from 2015. “This election of ours is people’s acknowledgement of the development activities we initiated,” said BJP State general secretary C. Krishnakumar and district president E. Krishnadas.  UDF’s dismal show The triangular fight and the rebel menace reduced the United Democratic Front (UDF) to 14 seats from 18 in 2015. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) too had to be content with eight seats. It had eight seats in the last term as well. When the Welfare Party of India (WPI) retained its one seat, LDF-supported Independent candidate M. Mohammed Basheer defeated UDF convener P. Balagopal in Olavakkode South. However, Congress’s rebel candidate K. Bhavadas was elected from Kallepulli South by defeating UDF candidate. His victory has inflicted a severe blow to the Congress, especially as it had strived hard to ensure his defeat. Among the prominent winners here are outgoing chairperson Prameela Sasidharan, BJP district president E. Krishnadas, BJP national council member N. Sivarajan, and BJP Palakkad-Thrissur zone secretary Nadesan Kunnumpurath. Outgoing vice-chairman’s wife Mini Krishnakumar survived campaigns of personal vendetta. Although Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader T.A. Abdul Azeez lost to Welfare Party’s M. Sulaiman in Vennakkara South, the IUML could retain four seats as in the last term. The UDF loss in Palakkad is the loss of the Congress. The rebel issue had been projected as a thorn in the UDF’s path to victory.
17 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) win a temporary feature: WPI||The Welfare Party of India (WPI) described the gains of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the local body elections in the State as “a dangerously veiled temporary phenomenon which will ultimately lead to communal polarisations inflicting incurable harm to Kerala’s social fabric.” WPI State president Hameed Vaniyambalam said that the CPI(M) cleverly fanned the flames of Islamophobia by levelling allegations of communal alliance against the United Democratic Front (UDF). “It may have temporarily helped the CPI(M). But in the long run, it is going to help the Sangh Parivar,” he said. “We made electoral alliances with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) (in 2015) and the UDF (in 2020). Raising such allegations of communalism against us now is a sign of unconscionable politics,” he said.
17 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF gains in Pathanamthitta panchayats||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) bucked the trend in Pathanamthitta district and struck deep into the United Democratic Front (UDF) bastions by winning the district panchayat, besides 23 grama panchayats and six block panchayats. In the 16-division district panchayat, the LDF won by a clear margin of 12 seats while the tally of the UDF came down to four from 11 in the previous election. However, the coalition suffered a major setback in municipalities, losing two in its possession to the National Development Alliance (NDA) and the UDF. Among the four municipalities, the UDF emerged on top in Pathanamthitta and Thiruvalla though it was unable to cross the majority mark. The NDA, meanwhile, scripted history by winning the 33-seat Pandalam municipality with 18 seats. It was a hung verdict in Adoor where the UDF and the LDF won 11 seats each. Of the 53 grama panchayats in the district, the UDF and the LDF won 23 each while the NDA won three, leaving a hung verdict in the remaining four. Among the winners was Reshma Mariyam Roy, the youngest candidate in the State, who contested from ward 11 of the Aruvapulam panchayat. The LDF candidate had filed her nominations on November 18, the day when she turned 21. As the results came out on Wednesday, she won the polls by a margin of 70 votes against the UDF candidate. Block panchayats The LDF got a clear majority in six of the eight block panchayats in the district, leaving the remaining two to the LDF. The BJP won four seats, three in Pandalam and one in Pulikeezhu, besides winning 109 grama panchayat wards. Elanthoor, Mallappally, Pandalam, Parakkodu, Pulikeezhu and Ranni block panchayats were bagged by the LDF, while the UDF won the Koipuram and Konni block panchayats.
17 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||NDA scripts history by winning Pandalam||Pandalam, a municipality in Pathanamthitta that had been at the centre of protests in connection with the women entry issue in Sabarimala, has scripted history with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) single-handedly winning a majority in the council. Of the total 33 wards in the municipality, the NDA won 18, while the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which had been in power here during the previous term, finished a distant second with nine seats. The UDF, meanwhile, finished with five seats. LDF had won 15 In the previous election, the LDF had won 15 seats in the council while the BJP had just seven seats. The BJP, which commands a strong presence in and around Pandalam, organised a series of protests in connection with the Sabarimala issue in 2018. Besides winning the municipality, the party also retained power in Kulanada, a neighbouring panchayat, by winning eight out of the total 16 seats. According to the BJP leaders, the Sabarimala issue along with the welfare schemes initiated by the Narendra Modi government dominated the party's campaign in the region. BJP wins Meanwhile, the candidate fielded by the BJP also won from ward 9 of the Perinad panchayat, which comprises the Sabarimala hills. The LDF, however, won the panchayat with nine seats.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State shows slight spike in cases||New cases of COVID-19 is showing a spike in the State on Wednesday with 6,185 new cases found, when 61,882 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 6,83,440 cases. Test positivity rate is also climbing steadily since the past few days and touched 9.99% on Wednesday. 5,728 recoveries With the State reporting 5,728 recoveries on the same day, the active case pool of the State touched 58,184 cases. So far, 6,22,394 cumulative recoveries from COVID-19 have been reported in the State. The official COVID toll now stands at 2,707 with the addition of 27 new deaths to the COVID death list. Malappuram reported seven of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha four each, Pathanamthitta three, Thrissur and Kozhikode two each while Kollam, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Wayanad and Kasaragod reported one death each. Official figures put the number of critically ill COVID patients currently undergoing treatment in ICUs in various hospitals at 805, with 214 requiring ventilator support. Of the 6,185 new cases reported, 6,119 are locally acquired infections, while in 66 cases, a history of travel outside the State has been reported. Among the locally acquired infections, in 770 cases, no epidemiological link to infection could be established, while 54 cases were that of health-care workers who contracted the infection. Ernakulam tops Among districts, cases seem to have climbed steeply in Ernakulam, with the district reporting 959 cases. Kozhikode reported 642 cases, Thrissur 585, Kottayam 568, Kollam 507, Pathanamthitta 443, Alappuzha 441, Malappuram 437, Palakkad 401, Wayanad 361, Thiruvananthapuram 345, Kannur 250, Idukki 186 and Kasaragod 60 cases.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varkala returns a hung verdict||After a fiercely contested local body election, the Varkala municipality is set to witness equally hectic political manoeuvrings in the weeks ahead with the poll results showing a hung council. Though it leads in the number of seats, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) — which won 12 seats — has failed to obtain the magic number of 17 required for a majority in the council. In 2015, the LDF had captured the municipality with 18 seats. The 2020 local body polls also witnessed the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a force to reckon with in the municipality. The BJP increased its tally from just three seats in 2015 to 11, pushing the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) to the third place with seven seats. Setback for LDF, UDF In fact, both the LDF and the UDF suffered setbacks in the current edition of the local body polls — while the LDF seat tally dropped from 18 in 2015 to 12, the municipal wards in the UDF fold dipped from 12 to seven. Independents won three wards this time. The BJP fought the election encouraged by the knowledge that it had stood first in 19 of the municipal wards in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. It wrested six wards won by the CPI(M) in 2015 and two wards held by the Congress to take home 11 seats. The BJP also managed to retain its hold over the three wards — Chaluvila, Temple, and Punnamoodu — it won last time. In LDF’s kitty The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] -led LDF won in Vilakkulam, Idapparambu, Janathamukku, Nadayara, Teachers’ Colony, Raghunathapuram, Panayil, Vallakadavu, Municipal Office, Papanasam, Mundayil and Kurakkani. The CPI(M) chairperson in the 2015-2020 council, Bindu Haridas, lost to Congress candidate Indulekha in the Pullanikode ward. K.M. Laji, prominent among the CPI(M) candidates this time, won from the Teachers’ Colony ward. In-fighting costs UDF In-fighting in the UDF in Varkala appears to have spoiled the game for a number of Congress candidates. Squabbles over seat-sharing had prompted the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to field candidates in seven wards where candidates of the Congress were in the fray. Four of these wards held by the Congress in 2015 — Idapparambu, Nadayara, Raghunathapuram and Panayil — fell to the LDF this time. The CPI(M) captured the Vallakadavu ward, pushing the Congress and IUML candidates to second and third places. Congress candidates managed to win in two other wards where IUML candidates were in the fray. P.M. Basheer of the Congress won in the Kottumoola ward where BJP’s Ajulal came second and IUML’s Yakub, third. In Maithanam ward, the Congress candidate, A. Salim won. Here, the IUML candidate who was in the fray was pushed to the fourth spot.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Neyyattinkara sways neither way||The Neyyattinkara municipality threw up a hung verdict again with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) failing to get absolute majority. Though it fell short of majority in the 44-member council, the LDF emerged the single largest party with 18 seats in a contest where it was neck and neck with the UDF that won 17 seats. BJP wins nine The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) succeeded in making further inroads in the council, securing nine seats, an increase of four over its tally of five seats in the 2015 local body elections. In 2015, the LDF had won 22 seats, but held on to power, first with the support of Independents and later the Kerala Congress (M). The UDF had won 12 seats then. This time, the UDF hoped to wrest back power from the LDF after having held the reins here back in 2010. While it did not succeed in winning the number of seats it expected, the improved tally of 17 will be some consolation. Prominent names in the LDF who tasted victory include former party area secretary and likely chairperson candidate P.K. Rajmohan who contested from Moonnukallinmoodu and former municipal vice chairperson K.K. Shibu who contested the elections for the sixth time — from Athazhamangalam. Centre for Indian Trade Unions national council member V. Kesavan Kutty, however, lost in Krishnapuram ward and Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] area secretary Mohanan K. in Rameswaram, the ward where former chairperson W.R. Heeba and K. Ansalan, MLA, had won in the past two terms. In Rameswaram, Shibu Raj Krishna, BJP leader in the 2015 council, fended off Bobas B. of the Congress. His sister M. Kala won from the neighbouring Amaravila ward. Manchathala Suresh, Karshaka Morcha district general secretary, bagged the Aalummoodu ward, while Scheduled Castes Morcha State unit secretary S.S. Swapna Jith won from Alampotta. For the UDF, District Congress Committee general secretary Jose Franklin won the Muttakkadu ward. However, A. Lalitha, Leader of the Opposition in the 2015 council, lost from Koottappana ward, as did former chairperson S.S. Jayakumar who was defeated in Puthanambalam. Aalummoodu was a ward where the presence of rebel BJP candidate V. Harikumar added a twist to the fight between the three coalitions. Vadakode, a ward where the poll battle was keenly watched, sided with the UDF after being with the LDF for the past two terms. Here, Aji N. of the UDF emerged the winner. Mampazhakkara too swung the UDF way after being with the LDF in 2015. The one in seven Plavila ward where as many as seven candidates, including two former councillors and a CPI(M) rebel candidate, contested was pocketed by the BJP this time. In Kollavamvila where only two candidates were in the fray, Carrolin Smitha Das of the UDF defeated Rama B.T. of the LDF.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A repeat win for Left in its citadel||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) retained its stronghold in the Attingal municipality winning 18 of the 31 wards in the local body elections. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been slowly increasing its tally over the past two elections, won seven wards, pushing the United Democratic Front (UDF), which won six wards, to the third position. Lost 10 sitting seats Despite the victory, the LDF had some cause for concern as it lost 10 of its sitting seats, while wresting six seats from the BJP and the UDF. Out of these 10 seats, seven were won by the BJP, while the UDF won three. Some of these losses were by very close margins. Outgoing municipal chairman M. Pradeep accused the UDF of having an understanding with the BJP in at least five wards, where the LDF lost. The LDF has ruled the Attingal municipality in all terms, except once, since 1979. The UDF had managed to win here only in the 2000-05 term. In the local body elections of 2015, the LDF had won 22, while the UDF won five and the BJP four. Campaign focus The LDF’s campaign was based mainly on its achievements over the years, especially the multiple best municipality awards it has won from the State government. Its achievements in waste management, for which it is cited as a model, also has aided the LDF in maintaining a positive opinion among the populace. The UDF, which had a massive win in the Parliamentary elections in the Attingal constituency last year, and the BJP, which had leads in many of the wards, were confident of a turnaround this year. But although they failed to achieve the same, the gains they managed in some of the LDF’s assured wards is a relief for them.  The Left Democratic Front has ruled the Attingal municipality in all terms, except once, since 1979.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat stands with LDF||The script did not alter much from the previous elections in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat as the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) won by a brute majority of 20 out of 26 divisions, improving its tally by one division, despite a high voltage campaign by the Opposition parties. The United Democratic Front (UDF) won six seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its sole sitting seat of Venganoor. The BJP had fielded its former Thiruvananthapuram district secretary S. Suresh in the Venganoor seat as a kind of statement that the party is aiming to win the district panchayat. BJP loses sole division Although it had appeared a tall order at the outset, the party was confident of retaining its sitting seat and winning some more. But when results last came in, Mr. Suresh was trailing by more than 2,000 votes to LDF’s Bhagath Rufus, son of former district panchayat vice president Rufus Daniel. The LDF has won consistently in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat except in 2010, when the UDF had a narrow win. It wrested from the UDF the Anad, Maryapuram, Poovachal, Pallichal and Malayinkeezh divisions. The UDF managed to retain only the Kanjiramkulam division, but it wrested the Kilimanoor, Palode, Vellanad, Vellarada and Balaramapuram divisions from the LDF. The loss in Palode is particularly of concern to the LDF, since the outgoing president V.K. Madhu, won here last time.  One of the biggest margins of victory was for the LDF’s Geetha Nazir, who was leading by more than 9,000 votes in the Chemmaruthy division when results last came in. UDF candidate Ansajitha Russel, the district panchayat president in the 2010-15 term, is leading by more than 7,000 votes in the Vellarada division. The fight was mostly between the LDF and UDF in most wards, and the BJP was relegated to a distant third in many divisions. The results would give much confidence to the LDF as it shows that many of the left strongholds in the capital district’s rural areas are remaining intact, even though there are causes for concern in some divisions. While the UDF has few reasons to cheer for, the BJP will be disappointed at its failure to make further inroads into the rural regions, in a manner similar to what it achieved in the district’s urban centres.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Red flag continues to fly high in Nedumangad||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) scored a resounding victory in the Nedumangad municipality winning 27 out of the 39 wards. The outcome has paved the way for the coalition to continue its two-and-a-half-decades-long supremacy in the local body. The United Democratic Front (UDF), which targeted nothing short of a victory, suffered the shock defeats of many veterans as it could win only eight seats. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) could not improve on its previous performance as its tally remained unchanged at four seats. High-voltage contest In the Poovathoor ward that witnessed a high-voltage contest, Communist Party of India (CPI) candidate Lekha Vikraman, the outgoing vice-chairperson, garnered victory defeating six-time councillor Vattappara Chandran of the Congress and BJP State council member Poovathoor Jayan. Honours were shared in the five wards, including in Poovathoor, where sitting councillors contested against each other. CPI(M) candidates P. Harikeshan and B. Satheesan won in Tharatta and Manakode respectively, while Fathima N. and M.S. Binu of the Congress emerged victorious in the Market and the Perayathukonam wards respectively. The Communist Party of India [CPI(M)]-led coalition managed to wrest six wards — Pathinaramkallu, Tharatta, Padavallikonam, THS Ward, Paramuttam and Pathamkallu — from the UDF. The NDA, which could retain Vanda and Mughavoor, ceded Kalluvarambu and Manakode to the LDF. However, it managed to win the Netta and Tower wards that were both held by the UDF last time. Worsening its plight, the UDF could not ensure the victories of its chairperson-hopefuls J. Geetha and M.R. Meera in the Paramuttom and Netta wards respectively. Expressing joy over their victory, CPI(M) Nedumangad area committee secretary R. Jayadevan, who spearheaded the LDF campaign, said the front had also hoped to win Mannoorkonam and Kacheri wards, which were won by the UDF with slender majorities. On chairperson Pointing out that two of their three chairperson frontrunners — Sreekala B.K. (Valiyamala) and Sreeja T. (Paramuttom) — have been elected to the council, a final decision on who will make it to the coveted post will be taken only after the swearing in of the councillors on December 21.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF shown the door: CM||The people have pushed the Congress to the periphery of State politics, as is evident from the results of the local body polls, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The electorate had also confined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a few isolated pockets. The Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) win transcended religious, regional, and caste barriers, he said on Wednesday. The Congress had paid an enormous penalty for abandoning its secular position. The party had aligned overtly with the Islamist Jamaat-e-Islami and tacitly with the Sangh Parivar. The people saw through the gambit. They realised that there was no qualitative difference between the Congress and the Hindu majoritarian Sangh Parivar or the Muslim fundamentalist Welfare Party of India (WPI). The BJP and Muslim fundamentalist parties shared a symbiotic relationship. Both forces chipped away at the foundations of secular Kerala for political gain. Voters realised that the LDF was the only credible force that opposed the cynical and perilous politics of communal hate. People saw that the LDF had not abandoned its social welfare schemes or development plans in the face of natural calamities, contagions, and economic crisis.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF paints south Kerala red||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has painted the southern districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Alappuzha red. Nevertheless, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) found an oasis of saffron in Pathanamthitta where it captured Pandalam, a municipality at the heart of the Sabarimala lore. The Sangh Parivar politics centred around the tempestuous issue of entry of women into the Ayyappa temple bore fruit belatedly with voters rejecting the LDF and awarding the local body to the NDA, giving the BJP-led coalition a perch in the heartland of southern Kerala. The LDF had forayed into the UDF bastions in Pathanamthitta, piggybacking largely on the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M). The ruling front won the 16-division district panchayat by a clear margin of 12 seats. Strikingly, the UDF seat tally dipped sharply to four from 11 in 2015. It seems the anti-incumbency factor has benefitted the BJP more in Pathanamthitta than the Congress. The LDF also surged in Alappuzha, which had sided with UDF in the past. However, the LDF always had a strong support base in the region, especially in the traditional coir and toddy sectors. The UDF’s showing was moderate compared to its 2015 record. The NDA benefitted from the UDF’s lacklustre performance at the hustings. It gained around 200 seats across local bodies in Alappuzha. In Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, the UDF put up a weak fight. The capital saw a steep fall in the Congress vote share, prompting the CPI(M) to claim that a large portion of it fell in the BJP’s kitty. In Kollam, the LDF staged an impressive comeback at the expense of the UDF. It captured the Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, three municipalities, most block and grama panchayats. The UDF’s loss appeared to have advantaged the BJP which made significant inroads into the district by winning six divisions.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TVM fails to make an impact||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a newly formed apolitical party, was not able to make any impact in its maiden electoral battle like Twenty20, the apolitical corporate-backed charity outfit, that burst on the scene at the Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat during the last local body elections. Of the 14 candidates fielded by TVM after a tough selection process and vetting , only two candidates, Sheeja Varghese and Ajith Kumar, could secure more than 10% of the votes polled. The outfit came into being following the State government’s decision to challenge the handing over of the Thiruvanathapuram international airport to Adani Group on lease for 50 years. Seven of the 14 candidates fielded secured more than 4% of votes. Twelve candidates fielded by TVM got more votes than candidates other than the three major fronts of LDF, UDF, and NDA. Sheeja Varghese who contested from Kinavoor ward came third, securing 23.7% of the votes polled.  Fourth spot Ajith Kumar who contested from Kuravankonam secured 11.5% of the votes and came fourth after UDF, BJP and LDF candidates. Wilson George who contested from Kesavadasapuram ward could manage only 8.1% of the votes and he too came last among the four candidates. The vote share for the 12 candidates fielded by TVM varied from 0.4% to 8.1%. The entrance of the TVM, with focus on the overall development of the State, was keenly watched by the LDF, UDF and NDA. Minus fanfare The electioneering without fanfare was also unique to the voters of the 14 wards. But, the results show that it could not emerge as the electoral player as feared by the mainstream political parties. The failure to focus on local issues and pressing needs of the ward also failed to enthuse the independent voters. The adverse campaign in the last days projecting them as ‘B’ team of BJP and allegation that it secured support from Adani affected the prospects in a big way, TVM general secretary M.S. Venugopal said. “Even the candidates were personally attacked and their integrity questioned. This affected chances of TVM candidates in the six wards,” he said.  The vote share for 12 of the candidates fielded by the apolitical outfit varies from 0.4% to 8.1%.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF triumphs in district panchayats||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has made clear gains in district panchayats, capturing ten of the 14 local bodies bodies when the latest State Election Commission updates on the results were out on Wednesday. The LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) are tied in Wayanad and Kasaragod, while the UDF captured the Ernakulam and Malappuram district panchayats. The LDF won the Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, and Kannur district panchayats. Both fronts are tied in the 16-division Wayanad with eight divisions each, and seven divisions each in the Kasaragod district panchayat. In Kasaragod, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won two seats while one division was won by an independent. Initially, the tally in Wayanad had stood 7-9, in favour of the UDF. But a recounting in the Meppady division revised the outcome to eight divisions each. In the 2015 local body polls, both fronts had won seven district panchayats each. This time, the LDF wrested Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Idukki from the UDF. In Kottayam, the LDF increased its tally from eight seats to 14. In 2015, the UDF had won the Wayanad and Kasaragod district panchayats.  Both fronts are tied in Wayanad and Kasaragod
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Counting centre turns a theatre of emotions||The counting centre at Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar at Nalanchira here witnessed varied emotions on Wednesday as vote counting for the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation polls appeared to go down to the wire, albeit for the initial stages of the exercise. An air of excitement prevailed outside the Sarvodaya Vidyalaya ICSE School where the initial hours saw a large gathering, comprising candidates, polling agents and media persons. Nonetheless, the district administration’s efforts to restrict entry to the counting halls on account of the COVID-19 protocol succeeded to a large extent. The large posse of police personnel bolstered these measures as they permitted only those who were issued passes by the district authorities. First result Many people were glued to a large screen erected outside the counting centre to keep track of the electoral trends. Bringing an end to a long, anxious wait, the first result was announced by around 9.15 a.m. when the counting officials declared Sudheer of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) the winner in the Beemapally East ward that was previously held by the United Democratic Front (UDF). A sizeable group of Left Democratic Front (LDF) activists who were gathered outside the campus premises soon burst into celebrations. Victory revelry and sloganeering continued to pick up outside the main entrance as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) inched close to the LDF, suggesting the possibility of a neck-and-neck finish. Throwing restraint necessitated by such pandemic-stricken times in the air, the activists of both the coalitions competed against each other in jamboree from either side of the MC Road as the leads ebbed and flowed with counting progressing through various rounds. Buoyed by the trends midway through the exercise, M.R. Gopan, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentary party leader in the outgoing council, exuded confidence of a BJP victory. “Though we might not be able to achieve our target of over 60 seats, we are certain to emerge the largest coalition,” he said. However, what followed put paid to such hopes as the LDF romped home, rather comfortably, to go past the half-way mark and gain a clear majority. ‘Reward of good work’ Rakhi Ravikumar, the outgoing Deputy Mayor, who won from the Vazhuthacaud ward yet again, attributed the resounding victory to the performances of both the previous council and the LDF government. The electorate had responded to the baseless allegations levelled by the Opposition parties, she added. While many candidates of the UDF were conspicuous by their absence, some others could be seen making silent exits from the counting centre.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP should apologise to people: Kanam||State secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI), Kanam Rajendran, has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress should apologise to the people for laying down a smokescreen of lies against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. He said here on Wednesday that the people had emphatically rejected the misinformation campaign prosecuted with the help of the media and cherry-picked information leaked by politically biased officers in the Central law enforcement. The LDF had emerged in flying colours from the fog of the campaign of slander and character assassination unleashed by the United Democratic Front and the National Democratic Alliance. The CPI has won more seats than in 2015. It has increased its vote share exponentially. The party’s State executive council would meet soon to discuss the results threadbare, he said.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Post-counting brawl: case against two||The Thampanoor police registered a case in connection with a brawl that took place among activists of two rival political parties on Wednesday. Sarith Kumar of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Madhu of the Bharatiya Janata Party were booked after they were engaged in a clash at Mettukada around 5 p.m. after the declaration of results of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation polls.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. cross-voted to help LDF: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran said here on Wednesday that Congress workers had cross-voted in overwhelming numbers to help the Left Democratic Front (LDF) make gains in the local body polls in Kerala. The trade-off between the Congress and the LDF to thwart the BJP was perhaps most evident in the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation. The vote share of the Congress had dipped steeply in the local self-government institutions wards captured by the LDF. The LDF and the UDF had also marshalled the support of Islamist forces to defeat the BJP. The LDF had manipulated postal ballots to disadvantage the BJP. ‘Congress-free’ Voters had rendered the Congress irrelevant. “Kerala is truly Congress-free,” he said. The people had reaffirmed the emergence of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as the real Opposition alliance in Kerala. The NDA had made inroads into the Christian community by winning in at least three grama panchayats in Kottayam district. Mr. Surendran said Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had betrayed the rank and file of the Congress party by entering into a Faustian pact with the CPI(M). They should reveal what they gained in return personally. “Has the government promised them a reprieve from criminal cases?” The NDA would ratchet up its agitation against the Pinarayi Vijayan government in the run-up to the Assembly elections, he said.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Weathered a campaign of lies to win: LDF||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said here on Wednesday that the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) governance track record had helped it weather a withering campaign of lies and coast to victory in the local body polls. The Congress and the Bharathiya Janata Party had attempted to cast the Pinarayi Vijayan government under a shadow of suspicion during the election period. Central agencies had actively assisted the Opposition parties. The people have delivered a forceful repudiation of their odious Machiavellian machinations. A majority of Muslims were repelled by the attempts of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to mollycoddle the fundamentalist Jamaat-e-Islami and its political arm, the Welfare Party of India (WPI). The local body polls had signalled an evident realignment of Muslim and Christian votes in favour of the LDF. The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and Loktantrik Janata Dal contributed to the LDF’s victory.  Welfare measures The people recognised that the government had not given upon its social security commitments or development plan even in the face of natural calamities, economic collapse, and the pandemic. It increased welfare pensions and cleared the backlog of payments. Free ration and food kits cushioned the COVID-19 hit population. Moreover, the government offered free medical care for COVID-19 patients.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||345 cases in capital||The district recorded 345 COVID-19 cases and 320 recoveries on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 3,389. The death toll increased to 606 with four more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased include a 79-year-old man from Thirumala, a 61-year-old man from Bharathannoor, a 55-year-old man from Nedumangad and a 76-year-old man from Dhanuvachapuram. The district administration placed 1,638 people under quarantine.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A few major upsets||Quite a few major upsets were witnessed in the local body elections in the district. The tag of ‘Mayor candidate’ seemed to be unlucky for two of the Left Democratic Front’s Mayor probables in the city Corporation. CPI(M)’s A.G. Oleena lost by 569 votes in the Kunnukuzhy ward to Mary Pushpam of the Congress. In Nedumcaud, another Mayor hopeful and long-time LDF councillor S. Pushpalatha lost by 184 votes to BJP’s Ajithkumar. UDF candidate Padmakumar of the Forward Block polled only 74 votes here, while Ms. Pushpalatha polled 3,442 and Mr. Ajithkumar 3,626 votes. Mayor falls Another major upset was that of outgoing Mayor K. Sreekumar, who lost by 116 votes to BJP candidate Kumaran Nair in the Karikkakam ward, a sitting seat of the BJP. In the district panchayat, S. Suresh, the former district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, was trailing by more than 2,000 votes in the Venganoor division when reports last came in.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||People have rejected traitors: Mani||Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose. K. Mani said the traditional bastions of the UDF in Central Travancore had fallen to the ruling LDF. People who had voted for the Congress-led coalition for decades had rejected the “traitors” who betrayed the agrarian politics of K.M. Mani. They had also restored the identity of K.M. Mani’s party. The hike in social welfare pensions, distribution of social security benefits, modernised schools and hospitals and secular politics had powered the LDF to victory in the polls.
17 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF scores in municipalities||The United Democratic Front (UDF), which had a tough ride in the 2020 local body elections, managed to put up a good show in the municipalities. As per the State Election Commission updates, the UDF won 45 of the 86 municipalities to which elections were held, while the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won in 35. The UDF has improved its tally from 41 seats in 2015, while LDF numbers fell from 44 to 35. The BJP-led NDA retained the Palakkad municipality and wrested the Pandalam municipality in Pathanamthitta district. The UDF has improved its tally from 41 seats in 2015, while the LDF numbers fell from 44 to 35. The LDF led in the four municipalities in Thiruvananthapuram district. The BJP significantly improved its tally in Varkala, where it came second, pushing UDF to a distant third. In Kollam, the LDF dominated, winning Karunagapally, Kottarakara and Punalur while the UDF won Paravoor. In Pathanamthitta, the UDF won in the Adoor, Pathanamthitta and Thiruvalla municipalities, but Pandalam fell to the BJP-led NDA.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF will sweep Assembly polls, says Kodiyeri||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Wednesday said the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) impressive victory in the local body polls will echo strongly in the Assembly polls in 2021. Mr. Balakrishnan said the people had voted for the LDF’s political programme. They had endorsed the track record of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The voters had forcefully repudiated the politics of recrimination practised by the United Democratic Front (UDF) and National Democratic Alliance (NDA), he said. The verdict was also a slap in the face of the Central agencies. They had overstepped their constitutional bounds and attempted to cast the LDF government under a cloud of suspicion to aid the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politically, he said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the citizens had kept their faith with the LDF. They had defeated an unholy nexus of communal forces. The Welfare Party of India and Sangh Parivar had worked for the victory of the UDF and the NDA. The people had signalled that they would accord the LDF a second innings in power in 2021.
17 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur unfurls red carpet for the Left||Repeating the trend of the 2015 local body elections, Thrissur swayed towards the Left this time too. When the LDF won a clear majority in three-tier institutions, it earned an upper hand in municipalities. However, it was a photo finish in Thrissur Corporation. Of the total 86 grama panchayats, LDF won 64. The UDF secured victory in 20 panchayats.  No absolute majority Though the Bharatiya Janata Party has the maximum number of seats in the Avinissery gram panchayat, the lone panchayat that it won in 2015, the party does not have an absolute majority this time. It won six out of the 14 seats. While the LDF won five seats, the UDF secured three. The LDF secured an impressive victory in 13 of the 16 block panchayats while the UDF could win only three. The district panchayat too turned red as the LDF won 24 of the 29 divisions. Puthur, Koratty, Mala, Kadappuram, and Adattu are the district panchayat divisions that stood with the UDF. Five of the seven municipalities stood with the Left this time. The UDF won only in the Chalakudy and Irinjalakuda municipalities. However, there is no clear majority for any front in the Thrisur Corporation. While the LDF got 24 seats, the UDF had 23. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won six seats. One seat was secured by the UDF rebel candidate. In the 2015 elections, The LDF bagged victory in 66 of the 86 grama panchayats. While the UDF had 19, the NDA bagged one.
17 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Photo finish for fronts at Thrissur Corporation||At the end of a neck-and-neck fight, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won a slender majority of one seat in Thrissur Corporation. While the LDF won 24 seats, the United Democratic Front (UDF) secured 23. The Bharatiya Janata Party could secure six seats while one seat was bagged by a UDF rebel. In the absence of a clear majority, the stand taken by the UDF rebel, M.K. Varghese, who won from the Nettussery division, will be decisive. Refusing to clear his stand, Mr. Varghese said he would take a decision after taking opinion from his voters. However, both the LDF and the UDF are expecting his support to win a majority. Even last time, the LDF that did not have an absolute majority ruled the Corporation as the largest party. But election fever is not yet over in Thrissur Corporation. Election to the Pullazhi division, the sitting seat of the Left, has been postponed following the death of LDF candidate M.K. Mukundan. Mukundan, who was the Opposition leader, left the UDF and joined the LDF at the end of the last tenure. However, he died before he could start campaigning. The date of election is yet to be announced. The NDA, which fielded BJP spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan at Kuttankulangara division as Mayor candidate, suffered a major setback as he was defeated by UDF candidate B. Suresh Kumar for 191 votes. There were protests from within the party against the candidature of Mr. Gopalakrishnan at Kuttankulangara. After the election, he had come up with the allegation that there was an unholy alliance between the LDF and the UDF to defeat him. Kuttankulanagara was the sitting seat of the BJP. In the last Lok Sabha elections, Suresh Gopi had won a majority in the division. The BJP, which had six councillors in the last council, fielded the State leader aiming to win more seats. Though it lost three sitting divisions this time, it won three new divisions.
17 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||LDF scores big in municipalities||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had a clear upper hand in the municipalities in Thrissur district in the local body elections, winning five out of seven. The United Democratic Front (UDF) could win only in Chalakudy and Irinjalakuda. The verdict in the Wadakkanchery municipality, the epicentre of the Life Mission controversy, was eagerly watched this time.  21 of 41 However, despite the controversy, the LDF bagged the municipality, winning 21 of the 41 divisions. The UDF won 16 seats.  Responding to the result, Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen said it was a fitting reply by the people of Wadakkanchery to the unnecessary row. Voters expressed their anger against those who thwarted their hope for a safe house, the Minister said. However, the Congress leadership noted that the controversy was not discussed much during the local polls. Though pushed to second position, the BJP gave an impressive performance in the Kodungalloor municipality, bagging 21 seats, up from the 16 seats last time. The LDF won Kodungalloor with 22 seats. The UDF won only one seat. The LDF won Chavakkad for the fourth time. The front got 23 seats, and the UDF, nine. The LDF won in Kunnamkulam and Guruvayur too.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||LDF paints most local bodies in capital red||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) cemented its presence in local bodies in the capital district as it improved on its performance in 2015. The simple majority it achieved in the prestigious Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation, where it won 51 seats in the 100-ward council, could be the icing in the cake in the victory of the Communist Party of India(Marxist)-led coalition. Despite mounting a high-pitched campaign, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) could manage to win only 34 seats, one short of what it had won last time. The United Democratic Front (UDF)’s pursuit to wrest control of the civic body ended with a whimper as it recorded its worst-ever performance winning just 10 seats. The coalitions’ strength could slightly change with the five Independents choosing their sides. The BJP managed to save its face by ensuring the victory of its district president V.V. Rajesh in Poojappura. The LDF also improved its position in the district panchayat by winning 20 out of the 26 divisions. They had emerged victorious in 19 divisions during the previous polls. The UDF could only win the remaining six. The NDA, which hoped to improve on its tally of one seat, could not even manage to retain the Venganoor division where they fielded former BJP district president S. Suresh who was defeated by LJD candidate Bhagath Rufus, son of former district panchayat vice-president Rufus Daniel, by 2,064 votes. The results of the polls in block panchayats too brought cheer for the LDF camp as it won 10 of them, while the front was tied with the UDF in Vellanad block panchayat with eight seats each. The front could only win eight block panchayats last time. The elections results in the 73 grama panchayats almost replicated the previous ones as the LDF won in 51 of them, the UDF in 18 and the NDA four. The coalitions had respectively won 50, 19 and four grama panchayats in 2015. 2 of 4 municipalities The poll outcome of the four municipalities could, however, become a reason to ponder for the LDF which had swept them all last time. On Wednesday, they achieved simple majorities in Nedumangad and Attingal municipalities, but stared at the prospects of hung councils in Varkala and Neyyattinkara. The NDA’s resurgence caught the other coalitions by surprise in Varkala as the alliance won 11 seats, only one less than what the LDF could win. In Neyyattinkara, the LDF and the UDF won 18 and 17 seats respectively, while the NDA bagged nine.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Anger against govt. not fully to the fore: UDF||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said here on Wednesday that the anger against the government did not reflect fully in the local body polls. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had little to cheer. At the same time, the Congress was not “satisfied” by the party’s performance at the hustings. The people had not whitewashed the LDF’s corruption or given the ruling coalition the nod for a second innings in power. Local issues, and neighbourhood-level acceptance of candidates, had influenced voters more than State and national concerns. ‘NDA had no relevance’ The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had no relevance in the elections. The fight was primarily between the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF). The UDF had improved its vote share compared with 2015. It controlled over three Corporations, several municipalities, and more than 375 grama panchayats. The party had not lost its traditional support base. The Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) would meet on Thursday to discuss the fallout. The party viewed the dismal performance of the Congress in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation seriously. KPCC president Mullappaly Ramachandran said the party would discuss Jose K. Mani’s defection. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said the Congress had dominated in all divisions of the Puthupally Assembly constituency. The Congress party had grown stronger. Its base was intact.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A win to remember||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Joint celebration||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Victory march||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dazzling race||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high spirits||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Savouring victory||
17 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Border demarcation issue: CPI(M) sees bid to protect OMC, Gali||The CPI(M) has blamed the BJP government at the Centre and in Karnataka for the delay in the inter-State border demarcation process on the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border in the Bellari Reserve Forest, where the Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC) has allegedly resorted to illegal mining. At a press conference here on Wednesday, party State Committee member O. Kondareddy and north district committee member O. Nallappa alleged that the border dispute was being put off on some pretext or the other for the past 10 years just to save the OMC and its owner Gali Janardhana Reddy. “If the boundary is demarcated properly, the Central Bureau of Investigation can proceed further in the cases pending against the OMC, which the BJP government does not want to happen,” said Mr. Kondareddy. Anantapur district was carved out of Ballari and the district administration at Ballari had all the relevant documents and maps with it, he said, and added that issues could be settled across the table and implemented with ease. “Even today, those needing information prior to the district formation apply to the registrar’s office in Ballari,” he observed. Survey of India being an arbitrator, it should have all the maps and documents, and technology to settle the issue amicably, he opined. “But it is unfortunate that even after three surveys, the issue is hanging fire,” he said.
17 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver held for murder bid on farmer||The Chittoor II Town police on Wednesday arrested an auto-driver, Raju of Iruvaram locality here, on charges of attempting to murder an 80-year-old farmer and robbing him of cash on the outskirts of Chittoor. On Tuesday, P. Chinnabba Mandadi (80) of Patnam village of Tavanampalle mandal, was waiting for a bus at Muttarapalle Satram to board a bus to Chittoor. An auto driver, Raju of Chittoor, passing that way reportedly saw him counting cash. Taking advantage of the isolated spot, the auto driver allegedly forced Chinnabba into the vehicle. After reaching the outskirts of Chittoor, Raju allegedly tried to strangulate the elderly man, after robbing him of Rs. 10,000. Some passersby tried to catch Raju, but the latter fled the scene along with the elderly person. Receiving information from the spot, the II-Town police detected the movement of the auto and followed it. However, Raju abandoned Chinnabba and fled fro the spot. The police who rescued the elderly man took a complaint from him and provided first aid to him for the injuries on his face. Vehicle, cash seized Police arrested Raju on the outskirts while he was moving suspiciously. The police seized his autorikshaw and Rs. 10,000 from his possession. Criminal cases were booked against the accused under various sections of the IPC. SP Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy appreciated the police team which swiftly dealt the case.
17 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. youth held for ‘cheating’ people||The Chittoor crime police nabbed a 28-year-old youth and a lady manager of a call centre at Bangarupalem in Chittoor district, for allegedly cheating as many as 40 customers by delivering them defunct power banks after luring them with brand new high-end mobile phones. According to the police, Bharath, a native of Ambur in Tamil Nadu, took advantage of the high demand for android phones from parents and students with sudden spurt in the online classes. He floated a call centre at Bangarupalem mandal headquarters, 25 km from here, hiring unemployed women. They would dial random numbers and have the persons on the other end of the call believe that their numbers had got offers to have a high-end mobile of a popular brand, and that it would cost Rs. 2,626 as against its original price of Rs. 15,000. After collecting the addresses from the interested parties, Bharath would reportedly organize dispatch of defunct power banks from the local post office at Pernambattu in Tamil Nadu. The money collected by the postmen would be sent to Bharath in this process. On October 27, when a youth at Tavanampalle mandal, near Chittoor, received a defunct power bank instead of a mobile as was promised, he approached the area police. To bust the fraud, SP S. Senthil Kumar formed a special party. Cyber Crime cell Inspector K. Ramesh led the operation and nabbed Bharath at Kattamanchi locality in Chittoor and the woman manager of call centre. ‘More arrests soon’ Inspector Ramesh said the accused had established the centre and started delivering fake goods to customers. The official said a few more persons involved in the fraud would be arrested in Tamil Nadu. A case was registered and the accused were remanded.
17 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority to visible policing: Chittoor SP||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Wednesday said that top priority would be given to visible policing in all the four sub-divisions of Chittoor, Madanapalle, Palamaner and Puttur and effective steps would be in place to achieve zero-crime rate in urban and rural areas as well. Mr. Senthil Kumar said that police visibility today has wider purview across physical and digital spaces as police officers and citizens interact not only face-to-face but also through social media. visible policing would play a vital role in exploring new vistas of contemporary policing, he said. The SP said that the police officers should focus on effective measures to spread public awareness on Police Seva App, The Cyber Mitra WhatsApp number 9121211100 also need to be publicised for wider reach.
17 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex gratia paid||Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar announced that an ex-gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each was provided to the family members of three victims who had died in the attacks of wild elephants in Kuppam and Chittoor ranges in recent months. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, the DFO said that Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy had distributed the cheques to the family members of Sonia and Narayanamma of Kuppam range, and Satish Raju. While the two women farmers were trampled to death in their fields by the crop raiding elephants, the third, a driver with the forest department at Chittoor range, was killed by a lone elephant after a forest jeep was attacked.
17 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a first, plastic waste now fuels GMC’s fleet of vehicles||After grappling with heaps of solid waste for years, the Guntur Municipal Corporation has come up with an indigenous Plastic Waste to Synthetic Fuel Plant. Plastic and industrial waste is converted into synthetic petrol, diesel and kerosene at the plant located in KVP Colony. The GMC is probably the first urban local body in the country to set up such a plant in full conformity with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The plant has been in operation for four months now. Needa Green Energy is handling the annual maintenance contract of the plant. Apart from being non-pollutant, the synthetic fuel plant is fuelling the civic body’s fleet of dumper placers and other vehicles, saving lakhs of rupees to the exchequer. “The energy-efficient and zero-pollution indigenous fuel plant was established with financial assistance by the Swaccha Andhra Corporation under the Swaccha Bharat Scheme in the spirit of Atma Nirbhar Bharath slogan given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On an average, 250 litres of diesel and 45 litres of petrol is being produced for captive use of our fleet of vehicles,’’ said Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha. Plastic waste— be it pet bottles of cans — is ground into powder, which is then funnelled into a 0.5 cubic metres capacity kiln. The powder is then converted into vapour after heating up to 500 degrees Celsius, later condensed and distilled involving plastic depolymerisation in a singular process. The facility is now handling 0.5 tonnes of plastic waste per day, converting it into 45% to 95 % liquid automotive fuel and 5% to 55% activated carbon. The “non-pyrolytic, non-catalytic depolymerisation technology” uses patent-pending algorithms in being able to handle different kinds of plastic at one go. The plant has also won plaudits for being environmental friendly, as the process involves no chimney, and the little amounts of methane (around 2%) produced during the process is used up by the generator, which produces electricity used in heating the plastic. The pet coke byproduct that is left out after plastic processing, can be used as manure or in power generation. The GMC has also proposed to handle all plastic COVID-19 resultant waste through the facility turning almost the entire input quantity of plastic waste into fuel.
17 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipalities should be declared Swachh cities by Oct. 2021: Collector||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has directed all Municipal Commissioners to make plans for declaring the municipalities as Swachh Cities by October 21, 2021. Speaking at a workshop attended by Municipal Commissioners in the district to form an action plan, the Collector said a detailed action plan should be formulated by them. They should ensure that roads, parks and residential and commercial areas were kept clean. Solid Waste Management should be given priority and people should be told about the importance of segregation of dry and wet waste at door-to-door level. The urban local bodies should plan for day-to-day action and take all stakeholders, more so people, into confidence so that the action plan became successful. The urban local bodies should form Swachatha teams and officials should take seriously all the sanitation programmes. Public campaigns Public campaigns should be held at public places from December 28 to 31, in which NGOs, people, traders should take part, he said. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha, Regional Director, Srinivasa Rao, Unicef representative Subhash, Swachh Andhra corporation representative Javed, pollution control board officials were present.
17 December 2020||JAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple ‘killed’ by son-in-law||A young couple – Nemali Babu and his wife, Manasa – allegedly killed her parents for dowry in Bandipalem village in the district on Wednesday. Babu, a grama volunteer, fell in love with his neighbour, Manasa, and married her three months ago. The couple were insisting that Manasa’s parents, Thota Muttaiah (62) and Sugunamma (50), give Rs. 1 lakh as dowry. Muttaiah complained about the behaviour of his son-in-law to the village elders, said Jaggaiahpet Circle Inspector (CI) P. Chandrashekar.Taking objection to the behaviour of Muttaiah, Babu developed a grudge against his in-laws, and allegedly slit their throats while sleeping. “We are enquiring whether Manasa was involved in the double murder or helped her husband in any way. Efforts are on to nab the accused,” the CI said. The Chillakallu police registered a case and took up investigation.
17 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State cricket betting racket busted||The Kadapa police on Wednesday busted an inter-State cricket betting racket and arrested as many as 31 bookies in Proddatur town on Wednesday. As inputs trickled in about the possibility of a betting as well as ganja network spreading tentacles in the district, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan formed special surveillance teams, led by Additional Superintendent of Police (Special Enforcement Bureau) Chakravarthy, and comprising Deputy Superintendents Prasada Rao (Proddatur) and Balaswamy Reddy (SEB) to keep a close watch. The teams launched a blitzkrieg on ‘Big Boss cricket league’ operating from Proddatur town and arrested 31 bookies. The police also seized Rs. 1 lakh in cash, 6 kg of ganja, two cars, seven laptops, two communicators and ten betting account books from their possession. Upon interrogation, it was found that the main bookies are based at Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Goa, who used to stay in touch with the local teams through cricket-related mobile applications. Whopping turnover The bookies used to attract unsuspecting youths with alluring monetary benefits, while ganja trade also slowly flourished as crowd picked up. “We came to know from the betting books that the arrested and absconding bookies had made a betting turnover of Rs. 34.78 crore during the last IPL season ,” Mr. Anburajan told the media on Wednesday. The arrested include S. Shahid Akram, Khaja Mohiddin, Bhumireddy Suresh Reddy, Mungara Ramanjaneyulu, Y. Srikanth Reddy, Mohd. Wahid Zama, Chenna Srinivasulu, Shaik Umar Farooq, Shaik Gayaz Basha, S. Sudheer, and Ghouse Basha.
17 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian smooth-coated otter rescued from well||An Indian smooth-coated otter ( Lutrogale perspicillata ) was rescued from an open well by a team of Animal Husbandry department personnel at Penikeru village of Alamuru mandal in East Godavari district on Wednesday. The conservation status of the otter is “vulnerable”, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The animal had fallen into the agricultural well last night reportedly while a group of otters ventured into the nearby aqua ponds in search of prey. Farmers found the otter in the agricultural well and prepared to eliminate it as they believed that it has been attacking the cattle in their area in the recent weeks. Ironically, a jackal had recently attacked cattle in the Alamuru mandal. On being informed by the locals, Animal Husbandry team led by Assistant Director O. Ramakrishna rushed to the spot and assured that otter would not harm the cattle and there was no need to panic about it. “As the otter was not able to come out of the well due to less water level in the well, we pumped water into the well, enabling it to come out. We did not capture it, but let it go on its own. It moved towards the irrigation channel, reportedly to return to the river Godavari,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. River Godavari is nearly one km from the well in which it was stranded.
17 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green tribunal panel inspects Purushothapatnam project||The National Green Tribunal (southern region) joint committee on Wednesday inspected the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme in Seetanagaram mandal of East Godavari district, assessing the damage to the environment, if any. Early this year, the NGT constituted the committee to assess the damage done to the surrounding areas of the project and violation of any environmental guidelines, apart from examining whether to obtain a fresh Environment Clearance (EC) for the lift irrigation project. The committee consisting of AP Pollution Control Board Joint Chief Engineer P. Raveendra Reddy, Andhra University professor P. Jagannadha Rao, East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha visited the project site. The committee inspected the methods of drawing water from the Polavaram Irrigation Project Left Main Canal (PIPLMC) and pumping into the Yeleru Irrigation System and pipeline system on the site. PIPLMC-Tuni Circle Superintendent Engineer B.S.S. Srinivasa Yadav told the committee that the lift irrigation scheme was part of the Polavaram Irrigation Project and water was being drawn as mentioned in the DPR of the Polavaram Irrigation Project.
17 December 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public hearing on Vedanta group project cancelled||The environmental public hearing on the proposed project of onshore oil and natural gas exploration by Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil and Gas Division) in the Kaza block has been cancelled on the grounds of “law and order problem.” The public hearing is supposed to be conducted on Thursday (December 17) at Tarakaturu in Guduru mandal in Krishna district as per the notification issued by the AP Pollution Control Board. “The environmental public hearing scheduled to be held on December 17 has been cancelled on the grounds of law and order problem. The farming community is stiffly resisting the project. The next date of public hearing is yet to be decided,” Bandar Revenue Divisional Officer N.Sk. Khajavali told The Hindu . When contacted, the PCB authorities said they had been told by the revenue authorities to cancel the public hearing. The Vedanta group proposed the Rs. 650-crore project to explore oil and natural gas from early next year.
17 December 2020||MADEPALLI (WEST GODAVARI DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Exact cause of undiagnosed illness in Eluru still not known||Scientists and doctors of various institutes, who tried to find out cause for the mysterious illness in Eluru, could not find the exact reason for the neurotoxicity symptoms. The teams could not give any clarity on how the chemicals and pesticide contents entered into the bodies of the patients, and advised for a prolonged investigation on the reasons for the disease. More than 600 patients had sudden fall and suffered epilepsy, seizures and convulsions in Toorpu Veedhi, J.P. Colony, Vangagudem, Kothapeta, Dakshina Veedhi and other areas in the town. Cases were also reported from Denduluru, Bhimadole, Madepalli and other villages. Officials confirmed that the undiagnosed illness affected the public in Eluru and the neighbouring villages, and many patients took treatment in various private hospitals in the district. However, doctors and experts of AIIMS, NIN, IICT and other institutes opined that presence of pesticide contents and some chemicals could be the cause for the mysterious disease. Officials of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Hyderabad, said the neurotoxicity symptoms could also be occurred due to the toxic gases emanated while burning the waste (solid waste). AIIMS officials confirmed the presence of lead and nickel in some blood samples, while researchers of Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad, said the presence of endosulphon was found in some blood samples collected from Eluru. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who interacted with the doctors and officials of various institutes through a video conference on Wednesday, directed officials to conduct medical checkups regularly, set up health laboratories, and test the samples. Mr. Reddy directed the officials to take all steps and prepare an action plan to prevent such incidents in future. Panel report soon Meanwhile, the 21-member high-level committee constituted by the government will soon submit a report based on the reports submitted by experts and specialists of various institutes on the mysterious illness.
17 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clamour for Amaravati as capital grows louder||Farmers, joined by activists of opposition parties and civil society organisations, held a massive protest march demanding that Amaravati be retained as the one and only capital of the State. The sloganeering protesters arrived on tractors, bullock carts and other modes of transport from the Old Bypass road junction on the arterial Kurnool road during the ‘Mahapadayatra’ demanding shelving of the decentralised capital model of the YSRCP government. Without standing on prestige, Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy should concede the one and only demand of the farmers agitating for the cause for the last one year, said TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N.Balaji. Unlike Hyderabad and Chennai, Amaravati did not witness such a natural calamity when rains lashed the southern States, pointed out Rationalist Association leader N.Venkata Subbaiah. The government should not ignore the fact that farmers hailing from Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes had also sacrificed their precious land for the capital, said ‘Poura Samajam’ district president G.Narasimha Rao. Communist Party of India Prakasam district secretary M.L.Narayana gave a call to the activists to gear up for upcoming ‘Amaravati Chalo’ programme to mark one year of the stir. Congress party farmers wing State vice-president V. Rajagopala Reddy spoke.
17 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gearing up for rollout of vaccination programme||The health officials in Prakasam district geared up for rolling out the vaccination programme and five persons each were selected for vaccination from each of the villages. Action plan The medical staff members at the grassroots level were being trained to administer the shots, said Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P.Ratnavalli, while overseeing the preparation of an action plan to roll it out as and when the State Government gives the green signal. Meanwhile, continuing with the positive trend, no deaths were reported in the two districts of South Coastal Andhra and the number of active cases also declined to little over 800 as more persons recovered in the last 24 hours. Daily count The death toll remained unchanged at 1,082 with Prakasam district accounting for 578 deaths so far and SPSR Nellore district for 504 deaths. With 29 new cases in the last 24 hours, the overall coronavirus caseload rose slightly to 1,25,256, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Wednesday night. Active cases dipped to 822 as 73 patients clocked recovery in Nellore and Prakasam, pushing the recovery rate to 98.88% while the national average stood at a little over 95.21%. In SPSR Nellore district, 17 new cases were registered during the period taking the total number of positive cases to 63,414 out of which the active cases stand at 576 after 45 persons recovered. The district has been witnessing zero deaths for over a week. The number of active cases declined to 246.
17 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD EO inspects developmental works||TTD Executive officer(EO) K.S. Jawahar Reddy, accompanied by heads of various departments, on Wednesday visited Sankhumitta and Narayanagiri cottages and urged the concerned officials to expedite the completion of renovation works and make them ready for public use ahead of Vaikunta Ekadasi on December 25. The EO also directed the officials to enhance greenery in the city by growing floral plants at all the main traffic junctions and along the dividers. Mr. Jawahar Reddy, who visited the ten-acre sandal wood plantation in the Tirumala forest, stopped at the garden office and inspected the existing cold storage facilities and floral plants grown for use in the daily worship of the deity. Earlier, he also inspected developmental works taken up at Gokulam, TBC and ATC areas and directed the authorities to clear debris dumped at the Bata Gangamma temple and take up beautification work at the tank behind the Seva sadan.
17 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||10,000 tickets of Vaikunta Dwara darshan for Tirupati denizens||For the first time, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has attached importance to the people living in Tirupati and adjoining areas in the Vaikunta Dwara darshan of Lord Venkateswara and resolved to allow 10,000 people on a daily basis. Since the day the TTD resolved to allow Vaikunta Dwara darshan for 10 days, Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, who is also a member trustee of the trust board, was flooded with requests from local denizens for the extension of same privilege to them in the darshan of the deity. After intense deliberations, Mr. Reddy convinced the management, which agreed to set-up special counters in Tirupati.
17 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woodcutter in saffron robes nabbed||The Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths early on Wednesday arrested a woodcutter off Srivarimettu trekking route to Tirumala, when he was allegedly trying to sneak into the Seshachalam forest. K. Venkatesan of Jamunamarathur in Tiruvannamalai district in Tamil Nadu was found to possess three types of robes in his possession — a ‘lungi’ and T-shirt to be used during cutting trees, a white ‘dhoti’ and white shirt for bus travel and saffron robes, to hoodwink the searching eyes of cops and pass off as a Tirumala-bound devotee. He was shifted to Task Force police station. Police registered a case.
17 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former scribe of The Hindu passes away||P. Raghunatha Reddy (87), formerly Correspondent of The Hindu at Chittoor, passed away in Chittoor on Tuesday. The cremation was performed at his native village, Bommasamudram, in Gudipala mandal on Wednesday. After retiring as the Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations (I&PR) Department at Chittoor, Mr. Reddy joined The Hindu and served for close to a decade till 2013. He was also the founder of Chittoor Press Club and was actively involved in the welfare of journalists.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to speak in one voice for one capital, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has given a call for all sections of Andhra Pradesh to join the struggle against the proposal to shift the capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. “A united fight is the need of the hour to save Amaravati,” Mr. Naidu said in a series of tweets on Wednesday. “Failure to take forward the agitation to save Amaravati will cause irreparable losses to the future generations. The decision to establish three capitals is just aimed at playing a dangerous game with the future and the lives of people and their progeny. There is an urgent need for all the Andhras to speak in one voice for one capital,” Mr. Naidu said. On the occasion of the Amaravati protest completing one year, the former Chief Minister recalled how the capital was visualised as an economic growth engine for all the 13 districts of the State, besides creating huge job opportunities for the youth. After bifurcation of the State in 2014, a historic opportunity had arisen for the people of Andhra Pradesh to create a global-scale capital city. To meet those grand aspirations, a monumental decision was taken with the firm resolve to build a people’s capital that would make each and every citizen of Andhra Pradesh proud, Mr. Naidu said. “It is painful to see such a promising and potential capital city like Amaravati getting stuck in vendetta politics, and eventually crumbling in ruins,” he said.  Any lapse in taking forward the agitation to save Amaravati will cause irreparable losses to the future generations N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP national president
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Local elections in February amid threat of virus resurgence risky’||The State government has estimated that the elections to the local bodies (ZPTCs and MPTCs, and gram panchayats), which are in the eye of a storm due to their postponement earlier this year because of COVID-19 and the concomitant legal battle that is still raging, requires a manpower of at least 8,14,560, including police personnel. The number of polling stations required is 34,320 and 1,35,000 respectively, according to an additional counter affidavit filed in the High Court by Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi in the matter arising from the proposed conduct of the elections in February 2021. ‘Second wave’ The government is strongly opposing the February schedule saying that global trends indicate a likely resurgence of the virus and the danger posed by a “second wave” between December and March 2021 to the lives of the election duty staff and general public. The government’s argument is that holding the elections in February, for which State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar had already issued proceedings last month, may clash with the COVID-19 vaccination drive that is said to be around the corner. The government has informed the court that it is contemplating putting in place strict COVID-19 control measures in view of the possibility of the pandemic staging a comeback. Conducting elections in February is, therefore, not advisable, Mr. Dwivedi has stated in the affidavit. He has pointed out that the Central government issued guidelines to States on vaccination. The government has since taken steps under the aegis of a State-level task force headed by the Chief Secretary. Holding elections in such a situation will enhance the danger to the lives of vulnerable groups, especially those aged above 50 and with co-morbidities, and the security personnel involved in the exercise, the State told the single-judge Bench that heard the matter on Tuesday.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges Governor to save democracy in State||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has urged Governor Biswa Bushan Harichandan to take stock of the law and order situation and violation of Constitution in the State, and take steps to save the democracy. He also urged the Governor to apprise the situation to the President. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, said that Andhra Pradesh had become the “care of address for draconian rule.” “The freedom guaranteed by the Constitution is being denied. Anti-Constitution, unlawful and anti- people decisions are posing a threat to democracy. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has mortgaged the benefits assured to the State under the AP Reorganisation Act-2014 before the Central government to come clean from the cases against him,” he alleged. “The financial situation is precarious. Article 293 is being violated often, and the government is going for loans frequently. The constitutional right guaranteed as per Article 243k is being denied, and the government is opposing the conduct of local body elections,” he alleged.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State acting against interests of Hindu religious institutions: Somu Veerraju||Alleging that the State government was resorting to large-scale diversion of funds belonging to the Endowments Department and Hindu religious institutions, which included the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Wednesday questioned whether Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would dare to take a single rupee from the Christian missionaries. Participating in a demonstration organised by the BJP here in protest against the government’s “negligence” in getting hundreds of dilapidated temples rebuilt and renovated, Mr. Veerraju asked on what basis did the government allocate Rs. 25 crore for the construction of 248 churches (with amounts ranging from Rs. 84,000 to Rs. 1 crore). ‘Minister should quit’ Endowments Minister V. Srinivas should resign for saying that the government would get the dargahs built, he said. When Mr. Srinivas was in the BJP, he had spearheaded agitations against the demolition of several Hindu temples in Vijayawada in the run-up to the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016, Mr. Veerraju said. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, during whose regime the temples were razed, should speak up for the cause, the BJP leader demanded. Even as the temples in Vijayawada were in ruins, a big statue of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy was installed nearby, he said. ‘Funds diversion’ “The historic temple of Lord Siva at Tripurantakam in Prakasam district is in a bad shape, and so are many temples that generate huge income to the State exchequer,” Mr. Veerraju observed. “These funds are being diverted, and lands belonging to temples are being given as house sites,” he alleged. ‘Missing silver lions’ Even more glaring was the government’s “inaction” in cases related to burning of the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi and missing of silver lions at the Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada, he said. “The government should refrain from meddling with Hindu temples and religious institutions,” Mr. Veerraju demanded, and warned of intensifying the agitation.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||OMCAP to hold interview for Kuwait jobs||The Overseas Manpower Company of Andhra Pradesh (OMCAP) will conduct interviews for 240 blue collar jobs available in Kuwait, said the company’s General Manager K.V. Swamy. The interviews will be conducted at the office of OMCAP in Vijayawada at 9 a.m. on December 21 and interested candidates should bring their original passport, photographs and certificates. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Swamy said the interviews were being conducted in association with the Kuwait Gate Foundation. Selected candidates would be given visa, travel ticket and accommodation free of charge. Mr. Swamy said 230 jobs in the categories of domestic help, cooks, caretakers and beauticians were available for women and 10 driver posts for men. ECNR Applicants seeking the job of a domestic help should have knowledge of English language, should know Arabic and permission of the Gulf Corporation Council, those seeking to work as cooks should also have knowledge of English language and know Arabic and men seeking a driver’s job should have experience, be in possession of Emigration Clearance Not Required (ECNR) passport and permission of the Gulf Cooperation Council besides knowing English and Arabic languages. Contact details For a detailed information, contact: 7569991966,7794943108 or 0866-2485348.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkatapathy Raju inaugurates cricket academy in Vijayawada||Former international cricket player Venkatapathy Raju along with Penamaluru MLA Kolusu Parthasarathy inaugurated KK Global Cricket Academy at Yenamalakuduru village, near here, on Wednesday. Cricketer Kalyan Krishna, who was former IPL player and former Andhra fast bowler, started the academy. Mr. Raju appreciated Mr. Krishna for starting his dream project to payback the game which gave him good reputation. He said that Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) was on the right track by improving cricketing facilities in rural areas. Private academies played a huge role in promoting the game in villages, he said. “Online lessons are gaining popularity and people are learning various pursuits online. This academy is planning to use computers to the optimum level for the players’ benefit,” Mr. Krishna said. The MLA said that there was a dearth of good athletes in government schools because of the lack of quality coaching and training. “Private academies should help students from government schools to improve their standards by organising regular camps for them and produce more players from Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Parthasarathy said.  “We are ready to help private academies in their pursuits. The State government is giving priority to the sports and games in the State”, Mr. Parthasarathy said. ACA General Manager (Operations) Venugopala Rao, ACA former secretary Ch. Arun Kumar, former Andhra fast bowler P. Vijay Kumar, former India ‘A’ fast bowler N. Madhukar and several district and state administrators attended the inaugural function.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. pushing for conservation and efficient use of energy||Energy Secretary N. Srikant has called for focus on implementation of Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), which helps in achieving a significant reduction of energy in the building sector and in cutting down on electricity bills. Addressing a State-level webinar on ECBC conducted by the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) as part of the National Energy Conservation Week on Wednesday, Mr. Srikant said Andhra Pradesh was one of the few States that issued a G.O. on ECBC and incorporated the same in building bylaws and online building permission system. He stated that energy conservation cells were being set up in all the government departments to promote energy conservation and efficiency measures. Mr. Srikant further emphasised the need for creating an Energy Efficiency Index (EEI) that would facilitate the measurement of energy consumption, and help in achieving the goal of reducing energy demand in buildings. “The EEI enables the Energy Department to draw up strategies for improving energy conservation and efficient use of energy,” Mr. Srikant added. Municipal Administration Secretary J. Syamala Rao assured of full cooperation for the implementation of ECBC. He said the ECBC would provide minimum requirements for energy efficiency design. Norms ASCI Centre Director Usha Ramachandran said commercial buildings and non-residential buildings having a plot area of more than 1,000 sq metres or built-up area of 2,000 square metres, and multiplexes, hospitals, hotels, convention centres, irrespective of the built-up area, should comply with the ECBC norms to obtain building approvals in municipal corporations, municipalities and UDAs.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher transfers: last date for web options extended||Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday said the last day for teachers to exercise their web options for transfers had been extended by two days, up to December 17 (Thursday). Addressing a press conference, the Minister said Tuesday was the last date for teachers to exercise their web options, but following a request by the teacher associations, the department had agreed to extend it by two more days. He said by 1.55 p.m. on Wednesday, 71,947 (around 95%) teachers had exercised their web options. Referring to the Contributory Pension Scheme, he said the government was looking into it. Mr. Suresh said the final list of beneficiaries of Amma Vodi would be uploaded on the department portal. Teachers’ arrests flayed He said the process of selecting the beneficiaries had been carried out in a transparent way and care was taken to ensure that the programme covered all eligible mothers. Members of the AP Teachers’ Federation, meanwhile, condemned the arrests of their leaders. In the wake of ‘Çhalo Secretariat’ call given by the Federation of AP Teachers’ Organisations against the teacher transfer policy, the police placed under house arrest many leaders. A group of teachers from Guntur on its way to Vijayawada was stopped at Mangalagiri and asked to go back. Nearly 25 policemen were deployed at the APTF’s central office in Vijayawada from Tuesday night to Wednesday evening. Up in arms against the treatment, teachers demanded immediate release of their leaders and also withdrawal of cases booked against them.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘College Cops’ opened in Stella College||Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma launched ‘College Cops’ at Maris Stella College in the city on Wednesday. The commission, in association with Anti Human Trafficking Club of Stella College launched the prrogramme as part of ‘Mahila March @ 100 Days’ being organised by the commission, said Ms. Padma. Director Suez and Commission Member Tammisetty Ramadevi explained the theme of the march to the club members, faculty and other students on the occasion. Women Development and Child Welfare Assistant Project Director M. Prameela Rani, AP Crime Investigation Department (CID) Superintendent of Police G.R. Radhika and other officers were present.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One barred from writing Group-I examination||A candidate writing the Group-I Services Mains exam at a centre in Kurnool was caught indulging in malpractice and a case was booked against him. The officials of the AP Public Service Commission said he would not be allowed to write any of the remaining exams. A complaint was lodged against him in the police station concerned. Of the total 9,679 candidates admitted for the Mains exam, 6,965 appeared for Paper-I on Wednesday, officials said.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to issue bus pass to outsourced workers||Responding favourably to the plea by outsourced employees of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), the management on Wednesday agreed to issue bus pass to the nearly 5,000 outsourced employees working in depots, units and other departments of the organisation. The bus pass, to be issued by depot managers and unit officers concerned, will be valid from January 1. The beneficiaries can make use of this pass to travel in RTC buses free of cost for a distance of up to 25 km from their home to their place of work and the pass will be valid in city ordinary bus services, suburban, metro express and Palle Velugu buses, said a statement issued by the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the organisation M.T. Krishna Babu on Wednesday.
17 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP adopting double standards’||Endowments Minister V. Srinivas took exception to the protest by BJP State president Somu Veerraju demanding construction of temples that were demolished during Krishna Pushkarams. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivas reminded the BJP leader that the temples were demolished when P. Manikyala Rao was Endowments Minister. “The BJP is adopting double standards. It had shared power with the TDP and chose to remain silent when temples were being demolished. Now it is making hue and cry. Why was the BJP silent then?” he asked. The government had chalked out plans to reconstruct the temples. On coming to know of it, Mr. Veerraju was enacting a drama and gave a call for bandh, the Minister said.
17 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPEDA opens call centre||T he Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) has launched a multilingual call centre for aqua farmers in Vijayawada. The first-of-its-kind centre will be operated from the MPEDA office, its Chairman K.S. Srinivas has said. Experts will attend calls and answer queries on technical issues, besides imparting knowledge about efficient farming methods by domain experts round the clock. Speaking to the farmers through video-conference on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivas said the call centre would help aqua producers seek advice from experts in following Best Management Practices to boost production and ensure quality of the produce. “I request the aqua farmers to make use of the toll-free number 18004254648 with IVRS facility,” he added.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto-rickshaws to get unique identification numbers in city||Auto-rickshaws plying in the city limits will now have a unique numbering system for identification. The city traffic police have decided to take up this initiative aiming to curb crimes. A similar initiative was taken up a few years ago by the police department. However, with the addition of new auto-rickshaws in the past couple of years, issues like change in ownership of the vehicles and address details, the traffic wing has decided to go for the unique numbering system once again. The auto-rickshaws will be verified and a unique number will be allotted to each vehicle. Drivers will be required to get the number painted along with the name of the respective police station limits on the front, left, right and rear side of the vehicles. “Initially, the traffic police will collect the details of the drivers. Then, a police constable would conduct a verification to check the authenticity of the address details and other particulars submitted by the driver. Once the verification is successful, auto-rickshaw drivers’ details including address and contact numbers will be uploaded. Then, we will allot the driver a number which needs to be painted prominently on the vehicle where it will be clearly visible to passengers,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said. The initiative was taken up by Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, Mr. Adinarayana said. “On a pilot basis, we did it first in East Sub-division limits and have completed the procedure. Now, it will be initiated in all the 23 police station limits,” he said. According to the ADCP, some years ago, there were around 28,000 auto-rickshaws plying in the city limits. But as of August 2020, the number now hovers around 38,500. Crime detection According to the police, if an auto-rickshaw driver commits any crime against the passenger, or if there there is an incident such as a passenger forgetting some valuables in the auto-rickshaw, the driver can be traced down quickly if the passenger remembers the vehicle’s unique number. Police said that a series of offences were reported in the past at PM Palem and Duvvada where some auto-rickshaw drivers reportedly looted passengers. Even the public can report to the police if they see any auto-rickshaw driving in a dangerous manner, police said. It may be remembered that the State Transport Department had arranged IoT devices in 1,000 auto-rickshaws for the safety of passengers. In case of any issue with the driver, the passenger can press the button installed in the vehicle which would alert police personnel at the control room.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police see positive sign in joint ops against Maoists||This year, despite COVID-19 pandemic, joint operations by the security forces of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, have been the highlight in the fight against Maoists in the Andhra-Odisha Border region. For the last couple of years, the Ministry of Home Affairs has been pushing the agenda of intelligence sharing and joint operations between the LWE (Left Wing Extremism)-affected States. Outcome of such cooperation and joint operation was the recent Thotaguda exchange of fire in which a DCM rank leader of Gumma area committee Kishore was killed. The operation was coordinated between the Special Operations Group (SOG), BSF and District Voluntary Force (DVF) from the Odisha side and the Greyhounds, CRPF and AP Special Parties from the AP side. “Now we have a well-established network of intelligence sharing and we coordinate our operations. This has also helped us in making deep inroads into the Maoist strongholds in the erstwhile cut-off region or Swabhiman Aanchal,” said a senior police official who is engaged in anti-Maoist operation in the AOB region. Armed outposts The cooperation between both LWE-affected States has paved way for creation for at least four AOPs (Armed outposts) on the AP side and over 25 COBs (company operation bases) on the Odisha side. On the Odisha side of cut-off, BSF has established bases, as deep as in Gurasethu, Jantapayi and Jodombo. Despite the COVID pandemic, the Visakhapatnam District Police could arrest five hardcore Maoist cadres, including Gemmeli Kamesh alias Hari, who was the ACM (area committee member) of Galikonda region. “Apart from that we arrested seven hardcore militia members and bound over 43 Maoist sympathisers who also doubled up as part-time militia members,” said B. Krishna Rao, Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam. The district police was also able to negotiate the surrender of at least 14 hardcore militia members and around 40 sympathisers and militia members. “Militia members are the backbone of the Maoist movement and we had good number of surrenders, especially from the Galikonda region. The impact of surrenders could be seen in the recently concluded PLGA Week of the Maoists, as they were not able to hold that many number of meetings or step up violence,” said Vidya Sagar Naidu, ASP of Chintapalli. Though there were about four incidents of exchange of fire (EoF) in AOB, only one Maoist, Pangi Daya, was killed in the Digujanaba EoF in Chintapalli mandal, in July this year. “We could locate and defuse two landmines, which were placed to target security forces, but unfortunately two innocent tribals were killed when they stepped on two landmines in Chintalaveedhi in Pedabayalu mandal,” said Mr. Krishna Rao. “But we could avert such an incident by warning the tribals in advance, when we came to know that the Maoists had placed landmines in some interior places such as in Salebulu, Nanubari, Chintalaveedhi, Jamiguda and Sariapalli, all located in Pedabayalu and Munchingput mandals, during the PLGA Week,” said the SP. Road-laying For the first time, the district police could lay a motorable road in Cheruvuru, a Maoist stronghold in Chintapalli mandal, and conduct a community lunch programme, medical camp and a volleyball tournament. “This was a grand success and it took us closer to the tribals, who have been craving for development, but have been deprived by the Maoists. After laying the road, for the first time an ambulance could reach the village,” said Mr. Vidya Sagar Naidu. According to Mr. Krishna Rao, about 120 roads are under various stages of construction in Visakha Agency and of them 35 will be completed in a month or two. “Our agenda is to take development to the tribal region and at the same time counter the Maoists.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soldiers killed in 1971 war remembered||The Eastern Naval Command on Wednesday observed the commencement of the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas being celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ by paying tributes to the personnel of the Armed Forces who died during various operations in the 1971 War. A floral wreath was placed at the ‘Victory at Sea’ War Memorial on RK Beach by Vice-Admiral Kiran Manikrao Deshmukh, Director General Naval Projects, Visakhapatnam. Commemorative events A 50-man Guard was paraded at the venue and a two-minute silence was observed as a mark of respect to the martyrs. Commemorative events are planned across the nation as part of the 50 years of the India-Pakistan war. The country celebrates Vijay Diwas on December 16 every year to commemorate the victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war. On this day, 49 years ago, over 93,000 Pakistani troops under the command of Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi raised the white flags and surrendered unconditionally at Dhaka, in the presence of the three tri-service Commanders of Indian Armed Forces. It was on this day in 1971, that a declaration of the ceasefire was brought into force ending the war between India and Pakistan and resulting in the secession of East Pakistan to form what is now the sovereign country of Bangladesh.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vistadome to be attached to Kirandul special train||The Visakhapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam daily special express, to be revived with effect from December 18, will be augmented with the available Vistadome coach and one sleeper class coach for the convenience of tourists. Additional stoppages have also been announced for the train. It may be recalled that The Hindu had underlined the need to use the available Vistadome coach for the benefit of tourists and the need to secure five additional Vistadome coaches, as promised by Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in September 2019, in these columns on December 14, 2020. It was also suggested that the timings of the special train be advanced to ensure higher occupancy in the Vistadome coach during the return journey from Araku to Visakhapatnam. Train 08514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special express will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 6.45 a.m. with effect from December 18 to January 20, to reach Kirandul on the same day at 8.45 p.m. In the return direction, 08513 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam special express will leave Kirandul daily at 6 a.m. with effect from December 19 to January 21, 2021, to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the same day at 8.20 p.m. Apart from the already announced stoppages, additional halts have been provided at Srugavarapukota, Borra Guhalu, Kotpar Road, Diilimili and Kaklur. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appealed to all the passengers to strictly follow all the health protocols for a safe and comfortable journey.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom crafts fair begins||The 15-day All India Handloom Crafts Mela-2020 was inaugurated at Shilparamam in Madhurawada on Wednesday. A wide collection of handloom and craft products from across the country are up for sale at the exhibition. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao virtually inaugurated the programme from Amaravati. The event, which will be held till December 30, is organised by the A.P. Shilparamam Arts, Crafts & Cultural Society, in association with Development Commissioner of Handlooms, Ministry of Textiles. Speaking during the inaugural, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that 70 associations of handloom weavers and craftsmen from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh among other States are taking part in the exhibition. He said that such exhibitions will be useful for weavers and craftsmen for marketing their products. “The State government is taking steps to organise such events in every city in the State to help the weavers,” he said. Rajat Bhargava, Special Chief Secretary to Government, Tourism and Culture, Pravin Kumar, Managing Director of APTDC, and Jayaraj, Chief Executive Officer of A.P. Shilparamam, were present.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outpatient services at VIMS to resume from next week||After exclusively serving COVID-19 patients for eight months, the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) will resume regular hospital services from next week. The State government denotified VIMS as a COVID-19 hospital after the institute requested to be allowed to use some of its blocks for regular health services in the wake of a decline in COVID-19 cases. However, a dedicated 300-bed block is being reserved for treating COVID-19 patients on the hospital premises keeping in view the possibility of a second wave of infections. VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad said that outpatient (OP) services will be started initially at the hospital from next week, tentatively from December 21. “A number of staff were sent on deputation to other hospitals based on the need. We are bringing them back. Gradually, we will start other health services, he said. It may be remembered that during the end of March this year, the State government had notified VIMS as one of four State-nodal COVID-19 hospitals. The hospital played a pivotal role in treating critical COVID-19 cases from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari districts. By the end of October, out of around 2,700 patients who were admitted, nearly 2,400 patients had recovered and were discharged. VIMS also successfully conducted Caesarean section deliveries and normal deliveries of 105 pregnant women who were admitted to the hospital after being affected with COVID-19. In October, VIMS officials wrote to the State government requesting to allow them to run regular health services. The last COVID patient was discharged from VIMS on November 16. Since November 17, no new case of COVID-19 has been admitted to the hospital.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on Scour and Erosion at AU||Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University, Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, inaugurated an international online workshop on ‘Scour and Erosion’ being organised online by the International Society for Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering, Indian Geotechnical Society in association with Department of Civil Engineering, AU, here on Wednesday. Dr. Reddy stressed the importance of the workshop as it addresses the issue of beach erosion and issues related to scouring of river bunds during heavy rains. President, Indian Geotechnical Society (IGS) Prof. G.L. Sivakumar Babu, called for civil engineers to update their knowledge in the areas of scour and erosion to enable them to check the associated problems in civil engineering projects. Prof. J.T. Shahu, Honorary Secretary, IGS highlighted the interaction of ISSMGE and IGS and their collaborative activities for geotechnical professionals. Prof. C.N.V. Satyanarayana Reddy from AU spoke on issues related to erosion and its effects on stability of structures in the city.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Check train timings before boarding||Subsequent to introduction of COVID special trains and festival special trains, train timings have been revised for most of the train services due to operational reasons. There are changes in timings at the train starting station, enroute stations and destination station for some of the train services originating/terminating from Waltair Division of East Coast Railway and also passing through the Division. Passengers are therefore advised to check and verify the revised train timings pertaining to their train journeys well before their commencement of journeys, either with the integrated enquiry no. 139 or National Train Enquiry System (NTES) website or IRCTC website or by approaching authorised person at reservation counters/railway stations. All passengers travelling by special trains have to adhere to health protocols such as wearing of masks, using of hand sanitisers, and following social distancing norms as prescribed by the Central and State Governments, said A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, of East Coast Railway.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||65-year-old man charged with raping a minor||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 65-year-old man at HB Colony in the limits of MVP police station in Visakhapatnam city. The incident came to light after the parents of the minor lodged a complaint with the police late on Tuesday night. According to P. Ramanayya, Inspector of MVP police station, the 65-year-old man, Venkata Ramana, lured the girl, a class II student, while she was playing near her residence and allegedly took her to his home, where he reportedly raped her. The accused resides in the same colony. Cases under sections of rape and POCSO Act were booked against the accused. The accused was taken into custody, it is learnt.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI protests against hike in LPG prices||Members of the Communist Party of India (CPI) staged a protest against the hike in prices of LPG, here in the city. As part of the agitation, protesters carried cylinders on their head and raised slogans against the Centre. Speaking during the programme, CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju said that it was highly unfortunate that at a time when a large number of families were going through a financial crisis due to COVID-19, the Centre decided to further increase the prices of LPG. “The Centre always claims that it works for the public, but in reality, its actions have always hurt the common man,” he said. The CPI members stated that they would continue their protests until the government takes a decision to bring down the prices.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activist’s arrest decried||Members of various rights organisations on Wednesday condemned the arrest of A. Annapurna alias Anita, State joint secretary of Pragathisheela Karmika Samakhya (PKS), by the district police over her alleged links to the CPI (M). They staged a protest at Gandhi Statue near GVMC building and demanded her immediate release. During the protest, the agitators alleged that the government was arresting people who were fighting for their rights. They said the government is invoking UAPA sections against whoever dared to question its decisions. They also demanded that the government withdraw cases charged against Ms. Annapurna.
17 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor ‘rapes’ 8-year-old||An eight-year old girl was allegedly raped by a 14-year-old boy at Gajuwaka here on Wednesday. The incident came to light after the girl’s parents approached the police. Both the families are neighbours. Police have registered a case and are yet to ascertain the facts of the case. The girl was sent to KGH for medical tests.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized from empty LPG cylinder||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) caught four persons while they were transporting ganja in an empty LPG cylinder, near Aganampudi in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. To escape from the police, the smugglers had fabricated a cabinet by cutting open the bottom of a gas cylinder, wherein they stuffed the ganja packets. Police are yet to ascertain the amount of ganja seized as well as the source and destination of the ganja consignment. More details are yet to be revealed.
17 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State should tread cautiously on Anrak’||Welcoming the State government’s decision to constitute a committee of senior officials to work out the modalities of opposing the arbitration proceedings, filed by Ras Al Khaimah (RAK) or Anrak Refinery, former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma, in a letter to the Special Chief Secretary Industries & Mines Department has stated that the government should tread cautiously while dealing with the arbitration matter. He pointed out a few things in the MoU.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Life at risk||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making heads turn||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All in a day’s work||
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect setting||
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VP hopeful of solution to farmers’ issues||Vice President of India M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday expressed hope that a reasonable solution will be found on the issues raised by the agitating farmers since both the government and the farmers were willing to talk to each other. Speaking at an awards ceremony jointly organised by Rythu Nestham and Muppavarapu Foundation at the Swarna Bharat Trust in Muchintal on the city outskirts, Mr. Naidu referred to the media reports on the demands of the agitating farmers and the response of the representatives of the Central government and added that he saw possibility of a certain meeting ground. He expected both the sides to crystallize the meeting point based on an understanding of each other’s position. He expressed the hope that both the sides would have a fruitful and meaningful dialogue. Free marketing “Restriction-free marketing of farm produce has been a long-standing demand which even I had articulated several times. ‘One country and one food zone’ has been the demand for a long time,” he pointed out. Observing that the country’s development is closely tied with farmers’ progress, Mr. Naidu compared farmers’ ‘compassion’ with that of a mother and said that it was the duty of everybody to support farmers. He lauded farmers for rendering a great service to the nation during the pandemic by producing record food grains in spite of hardships. He also appreciated the efforts of doctors, sanitation workers, police and media personnel during the pandemic. ‘Work as Team India’ He said that both the Centre and State governments should work as ‘Team India’ in addressing the needs of farmers. He said that apart from ensuring remunerative prices, farmers should be provided with timely and affordable credit. There was also a need to increase the cold storage facilities and the godowns at all levels. As a matter of fact, every tahsil must have a cold storage facility, he added. In order to achieve progress in agriculture, the Vice President called for a change in perspective towards agriculture among the public and urged the youth to become proactive partners in promoting farming. Awards presented Prof. Sarvareddy Venkureddy was awarded the Life Achievement Award and Brigadier Pogula Ganesha was given the Krishi Ratna by the Vice President. Awards were also presented to farmers, extension officers, scientists, agricultural journalists and producers of short films on agriculture. Mr. Naidu appreciated the founder of Rythu Nestham, Padma Shri awardee Shri Yadlapalli Venkateswara Rao, for supporting the farming community through its monthly agricultural magazines. He also complimented Mr. Harshavardhan, who was founder of the Muppavarapu Foundation, for coming forward to support the winners of this year’s short film competitions.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration of non-agricultural properties online gathers steam||Registration process pertaining to non-agricultural properties online has gathered momentum in the State. Barring minor hiccups, the process has progressed smoothly on the third day of resumption of registration process. The Registration and Stamps department has made it clear that slot booking was mandatory for entertaining registration of documents. Applicants are directed to fill in meta data giving details of the transferor, transferee and the property transacted. Based on the property details entered, the market value of the property would be auto-populated by the system at the time of slot booking. “Stamp duty, transfer duty, registration fee and other charges payable are auto-calculated by the system and should be paid in full,” the circular issued by the Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps said. The circular said parties could use the templates of deeds available on the web portal or even prepare their own documents for the transactions. The department, however, would own no responsibility regarding the covenants of the documents. “The parties may use the templates as a model or they may opt for not using the template and bring their own documents,” the circular said. The Registration and Stamps IG informed that there was facility for auto-locking prohibited properties at the time of slot-booking. The sub-registrars are, however, required to verify the properties presented for registration with reference to the list of prohibited properties and those notified under Section 22-A of the Registration Act, 1908. The government is yet to take a decision on the continuance of insistence on Property Tax Identification Number and/or Telangana Property Identification Number which had become a major cause of concern for those opting for online slot booking. Representatives of builders associations are said to have requested the Cabinet sub-committee headed by R&B Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy to do away with the insistence during the meeting on Tuesday and the members of the committee were said to have assured to consider the request positively. “No decision has yet been communicated in this regard,” a senior official said. Meanwhile, the government has introduced a new online facility for conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes through Dharani agricultural portal on Wednesday. A separate facility in the Dharani portal for carrying out mutations of land, where registrations took place prior to the commencement of the portal, had also been introduced. According to officials, 17,058 applications were received for mutation of agricultural land and the process for disposing of these applications is being introduced in a day or two. Transactions pertaining to 2,427 properties were completed till December 14, generating revenue of Rs. 43.62 crore to the government. With respect to transactions pertaining to non-agricultural properties, 82 registrations were completed on the first day and the number increased to 140 on the second day. 433 slots booked As many as 433 slots have been booked for Thursday and information on the number of transactions is yet to be received by the headquarters till late on Wednesday evening.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Defence Minister to review AFA passing out parade||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will be the chief guest and reviewing officer of the passing out parade of the ‘Combined Graduation Parade (CGP)’ to mark the successful completion of pre-commissioning training of flight cadets of various branches of Indian Air Force (IAF) at Air Force Academy (AFA) Dundigal on Dec.19 (Saturday). During the function, he will confer the ‘President’s Commission’ to the graduating trainees. The ceremony includes presentation of ‘Wings’ and ‘Brevets’ to the flight cadets who would be successfully completing flying and navigation training, respectively. Mr. Singh will also be awarding ‘Wings’ to officers of Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and officers from friendly foreign countries on successful completion of their flying training at the AFA. The flight cadet from flying branch standing ‘first in the order of merit’ will be awarded with the ‘Chief of the Air Staff Sword’ of honour for excelling in overall training. The awardee will have the privilege of commanding the parade besides receiving the President’s Plaque for being the ‘best trainee’. President’s Plaque will also be presented to those who stand first in the overall merit in flying and ground duty branches. The Minister will attend the ceremonial dinner and interact with the graduating flight cadets. The event will also have an aerobatic display by the SU-30 aircraft, the famous Surya Kiran aerobatic team, Sarang helicopter display team, Pilatus PC-7 trainer and a fly past by formations of PC-7, Kiran and Hawk aircraft. The current 206th course also happens to be the 100th course to pass out from the portals of AFA which will be celebrating its golden jubilee in 2021, a defence ministry spokesman informed in a press release.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Leaving behind a digitised, transparent TSPSC’||The first chairman of the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC), Ghanta Chakrapani completes his term on Thursday, leaving the organisation reformed and transparent with processes digitised and allegation-free recruitments in the past six years.   He speaks to The Hindu on his journey and accomplishments. Excerpts:  What is your biggest achievement? Filling up 35,724 posts from the 108 notifications, meeting the aspirations of Telangana youth and most importantly, creating trust and confidence among the youth on fair recruitment practices with not a single allegation against the Commission. Even among the recruited candidates, we could instill a strong sense of belonging to Telangana and the desire to serve the new State through fair practices. The recruited candidates themselves agreed that they had never imagined the whole process of recruitment would be money-free. What were the challenges and were you able to meet the aspirations of people? The biggest challenge was creating the organisation itself in the new State and we built robust mechanisms. Entire process was online, including submission of application forms and payment of fee. We received 48.90 lakh applications for 365 examinations conducted till December this year and the entire data is digitised and cannot be compromised now. Abolishing the interview part of the recruitment was a historic reform to instill confidence among the candidates that went on smoothly and the Central government has also followed the same path now. We fulfilled the aspirations of the youngsters by notifying 36,758 vacancies in 108 notifications and completing the process for 35,724. It is perceived that PSCs are under political influence during recruitments. How were you able to tackle that? Freedom was the biggest strength during our term and there was no political interference at any time, making our job much easier. We wanted to showcase TSPSC as a role model for the country and we are happy that several PSCs in the country adopted our model. Even a team of Mauritian government officials visited us to study the processes. I was chosen as the chairman of the Standing Committee of the national conference of the State PSCs for two terms and that itself is a honour for the TSPSC. That was possible with the help of all members who were qualified and committed.  Abolishing the interview part of recruitment was a historic reform to instill confidence among candidates.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genco to revive one more SLBHES unit by month-end||The authorities of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd (TS-Genco) have stepped up the pace of revival works of the 6×150 megawatt Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station (SLBHES) near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district, to make all the units operational by the next flood season. After the August 20 fire that had rendered one of the major hydel generating stations in the State non-functional, two units were restored and the generation was resumed on October 26. The Genco authorities have decided to operationalise one more unit by the month-end and two more units by March-end next and the remaining unit, the fourth one that was damaged badly in the fire, by June next. A team of senior engineers led by Genco Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao checked the revival works on Tuesday and Wednesday and held discussions with site engineers on the progress of works and the safety measures being taken in the wake of the fire mishap. “Automation of control and data system and power back up system are being given priority from the safety aspects as part of the plant revival works,” a site engineer supervising the works said. The authorities are also planning to take up generation in the reversible pumping mode, one of the key features of the power station, during the peak-demand season of February-May period to reduce spot purchases from the National Power Exchange at high unit costs. The installation of generator and transformers of the fourth unit, which was badly damaged, is in progress now. During the review meeting held on Wednesday, Mr. Prabahakar Rao stated that the entire revival work was being handled by the Genco engineers without taking any assistance from any other outside agency. “The revival works are being executed successfully with the expertise and experience of Genco engineers, saving huge amounts, which otherwise would have been needed for getting the services of other agencies,” Mr. Rao said. An action plan was also finalised to complete the revival work by June next. Genco directors M. Sachidanandam and A. Ajay, Transco director T. Jagath Reddy, chief engineers of SLBHES M. Prabhakar Rao and others attended the meeting.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for protection of endowment land||TS BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday demanded the government to suspend the police officers concerned, including the DCP, for allowing private persons to build a fence on endowment department land in Dabeerpura in violation of the High Court orders. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should personally get involved and ensure the eight acre land belonging to the Kali Temple is protected against encroachment. We are not going to sit quiet if the endowment land worth crores of rupees are being usurped surreptitiously by nefarious elements,” he warned at a press conference in the party office. He alleged that henchmen owing allegiance to the Majlis party have been involved in the forcible occupation of endowments land in the Old City with the active connivance of local police. “Our party activists have been vigilant and foiled the attempt to grab the land but the police arrested them,” claimed the BJP leader. Similar land grabs had happened in Shalibanda, Talabkatta, Mylardevpally and other areas. “If the government is not ready to protect the endowment land, we are ready to do so,” he declared. Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh also charged the local police of colluding with land grabbers and wondered if this was part of ‘friendly policing”. Mr. Singh accused the police of using coercive methods when he and Mr. Sanjay Kumar went to visit the arrested party cadre who had tried to stop the fencing of the land. “We are not going to be browbeaten by use of muscle power or increasing the communal temperature as we decided not to be provoked. We only wanted to meet our activists arrested,” he added. EWS quota In a separate event, the party chief criticised the TRS government for not implementing the reservations for the economically weaker sections among the forward castes and said thousands of deserving youth are being deprived of the benefits because of the adamant attitude of KCR. “What is his objection when the entire country is implementing the Act passed in the Parliament? What has he against the poor among the forward castes. Our party will take up the issue and agitate for the implementation,” Mr. Sanjay Kumar assured a delegation of EWS Federation.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fiat Chrysler setting up $150M digital hub in city||Automotive major Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) is setting a global digital hub in Hyderabad with an investment of $150 million. The FCA ICT India facility will be its largest outside of North America as well as EMEA and create nearly 1,000 technology jobs by the end of 2021. It will work on products and concepts that will define future of mobility at FCA, the company said. “For the past few months we have been working [on the hub]. We already have hired close to 250 people,” said Mamatha Chamarthi, CIO of FCA, North America and Asia Pacific, about the facility coming up in Gachibowli. It will serve as a transformation and innovation engine for FCA and drive global IT strategy. Building strategic competencies in niche technology areas such as connected vehicle programmes, AI, data accelerators and cloud technologies will be its focus, a release said. Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao along with a few from the senior leadership of FCA participated in a virtual announcement on the hub and later, in a media interaction. Director and Head of FCA ICT India Karim Lalani said the hub would “operate as a fully integrated part of global team and drive global IT strategy.” ‘Right decision’ “You have made the right decision in choosing Hyderabad as a pivot for digital transformation,” Mr.Rao said. He urged FCA to collaborate with the State government in the electric vehicle space. The $150 million investment while cementing “our continued commitment to India and our customers,” is a significant step forward to make Indian operations more capable to develop digitally-driven products and technologies for India and the world, FCA-India president Partha Datta said.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus death toll crosses 1,500||The number of people in Telangana who died of COVID-19 has crossed 1,500. With the death of three more coronavirus patients on Tuesday, the mortality figure stands at 1,502. The first death was reported in fourth week of March this year. The number of people who died of the infectious disease was intermittent thereafter. However, at least one COVID-19 death has been reported daily starting from May 18. The daily fatality had started to increase gradually in June. In July, seven to 14 COVID patients died every day. The situation was more or less similar in August and September. The highest of 14 deaths in a day was reported on June 7, July 30 and August 7. The daily deaths started to drop from October third week. In November, three to seven deaths were recorded per day. From December 1 to 15, the maximum number of deaths in a day were four. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 536 COVID-19 cases were detected taking the total to 2,79,135. While 52,057 samples were put to test, results of 622 were awaited. The new 536 cases include 107 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 43 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 41 from Rangareddy, 27 from Warangal Urban and 26 from Khammam. From March 2 so far, a total of 62,57,745 samples have been tested. At present, there are 7,183 active while 2,70,450 have recovered.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways renews MoU with ISB for capacity building||Indian Railways on Wednesday renewed its memorandum of understanding with the Indian School of Business (ISB) to collaborate for capacity building and research, by exchanging agreements for establishing Centre of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence & Data Analytics and an Integrated coal-freight optimisation model to increase network throughput. SCR principal chief operations manager K. Shiva Prasad, principal chief mechanical engineer S.K.Jain and principal chief personnel officer Rajeev Kishor signed the pacts in presence of general manager Gajanan Mallya with ISB deputy dean Milind Sohoni, at Rail Nilayam. The MoU renewed for the next three years broadly envisages co-operation and engagement between the two entities’ towards research and knowledge sharing covering the following aspects — leadership lecture series by faculty from ISB on leadership, strategy management, negotiations skills, change management etc., which are critical for railway officers; capacity building workshops to train and update officers of SCR in areas like performance management, strategy management, change management etc., encompassing various topics as infrastructure, project management, customer relationship management, operations, revenue management, innovations etc. The agreements also mean undertaking collaborative research in brand capitalisation, customer satisfaction, operational efficiency, business innovation etc. which impact efficiency and service delivery. With regard to DA and AI centre, projects for improving operational efficiency will have training modules for cloud computing, data science, analytics, forecasting and prediction. For the coal-freight optimisation model, focus is on assessment of coal movement demand over short horizons to match supply and demand, as 50% freight revenues are contributed by it.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More solar power for South Central Railway||The South Central Railway (SCR), which is generating around 7.2 MW solar power, has plans to set up land-based solar plants on vacant lands and along the track under public-private partnership mode. This will help in generation of power about 9.1 MW units per annum, resulting in saving of about Rs. 4.86 crore, said principal chief electrical engineer Somesh Kumar on Wednesday. He was participating in a webinar on National Energy Conservation held at Rail Nilayam as a part of the Energy Conservation Week. Earlier, SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya pointed out the zone was the first in Indian Railways to introduce ‘Energy Neutral’ stations towards adopting energy conservation measures and brought forth innovative concepts installing solar roof cover over platform and day light pipes, energy efficient gadgets, LED lighting, brushless electric motor energy saving fans, inverter type ACs, etc. Additional general manager Arun Kumar Jain also spoke, a press release said.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||DCP denies allegations by Bandi Sanjay||Hyderabad South Zone Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Gajarao Bhupal has denied the allegations levelled by Bharatiya Janata Party State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar that the DCP aided land grabber (in Bandlaguda mandal), supported AIMIM cadre, and attacked BJP cadre. DCP Bhupal said a petitioner had produced an order issued by III Additional Chief Judge of City Civil Court, Hyderabad, directing Chatrinaka and Bhavani Nagar police to provide police aid to enable him to ‘enjoy’ a land measuring 8.23 guntas in Kandikal village. So, Chatrinaka police provided the aid and the petitioner started to construct temporary boundary on the land on Wednesday. “Around 11 a.m. some persons under Ponna Venkat Ramana (rowdy sheeter of Shah Ali Banda police station), ‘cement Srinu’, Surendar Reddy, Ale Bhasker, Uma Mahendar with about 200 members gathered and raised slogans against the police. Suddenly the protesters damaged poles erected to demarcate the boundary. Since the area was communally sensitive, BJP leaders were taken into preventive custody and let out at 3 p.m,” the DCP said. But the activists stayed back in police station stating they would wait till Mr Sanjay came.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Women ryots take part in dharna||Women farmers participated in large numbers in the ongoing relay hunger strike at Indira Park on Wednesday to express solidarity with the agitation by farmers in New Delhi. They took part under the banners Rythu Swarajya Vedika, Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, Telangana Vyavasaya Vruttidarula Union and Palamuru Adhyayana Vedika. Several prominent activists representing various organisations addressed the gathering. Ms. Sandhya of Progressive Organisation for Women said the anti-farmer laws enacted by governments were meant to grab land and resources of farmers and hand them over to corporates represented by Adanis and Ambanis. Poet Vimala Morthala and Khalida Parveen of Amoomat Society who returned from Singhu and Tikri on Haryana border where the farmers were agitating narrated their experiences interacting with the farmers. The participants burnt copies of the three farms laws whose repeal was demanded by farmers. A poster exhibitionto counter the propaganda was organised.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bankers to extend cooperation||Giving a boost to the government’s efforts to promote online land transactions, bankers assured their cooperation to the government and the Registration and Stamps department in the registration process. A delegation of bankers appreciated the banking and mortgage module incorporated in the registration portal claiming it will bring more transparency in the system. The bankers participated in a meeting convened by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday. The Chief Secretary explained the new registration process introduced for agricultural and non-agricultural asserts. A detailed presentation was made on the banking and mortgage module. Govt. rates Meanwhile, the government has announced the rates for registering non-agricultural properties through the special window opened recently. Parties intending to opt for change of land use from agriculture to non-agricultural purposes should apply for conversion through the relevant Acts. The government has fixed the charges as 2% of the basic value of the land covered under the GHMC limits. It will be 3% for areas other than GHMC limits.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fiat Chrysler setting up $150mn global digital hub in Hyderabad||Automotive major Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) is setting a global digital hub in Hyderabad with an investment of $150 million. The FCA ICT India facility will be its largest such hub outside of North America as well as EMEA. “It will create nearly 1,000 technology jobs by the end of 2021. The employees will get to work on products and concepts that will define future of mobility at FCA,” the company said. The global digital hub will serve as a transformation and innovation engine for FCA and drive global IT strategy and deliver excellence through a robust platform, technology and service centres of excellence. It will focus on building strategic competencies in niche technology areas such as connected vehicle programmes, AI, data accelerators and cloud technologies, a statement from the company said after its senior leadership virtually announced the decision to set up the hub. “While reviewing our strategy our last year, we knew next step was to set up a global digital hub which would serve as a transformation and innovation engine. Over the coming years, we will ramp up our presence through our new centre in Hyderabad and in Chennai, where we recently expanded our engineering operations,” she said. India was a natural choice for the hub because of the “market attractiveness and the country’s positions as a leader in IT talent”. Five factors that influenced the decision to establish the facility in Hyderabad were Telangana’s government “pro-business and highly investment friendly policies; abundant availability of talent; impressive public infrastructure and connectivity; wonderful city to live in; and an IT ecosystem that presents a very strong value proposition for us,” she said.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2BHK colony opened||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao said construction had been completed with respect to a total of 10,000 double bedroom dwelling units in the city, as part of the Dignity Housing project for the poor. They were ready for distribution, while over 90% of the one lakh dwelling units planned for the city were nearing completion, the Minister said, speaking after inauguration of a double bedroom housing colony in Vanasthalipuram. This was the first time such an initiative towards slum free city had been taken up in 72 years of independent India, Mr.Rama Rao said, about the project being implemented with an expenditure of Rs. 9714 crore. The colony on two acres of area in Vanasthalipuram houses 324 double bedroom units in three blocks, constituting cellar, stilt and nine floors. In terms of market value, the colony is worth Rs. 150 crore, the Minister said, against the cost of construction of Rs. 28.03 crore. The beneficiaries had got the dwellings free of cost, Mr.Rama Rao reiterated. Each unit costing Rs. 8.65 lakh was equipped with one living room, two bed rooms, one kitchen and two toilets. Infrastructural facilities include drinking water, power connection, underground drainage, elevator, fire safety, CC roads, and street lights. Mr.Rama Rao, along with Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, handed over ownership titles to the beneficiaries, at an event on Wednesday, also attended by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, LB Nagar MLA D.Sudheer Reddy, Members of Legislatibve Council Mallesham and Dayanand, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Commissioner commissioner D. S.Lokesh Kumar, and District Collector of Ranga Reddy Amoy Kumar.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SRSP farmers asked to use water judiciously, plan crops in advance||The State government has advised farmers under the SRSP ayacut to judiciously utilise water and plan their crops accordingly. Water release Ministers Eatala Rajender, Koppula Eshwar and Gangula Kamalakar held a meeting with MLAs of erstwhile Karimnagar district and senior Irrigation officials on Wednesday to discuss about release of water from SRSP for Yasangi. It was decided at the meeting to release water in two spells, December 20 for areas downstream of Lower Manair Project and December 28 for the areas upstream of the project. No shortage The Ministers asserted that there was no dearth of water and it was for the farmers to effectively utilise the available resource without wastage. There was sufficient water for paddy, sugarcane and other crops, and farmers should plan their crops in such a manner that they were harvested before March 31 next year. Since there was scope for hailstorm in April, farmers should take steps to ensure that they do not incur any losses for which advance planning of crop schedule was necessary.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Owaisi attacks Mamata over remarks on AIMIM||Lashing out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over her remarks that the BJP is “spending money” to bring in a party from Hyderabad to her State to divide Hindu-Muslim votes, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said Muslim voters are not her jagir (property). Rebutting Ms. Banerjee’s comments, Owaisi tweeted, “So far you’ve only dealt with obedient Mir Jaffers & Sadiqs. You dont like Muslims who think & speak for themselves. You’ve insulted our voters in Bihar. Remember what happened to parties in Bihar that kept blaming their failures on “vote cutters”.. Muslim voters aren’t your jagir.” While addressing a rally in the poll-bound State on Tuesday, Ms. Banerjee slammed the saffron party for allegedly trying to import AIMIM in Bengal to sharpen the communal polarisation and divide the Hindu-Muslim votes among themselves. She also alleged that the BJP is spending crores of rupees to bring in AIMIM. The AIMIM, after its good show in the Bihar Assembly polls, has announced to contest in next year’s Bengal polls. Political parties in West Bengal are apprehensive that political equations in the communally-polarised State is set to witness significant changes as the sway of non-BJP parties over minorities, a key factor in several seats, appears to be set for a stiff challenge with the AIMIM announcing that it will enter the fray in Bengal.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB creating knowledge base in health, environment||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has developed testing kits for COVID-19 and trained medical personnel in using them. Besides, it is actively engaged in creating new knowledge base to address issues of health and environment, CCMB science communication and outreach officer Somadatta Karak said on Wednesday. Enumerating the contributions of CCMB in a webinar organised by the Regional Outreach Bureau and Press Information Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, she said many solutions for the challenges faced by the country were put out by the premier institute, ranging from development of disease-resistant crop varieties to skilling the startups in health sector. It is actively involved in skilling human resources in biological sciences and has also established innovation and incubation centres in higher education institutions, thereby contributing positively in helping the nation achieve self-reliance in life sciences-based technologies, she said. CCMB, in collaboration with the Indian Council for Agricultural Research had developed bacterial blight resistant variety of ‘Samba’ rice and discovered that Type II diabetes manifests differently in Indians than in the Westerners. Another important area of research is wildlife conservation where non-invasive technologies for assisted reproduction in animals, breeding of endangered species and Tiger census and movements have been introduced. Ms. Karak said there are special programmes for students to inculcate scientific temper. PIB director Shruti Patil, Director, PIB & ROB, said the webinar is a prelude to India International Science Festival-2020 to be held from December 22 to 25. Assistant director M. Krishnakanth also spoke, a press release said.  Solutions for many challenges were put out, ranging from development of disease-resistant crop varieties to skilling startups in health sector. Somadatta Karak, CCMB official
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man jailed for sexual assault on niece||A 29-year-old labourer was on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment for the remainder of his natural life by a local court for sexually assaulting his 11-year-old niece in November 2019. First Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge Suneetha Kunchala found the man guilty under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and IPC. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 on him. According to the prosecution, the girl, a third standard student, was staying at the house of her aunt and uncle here. The incident occurred when the woman had gone out on some work. He was arrested based on the complaint of the girl and after investigations, police said.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homage paid to bravehearts on Vijay Diwas||A wreath-laying ceremony was organised at Veerula Sainik Smarak, Army Parade Ground, Secunderabad, by Headquarters Telangana and Andhra Sub Area on Wednesday by observing protocols on the occasion of ‘Vijay Diwas’ on Wednesday. The victorious occasion is celebrated throughout the nation to commemorate the golden jubilee of the historic victory when the Eastern Army Commander of Pakistan, Lieutenant General AAK Niazi, signed the “Instrument of Surrender”. The ceremony was marked by a display of military band and all officers attired in full military ceremonial dress paid homage to the bravehearts who laid down their life to defend the nation, a press release informed.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New Karkhana PS inaugurated||A new building for Karkhana police station was inaugurated by Telangana Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Wednesday morning. DGP M Mahendar Reddy said that the Police Commissionerate system has been in place in Hyderabad since the time of the Nizam. “Some police stations are still running in the buildings set up at that time. After formation of Telangana, we are setting up new police station buildings,” he said. The government has allocated budget for new buildings to 19 police stations in the city limits. After Karkhana, the remaining 18 buildings will be completed.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Degrees awarded to FCRI first batch students||Minister for Finance T.Harish Rao said the government would consider reservations in recruitment from the Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) at Mulugu in Siddipet district, into the state ranks. The proposal to upgrade the college as university too will be presented to Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao who will take a final decision, Mr.Harish Rao said. He, along with Minister for Environment & Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy, participated in the convocation ceremony of the first batch of B.Sc. (Forestry) students from the college, and distributed degrees to 50 graduates. He also awarded gold medals to the best performers. Special Chief Secretary and college governing body chairperson A.Santhi Kumari and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and chairperson of academic council R. Sobha participated in the event.
17 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||DDs invested by scam accused seized||ACB officials on Wednesday seized a little over Rs. 1.99 crore in Demand drafts, invested in a chit company by Devika Rani, former director of Insurance Medical Services, and her family. She is an accused in the IMS scam. Earlier, Rs. 4.47 crore and Rs. 2.29 crore in DDs was seized from a company where Devika Rani and her co-accused invested.
17 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||White tiger gives birth to cubs||A white tigress in the Nehru Zoological Park has given birth to four cubs, all of which are white. The tigress, Devayani, was delivered of the cubs on October 6, and pictures of the cubs were shown to the Minister for Environment & Forests A.Indrakaran Reddy on Wednesday. A statement said an Indian Gaur too gave birth to a male calf on Nov. 5.
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BRF Zoo||The Nehru Zoological Park has become the first in India to acquire ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Standards Certification. “We handed over the certificate today to Minister of Forests A. Indra Karan Reddy. We audited the zoo for internal operating procedures and how effectively they are implementing it,” said A. Sivaiah of HYM International Certifications. The zoo was assessed on the basis of sanitisation, food processing, animal breeding, medicare, animal care, hygiene maintenance and establishment. “The certification is based on assessment of internal operating procedures and how effectively implemented. The zoo had extensive documentation of every activity from food processing to the clinic,” informed Mr. Sivaiah.
17 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||Two persons including a woman were killed and a girl seriously injured when the car they were travelling in ploughed into an agricultural field abutting the national highway at Tummalapalli village in Penuballi mandal on Wednesday morning. Sources said that Seven persons including two children were travelling in the car from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh towards Odisha when the ghastly mishap took place. Two occupants of the car including a 32-year-old woman and 25-year-old youth were killed on the spot. A five-year-old girl sustained grievous injuries in the mishap. Four others received minor bruises.
17 December 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Two drown in tank||Two youths drowned in a tank while fishing at Tujalpur village in Narsapur mandal on Wednesday. According to the police, Harya (30) and Shiva Kumar (28) went for fishing in the tank and drowned. They were residents of Kothapeta village in Shivampet mandal. Narsapur police registered a case and are investigating.
17 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Karimnagar dairy opens bulk unit||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited (KMPCL) on Wednesday opened its bulk milk cooling unit, of capacity up to 5000 litres, at Padthanapalli village of Hazipur in Mancherial. The bulk unit helps better returns for quality milk supplied by farmers, by eliminating souring of milk due to cooling at collection and saving transportation costs. Mancherial legislator N. Diwakar Rao, along with Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited chairman Ch. Rajeshwara Rao and managing director P. Shankar Reddy, inaugurated the unit and said the idea was to increase the milk procurement, while also improved the earning capacities of dairy farmers. As of now, milk is bought from about 680 farmers from in and around Padthanapalli. The new bulk unit would collect milk from 33 villages. However, KMPCL, which is in expansion mode, wants to enroll more numbers, and the strategy is to educate farmers about the 22 various dairy schemes for animals, and nine other schemes for its owners. Mr. Rajeshwara Rao said KMPCL grew from 12, 000 litres per day to 1.35 lakh litres now, and the aim was to achieve the 5-lakh mark. Its next mega dairy would come up at Nallagonda village of Thimmapur in Karimnagar. MLA Diwakar Rao congratulated the company on choosing Mancherial, one of the toppers in the State with respect to procurement, sales and implementation of maximum dairy welfare schemes. Understanding the potential in dairy business, he urged farmers to consider Animal Husbandry initiatives, alongside agriculture, for an additional and ensured source of income.
17 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||Rythu Bandhu, the agriculture investment support of Rs. 5,000 per acre, for Rabi season, will be transferred to farmers’ bank accounts December 27 onwards, the District Agriculture Office said in a statement on Wednesday. All farmers who have received their new pattadar passbook till December 10 will also be beneficiaries, and those farmers who have not submitted their bank account numbers, or have any discrepancies with bank details, should consult the agriculture extension officer.
17 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Three arrested on cheating charge||The police arrested three persons on the charge of cheating unemployed persons in the name of providing them government jobs. According to DSP A. Balaji, accused persons N. Ravinder, B Vaikuntham, Y. Bandemma and Vijaya Kumar collected Rs. 67 lakh about one and a half years ago from about 25 persons and issued them fake appointment letters. As they were not provided jobs and the amount was not repaid, the victims approached the police. Even Bandemma alleged that she was cheated by other members. Police arrested Ravinder, Vaikuntham and Bandemma. Another person Vijaya Kumar was absconding. Police seized fake appointment orders from them. The Assistant Commissioner of Police appreciated Circle Inspector Venkatesh and Sub-Inspector Lakshma Reddy for arresting the accused.
17 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Make FCRI top in county: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T Harish Rao called upon students who graduated from the Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) to make the institute top in the country. “Though permission was accorded in 1984 for commencing the forest college, we are able to do that only after formation of separate Telangana with serious efforts by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. FCRI was established with international standards. Four-year Forestry course was started in 2016 and now all of you are graduating from here. Forest College and Research Institute at Mettupalayam has become famous across India and many Indian Forest Officers got selected from there. Two students- Deepika and Suhartha- from this college got seat in M.Sc. in Wild Life and Forest in a university in USA,” said Mr Harish Rao while participating in the first graduate ceremony held the college premises on Wednesday along with Forest Minister A .Indrakaran Reddy. He asked them to do their best for development of college. He said the government made a law to provide 10% of funds in local bodies for environment protection. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy said that government had been according top priority to environment and as part of that 214 crore saplings had been planted so far out of the target of 230 crore. He said that the government was committed to increasing the forest cover from the existing 23% to 33%. As many as 49 graduates were presented certificates by Ministers. Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy, Forest Department Special Chief Secretary Shantha Kumari, and CM’s OSD Priyanka Warghese were present.
17 December 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||State EC disqualifies 260 GP candidates||The Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) has disqualified 29 Sarpanch candidates and 231 ward members of various villages of Bibinagar mandal in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. The communication attached with the list of disqualified members dated December 8, 2020, was available to the media on Wednesday. The TSEC stated that the 260 GP candidates, both rejected and elected, were disqualified for non-submission of the final expenditure account of their election, the first general election to gram panchayats 2019, which was held in January. Of the total 260 disqualified candidates, 29 are defeated Sarpanches, 188 defeated ward members and 43 elected ward members. As per the TS Panchayat Raj Act 2018, members should submit their expenditure accounts within 45 days from the date of announcement of result.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Correction||With reference to the news story ‘Lake in Alwal dies a slow death’ published on Wednesday, the name of the lake in Alwal was mistakenly given as ‘Chinnarayauni Cheruvu’. The lake’s name, as mentioned in the records of the HMDA, is ‘Chinnarayana Cheruvu’.
17 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SC suggestion on panel NDA govt.’s failure: SAD||With the Supreme Court suggesting to form a panel to resolve the issue surrounding farm laws, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday said it reflected total administrative failure of the Central government. Former Minister and senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the Central government was depending on “motivated pleas in the apex court to forcibly lift the congregation of peaceful farmers from the borders of Delhi”. “Such pleas only highlighted the failure of the NDA government... instead the government could have arrived at a solution in Parliament by discussing the issue and repealing the Acts,” he said. “It was unfortunate that the Central government had run away from discussing the issue in Parliament by scrapping the winter session. This itself is an admission of failure and indicates that the government has no answers to the questions raised by the farming community. It seems the government finds it easy to talk in air-conditioned rooms but does not have the courage to face Parliament,” he added. ‘Sheer hypocrisy’ Mr. Cheema said thousands of farmers were sitting on the border with Delhi for the last 20 days in biting cold. “Instead of being concerned about their health and repealing the laws, the government was worried about the health of Parliamentarians. This is sheer hypocrisy.” “There can be no better precedent than repealing the Acts by listening to the voice of the farmers,” he said.
17 December 2020||Gandhinagar,||Law to curb land grabbing enforced||A stringent law to curb land-grabbing with a provision of up to 14 years in jail and timely resolution of such cases has come into force in Gujarat on Wednesday, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced. Governor gave assent to the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2020on October 8 which lays down stringent punishment for land grabbers.
17 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Lack of political clarity, support holding back Haryana farmers||Three weeks after the agitation over the three contentious agriculture sector laws reached the doorsteps of Delhi and support to them gradually growing, the rather “poor” participation of farming community from Haryana, surrounding the national Capital on three sides, remains in sharp contrast to Punjab, which has been at the forefront of the movement. Despite substantial similarities between the two States — both being leading agricultural States with strong Agricultural Produce Market Committee market system and culturally identical — the farmers in Haryana have differed in their response to the agitation for a host of political, social and historical reasons. Unlike Haryana, Punjab has historically been a witness to several long farmer agitations, including a century-old “Pagri Sambhal Jatta” movement by Bhagat Singh’s uncle during the British rule and later an anti-Betterment Levy agitation in 1959 against the proposed tax for providing canal waters, says Haryana Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh, also former State CPM secretary. “Punjab has a strong APMC market system since 1939 and leads Haryana in agricultural production reaping the benefits of the Green Revolution the most because of better irrigation facilities. South Haryana lacks in agricultural production due to inadequate irrigation facilities and its participation in the agitation is less,” says Mr. Singh. Also, the deep-entrenched caste system in Haryana compared with Punjab acts as a divisive factor. This division took even deeper roots in the wake of the violence during the Jat reservation agitation in February 2016. Kurukshetra University former Vice-Chancellor Bhim Singh Dahiya says State farmers, traditionally led by the Chautala clan, stand divided and confused because of the split in the Indian National Lok Dal. “While INLD is led by Abhay Chautala, the Jannayak Janta Party is part of the coalition government. Abhay’s uncle Ranjit Singh Chautala, an Independent MLA, is also a Minister in the government. The farmers, thus, lack a leadership.” A senior political science faculty member at Maharishi Dayanand University, not willing to be identified, argues that farmers’ movement in Haryana has little political support. “BJP government in Haryana resorted to crackdown on farmer leaders and took them into preventive custody. The Opposition leaders too have preferred not be actively involved in the agitation,” the faculty member added. But, the prolonging of the agitation has led to growing support in Haryana as well, and around 30 “Khap Panchayats” recently expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers.
17 December 2020||Guwahati,||Former AASU leader, ex-Minister join new party||Former All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and ex-Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) Minister Pabindra Deka joined the newly-floated Asom Jatiya Parishad (AJP) on Wednesday. Mr. Gogoi and Mr. Deka joined the new regional party at its two-day political convention. Mr. Gogoi said that AASU was committed to protect the interests, hopes and aspirations of the indigenous population and he would continue to pursue the same in his new political journey. The people of the State have been betrayed on several occasions by parties in whom they had placed their implicit trust, but AJP’s prime objective will be to ensure that they are not cheated again, he said. Mr. Deka, a former Minister and currently an MLA from Pathacharkuchi constituency, had resigned on Tuesday from the AGP, of which he was a founding member. He said he was sidelined within the party as he had opposed the CAA and was left with no choice but to quit. He said he was joining AJP to uphold the spirit of regionalism and protect the interests of the people of the State.
17 December 2020||Mumbai,||Metro car shed: MVA leaders say no plan to back out of Aarey||Notwithstanding the stay order by Bombay High Court on construction of integrated Metro car shed in Kanjurmarg, the three coalition partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government reiterated their intent to not back down. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar indicated that the State government may approach the Supreme Court against the High Court order. Talking to reporters here, Mr. Pawar, without naming the BJP, said the MVA government’s decision to shift the car depot project from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg seemed to have “hurt a lot of people” and that is why the Centre took an “extreme step”. “In the Constitution and law, there is a provision of making an appeal against any court decision. Hence, it will be thought about,” the senior NCP leader said. The Congress alleged that the Centre’s stand on use of Kanjurmarg land had changed at the insistence of State BJP leaders. “The Union Commerce ministry had directed the salt commissioner in July 2020 to hand over the said land to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority. It was changed suddenly and the salt commissioner approached the court. This is due to BJP leaders who are desperately trying to stall the project,” said State unit Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. The Nationalist Congress Party said the decision to shift Metro car shed was to save forest cover. “The court’s order is not a final verdict. The final hearing will start in February. Those who are against the Aarey forest land should not get excited and happy,” said NCP state president Jayant Patil.  (With PTI inputs)
17 December 2020||Mumbai,||10 AC local services to start today||Ten air-conditioned local train services will be operated on the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Kalyan section here from Thursday, replacing the ordinary suburban services, the Central Railway (CR) said. This is the first time that CR is introducing AC locals on its main line, where services are operated from the CSMT to Kasara and Khopoli. The CR was operating AC local trains on its Thane-Vashi/Panvel trans-harbour line before the coronavirus-enforced lockdown came into force in March this year. Currently, only essential and emergency services staff and those authorised by government are allowed to travel in local trains, which resumed operations in June. Of the 10 AC local services to resume on Thursday, two will operate between CSMT and Kalyan, four between CSMT and Dombivli, and four between CSMT and Kurla, the CR said in a press release on Wednesday. The first AC local service on the main line will start from Kurla for CSMT at 5.42 a.m., while the last AC local will depart from CSMT for Kurla at 11.25 p.m., it said. “These train services will run with air-conditioned rakes from Monday to Saturday and will halt at all stations. Only passengers as permitted by the Ministry of Railways and Maharashtra government will be allowed to travel,” CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. Before the lockdown, the CR used to operate 1,774 suburban services on its main line, harbour line (CSMT to Panvel), trans-harbour line (Thane-Vashi/Panvel) and fourth corridor between Belapur and Kharkopar.
17 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man flees to Bangladesh after killing second wife, nabbed||A Bangladeshi national who fled to that country after allegedly killing his second wife in Kalamboli, has been nabbed by police. The accused identified as Mohammad Ali Muddasar Shaikh (24), was arrested by Kalamboli police after staging a fake accident of his brother to make him return to India. The decomposed body of the victim, identified as Lipi Sagar Shaikh alias Rina Shaikh (26), was found on December 6 on the third floor of building number 539 at Boudhwada in Roadpali in Kalamboli. She was staying in a flat with her other Bangladeshi friends. During the lockdown, her room mates went to Bangladesh while she stayed back and was living with Mr. Shaikh, her boyfriend, in the flat and eventually married him. For the last one month, the flat was found locked and the owner Akshay Ravindra Gaikwad, who stays on the first floor, believed that she too had left for hometown. On December 6, her friends returned and found the flat locked. Since no one knew of her whereabouts, they broke opened the lock and found her decomposed body. “During investigations, we found that the accused had kept his phone off and the victim’s phone was missing. He was using her phone and the location was traced to Bangladesh,” senior police inspector Satish Gaikwad from Kalamboli police station said. On going through the victim’s call records, the police learnt the brother of the accused stayed in Kalamboli. They hatched a plan to get him to India and got his brother admitted to hospital with bandages and asked him to make a video call. Mr. Shaikh decided to fly back and on reaching the hospital, police nabbed him.
17 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Residents protest outside IKEA store, demand jobs||The newly-opened IKEA store in Navi Mumbai, witnessed protests by residents of Turbhe on Wednesday demanding jobs for the locals on priority. The protest was led by Amit Medkar, BJP’s former corporator from Hanuman Nagar, Turbhe, who said, “Our main demand is to give priority for locals in hiring. Turbhe store is in a slum area and due to the pandemic many have lost jobs. When an international brand is launched here, it’s a matter of pride for locals. But during the hiring procedure, applications from locals are being rejected. We have asked IKEA to give Turbhe priority while hiring.” Mr. Medkar said, “We have also asked IKEA to give training to people who are educated but lack the some polishing.” A letter with the demands was submitted to the company. A spokesperson from IKEA said, “The company’s mission is to create a better and brighter everyday life at home and beyond, for the many people. A critical element of that is to engage and positively contribute to local communities within which we operate. At the Navi Mumbai store we are prioritising the same when hiring local talent from in and around our community and our processes are in line with the government guidelines of the State for our operations. Under our new retail direction, IKEA will create 15,000 jobs in India by 2030, with a commitment to hire 50% women co-workers at all levels. Of this, 6,000 will be hired in Maharashtra alone and 600 co-workers are already on board for the Navi Mumbai store.”
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||54 people arrested for duping foreign nationals of Rs. 100 crore||Fifty-four people were arrested for allegedly running a fake call centre in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar and duping foreign nationals by impersonating as officers of law enforcement agencies, police said on Wednesday. The accused have duped more than 4,500 people to the tune of Rs. 100 crore, they said. Police got information that an illegal call centre was being operated from Moti Nagar and it was targeting foreign nationals and illegally inducing them to transfer money through Bitcoins and gift cards, a senior police officer said. “Thereafter, a raid was conducted and 54 people — 45 men and nine women — were arrested. Eighty-nine desktops and a server set-up found at the spot were seized,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Anyesh Roy said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they contacted foreign nationals, including U.S. citizens, posing as officers of law enforcement and other government agencies such as the U.S. Social Security Administration, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Marshals Service, the senior officer said. They used to tell them that their bank accounts and other assets are being frozen as their details have been found at a crime scene and there are bank accounts running in their names using which illegal transactions have been made to drug cartels in Mexico and Colombia, Mr. Roy said. Threatened with arrest They also threatened the victims with immediate arrest. Once the victim becomes apprehensive, they used to give them two options. One was to go for a legal action and the second option was to go for an Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR), which would be faster and easier, the police said. When the victim chose to go for ADR, they asked them to share all the details of their assets, including bank accounts and the amount of money in those accounts. Later, the victim was told that there was only one way to safeguard their assets and they would have to either buy Bitcoins or Google gift cards with their entire money in their bank accounts, the police said. If the victim agrees to buy Bitcoins, the accused induce them to convert all the money in their accounts to Bitcoins and transfer it to the wallets operated by them, saying that it is a safe government wallet. If the victim agrees to buy gift cards, they told them to share the number of the cards stating that it will be linked to their new bank accounts, the police said. The mastermind of the call centre was managing the operations from Dubai.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. seeks forensic audit of civic bodies||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday demanded a forensic audit of the three Municipal Corporations of Delhi by a sitting Delhi High Court judge to look into why they are perennially short of funds despite having several sources of income. The party hit out not only at the three BJP-ruled civic bodies but also at the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government for allegedly not providing funds to the corporations. Leader of the Congress party in the South body, Abhishek Dutt, demanded a forensic audit of the BJP-ruled Municipal Corporations of Delhi by a sitting Delhi High Court judge. Fixing accountability “If a forensic audit is held, then accountability can be fixed for the reasons of the disappearance/leakage of the funds, leaving the civic bodies cash-starved, unable to pay the salaries of its employees, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers even during the pandemic times,” Mr. Dutt said. He alleged that the three Mayors and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal were playing a preconceived ‘drama’ to divert people’s attention from the farmers’ dharna on the Delhi borders. He alleged that the political stunt by the BJP and AAP has paralysed the working of the corporations and the Delhi government with nothing happening. Congress leader in the North civic body, Mukesh Goel, said that if the Kejriwal government had followed the Congress government’s pattern of 12.46% fund allocation in 2013-14 for development works, then the three civic bodies should have got Rs. 4,563 crore from the Delhi government. He said it was strange that the BJP Mayors were protesting against non-allocation of funds for paying the salaries of employees, under pressure from the employees, despite the fact that the Kejriwal government has also withheld funds for development works.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Services back to normal at AIIMS||The services at AIIMS were back to normal on Wednesday, after the AIIMS Nurses’ Union called off indefinite strike late on Tuesday, according to hospital authorities. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court restrained the union from continuing their agitation, following which the union ended it. The union had gone on a sudden strike from Monday afternoon against the hospital’s alleged decision to hire nursing officers on contractual basis. On Tuesday, families of many patients said they were left stranded without treatment because of the strike. “Services are back to normal and nurses are back to duty,” an AIIMS spokesperson said on Wednesday. “From last night itself the nurses joined work and today [Wednesday] also everyone went to work,” said AIIMS Nurses’ Union president Harish Kumar Kajla. Mr. Kajla said though they are not on strike, they will keep the protest alive. “Yesterday [Tuesday] we had a meeting and the administration has promised to hold regular meetings to discuss our demands,” he said. Mr. Kajla said that they will wait for the next High Court hearing on January 18 and take a call on how to go forward after it. Last month, the nurses’ union had given a notice for strike from December 16 over an “anomaly” in their pay under the Sixth Central Pay Commission, because of which they are getting “paid less”.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Will go to Lucknow to debate with U.P. govt. on schools, says Sisodia||AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that he will go to Lucknow on December 22 to debate with the BJP government about the condition of government schools in the State compared to schools in Delhi. “After Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the AAP will fight elections in Uttar Pradesh, for the first time in 70 years, the State’s leaders have started talking about schools and hospitals,” Mr. Sisodia said in a video address on Wednesday. “Yesterday [Tuesday] the Chief Minister [Mr. Kejriwal] had said that in Uttar Pradesh the condition of education, health and electricity is very bad. Many Ministers of Uttar Pradesh have suddenly reacted to this,” Mr. Sisodia said. The AAP leader cited several media reports from the past about the “dilapidated condition” of the schools in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Sisodia said that Ministers of Uttar Pradesh have challenged him to visit schools in Uttar Pradesh and also debate on Delhi’s school model. Challenge accepted “I accept both the challenges. Now I want to challenge them. On December 22 morning, I will reach Lucknow. Tell me who should I debate with, Yogi ji or Education Minister or with DeputyCM about government schools of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi? I ‘m coming for the debate. But only one request, please don’t go back on your challenge now,” he said. He requested the Uttar Pradesh government to share a list of 10 schools in villages, which the BJP government has improved in the past four years, where results have visibly improved, where the buildings have been transformed, and students have succeeded in competitive exams. “I would visit these schools to see your work,” he said. “I appeal to the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, only one year is left for you. Either you fix schools of Uttar Pradesh, else after a year, people will change U.P’s politics. After one year AAP will come to power and the AAP government will fix the government schools,” he added.  Tell me who should I debate with, Yogi ji or Education Minister or with Deputy CM about government schools of U.P. and Delhi?   Manish Sisodia Deputy CM
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs civic bodies to release doctors’ salary||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the North and East Delhi Municipal Corporations to release within two weeks the salary arrears of doctors employed in the nine hospitals run and managed by them, for the month of October. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad gave the direction on an application moved by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The court is already seized of a public interest petition initiated by it with regard to payment of stipend/emoluments to resident doctors of the six hospitals run and managed by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. IMA, in its plea to be made a party in the pending case, stated that doctors of three hospitals — Swami Dayanand Hospital, Chandiwala Maternity Home and Shahdara Poly Clinic —managed by East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) be also included in the list of hospitals considered for relief by the High Court. The High Court had initiated the petition based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. Subsequently, more petitions were filed relating to non-payment of salaries by the three municipal corporations of Delhi to its employees and pensioners of different cadres. The list of petitioners include doctors, nurses, paramedics, safai karamcharis, teachers, class-IV employees and retired staffers.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Continue releasing salaries of last quarters to DU colleges: HC to govt.||The High Court told the Delhi government to continue releasing salaries of the last quarters of the financial year 2020-21 to the colleges affiliated to Delhi University and fully funded by it. An HC Bench gave the direction on Wednesday on a petition filed by Assistant Professor Udaibir Singh and other staffers of different colleges seeking direction to pay them their salary due for several months. The petitioners in the case include teachers and staff of Acharya Narendra Dev College, Adita Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and Sports and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies. The court noted that on previous hearings, it had passed directions to the Delhi government to release funds to the colleges, pursuant to which the government has released funds for the first two quarters of the financial year 2020-2021, at par with the amounts that were released to the said colleges for the financial year 2019-20. Delhi government’s additional standing counsel also stated that “compliances have been made” with regard to salary arrears. Taking note of the submission, the court said: “The aspect of public interest raised by the petitioners herein stands addressed. No further orders are required to be passed in this petition. The present petition is disposed of along with pending application.”
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Petition in HC challenges notification declaring medical equipment as drugs||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a plea moved by Surgical Manufacturers and Traders Association (SMTA) challenging a notification declaring all devices such as blood monitoring devices and digital thermometers intended to be used specially for human beings or animals as drugs. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Health Ministry while posting the case for further hearing on January 29 next year. The association claimed that their representations and other stakeholders were not considered at the time of taking the decision. The court has listed the present plea with a separate plea moved last year by SMTA challenging Centre’s notification declaring medical devices as ‘drugs’ under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Two men arrested for duping people||Two men were arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of selling US Dollars at cheap prices, police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Yunush (28) and Imran Khan (32), both residents of West Bengal, they said. On December 10, a complaint was received in which one Ravinder reported that three to four persons offered him dollar at very cheap rates. Initially, they sold one note of 20 US dollars to the complainant for Rs. 500. The complainant exchanged it for Rs. 1,300, a senior police officer said. They lured him to buy 1,146 dollar notes. The complaint arranged Rs. 5 lakh and on December 1, he reached the bus stand near ITO flyover. The accused showed the parcels of dollars. When the complaint paid the money, two to three accomplices of the accused came there and posed as Crime Branch officials. On the advise of the accused, the complainant took the parcel of dollars and left the spot. However, when he checked it, he found that it had newspapers cuttings, the officer said.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Respond to plea seeking recovery of back wages to child, bonded labourers: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre and the AAP government to respond to a plea seeking recovery of back wages due to rescued child and bonded labourers. The HC Bench issued notices to the Ministry of Labour and Employment and the police on a plea filed by the father of a rescued child labourer. The court will hear the case again on January 22. The father said his child was working as a bonded labourer when he was just eight-year-old and worked for one-and-a-half years before he was rescued.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Brief||Maitreya Dadashreeji, founder of MaitriBodh Parivaar, has introduced the ‘Worldwide Transformation Program’ for those wanting to work towards creating a better world for themselves and humanity. With 25 life changing tools over a span of two years, the free-of-cost programme is reflective, meditative and experiential and a step-by-step progression that helps one connect with their inner power. To register, visithttps://www.maitribodh.org/transform
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||DJB brief||Raghav Chadha, Vice Chairman of Delhi Jal Board, on Wednesday launched a rainwater harvesting campaign. Under the campaign, the DJB aims to build 200 rainwater harvesting structures in 30 days. Mr. Chadha also issued direction to the zonal-level officers on the campaign.
17 December 2020||Special CorrespondentPune,||With nearly 4,700 recoveries, State’s wellness rate crosses 94%||Recoveries continued to exceed new cases, with as many as 4,678 patients discharged across Maharashtra on Wednesday as opposed to 4,304 fresh COVID-19 cases. As per State Health Department figures, the active cases has declined to 61,454 while the total case tally now stands at 18,80,893. With 95 deaths, the fatalities touched 48,434. The cumulative recoveries stand at 17,69,897. The State’s recovery rate crossed 94% rising to 94.1%. “Of a total 1,18,71,449 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,80,893 (case positivity rate of 15.84%) have returned positive with nearly 65,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.58%. Pune district reported more than 650 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,64,376 while seven deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,649. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has currently come down further to 8,804 while its recovery rate has reached 95.09%. Mumbai city reported 795 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,84,404 of whom only 6,958 are active. The city’s death toll rose to 11,003 with 12 deaths reported on Wednesday. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 400 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,19,761 of whom 4,479 are currently active. Ten deaths took the total death toll to 3,117. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths as its death toll rose to 1,735 while 100 fresh cases saw the case tally rise to 53,550 of whom 1,194 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 20 cases and one death as the district’s reported cases reached 49,799 of whom 404 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,743. Kolhapur continued with its trend of low cases and high recoveries, reporting a mere 26 cases and no deaths as its case tally reached 49,930 of whom 795 are active. The death toll stands at 1,657.
17 December 2020||Staff Reporter Mumbai,||Metro car shed: MVA leaders say no plan to back out of Aarey||Notwithstanding the stay order by Bombay High Court on construction of integrated Metro carshed in Kanjurmarg, the three coalition partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government reiterated their intent to not back down. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar indicated that the State government may approach the Supreme Court against the high court order. Talking to reporters here, Mr. Pawar, without naming the BJP, said the MVA government’s decision to shift the car depot project from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg seemed to have “hurt a lot of people” and that is why the Centre took an “extreme step”. “In the Constitution and law, there is a provision of making an appeal against any court decision. Hence, it will be thought about,” the senior NCP leader said. The Congress alleged that the Centre’s stand on use of Kanjurmarg land had changed at the insistence of State BJP leaders. “The Union Commerce ministry had directed the salt commissioner in July 2020 to hand over the said land to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority. It was changed suddenly and the salt commissioner approached the court. This is due to BJP leaders who are desperately trying to stall the project,” said State unit Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said that the decision to shift Metro car shed from Aarey was to save forest cover. “The court’s order is not a final verdict. The final hearing will start in February. Those who are against the Aarey forest land should not get excited and happy,” said NCP state president Jayant Patil, adding that the stay order is being used to claim political brownie points. Former chief minister and Opposition BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the State government should drop its ego and go back to Aarey. “This government’s ego has already delayed the Metro project by four years and it will increase the burden by Rs. 5,000 crore on the State exchequer,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)
17 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||Republicans acknowledge Biden’s win||More than a month after the election, top Republicans finally acknowledged Joe Biden as the next U.S. President, a collapse in GOP resistance to the millions of voters who decisively chose the Democrat. Foreign leaders joined the parade, too, including Russia’s Vladimir Putin. Speaking on Tuesday from the floor of the U.S. Senate where Mr. Biden spent 36 years of his career, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell congratulated his former colleague as President-elect. The two men spoke later in the day. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, meanwhile, was to meet with his likely successor in the new administration, Antony Blinken. And GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of President Donald Trump’s closest allies, said he’d spoken with some of Mr. Biden’s Cabinet picks. A similar shift unfolded in capitals across the world, where leaders including Mr. Putin and Mexico’s Andrés Manuel López Obrador acknowledged Mr. Biden’s win. The moves came a day after electors nationwide formally cast votes affirming Mr. Biden’s victory in last month’s presidential election. And while that clears a more stable path for Mr. Biden to assume the presidency, it does little to stop Mr. Trump from continuing to try to undermine confidence in the results with baseless allegations that have been rejected by judges across the political spectrum. As Republicans began discussing a Biden presidency more openly on Tuesday, Mr. Trump still pledged to press forward with almost nonexistent legal options. “Tremendous evidence pouring in on voter fraud. There has never been anything like this in our Country!” Mr. Trump said in a tweet, just as members of his party were publicly recognising Mr. Biden’s victory. The growing acknowledgement of reality in Washington was triggered by the Electoral College formally voting on Monday to seal Mr. Biden’s win with 306 votes to Mr. Trump’s 232, the same margin that Mr. Trump pulled together four years ago. The normally humdrum political ceremony didn’t change the facts of the election but was nonetheless used as political cover by leading Republicans. “Many of us had hoped the presidential election would yield a different result,” Mr. McConnell said. “But our system of government has the processes to determine who will be sworn in on January 20. The Electoral College has spoken.” ‘Turn the page’ The bureaucratic transition from Mr. Trump’s government to Mr. Biden’s actually began weeks ago, despite the President’s legal challenges. Still, the suddenly conciliatory stance from many Republicans could thaw the political deep freeze that has gripped Washington lately. Mr. Biden has been trying to build momentum as he prepares to assume the presidency while facing the historic challenge of vaccinating hundreds of millions of Americans against the coronavirus. In some of his most forceful remarks since the election, Mr. Biden is calling for unity but also calling Mr. Trump’s attacks on the voting process “unconscionable” and insisting it is time to “turn the page.’ “We need to work together, give each other a chance, and lower the temperature,” Mr. Biden said in a speech on Monday. Still, the shift coming so late in the tone from Republicans has left the President-elect with barely a month to finish building out key parts his new government. Some say the GOP about-face won’t mean much at this point. “Even them doing this now, the damage has been done because they’ve blocked, they’ve interrupted,” said Anthony Robinson, a former Obama administration appointee who served several national security policy roles, including during the transition to the Trump administration in 2016. “I don’t want to say, ‘Who cares?,’ but it definitely doesn’t symbolise a smooth transition,” said Mr. Robinson, who is now political director of the National Democratic Training Committee, which trains candidates and campaign staffers all over the country. Mr. Biden’s first priority will be the fair and efficient distribution of vaccines against the virus. The President-elect said on Tuesday that he would follow the advice of Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, who says that getting the President-elect himself vaccinated as soon as possible is a matter of national security. Trust in the vaccine “Dr. Fauci recommends I get the vaccine sooner than later. I want to make sure we do it by the numbers,” Mr. Biden said, adding that he’d be immunised publicly, which could help build public trust in the vaccine. Mr. Trump’s continued opposition to Mr. Biden, meanwhile, may still present roadblocks, especially in the U.S. House where Republicans as recently as last week were introducing legislation to punish members of their party who might be seen as urging Mr. Trump to “concede prematurely.” Other top Trump administration Cabinet officials haven’t yet followed the lead of Mr. Pompeo, who plans to meet on Thursday with Mr. Blinken, Mr. Biden’s Secretary of State nominee. “The President is still involved in ongoing litigation related to the election,” said White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany, calling the Electoral College vote “one step in the constitutional process.”
17 December 2020||Moscow,||Russia denies role of FSB in opposition leader’s poisoning||Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Wednesday denied recent media investigations that alleged the country’s Federal Security Service (FSB) had followed and poisoned opposition leader Alexei Navalny. “All this news is funny to read. But the manner in which this news is presented says only one thing: that our Western partners lack any ethical standards,” Mr. Lavrov said. Several European labs in September concluded that Navalny, 44, was poisoned after he fell ill on a flight from Siberia to Moscow in August before being transported by medical aircraft to Berlin. A joint investigation published earlier this week by several media outlets claimed FSB chemical weapons experts had followed Mr. Navalny for years, including on the day he was poisoned. The investigative website Bellingcat together with CNN, Russian site The Insider and Germany’s Der Spiegel on Monday published names and photos of the alleged men who tailed Mr. Navalny. Their investigation said the men are specialists in nerve agents and toxins, including the Soviet-designed poison Novichok, which European countries said was used against Mr. Navalny, Russia’s most prominent Kremlin critic. During a visit to the Croatian capital Zagreb, Mr. Lavrov said the media reports prove Western countries’ “lack of any skills for normal diplomatic work and an unwillingness to comply with international legal norms when it comes to establishing facts”. The joint report does not establish any direct contact between Mr. Navalny and the named agents and Russia has flatly denied any role in the Kremlin critic’s illness. The European Union has imposed entry bans and bank account freezes on six people suspected of being responsible, including FSB chief Alexander Bortnikov. The 44-year-old opposition leader has said he will return to Russia after making a full recovery in Germany.
17 December 2020||Washington,||Trump mulls his next move on Hunter Biden||President Donald Trump is considering pushing to have a special counsel appointed to advance a federal tax investigation into the son of President-elect Joe Biden, setting up a potential showdown with incoming acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen. Mr. Trump — angry that outgoing Attorney General William Barr didn’t publicly announce the ongoing, two-year investigation into Hunter Biden — has consulted on the matter with White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, White House counsel Pat Cipollone and outside allies. Dual agenda That’s according to several Trump administration officials and Republicans close to the White House who spoke to on the condition of anonymity to discuss private matters. Beyond appointing a special prosecutor to investigate the younger Biden, the sources said Mr. Trump is interested in having another special counsel appointed to look into his own claims of election fraud. But if he’s expecting his newly named acting Attorney General to go further than Mr. Barr on either matter, he could end up quickly disappointed. Mr. Barr on Monday evening announced he will resign effective next week, revealing his plans about a week after Hunter Biden publicly disclosed that he was under investigation related to his finances. It is generally Justice Department policy not to disclose investigations that are in progress, though the subjects of those investigations can. Rosen, the deputy attorney general, will step into the Justice Department’s top job in an acting role. Mr. Trump is still weighing his options, considering whether to pressure Rosen to make the special counsel appointment or, if needed, to replace the acting attorney general with someone more likely to carry out his wishes.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||We won’t allow communal anarchy in Bangladesh: PM||Bangladesh marked 49th anniversary of the victory in the Liberation War on Tuesday with official events in its diplomatic missions in various countries. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina greeted veteran freedom fighters in Dhaka, and said Bangladesh would not allow communalisation of politics. “Bangladesh is the land of Lalon Shah, Rabindranath, Kazi Nazrul, Jibanananda. This Bangladesh is the land of Shahjalal, Shah Poran, Shah Mokdum, Khanjahan Ali, this Bangladesh is the Bangladesh of Sheikh Mujib and 16.5 crore Bengalis — this country is for all. We won’t allow anyone to create any division and anarchy in the name of religion,” said Prime Minister Hasina in her speech delivered on the eve of the Victory Day. The Victory Day was marked across the country as well as in the diplomatic missions of Bangladesh in multiple countries. In the Bangladesh High Commission here, High Commissioner Muhammad Imran led the celebration and paid tributes to the sacrifices made by millions of people during the nine-month-long Liberation War in 1971, which culminated in the birth of Bangladesh on December 16. The day was also celebrated in India as Vijay Divas as India paid tributes to the military martyrs in the India-Pakistan war of December 1971. ‘Friendship to all’ “We also feel proud that our current leadership has effectively pursued Bangabandhu’s foreign policy of Friendship to All and Malice to None,” said High Commissioner Muhammad Imran. Prime Minister Hasina’s speech comes in the backdrop of growing disagreement between her government and hard line Islamist group Hefazat E Islam, which has been opposing the inauguration of a statue of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka to mark the centenary of his birth. After a meeting with Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan on Monday, a member of the Islamic group told Dhaka’s Daily Star that they have suggested building of minarets in different parts of Bangladesh in memory of Bangabandhu. The Islamist organisation has been building pressure on the government of Ms. Hasina over the past few months and has been insisting on following a more Islamic style of government. However, Ms. Hasina said in her speech that the freedom of 1971 was gained “in exchange” of the blood of Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists and Christians and everyone in Bangladesh irrespective of religious identity has a right to practise religion in peace.
17 December 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. approves chemical castration of sex offenders||Pakistan has approved the chemical castration of rapists as part of sweeping new legislation sparked by outcry over the gang-rape of a mother on a motorway. New laws approved by President Arif Alvi on Tuesday will see rape cases expedited through the courts and create the country’s first national sex offenders register. “The provision of the chemical castration of repeat as well as first-time sex offenders... was added in the Anti-Rape Ordinance 2020”, the President’s office confirmed on Wednesday. Pakistan is a deeply conservative and patriarchal nation where victims of sexual abuse often are too afraid to speak out, or where criminal complaints are frequently not investigated seriously. In September, protests erupted after a mother was raped on the side of the road in front of her children when her car broke down near Lahore. Prime Minister Imran Khan responded by calling for the chemical castration of rapists, which involves using drugs to reduce a person’s libido. Mr. Khan had said the worst sex crimes should be punishable by public hangings but added this could impact trade with partners that oppose the death penalty, such as the European Union. Rights activists have warned the provision of chemical castration could affect Pakistan’s international human rights obligations.
17 December 2020||WILMINGTON,||Biden introduces ex-rival Buttigieg as transportation pick||President-elect Joe Biden introduced Democratic primary rival Pete Buttigieg on Wednesday as his nominee for Transportation Secretary, calling the 38-year-old ex-Mayor “a new voice, with new ideas determined to move past old politics”. Mr. Buttigieg would also be the first openly gay person confirmed by the Senate to a Cabinet post. The nomination was applauded by union leaders, transportation industry officials, LGBTQ activists and Democrats.AP
17 December 2020||DUBAI,||Saudi Arabia plans spending cuts to trim deficit amid virus||Saudi Arabia plans to cut more than 7% in spending next year, the Finance Ministry said, as the region’s biggest oil producer seeks to trim a gaping budget deficit amid the coronavirus pandemic and falling oil prices. The Kingdom expects its deficit to hit $79.4 billion this year, according to the government’s budget statement, an estimated 12% of the country’s gross domestic product.AP
17 December 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Taliban team in Pakistan as calls grow for Afghan cease-fire||A Taliban team, led by the co-founder of the insurgent movement, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, arrived on Wednesday in Islamabad for talks with Pakistani government leaders amid growing calls for a reduction in violence in neighbouring Afghanistan. The visit came as the Taliban unleashed a wave of attacks in Afghanistan, in which at least 19 members of the Afghan security forces and 11 Taliban fighters were killed.AP
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A protocol of deference that is plainly injurious||Last week Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed an elaborate bhoomi pooja rite for a new parliament building in New Delhi, but only after the Supreme Court was pleased to give its assent for the foundation stone laying ceremony. While allowing the Prime Minister to have his date with the pandits and history, the top court permitted itself to enunciate what seems like an innovative jurisprudence of deference. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, expressed its displeasure with the government for unheeding the Court’s directions. According to a report in The Hindu on December 8, “SC nod for Central Vista inauguration”, the Bench said: “We thought we were dealing with a prudent litigant and deference will be shown... We have shown deference to you and expected that you will act in a prudent manner. The same deference should be shown to the court and there should be no demolition or construction.” This was a remarkable — and a revealing — formulation from the Justice Khanwilkar-led Bench and the honourable judges must be thanked for spelling out publicly what seems to be a new working proposition. Suddenly, so many judicial verdicts, as also many non-verdicts, of recent years have become somewhat decipherable in the light of this protocol of deference. This full disclosure from the Bench should also invite more than a few questions. To begin with: to whom does the apex court undertake to offer deference? An individual? A Prime Minister or a Law Minister? An incumbent political regime? The executive as an institutional entity? The other side of the equation would be: who is offering deference? This or that individual judge? Or the current gaggle of judicial leadership? Or, the entire judiciary, presided over by the Supreme Court, as a constitutional institution? There are no easy answers. The U.S., in comparison Juxtapose this protocol of deference with the bracing rectitude at display in the U.S. Supreme Court. A Court that was supposed to have been “packed” only a few months ago by U.S. President Donald Trump now has simply refused to countenance his electoral goondagiri . The majority of judges in the U.S. Supreme Court may owe their appointment to Republican Presidents but they do not feel it is their institutional remit to remain at the beck and call of the Republican White House. Their judicial exertions are informed, becomingly, by their constitutional insights and moral convictions, not by the partisanship needs of politicians in power. It would be patently unwise for any American President to think that the Supreme Court would owe him any deference and it is unthinkable that a U.S. Supreme Court judge will allow herself to even entertain the thought that the White House was entitled to any kind of deference. One institution respects another institution; but, deference, my Lords? This protocol of deference becomes baffling and inexplicable. After all, judges are not in the business of soothing and smoothing. The very idea of deference carries with it a suggestion of acquiescence and perhaps even an absence of any kind of constitutional compass. And, pray, what can possibly be the terms of this protocol of deference? Of course, an institution can sustain its edge only as long as men and women of strength preside over it. So it is with the judiciary. And it can be easily conceded that not all judges necessarily constitute a superior breed of individuals. A judge can only perform within the limits of her/his intellectual depth, moral core, personal quirks, political preferences, and judicial temperament. Not all judges are munificently endowed with qualities and traits for them to develop their own judicial fortitude. Checks and balances Yet, these Lordships are armour-plated with a constitutional design and institutional arrangements, precisely to overcome their personal limitations and to help them perform their dharma with élan and integrity and honour. And, that is precisely what the founding fathers of our Republic had ordained. In fact in the very early days of our Republic, there was an occasion for the redoubtable Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to remind an impetuous Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru about the limits of power: “we are now faced with a Constitution… that means that for every executive action there must be legal sanction and judicial justification.” In practical terms, the political class in its role as the Executive was joyfully undertaking to surrender its power and privilege to resort to arbitrary authority, however pressing may be the claims of national security or of any other urgency. It was a historic commitment, anchored in the finest sentiment of democratic nobility and it was an undertaking on the part of national political leadership to cheerfully submit itself, its conduct and its policies, to scrutiny and, if warranted, risk a ‘nyet’ from the judiciary. The bottomline was that the moral health and the democratic robustness of the Republic had to be institutionally safe-guarded, and not just left to the benign indulgence of this or that demagogue masquerading as a national saviour. At variance with traditions Thanks to the new jurisprudence of deference, the spirit of an accountable executive authority seems to have dissipated. Worse, the higher judiciary seems to have comfortably gone along with the executive’s assertion that once a law has been duly passed by Parliament it was beyond democratic contestation. The High Courts, for example, have been plainly unsympathetic to those who have had reason to critique and protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. This protocol of deference is at variance with the glorious traditions of independence and self-assertion, vigorously re-discovered after the Emergency and proudly re-asserted — till now. Now, a penny has dropped. Because of this peep into the protocol of deference, we can perhaps make sense of a Chief Justice of India accommodating a Prime Minister’s wish to see for himself the Court Number One, the very seat of action. Perhaps we can see the emerging pattern — a Rajya Sabha seat for a recently retired Chief Justice of India. And, it is no surprise that without anybody noticing it — leave alone, mourning — the very notion of judicial activism, as a practical axiom and as an institutional tool, has simply disappeared from our constitutional repertoire. From the days of an alleged judicial over-reach we seem to have settled for a spell of self-abnegation on the Bench. This newly delineated protocol of deference is plainly injurious to the health of our Republic. It has produced an unhealthy lopsidedness in our democratic arrangements. We seem to be forgetting that elections only confer an office — and, not any kind of canonisation. Without any countervailing judicial constraints, errant megalomania is getting emboldened; arrogance has already embedded itself in the ruling clique, and a moral callousness appears to have seeped into the system. Hence, the kisans manning barricades at the Sindhu border. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A million reasons to march||“The people of Punjab not only know how to farm, they also know how to protect their fields,” said farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan from the Tikri border, Delhi, where farmers are camping in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. Punjab farmers’ unions are at the forefront in the fight, which have, for over two months, inspired protests in large parts of the country. The convoy of tractor trolleys and trucks — thousands of them — made its way into Delhi on November 25-26, equipped with food, blankets, stoves, utensils and all essentials, to last the farmers for months. “We are here to stay,” they said. The government introduced three farm Bills — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — in the monsoon session of Parliament. Together, these Bills proposed to relax restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce and on stocking under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and outlined a framework on contract farming. They were introduced on September 14, passed in the Lok Sabha on September 17, and in the Rajya Sabha on September 20. The President gave his assent on September 24, and the Gazette notification was published on September 27. In a matter of less than two weeks, without democratic process and discussion, the farm Bills bulldozed their way into becoming laws. Dissent and debate Agriculture sector reforms had been on the government’s agenda for the last few decades, with policy experts stressing the need to shift people from agricultural work to provide cheap labour in manufacturing and services sectors. But decent jobs were simply not there to allow a large-scale shift of the rural workforce. The only option was to get reduced to a perennial, casual labour force in unwelcoming cities. Several attempts, through reform commissions and committees to hasten this process, remained unsuccessful. But if the Centre could not accomplish that earlier, the government used the opportunity of COVID-19 to push the laws through. It was not only the farm Acts, but also the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, which changed the laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments, and investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. Parallelly, the disturbing suppression of basic rights and freedom through the use of the preventive detention laws and special legislations was further entrenched. The hubris that this process displayed was not lost on anyone. Surjit Patar, the celebrated Punjabi poet who returned his Padma Shri in support of the agitating farmers, in his recent poem, ‘Eh Gal Niri Enhi Hi Nahi’ (It’s Not Only About…), wrote, “Hard labour never hurts, it’s the indifference; from neglect and apathy springs this mighty indignation”; “Change has to happen, but it is also the responsibility of those who are entrusted with policymaking to ensure that it does not happen at the cost of the most marginalised.” When farmers from Punjab and Haryana reached the border in Delhi in a peaceful convoy, they were met with barricades. At the Delhi barricade, a senior police officer was seen addressing the farmers through a handheld speaker, “Why are you here? Don’t you know that Delhi is facing the pandemic?” A farmer was heard replying, “Didn’t the government know when they passed these three ordinances without any consultation in the middle of the pandemic?”. The police official again said, “There are 101 ways of getting your point across to the government. Why did you come to Delhi?” The astonished farmer replied, “You tell us just two ways of getting our point across and you can keep the remaining 99 to yourself.” When the state has no other way to understand dissent but to criminalise it, what do the aggrieved people do? The farmers, it seems, have come to Delhi to ask precisely this. Bitter experiences In the several rounds of talks with the government in Delhi, when the farmers are insisting on a total roll-back, and not deliberation or amendments, they know what they are saying. Their decision is based on experience and extensive discussions around the laws. The Union Agriculture Minister and other government functionaries claim that these reforms free the farmers from the clutches of middlemen and more than double farmers’ incomes. But farmers, as well as several experts, have the Pepsico contract farming experience in Punjab to convince them that contract farming benefits are not for the small and marginal farmer. In Punjab, based on 2015-16 data, more than one-third of holdings are marginal and small i.e., two or less than two hectares, another third is between two and four hectares, 28% between four and ten hectares, and only 5% holdings are large, i.e., ten hectares or more.  The farmers also know that for small and marginal farmers, the option of transporting farm produce to lucrative markets is not an option — they do not have the means to go. They will have to sell it near their own villages to whoever is willing to buy it and at whatever price they are offered. They cite the Bihar experience, where the APMC system was abolished for farmers in 2006, to argue that when it comes to open market operations, all odds are stacked against marginal and small farmers. The demand charter of the farmers includes demands of the peasantry, but it also relates to the interests of the urban and rural poor. All the farmers’ unions are calling for the unconditional repeal of the three agricultural Acts and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. But many large unions are also seeking implementation of the Universal Public Distribution System (PDS) across the country. They are pressing for state regulation to end farmers’ exploitation by big traders and multinational companies in government-regulated agriculture produce markets. They also call for the release of intellectuals, activists and anti-CAA protesters all over the country and withdrawal of the false cases registered against them. On their platforms, they have raised these demands most eloquently — they say when intellectuals, student activists and human rights defenders are put behind bars, ordinary farm labour also forgoes her right to hold to account the state which has reneged on land reforms. When food becomes a commodity to be traded only under market conditions, the urban and rural poor who need food rations lose their right to food. These most significant issues the farmers have raised with ingenuousness. Their movement has forged unity and has now strongly converged with other people’s rights. It is a fight not just for farm produce prices now, but also for justice and democracy, and above all, for dignity. Navsharan Singh is an independent researcher
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Privacy, a fundamental right the state must protect||In an article in The Hindu , “Is a person’s address public information?” (OpEd page, December 1, 2020), the writers, Shailesh Gandhi and Prashant Reddy T., raised a few issues over a recent Bombay High Court order directing the government to take down the address of a Right to Information (RTI) applicant from its website. The writers had argued that no ‘law or principle of law prevents the state from disclosing such information about the addresses of citizens’ and placed the onus on keeping the address private on RTI Applicants by specifying a P.O. box. Our article attempts to point out why the framing of the initial question is misleading and looks at the problems in the December 1 article. Not judicially tested First, the writers cite the example of public telephone directories and voter lists to point out how addresses are not always treated as private information. They further point to how disclosure of beneficiary addresses helps with transparency and accountability of social welfare programmes and serves public interest. The first example is a paraphrased version of the tired rhetoric on India’s privacy culture, i.e., ‘Indians don’t care about their privacy.’ A similar argument made by the state was repelled by a unanimous nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court of India in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd) ... vs Union Of India And Ors. (9J, 2017). Further, none of these examples has been judicially tested, especially in the context of such information being available digitally, where the unforeseeability of extent of harms is aggravated: something which the nine-judge Bench decision also acknowledged. But, more importantly, an assertion that addresses are sometimes published information or that disclosure of addresses may serve public interest in some cases is of little use to decide the question in any given case, such as disclosure of the addresses of RTI applicants. Second, the writers may be correct in stating that the High Court decisions do not exposit their reasoning from first principles of transparency or privacy. However, they fail to see the line of reasoning that justifies the decision — from the recognition of citizens having an interest in guarding their addresses as private/personal information; unauthorised or mandatory disclosure of such personal information constituting an infringement; privacy being a fundamental right that the state must respect and protect; and any state action has to be justified based on the four-pronged test articulated in the nine judge Bench decision of Puttaswamy . The requirements of the backing of law; the law being in pursuance of a legitimate state purpose; the proposed action having a rational nexus to such purpose; and the extent of infringement being necessary and proportionate to purpose constitute that test. High Court ruling A useful framework for first-principles reasoning that the writers search for may come from a ruling of the Allahabad High Court earlier this year. Questions that relate to the publication of personal information, such as addresses, came up in a suo motu action against the Uttar Pradesh government for putting up posters with the personal details of people accused of allegedly destroying public property during the widespread protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. These personal details included their photographs, names, and addresses. Following Puttaswamy , the Court found the action of State ‘nothing but an unwarranted interference in the privacy of people’. The High Court observed that neither was there a law which empowered the state to put up such posters with personal details nor was there any legitimate aim that a democratic state could pursue for which such action could be deemed necessary and proportionate. Therefore, the pertinent question is whether the state has lawful power to publish information that a citizen may consider private and not merely the somewhat self-fulfilling question that the writers pose. Third, the writers refer to Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act to assert that there is an obligation to disclose personal information where such ‘information bears a nexus to public activity’. It is not immediately apparent the basis for the writers’ assertion that an RTI applicant’s address has any nexus to public activity. Perhaps, more significantly, the writers overlook the other limb of that Section that disallows disclosure that would cause an unwarranted invasion of privacy — which is a consequentialist test — the kind that the writers criticise the High Court decisions for. Section 8(1)(j) still allows disclosure subject to the public information officer making a case by case judgment on whether the larger public interest is served by disclosing such personal information. It is not clear what the writer’s idea of the larger public interest is in disclosing the addresses of RTI applicants. On the other hand, there is significant public interest in not disclosing the personal information of RTI applicants. In this case, it was not a mere publication of his address as part of some broader list containing addresses of all citizens of his area. The disclosure also easily brought out the association of his address with his application that made him the target of violence and retaliation. Waiver as barrier Protection of privacy for individual citizens and transparency of public authorities are two sides of the same coin. An open and transparent government that also guarantees, respects, protects, promotes, and fulfils every citizen’s right to privacy is not a contradiction in terms. To insist that applicants must waive or make compromises on their right to privacy to exercise their rights under the transparency law is an unreasonable barrier that causes a chilling effect in exercise of those rights, quite significantly harming the very cause that is sought to be championed. Prasanna S. and Maansi Verma are Delhi-based independent lawyers and founding trustees of the Article 21 Trust, which works on issues at the intersection of digital rights and welfare
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The many challenges for WTO||For the first time in its 25-year history, the World Trade Organization (WTO) will be led by a woman, as both the contending candidates for the Director-General (D-G) post are women, from Nigeria and South Korea respectively. The prestige aside, the D-G’s job will require perseverance and outstanding negotiating skills for balancing the diverse and varied interests of the 164 member countries, and especially, for reconciling competing multilateral and national visions, for the organisation to work efficiently. The next D-G will have to grapple with the global economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic and work towards carrying out reforms of the multilateral trading system for reviving the world economy. On all these issues, her non-partisan role will be watched carefully. The current impasse in the WTO negotiations has led member countries to believe in the necessity of carrying out urgent reforms, even as the debate is likely to throw up some difficult choices for developing countries like India. At the core of the divide within the WTO is the Doha Development Agenda, which the developed countries sought to jettison in favour of a new agenda that includes, amongst others, e-commerce, investment facilitation, MSMEs and gender. Salvaging the ‘development’-centric agenda is critical for a large number of developing countries as they essentially see trade as a catalyst of development. Restoring the WTO dispute settlement mechanism, especially the revival of its Appellate body, is also crucial for the organisation’s efficient functioning. The push for a change in the definition of “developing country” under the principle of special and differential treatment (S&DT), aimed at upgrading certain developing countries, will deeply impinge on the status of emerging economies such as India, China, South Africa, Turkey, Egypt, et cetera. The assumption that some countries have benefited immensely from the WTO rules since its formation in 1995 is flawed, at least in the case of India. And even if there may be no consensus of views on measuring ‘development’, India will remain a developing country no matter which parameter is used. The way out for India could be to negotiate a longer phase-out period, or an acceptable formula based on development indices, etc. Among the current negotiations at the WTO, nothing commands more attention than the fisheries subsidies negotiations. India can lead the way in finding a landing zone by urging others to settle for the lowest common denominator, while seeking permanent protection for traditional and artisanal farmers who are at the subsistence level of survival. The danger lies in seeking larger carve-outs, which, if universally applicable to all, could result in developed countries ploughing precious fisheries resources in international waters. The consensus-based decision-making in the WTO, which makes dissension by even one member stop the process in its track, gives developing countries some heft and influence at par with developed countries. The D-G would need to tread cautiously on this front, as some will allude to the successful implementation of the Trade Facilitation Agreement in 2017, that allowed member countries to take commitments in a phased manner in accordance with their domestic preparedness. Lessons from COVID-19 The COVID-19 crisis has revealed the urgent and enduring need for international cooperation and collaboration, as no country can fight the pandemic alone. The D-G can help mitigate the effects of the pandemic by giving clear directions on ensuring that supply chains remain free and open, recommending a standard harmonised system with classification for vaccines, and by the removal of import/export restrictions. Voluntary sharing and pooling of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) is required for any global effort to tackle the pandemic, but with the fear of vaccine nationalism looming large, several countries are seeking to secure future supply of leading COVID-19 vaccines. Our Prime Minister’s reiteration that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will help the whole of humanity will require the D-G to play a responsible role in removing barriers to intellectual property and securing a legal framework within the WTO TRIPS Agreement, by lending salience to the effective interpretation of Articles 8 and 31 of the Agreement, that allow compulsory licensing and agreement of a patent without the authorisation of its owner under certain conditions. Most imminently, the next D-G will need to build trust among its members that the WTO needs greater engagement by all countries, to stitch fair rules in the larger interest of all nations and thwart unfair trade practices of a few. Dammu Ravi is Additional Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The long road to food security||India’s malnutrition levels are almost twice the level of many African countries. The Global Hunger Index 2020 report has given India the 94th rank among 107 countries, much behind Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Nepal. As per a UN-FAO report, 194 million people go hungry every day in India, comprising about 23% of the world’s undernourished population. This flies in the face of the landmark Right to Food case, in which the Supreme Court declared Right to Food as part of Article 21 of the Constitution, that is, the Right to Life. It is a grim failure that 73 years after Independence, India continues to be gripped by a paradox of plenty in the realm of food security. The country reached self-sufficiency in agricultural production some time ago, and yet, mass hunger is rampant across States. India produces more than the estimated amount required to feed the entire population (in 2018-19, India produced 283.37 million tons of food grains). The country ranks first in millets and second in rice and wheat production in the world. India’s horticultural crops, such as fruits and vegetables, are also in surplus (over 313 million tons in 2018-19). Struggling ecosystem However, according to data released by the Department of Consumer Affairs, almost 62,000 tons of food grains were damaged in Food Corporation of India warehouses between 2011 and 2017. In 2016-17 alone, over 8,600 tons of food grains were lost. A study conducted by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations found that while there is a proliferation of millions of ineligible and bogus ration cards, there are also, simultaneously, a multitude of genuinely poor families that do not even possess ration cards. These data expose the poor management of the food ecosystem in India. To ensure India’s food security, a two-pronged policy is needed. Firstly, the government must ensure remunerative prices for farm produce. For this, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) should be made available to the maximum range of farm products. This will enhance the purchasing power of farmers so that they can purchase essential food items. Secondly, it is crucial that India improves the Public Distribution System and Public Procurement. The Annapurna scheme The situation could be further improved by revamping the Annapurna Yojana. Under this scheme, ten kilograms of food grains are distributed per month free of cost to destitute persons above 65 years of age, with no or meagre subsistence. The Centre has fixed the target of 20% of the number of persons who are eligible for National Old Age Pension, but who are not receiving such pension. It may be noted that as far as Kerala is concerned, social security pension covers almost all the sections of people in the community. Thus, almost all eligible people are excluded from the Annapurna Yojana. This problem demands immediate attention and resolution. Further, according to the Global Pulse Confederation, pulses are part of a healthy, balanced diet and have been shown to have an important role in preventing illnesses such as cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. The World Food Programme (WFP) includes 60 grams of pulses in its typical food basket, alongside cereals, oils and sugar and salt. The Background Note for the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution titled Price Rise of Essential Commodities - Causes and Effects (2020), says, “With dietary shift in favour of proteins, in an otherwise vegetarian society, the consumption of pulses is growing but the production has not kept pace … However, production of pulses has increased during the last two years which has resulted partly from continuous increase in MSP, increased procurement, and creation of buffer stock of pulses.” Hence, this is an ideal time to include pulses too in our Public Distribution System. Rajmohan Unnithan is an MP and member of the Department Related Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Excellence in diversity||The significant expansion of the IIT system since 2008, after reservation was extended to student candidates belonging to Other Backward Classes, has resulted in a vexed situation in which these institutions are unable to find enough qualified faculty members, whose recruitment must also meet quota norms. Bound by the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act, 2019, the IITs must fulfil the important goal of affirmative action while making appointments. While the law is enabling, the benefit cannot be extended to many due to a severe mismatch between the demand and availability of technology research graduates. Last year, IIT Delhi had a staggering deficit of 30% in its teacher ranks, and there are 23 such institutes in India now, highlighting the scale of the crisis. It is in this context of large-scale vacancies that the Education Ministry tasked a committee to suggest effective implementation of reservation in central institutions such as the IITs, for both student enrolment and faculty recruitment. The panel headed by IIT Delhi’s director has come up with two options: to exempt IITs from quotas by including them in the schedule to the 2019 law, which is applicable to institutions of excellence, research institutions and institutions of national and strategic importance; and to provide reservation to specified grades of assistant professors, taking the institution as a whole. Where candidates are not available in the latter case, the posts can be de-reserved in the subsequent year. An early decision must now be taken by the government without sacrificing equity principles. Diversity achieved through affirmative action such as compensatory discrimination in favour of some classes of citizens corrects historical distortions. For it to be fully realised, however, the concomitant is massive investments in the education system at all levels, which can raise the capability of students. It is now widely recognised that substituting traditional privilege with opportunity and the right facilities dispels the myth of innate merit. Such an approach ensures justice for those who were deprived. The Ministry’s committee echoes this, when it recommends a government-sponsored preparatory programme at the IITs which can help candidates eligible for reservation to get acquainted with high quality academic work, and optionally prepare for a PhD if they aspire to be teachers. This is the imperative, considering that such graduates will help fill not just vacancies in the IITs, but also aid the large number of other technical education institutions that aspire to research excellence. Governments must aim for progressive redistribution, for which policy should actively expand equal opportunity, starting with a strong, liberal public school system. This will strengthen diversity, and lay the foundation for the kind of scholarship that institutions of excellence need.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Discouraging numbers||With a debilitating death toll and an economic recession, India has had among the worst effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. There is anecdotal evidence that the pandemic and lockdown measures have led to new complications related to food consumption and food security for impoverished Indians. But an express indication of the possible scale of the crisis can be gleaned from the data from the newly released National Family Health Survey 2019-20 which was conducted before the pandemic and its impact. The partially released early data from NFHS-5 for 22 States/Union Territories — data for U.P., M.P. Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Punjab, Jharkhand and Odisha are not yet out — shows a disappointing record on metrics such as child nutrition and adult anthropometric measurements, suggesting the exacerbation now of an already fraught situation. NFHS-5 shows that four key metrics for the nutritional status of children declined in 2019-20 compared to levels in 2015-16 (NFHS-4) in many of the surveyed States. Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal recorded an increase in the percentage of anaemic and wasted (low weight for height) children compared to even the 2005-06 survey. In the key indicator of childhood stunting, there has been an increase in 13 of the 22 States/UTs in comparison to NFHS-4, with a noticeable improvement only in Bihar and Assam. Even here, the reduction in stunting numbers is lower than the government’s targets. Bihar has shown a promising decline of 5.4 % points in stunting, but still retains the highest percentage of stunted children (42.9%) among big States. On the flip side, NFHS-5 also flags improvements in other factors that contribute to malnutrition and poor health outcomes — in access to sanitation and clean cooking fuels. In indicators related to women’s well-being (with variance across States), spousal violence declined in 17 of 22 States/UTs, child marriage declined in 18, and access to bank accounts rose in all of them, compared to NFHS-4. But the persistence of poor anthropometric measures related to hunger and nutrition suggests that existing programmes to address them, such as POSHAN Abhiyaan, will need a push and focus to meet targets such as the 2%-point decrease in childhood stunting every year. More importantly, the complications arising out of the pandemic should make the Centre and States refocus on welfare delivery as a concerted strategy to eradicate hunger and extreme poverty. This is an imperative that would not just meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal targets but will also ensure the well-being of citizens in a country that showed significant promise in combining economic growth and general welfare in the last couple of decades before encountering major reversals lately.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Court’s Verdict on Princes No Defeat for Govt., Says PM||The Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi to-day strongly refuted the Opposition contention that the judgment of the Supreme Court constituted “a defeat” or created any “predicament” to the Government. In forthright replies to queries during a calling attention motion in the Rajya Sabha to-day, Mrs. Gandhi said she had herself said in her speech introducing the Privy Purses Abolition Bill that the Government “expected obstacles in every step in our march towards progress and in bringing better life for our people.” Mrs. Gandhi told an excited House that they had to look into all aspects of the judgment which would take some time. The Prime Minister and the Minister of State, Mr. R.N. Mirdha, were not prepared to be drawn into a discussion on what exactly the Government proposed to do. But Mrs. Gandhi indicated that the Constitution was very clear on the issue and “I think we can proceed according to the constitution.” The constitution, she said, was not a static thing. It had been changed in other countries and in our country too, “If it is considered necessary to change it, certainly we will do it.”
17 December 2020||Mumbai,||SBI sees recovery narrowing FY21 GDP contraction to 7.4%||India’s GDP is expected to shrink 7.4% in FY21 on a better-than-projected recovery, SBI said in a research report, upgrading its earlier forecast of a 10.9% contraction. SBI’s research team also opined that it would take seven quarters from the fourth quarter of FY21 for GDP to reach the pre-pandemic level in nominal terms. “We now expect GDP decline for the full year to be in single digits at 7.4%... aligned with RBI and markets’ revised forecasts,” SBI said in its research report. It said the revised GDP estimates were based on SBI’s ‘Nowcasting Model’ with 41 high-frequency indicators associated with industry activity, service activity, and the global economy. Based on this model, GDP growth for third quarter was forecast to be about 0.1% (with downward bias). Out of the 41 high-frequency indicators, 58% were showing acceleration in the third quarter. Apart from Q3, the growth in Q4 would also be in positive territory (at 1.7%). However, all projections were conditional on the absence of another wave of infections, SBI said in its report. FY22 GDP growth was forecast at 11%, primarily due to base effect.  Govt. spending crucial It further said even as growth outlook had improved, the decline in government expenditure had been quite significant to Rs. 3.62 lakh crore in Q2, from Rs. 4.86 lakh crore in Q1. “We believe that a large part of fiscal expenditure by the government has been indirect... This gives us hope that the government might be able to spend in Q4 to resurrect growth further,” SBI’s researchers said.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears Rs. 3,500-cr. subsidy for sugar exports||The Centre approved a Rs. 3,500-crore subsidy to sugar mills to incentivise them to export 60 lakh tonnes of surplus stock in the 2020-21 season, helping them to clear payment arrears due to cane farmers. The decision, taken by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, would benefit five crore cane farmers and an equal number of mill workers, according to an official statement. The move comes at a time when thousands of farmers, including a group of cane farmers from U.P., are agitating on the borders of the national capital. The sugar industry as well as the farmers were in crisis with production at 310 lakh tonnes against the annual domestic consumption demand of 260 lakh tonnes, Prakash Javadekar, Information and Broadcasting Minister, told journalists after the Cabinet meeting. “Farmers sell their sugarcane to the sugar mills, however the farmers are not getting their dues from the sugar mill owners as they have surplus sugar stock. “To address this concern, the government is facilitating the evacuation of surplus sugar stock,” according to the official statement.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mistry’s removal illegal, oppressive: SP Group||Minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji Group on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the removal of Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons was oppressive and illegal. It said the ouster was against the good faith and trust Shapoorji Pallonji had enjoyed with the Tata group for decades. Appearing before a Bench led by CJI Sharad A. Bobde, senior advocate for SP Group Shyam Divan said the amended Companies Act ushered in a richer corporate governance model quite different from the ‘Raja-Praja’ model of the past. Mr. Divan said the management of the company lay with the board of directors, as per the Articles of Association and the law. The ouster of Mr. Mistry was ex-facie in breach of the Articles of Association of Tata Sons. He said the Articles of Association provided for a selection committee to be constituted to recommend the appointment of a person as the chairman of the board. The board may appoint the person so recommended as chairman, subject to Article 121, which required the affirmative vote of all directors. The termination of the chairman had to go through the same process as done for appointments. In fact, Mr. Mistry was praised for his work only a few months prior to his removal, Mr. Divan said.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Auto parts revenue to see double-digit contraction’||Auto components industry association ACMA said the sector would see a double-digit contraction this fiscal, after witnessing a 34% fall in the first half due to COVID-19-induced disruptions. Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) said it can take anywhere ‘between two to three years, depending on how steep the recovery is’ for the component makers to work out a whole-sector capex planning. In the first half of the fiscal, ACMA said the turnover of the automotive components industry stood at Rs. 1.19 lakh crore ($15.9 billion), registering a contraction of 34% as compared with Rs. 1.82 lakh crore ($26.2 billion) in the first half of FY20. ‘Zero revenue’ The performance has been affected mainly by the first- quarter performance when the auto sector had almost ‘zero revenue’ due to the nationwide lockdown, with restrictions continuing in the second quarter as well. “Going forward, obviously this year as well, because of the lockdown and the challenges we continue to face, we will have a double-digit contraction. As you know 34%, we have already contracted in the industry in H1. “Although we are optimistic about our H2 performance, we will not be able to completely recover from the Q1 and Q2 fiascos,” ACMA president Deepak Jain told reporters. The auto components sector has been set back by three to four years due to the pandemic and it could take two to three years for the sector to reach the peak levels of 2018-19. Mr. Jain, however, said the performance of the industry during the festive season had been heartening and there were indications that the demand for vehicles, in the coming months, would be sustained. “Together with increased focus of the auto industry on deep localisation and the recent announcement of PLI schemes for the sector and cell/battery manufacturing by the government, augur well towards making the industry a self-reliant one,” the industry association’s president added.
17 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||Sugar industry confident of meeting target||The sugar industry has welcomed the Centre’s decision on the export plan for 2020-2021 season. According to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA), the industry should be able to fulfil the export target of six million tonnes in 2020-2021 sugar season. Several large importing countries have been enquiring about Indian sugar this season. With a drop in production in Thailand, there is an opportunity for India to export to traditional markets such as Indonesia and Malaysia. At the current world prices, even if there is a small correction, exports would be viable with the subsidy of Rs. 6,000 a tonne. World prices are higher now compared with the same period last season.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||States get till February 15 to effect reforms||The Finance Ministry has extended the deadline till February 15 for States to implement reforms like one nation one ration card and those in the power sector to become eligible for additional borrowing in the current fiscal. To meet the extra fund requirements of States on account of COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre in May had decided to raise the borrowing limit of the States by 2% of their GSDP (Gross States Domestic Product), over and above the 3% limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. However, States were required to complete four specific reforms — implementation of one nation one ration card, ease-of-doing business reform, urban local body/ utility reforms and power sector reforms — by December 31, 2020, to get the benefit. Such States would get the facility of additional borrowing equivalent to 0.25% of their GSDP for completing each reform. “If the recommendation from the nodal Ministry on implementation of the reform is received by February 15, the State will be eligible for reform-linked benefits,” the Ministry said.   Sates were required to complete four specific reforms by December 31
17 December 2020||Chennai,||Roca, TVS SCS strengthen supply chain||Having clocked double-digit growth since October 2020, bathroom products maker Roca Parryware has strengthened its supply chain management (SCM) solution for its customers by extending its tie-up with TVS Supply Chain Solutions (TVS SCS). “Earlier, we did a pilot with TVS SCS for our Chennai operations. This is being extended now to a pan-India level covering factories, warehouses and import/export logistics,” said K.E. Ranganathan, MD, Roca Parryware. “TVS SCS has been helping us by transporting products to Roca dealers across India on time, every time,” he said.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Videocon lenders approve Twin Star Technologies bid||The lenders of Videocon Industries have approved the bid by Twin Star Technologies, promoted by billionaire Anil Agarwal’s family, under the insolvency resolution process of the debt-ridden firm. The resolution plan has now been filed before the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai, for approval, Videocon said in a regulatory filing.pti
17 December 2020||MUMBAI,||GSK Consumer forays into nasal wash segment with Otrivin saline spray||GSK Consumer Healthcare Ltd has introduced Otrivin Breathe Clean, a clinically-verified saline spray formulation for daily nasal wash to prevent respiratory diseases. With the moisturising benefit of natural glycerin, the product is recommended for daily use by children above two years and adults. The spray is priced at Rs. 335 for a 100 ml pack.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||LPG price up by Rs 50, ATF rises by 6.3%||Cooking gas LPG price on Wednesday was increased by Rs. 50 per cylinder, the second increase this month following firming of international prices. Also, aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price was raised by a steep 6.3%. Non-subsidised LPG price was increased to Rs. 694 per 14.2-kg cylinder from Rs. 644 earlier, according to a price notification of state fuel marketing companies. This is the second increase in rate this month.pti
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cricket resumes in city||Finally, cricketing action resumed in the City with the HCA hosting the A-Division (three-day) league championship at five venues on Wednesday. With HCA president Mohd. Azahruddin away in Delhi, a team of HCA officials led by the secretary R. Vijayanand, and including joint-secretary and chairman of leagues committee Naresh Sharma and vice-president K. John Manoj, visited every venue on Wednesday morning to see that things were in place. “Except at Gymkhana where there was a delayed start because of dew, all the matches were off to a prompt start. “We thank the ground staff and each and every member of the HCA for their support,” Vijayanand told The Hindu . More teams The Apex Council also decided to include two more teams in the three-day league — Combined Districts XI and Central Excise. In place of Andhra Bank and India Cements, Budding Stars and Zinda Tilismath were included in the three-day league, besides Concorde CC.  “This is with the specific objective of promoting cricket in all districts. For this reason, the districts team is permitted to have 16 players with the provision of two from each district,” he said. “Central Excise has been included as it has recruited eight players. We hope other Institutions will take a lead by giving jobs,” Vijayanand added. “There will be 22 teams in the A-Division (three-day) league. This will help us in identifying the core players to be considered for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament next month.”
17 December 2020||London,||Bad day for Chelsea and Man City||Two losses in four days has stalled Chelsea’s serene progress in the Premier League, turning the spotlight onto its expensively assembled attack that remains a work in progress. Two drab draws for Manchester City in the same period is raising even more questions — notably, what has happened to what was once the most entertaining team in England? It was an evening to forget for two of the league’s supposed title contenders on Tuesday, with Chelsea’s 2-1 loss at Wolverhampton — sealed by a winning goal in stoppage time — followed by City’s 1-1 draw at home to West Bromwich Albion, one of the favourites for relegation this season. Chelsea missed the chance to climb into first place, at least for one night, while City squandered an opportunity to move within sight of the top two in the division, Tottenham and Liverpool.   Lazio continued its patchy Serie A form with a 1-1 draw at Benevento on Tuesday as the Inzaghi brothers faced off on the sidelines. Simone Inzaghi’s Lazio has been wildly inconsistent domestically and sits eighth on 18 points after 12 matches. Benevento, led by former AC Milan, Juventus and Italy striker Filippo Inzaghi, moves up to 13th after the draw, six points above the relegation zone. Winning debut In the Bundesliga, Borussia Dortmund’s new head coach Edin Terzic enjoyed a winning debut as it narrowly beat Werder Bremen 2-1 away on Tuesday to earn its first win in four league games. The Ruhr valley club’s first win since mid-November moves it up to fourth place on 22 points. Werder is 13th on 11. In LaLiga, Real Madrid was made to toil by the 10 men of Athletic Bilbao but eventually won 3-1 on Tuesday thanks to two strikes from Karim Benzema, earning a fourth successive victory in all competitions. Athletic forward Raul Garcia was sent off in the 13th minute for a second booking.  The results: Premier League: Wolves 2 (Podence 66, Neto 90+5) bt Chelsea 1 (Giroud 49); Manchester City 1 (Gundogan 30) drew with West Brom 1 (Dias 43-og).   LaLiga: Real Madrid 3 (Kroos 45+1, Benzema 74, 90+2) bt Athletic Bilbao 1 (Capa 52).   Serie A: Udinese 0 drew with Crotone 0; Benevento 1 (Schiattarella 45) drew with Lazio 1 (Immobile 25).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Silva 22, 24-pen, Barkok 32) drew with Borussia Monchengladbach 3 (Stindl 14, 90-pen, 90+5); Hertha Berlin 0 drew with Mainz 0; Werder Bremen 1 (Moehwald 28) lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Guerreiro 12, Reus 78); Stuttgart 2 (Kalajdzic 85, 90) drew with Union Berlin 2 (Friedrich 4, Awoniyi 77).
17 December 2020||ADELAIDE,||Can India end Aussies’ pink-ball dominance?||India, having claimed a first series triumph on its last trip Down Under, will look for a repeat when it locks horns with Australia in the Day-Night Test at the Adelaide Oval from Thursday. Australia has featured in half of the 14 Day-Night matches played in Test cricket and won all seven by comfortable margins. India also won its only Day-Night Test, but the Bangladesh pace attack at Eden Gardens last year probably did not present as much of a threat in the evening sessions as Australia's will. Australia's pace battalion has flourished with the pink ball and India's batsmen will have to be at their best if they are to hand the host a first Test defeat under lights. Skipper Tim Paine said over the last few days Australia had also enjoyed a decent refresher course to prepare for the match, which will be played in front of a restricted crowd of 21,000. “We've managed to get three nights on the centre wicket at the Adelaide Oval, which I think is going to be a huge advantage to our team,” he said on Wednesday. India's pace attack was a key factor in their series win two years ago and the tourists are confident they still have enough firepower even without the injured Ishant Sharma. Top-order woes It is at the top of both batting orders that the biggest questions remain, with Australia missing David Warner for the first Test at least and India without Rohit Sharma until he completes 14 days of quarantine. While India stuck with an out-of-form Prithvi Shaw to partner Mayank Agarwal, Australia's plans were thrown into disarray when a concussion ruled out potential debutant Will Pucovski. Steve Smith trained on Wednesday despite a sore back, which means fans will be able to watch the world's two best batsmen in Adelaide for the only time in the series. Virat Kohli will leave for the birth of his child before the remaining matches in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane and will be desperate to open the series with a win, as his side did in Adelaide two years ago.  The teams:   India (playing XI): Virat Kohli (Capt.), Mayank Agarwal, Prithvi Shaw, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Hanuma Vihari, Wriddhiman Saha (wk), R. Ashwin, Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah, and Umesh Yadav.   Australia (from): Tim Paine (Capt. & wk), Joe Burns, Pat Cummins, Cameron Green, Marcus Harris, Josh Hazlewood, Travis Head, Moises Henriques, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Michael Neser, James Pattinson, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Mitchell Swepson, and Matthew Wade.   Umpires: Paul Reiffel and Bruce Oxenford; TV umpire: Rod Tucker; Match referee: David Boon.   Match starts at 9.30 a.m. IST.   Live on Sony Ten 1, 3 (SD & HD) and Sony Six (SD & HD) .
17 December 2020||MUMBAI,||My personality reflects new India: Kohli||Virat Kohli is immensely popular in Australia because of his feisty character and classy batting. The Indian skipper stole the headlines when Australia legend and former India coach Greg Chappell recently termed him the “most Australian non-Australian cricketer of all time." True to his nature, Kohli neither played it down nor revelled in it when asked to respond to the observation at a virtual media interaction on the eve of the first Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in Adelaide. “Firstly I would like to say that I have always been myself. The way my personality and character is, I think it is a representation of the new India. And for me that’s how I look at it. It’s not as such in my mind a comparison of me being similar to the Australian mindset or anything like that,” Kohli said. “For me, it’s how we have started to stand up as the Indian cricket team. And my personality has been this way from day one. This, for me, is a representation of the new India where we want to take on challenges and move forward with optimism and positivity, and make sure we are up and ready for any challenge that comes our way.” But Kohli did admit that he enjoyed playing in Australia. "I have been touring here for many years and it is a wonderful place to play cricket," Kohli said. "When you perform well, you earn the respect of the public. Obviously there will be anticipation and chat around wanting to see you play. Similarly with Jasprit [Bumrah]. Last time he performed really well here. There is obviously going to be anticipation and excitement to watch him bowl.” Kohli will return to India after the floodlit Test for the birth of his first child. But he has backed his deputy Ajinkya Rahane to step up to the challenge of taking over the reigns.“I am sure he will do a tremendous job in my absence. But [my] focus till the time I am here remains on providing captaincy, leadership and performances as a player to the best of my abilities. “I have said this before... I feel like this is his (Rahane) time to step up and perform strongly as an individual and captain as well. We have had a lot of mutual understanding and respect over the years. He seems to be very composed and he knows the strengths of our team and how we need to go about things.”
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||The human side of two giants||Skipper Virat Kohli urging the Indian fans not to boo Steve Smith during the World Cup match against Australia at The Oval in London was one of the most heart-warming moments of the 2019 edition. In the build-up to the Test series that begins in Adelaide on Thursday, Kohli and Smith were involved in a 30-minute chat. The Australian batsman asked Kohli: “What prompted you to approach the Indian crowd and ask them to stop booing me when we played our World Cup match?” “To me, an incident happened and you guys realised what had happened. You came back after a long time, having gone through everything that you had to,” replied Kohli, referring to Smith coming back after serving a one-year ban following the ball-tampering scandal during Australia’s tour of South Africa in 2018 when he was the captain. “Nothing can be that permanent that you carry it for life. People make mistakes and learn from it. I felt it was not fair to target an individual personally. As much as we play against each other, there is a human side to things as well,” said Kohli. Thanking the Indian skipper, Smith said, “I treasured that. Remember, I sent you a message that night, saying it was top class.” Kohli’s gesture earned him the 2019 ICC Spirit of Cricket Award.
17 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||State table tennis: Snehit and Sreeja triumph||S.F.R. Snehit, a final year student of Journalism in St. Joseph’s College and A. Sreeja of Reserve Bank of India, both trained by Somnath Ghosh at MLR Academy, emerged champions in the men’s and women’s sections respectively in the seventh Stag Telangana State table tennis championships at Anandnagar Welfare Association Sports Academy Indoor Hall here on Wednesday.  The results: Men: Super League: First round: S.F.R. Snehit (MLR) bt Mohd. Ali (LBS) 6-11, 11-7, 11-7, 11-8; bt Swarnendu (AVSC) 11-7,11-5, 11-8; bt Amaan Balgu (RSCB) 11-8, 11-3, 11-1; bt Zubair Farooqui (LBS) 11-9, 4-11, 11-3; bt Ali Mohd. (AVSC) 11-4, 9-11, 11-1, 11-6; bt Chandra Chud 11-6, 11-6, 11-3; bt Sashwat Samal (MLR) 11-7, 6-14, 12-10.   Second round: Amaan bt Sashwat 11-9, 11-7, 11-7; bt Swarnendu 11-6, 12-10, 11-8; bt Mohd. Ali 11-6, 13-11, 11-9; bt Chud 11-3, 11-4, 11-7; bt Zubair 11-9, 11-5, 6-11, 11-9.   Third round: Mohd. Ali bt Swarnendu 11-8, 11-7, 11-2; bt Sashwat Samal 11-8, 11-7, 11-6; bt Ali Mohd. 11-1, 11-7, 11-8; bt Chud 11-3, 8-11, 11-5, 11-7; bt Zubair 11-6, 3-11, 11-9, 11-5.   Fourth round: Chud bt Zubair 11-7, 11-7, 11-5; bt Sashwat 11-6, 11-7, 10-12, 11-8; bt Ali Mohd. 11-9, 9-11, 4-11, 11-8, 11-5; bt Swarnendu 13-11, 11-4, 11-8. Fifth round: Ali Mohd. bt Zubair 11-7, 11-13, 12-10, 6-11, 12-10; bt Amaan 11-3,11-7, 5-11, 6-11, 11-2; bt Sashwat 9-11, 10-12, 11-4, 14-12. Sixth round: Zubair bt Swarnendu 11-1, 11-9, 11-4; bt Sashwat 7-11, 11-7, 11-9, 11-9. Seventh round: Sashwat bt Swarnendu 8-11, 11-8, 11-6, 11-8.   Qualifiers for Nationals: Snehit, Amaan, Mohd. Ali, Chud, Ali Mohd., Zubair, Sashwat, Swarnendu.   Women: Super League, first round: A. Sreeja (RBI) bt V. Laasya (AWASA) 11-8, 11-8, 11-4; bt N. Bhaavitha (GSM) 9-11, 11-6, 11-7, 11-4; bt V. Saasya (AWA) 11-6, 11-8, 11-8; bt M. Mounica (GSM) 11-9, 9-11. 11-13, 11-9, 11-5; bt Raaga Niveditha (MLR) 11-9, 11-3, 11-7; bt Varuni Jaiswal (GSM) 11-6, 11-6, 8-11, 11-8.   Second round: Varuni bt Mounica 11-6, 9-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-5; bt Laasya 11-4, 11-5, 11-8; bt Saasya 10-12, 11-9, 13-11, 9-11, 11-2; bt Niveditha 9-11, 11-3, 10-12, 11-4, 12-10.   Third round: N. Bhaavitha (GSM) bt Niveditha 11-13, 5-11, 11-7, 11-6, 11-5; bt Mounica 11-6, 12-14, 11-8, 11-7; bt Varuni 13-15, 9-11, 11-9, 11-9, 11-8.   Fourth round: Monica bt Laasya 9-11, 11-5, 7-11, 12-10, 11-4; bt Saasya 11-9, 11-8, 12-10; bt Niveditha 11-9, 17-15, 8-11, 11-8.   Fifth round: Niveditha bt Laasya 11-8, 5-11, 11-5, 11-4; bt Saasya 3-11, 11-6, 7-11, 11-7, 11-4.   Sixth round: Saasya bt Laasya 11-8, 11-6, 8-11, 12-14, 11-7; bt Bhaavitha 11-8, 11-5, 8-11, 11-9.   Seventh round: Laasya bt Bhaavitha 6-11, 11-6, 11-9, 13-11.   Eight round: Pranitha bt Saasya 7-11, 11-8, 11-9, 12-10.   Qualifiers for Nationals: Sreeja, Varuni, Bhaavitha, Monica, Niveditha, Saasya, Laasya, Pranitha .
17 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Giant Star vs Ashwa Bravo||The Mumbai challenger Giant Star and the Hyderabad contender Ashwa Bravo should fight out the finish of the South India 2000 Guineas (1,600m), the stellar attraction of the races to be held here on Thursday (Dec. 17).  NIJINSKY PLATE (1,000m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms), 2.00 p.m.: 1. Beauteous Maximus (1) Zervan 56, 2. Knott So Knotty (7) Antony Raj 56, 3. Glorious Symphony (6) Yash 54.5, 4. La Nora (9) B. Nikhil 54.5, 5. Lady Solitaire (5) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 6. Pink Pearl (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 7. Royal Pearl (4) Brisson 54.5, 8. Subjucate (3) C. Umesh 54.5 and 9. Sweet Fragrance (8) P.S. Chouhan 54.5.  1. ROYAL PEARL,   2. GLORIOUS SYMPHONY,   3. BEAUTEOUS MAXIMUS   CHESTER PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 2.30: 1. Farewell (6) Brisson 60, 2. Grand Royal (3) Zervan 60, 3. Shreya’s Pet (1) Shahar Babu 60, 4. Penang (9) Yash 59.5, 5. Epistoiary (10) Antony Raj 58.5, 6. Katahdin (11) Stephen Raj 58.5, 7. Country’s Grace (2) S. Kamble 57, 8. Rwanda (8) Akshay Kumar 57, 9. Lady Blazer (7) M. Carim 55, 10. Majestic Wind (4) C. Umesh 55, 11. Queen Justitia (5) A.M. Alam 54 and 12. Sundance (12) Muzaffar 53.  1. PENANG, 2. RWANDA,   3. GRAND ROYAL   ORIGINAL VEL B. SAMPATH KUMAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3.00: 1. Blind Love (10) S. Kamble 56, 2. Sir Baffert (7) C. Umesh 56, 3. Star Caliber (1) Brisson 56, 4. Star Chieftain (4) Rajendra Singh 56, 5. Supreme Excelsior (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Alwaysastar (2) Shahar Babu 54.5, 7. Divina (8) P. Trevor 54.5, 8. Lady Zean (9) B. Nikhil 54.5, 9. Senora Bianca (5) Yash 54.5, 10. Tifosi (11) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 11. Zarriya (6) P. Sai Kumar 54.5.  1. SENORA BIANCA,   2. SIR BAFFERT,   3. SUPREME EXELSIOR   SOUTH INDIA 2000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o only (Terms), 3.30: 1. Ashwa Bravo (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Beethovan (7) Srinath 57, 3. Garamond (-) (-) 57, 4. Giant Star (2) Yash 57, 5. Hope Island (5) S. John 57, 6. Lordship (1) Brisson 57, 7. Sporting Memories (8) P. Trevor 57, 8. Star Symbol (3) Akshay Kumar 57, 9. Star Templar (6) Nakhat Singh 57, 10. Taimur (10) A. Sandesh 57 and 11. Vachan (9) P. S. Chouhan 57.  1. GIANT STAR, 2. ASHWA BRAVO, 3. SPORTING MEMORIES   P.M. ANTONY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (outstation horses are eligible), 4.00: 1. Never Again (11) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Bora Bora (2) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Storm Flag (12) Yash 59, 4. Kingoftheworld (3) Antony Raj 58, 5. Oscar Thunder (7) P. Trevor 56, 6. Rutbedaar (5) P. S. Chouhan 54.5, 7. Priceless Ruler (9) Nakhat Singh 53, 8. Queen Of Venice (10) C. Umesh 52, 9. Cher Amie (1) Zervan 51.5, 10. Pretty Gal (6) M. Bhaskar 51.5, 11. Wonder Blaze (8) S. Kamble 51.5 and 12. Glorious Fire (4) A.M. Alam 51.  1. STORM FLAG,   2. OSCAR THUNDER, 3. CHER AMIE   ONCE AGAIN PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 4.30: 1. Heart Of Gold (7) Shahar Babu 60, 2. Famous Queen (10) Stephen Raj 58, 3. Dream Run (1) C. Umesh 57.5, 4. Arazan’s Diamond (9) Farhan 56, 5. Shelomi (4) B. Nikhil 56, 6. Velocity (3) Muzaffar 56, 7. Cleona (2) A.M. Alam 55, 8. Gardiner (6) M. Carim 54.5, 9. Betty Boop (5) Azfar Syeed 54 and 10. Parrys Corner (8) S. Kamble 54.  1. DREAM RUN,   2. HEART OF GOLD, 3. CLEONA  Jkt: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini Jkt: 3, 4, 5 & 6; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India set to bid for 2027 AFC Asian Cup||India is set to bid for the 2027 Asian Football Confederation (AFC) Asian Cup, confident of getting the nod ahead of Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Iran. Making the announcement here on Wednesday, All India Football Federation president Praful Patel sounded extremely optimistic of India’s prospects of playing the host to the prestigious quadrennial competition. The last date for submitting the bid is December 18 and the AFC is likely to announce the winning bid in the second quarter of 2021. Bright chance When The Hindu asked Patel how realistic was India’s chances of clinching the bid ahead of competitors like Qatar and Saudi Arabia, he said, “Our chances are bright. Qatar is hosting the next World Cup and Saudi Arabia is a leading football nation in the continent. That does not mean we don’t have a chance. Impressing AFC “As you are aware, China is hosting the next edition of the Asian Cup (in 2023). So why can’t we impress the AFC to give us an opportunity to host the event? After all, we gained the host the 2017 FIFA under-17 World Cup and two other major events in 2022 (the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup and the AFC Women’s Asian Cup) by outbidding other contenders.” Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju assured all help from the Union Government and reiterated his commitment to do his best for the National Sports Federations to bring in “big events” to the country.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||National stadium to have squash courts||The Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium at India Gate, that had hosted the inaugural Asian Games in 1951, and known for its hockey facility, is all set to add squash in its complex. The Union External Affairs Minister, Dr. S. Jaishankar, himself an avid squash player, laid the foundation for six squash courts at the Stadium, adjacent to the tennis courts, in the presence of the Union Sports Minister, Kiren Rijiju, on Wednesday. Democratising sport Looking forward to playing at the facility, estimated to cost about Rs. 5.52 crore, and scheduled to be ready in six months, the External Affairs Minister said that such facilities would democratise sport. “We have to democratise sport, it must not be a privilege. Most of the sports in which we have done well is because it has been democratised. I hope, in the case of squash, it is one step in that direction,” Dr. Jaishankar said. Interestingly, three of the six courts will have moving wall facility that would convert them into doubles courts as well. “To have space in the National Stadium itself has its own significance. This facility is not only going to be world class but also a Centre of Excellence where we will be producing world champions. “I am sure budding players will take maximum benefit of this centre,” said the Sports Minister Rijiju. Present among others were the Director General of Sports Authority of India (SAI), Sandip Pradhan and the secretary general of the Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI), Cyrus Poncha.
17 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Ankola to head MCA’s selection panel||Salil Ankola, the former India pacer, has been appointed as chairman of Mumbai’s selection panel for the forthcoming domestic season, set to begin on January 10 with the Syed Mushtaq Ali (T20) Trophy. The coach, however, still has not been named. In a statement issued by the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA), Ankola along with four others — Sanjay Patil, Ravi Thakkar, Zulfiqar Parkar and Ravi Kulkarni — have been appointed based on the recommendations by the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC). The CIC, chaired by Lalchand Rajput and which includes Sameer Dighe and Raju Kulkarni, had on December 2 submitted its short-listed candidates for selectors’ and coach’s positions. However, the MCA apex council after rounds of heated discussion among its members eventually appointed the selection committee on Wednesday till March 31. Ankola thus returns to active cricket fold after spending a long time away. Having represented India in one Test and 20 ODIs, besides glittering stints for Mumbai and Maharashtra in domestic cricket, Ankola forayed into acting since the late 1990s. Patil is the lone survivor from last year’s selection panel. The selection committee will now have to at least short-list probables with barely a fortnight remaining for the team’s departure on January 2. It is understood that the CIC, after interviewing 24 candidates in September, has recommended Sulakshan Kulkarni and Amit Pagnis as the top two choices for the coach’s post. Kulkarni, who was the coach of Mumbai for three seasons starting 2011-12, is the first choice but MCA officials are understood to be negotiating financial terms with him. Interestingly, ahead of the last season, Kulkarni’s expected return as Mumbai coach could not materialise due to the same reasons.
17 December 2020||Dubai,||Zimbabwe to host qualifiers of 2023 ODI World Cup||Zimbabwe will host the qualifiers of the 2023 ODI World Cup between June 18 and July 9, according to a revised scheduled announced by the ICC due to the postponements caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. India, hosts of the rescheduled 2023 ODI World Cup, along with seven other top Super League teams will qualify directly for the tournament to be held in October-November. The bottom five teams from the Super League will compete in the 2023 World Cup qualifier, joining the best three teams from League 2. “When we rescheduled the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023 to October and November 2023 it enabled us to extend the window for qualification events to take place and thereby ensure we maximise the opportunity for qualification to be decided on the field of play,” ICC head of events, Chris Tetley said in a statement.  The ICC also announced the schedule of the World League 2 and the Challenge League. According to the schedule, the World Cup League 2 ODIs will begin on March 19 next year with Oman playing host to USA and Nepal in a sixth series of six ODIs. “There will be 96 ODIs played across the 14 series that are scheduled to be played in 2021 and 2022 respectively and the remaining two in early 2023,” the ICC said.
17 December 2020||PARIS,||Olympics the centrepiece of a crammed 2021 sporting calendar||The rescheduled Tokyo Olympics will be the centrepiece of a crammed sporting year in 2021 as administrators, who had their calendars wiped away by COVID-19, try to fill the gaps even as a second wave hits. While the Games will still be called the 2020 Olympics, they have been changed by the pandemic. Tokyo organisers and the Japanese government are struggling with increased costs and, despite the growing possibility of vaccination, whether to allow foreign visitors and what safeguards and restrictions will apply to spectators and participants. In early December, organisers said the delayed Games will cost at least an extra $2.4 billion as the unprecedented peacetime postponement and a raft of pandemic health measures inflated a budget that was already over $13 billion. Dip in enthusiasm Enthusiasm appears to have waned in Japan. A poll in July showed that just one in four people wanted to see the Games held in 2021 — and a majority backed either further delay or cancellation. “Whether it’s seen as too much or that we have done well to contain the costs, I think it depends on how you look at it,” said Tokyo 2020 CEO Toshiro Muto. A simple affair Organisers have reduced the number of free tickets, scaled down the opening ceremony and made savings on mascots, banners and meals, but so far have cut just $280 million. “It will be simple rather than festive, but I hope it will be something moving that encourages people through the power of sport,” he said. The organisers are determined to go ahead next year, even if the pandemic has not receded. They want to welcome foreign spectators and plan to waive quarantine requirements. They plan to require fans to wear masks, to refrain from cheering and keep their ticket stubs for contact tracing. Athletes will be asked to arrive late and leave early, minimise their time in the Olympic village, refrain from speaking loudly, avoid physical contact and wear masks when not competing or training. They will be screened on arrival and undergo tests every four to five days. “I think the Games will go off,” World Athletics president Sebastian Coe said this month. “What nobody is clearly across at the moment, is... whether we are going to have a stadium populated by good, noisy, passionate fans.” The challenge for the organisers is considerable, since the Games bring together 11,000 athletes from 206 countries, accompanied by at least 5,000 officials and coaches, 20,000 media representatives and 60,000 volunteers.  The organisers want to welcome foreign spectators, plan to waive quarantine requirements
17 December 2020||MUSCAT,||Qatar to host 2030 Asian Games, 2034 edition in Saudi Arabia||The 2030 Asian Games were awarded to Doha on Wednesday and the 2034 event went to Riyadh after a deal was struck between the rival nations. Doha beat Riyadh for the 2030 Games in the vote at the Olympic Council of Asia’s (OCA) general assembly. The vote took place amid a bitter and long-running political dispute between Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Saudi Arabia is one of four countries which has imposed a trade and travel boycott on Qatar since 2017. The OCA reached a deal to vote on the 2030 host but to give the other candidate the 2034 event. That means no winner, no loser, OCA president Sheikh Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah of Kuwait said, thanking the Saudi and Qatari Foreign Ministers and conference host Oman for helping to broker the agreement. Qatari bid officials wore masks and waved flags as they celebrated together. Vote totals were not immediately announced. Qatar will also host the 2022 World Cup. The vote on Wednesday was repeatedly delayed by problems with the electronic voting system with many delegates taking part remotely amid the pandemic. In the hall, 26 delegates were given paper ballots and 19 voted remotely.
17 December 2020||DUBAI,||WTC: India needs to step it up||India can’t afford too many slip-ups in the away series against Australia and the next home assignment against England as the race for the World Test Championship (WTC) final is reaching its climax. The Indians are in third place in the ICC Test rankings with 114 rating points. Australia, with 116.46, is followed closely by New Zealand (116.37). If New Zealand beats Pakistan 2-0 in the two-Test series, which starts at Mount Maunganui on December 26, it will finish on 420 points from five series. India will then need five wins, or four wins and three draws, from eight Tests — against Australia and England — to qualify.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Age no bar for jnana||Age has nothing to do with the seeking of jnana, and Nachiketas is a classic example of this, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. When Nachiketas’s father Vajasravas donated weak, old cows, the boy objected that this was sinful. Nachiketas repeatedly asked his father to whom he would give his son (Nachiketas) as daana. “I will give you to Yama,” replied Vajasravas. And Nachiketas, despite his remorseful father’s protests, went to Yama loka. Yama was away when the boy arrived, but Nachiketas waited for his return. When Yama returned, he promised three boons to Nachiketas. Nachiketas first requested that his father must never lose his temper, and must be blessed with a calm disposition. Secondly, he said yagas were performed to reach Vishnu loka, and wanted to know the mantras to be recited during the performance of yagas. His third question was about the atma. What happened to the atma when a person died? Yama offered other things, for these questions were profound and he was not sure Nachiketas could understand the answers. Yama suggested that he could bless Nachiketas with thousands of years of life. He could give him untold wealth. But Nachiketas wanted none of this. He wanted tattva upadesa. Yama then said, “Man’s body is like a chariot. The owner of this chariot is the atma. The driver is the intellect [buddhi]. The mind is the bridle. The indriyas are the horses. The paths the chariot takes are the good and bad in this world. So, if you do not control the horses [indriyas] using the bridle [manas], then the horses will move as they please and the chariot will overturn. Controlling the manas is, therefore, of utmost importance, and to achieve this, you have to recite the name of Lord Narayana.”
17 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxer Manoj writes to PM||Commonwealth Games gold medallist Manoj Kumar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to save the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) from possible derecognition by the Sports Ministry. Olympian Manoj, who is an athletes’ representative in the BFI, said in a statement that the BFI was mandated by the Delhi High Court to conduct its elections before December 31 to continue as a national sports federation. The BFI elections have been postponed due to the pandemic.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna stars for ATKMB||Roy Krishna earned a penalty and scored off it as ATK Mohun Bagan FC eked out a 1-0 win over FC Goa in its Indian Super League match at the Fatorda Stadium on Wednesday. The 33-year-old Fiji striker, who was quiet for most part, was fouled inside the box by defender Aibanha Dohling in the 84th minute when the former tried to dribble past him. Though Goa goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz guessed it right, Krishna’s shot was too good. It was the Krishna’s fifth goal of the campaign. ATKMB moved up a spot to second with 13 points from six matches while Goa remained sixth place with eight points from six games.  The Kolkata side sat deep after being a goal up while Goa attacked relentlessly. Arguably possessing one of the best defences in the ISL, ATKMB was able to defy the Gaurs’ attacks. Off one such Goa raid, a 1-2 between Igor Angulo and Jorge Mendoza saw the latter fail to connect the ball with just the ’keeper to beat. Goa also came very close to scoring when Saviour Gama produced a powerful long-ranger, but the ball was fisted away by ATKMB custodian Arindham Bhattacharja. It was largely an insipid first session with both teams unable to make an impact in the final third. Goa captain Edu Bedia, the midfield-general of the team, did not have one of his best days. With five minutes remaining in the opening period, a diagonal ball from the defence reached Williams on the right. The Australian made enough space with one touch and unleashed a left-footer. His shot beat the goalkeeper, but ricocheted off the right post.  The result: ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Roy Krishna 84-pen) bt FC Goa 0.   Thursday’s match: Odisha FC vs Bengaluru FC, 7.30 p.m .
17 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Lukman performs hat-trick||Real Kashmir rode on Nigerian striker Lukman Adefemi’s hat-trick to trounce Mohammedan Sporting 4-0 and reach the final of the 123rd IFA Shield football tournament at the Salt Lake Stadium here on Wednesday. George Telegraph rallied to beat United SC 2-1 in the other semifinal at the Kalyani Stadium.  The results:   Real Kashmir 4 (Lukman 59, 66, 87, Mason Robertson 91) bt Mohammedan Sporting 0.   George Telegraph 2 (Saddam Hossain Mondal 78, Stanley Eze 82) bt United SC 1 (Basudeb Mandi 18).
17 December 2020||Adelaide,||We expect Smith to be fit, says Paine||Australian batting mainstay Steve Smith, whose fitness became a cause of concern after he missed a training session, was merely down with a stiff back and will play in the opening Test against India here, skipper Tim Paine said on Wednesday. Paine said it was not a serious niggle and a day’s rest came as a “blessing in disguise” for the star. “We expect Steve to be there. He has had a stiff back a number of times before and you can have that if you bat as much as he does at the nets,” Paine said.
17 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chess Kerala’s GP tournaments from today||Chess Kerala’s online Grand Prix tournaments will get underway on Thursday. The seven tournaments are being held as a fund raiser for Chess Kerala’s benevolent schemes. The registration fees and donations from participants will be used to help chess coaches and trainers who have been rendered jobless due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of its move to honour its legends, Chess Kerala has dedicated each Grand Prix tournament in memory of a former player or an official who has left an indelible mark in the history of the game in Kerala. The inaugural tournament on December 17 will be known as K.P.R. Gopalan memorial tournament. Chess Kerala will give a token cash award of Rs. 100 to the top 30 players in each tournament. The top 100 players will compete for the mega finals which will be held on December 27. Chess Kerala will take strict action against those who resort to cheating.  The schedule: December 17: K.P.R. Gopalan memorial; December 18: A. Sasidharan memorial; December 19: Dr. Meenakshi Sundaram memorial; December 20: Antony Thyparampil memorial; December 21: K.C. Sebastian memorial; December 22: T.K. Joseph memorial; December 22: S.H. Thangal memorial. December 27: Mega finals.
17 December 2020||Chennai,||TN names probables for T20 tournament||“We have picked a combination of youth and experience,” said Tamil Nadu selection panel chairman S. Vasudevan to The Hindu after the committee chose 26 probables for the State team’s initial round matches of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 tournament to be held in Kolkata from January 10 to 19. Vasudevan said a 15-member squad will be selected from the probables with an additional five players to accompany the team to Kolkata just in case a few cricketers are brought down by COVID-19. He added, “We are strong in batting. We will have to find the right balance in our attack.” Tamil Nadu will be without R. Ashwin, Washington Sundar and T. Natarajan, who are away in Australia. The probables include Kerala pacer Sandeep Warrior, Arun Karthick (from Puducherry) and seamer Aswin Crist, returning from injury after three years.  The probables: Dinesh Karthik, M. Vijay, B. Aparajith, B. Indrajith, Vijay Shankar, M. Shahrukh Khan, C. Hari Nishaanth, Pradosh Ranjan Paul, K.B. Arun Karthick, Akshay V. Srinivasan, N. Jagadeesan, M. Abhinav, Aswin Crist, M. Mohammad, G. Periyasamy, Sandeep Warrier, S. Harish Kumar, K. Vignesh, R. Silambarasan, J. Kousik, R. Sonu Yadav, M. Ashwin, R. Sai Kishore, M. Siddharth, L. Sathiyannaarayanan, M.E. Yazh Arun Mozhi.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish Rana powers LBS Club to victory||A blistering 69 by Nitish Rana (40b, 5x6, 5x4), powered Lal Bahadur Shastri Club to a 140-run victory over Sporting Club in the quarterfinals of the 30th All India Sperry Om Nath Sood memorial cricket tournament here on Wednesday.  The scores:   LB Shastri Club 319 for six in 40 overs (Priyansh Arya 82, Unmukt Chand 78, Nitish Rana 69, Hiten Dalal 39) bt Sporting 179 in 29.2 overs (Lalit Yadav 58, Abhimanyu Yadav 42, Yash Garg 3/40).    A fine century by Ajay Kumar (137) and a four-wicket haul by Neeraj Chaudhary helped MM Sports beat Hemant Ratan Academy by 103 runs in the semifinals of the Manoj Soni memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   MM Sports 326 for seven in 40 overs (Ajay Kumar 137, Adarsh Sharma 52, Shubham Gangwal 37, Vivek Tiwari 5/83) bt Hemant Ratan Academy 223 in 31.2 overs (Rohit Kumar 62, Nikhil Sangwan 40, Neeraj Chaudhary 4/49).      Half-centuries by Vibhor Gaur (64 n.o.) and Kunal Sangwan (57) guided Sporting Club to a seven-wicket winover Uday Gupte Academy in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial under-14 cricket tournament.  The scores:   Uday Gupte Academy 210 for four in 40 overs (Shahan Rawat 109, Aditya Kumar 34, Kairav Singhani 29) lost to Sporting Club 211 for three in 27.1 overs (Vibhor Gaur 64 n.o., Kunal Sangwan 57, Yash Solanki 32).    Sam Sports Academy defeated Ashish Nehra Academy by 57 runs in the seventh SN Dubey memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   Sam Sports 191 for eight in 40 overs (Samarth Saini 44, Ritik Bhati 37, Lucky Rajput 32, Shivang Swaroop 3/34) bt Ashish Nehra Academy 134 in 32.4 overs (Anshul Bhati 3/24).    A five-wicket haul by Bittu Kumar and an unbeaten 45 by Somvir Sheokand fashioned a seven-wicket win for Rann Star Club against San Time Academy in the fifth Shanti Devi memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   San Time Academy 104 in 29.5 overs (Hitesh Boora 30, Bittu Kumar 5/10, Ankit Redhu 3/30) lost to Rann Star Club 108 for three in 11.3 overs (Sombir Sheokand 45 not out, Nitin Singh 30).      Mrigank Pathak hit an unbeaten 103 to power Friends Club to a seven-wicket win over Gyanti Academy in the final of the Ghevra Cup cricket tournament at the Ghevra ground.  The scores:   Gyanti Academy 190 in 38.2 overs (Aryan Raj 62, Yashwardhan Obrai 45, Dhruv Sarsoonia 4/47) lost to Friends Club 194 for three in 29.3 overs (Mrigank Pathak 103 n.o.).      Bimla Dobhal Academy (BMA) to a two-wicket victory over Mata Bhatti Devi Cricket Academy in the semifinals of the Ratan Lal Saini memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: Mata Bhatti Devi Academy 155 in 39 overs (Manthan Tanwar 55, Mehul Malik 36, Madhur Fulara 3/33, Maazin Hussain 3/11) lost to Bimla Dobhal Academy 159 for eight in 39.4 overs (Sumit Raj 43 n.o., Himanshu Negi 35, Gautam 3/12, Aman Kumar 3/19) .      Abhishek Bairu (52) and Manish Gour (43) helped LB Shastri Center to a three-wicket victory over SAI Develop Zone in the Tripathi Premier League cricket tournament.  The scores:   AI Develop Zone 202 for six in 35 overs (Lakshay Thareja 65 n.o., Shami Singh 57 n.o.) lost to LB Shastri Center 203 for seven in 34.3 overs (Abhishek Bairu 52, Manish Gour 43, Aditya Sharma 3/21) .      Ravindra Academy scored an 18-run victory over M-10 Academy for a semifinal berth in the Backyard Cricket tournament in Mundka.  The scores:   Ravindra Academy 167 for six in 30 overs (Aarush 58, Hanu Rana 32) bt M-10 Academy 149 for eight in 30 overs (Aniket Dhankar 63, Shubham Saini 3/18).      Swayam Kaushik guided Telefunken Club to a three-wicket win over Rohtak Road Gymkhana in the Bhola Singh memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   Rohtak Road Gymkhana 187 for eight in 40 overs (Abhishek Kumar 53) lost to Telefunken Club 190 for seven in 39.5 overs (Swayam Kaushik 64, Yash Dabas 51, Tushar 32, Shreshth Yadav 3/18).
17 December 2020||Bengaluru:,||Yashas sets up Merchants’ win over Friends||B.Y. Yashas’ unbeaten 86 set up Merchants CC (1)’s 61-run win over Friends CC in the KSCA Twenty20 tournament. In another encounter, Kushal Pramesh’s fine bowling (4/1) helped The Bangalore Cricketers beat Canara Union CC by six wickets.  The scores:   Friends Union Cricketers, KGF 151/8 in 17 overs (B.R. Yatish Kumar 42, Raj Kumar 3/24) bt Malleswaram SC 128/6 in 17 overs (Sri Hari 25, Shoheb 69) [Match was reduced to 17 overs because of rain].   Crescent (1) 137 in 19.3 overs (Anand Gowda 51, Hari Rajiv 25) lost to Jawahar SC (2) 141/5 in 15.5 overs (Chaitanya 26, Ravi Kumar 48 n.o., L.R. Kumar 34).   Eminent Cricketers 86/9 in 20 overs (Shivukumar 3/14) lost to Jaidur Cricketers 87/5 in 10.5 overs (Tejas 39).   Merchants (1) 166/5 in 20 overs (B.Y. Yashas 86 n.o., Satish 38) bt Friends Cricket Team 105 in 18.4 overs (Asif 39, Aevanth 3/19).   Silky Town 191/7 in 20 overs (Somashekar 44, Basith Ali 41, Ravi 26, Siddanth 4/23) bt Standard 71 in 15.5 overs (Murugan 40, Asif 3/16).   Bangalore Star CA 188/5 in 20 overs (Mohan Narahari 32, R. Rahul 53 n.o.) bt Gary Cricketers 125/5 in 20 overs (Nishanth 37, Akhilesh 42).   Blaze , Hoskote 112/7 in 20 overs (V. Deepak 48) lost to Friends Union (2) 113/4 in 16.5 overs (Naveen Bala 28, Rohan 37 n.o.).   National United 117 in 19.4 overs (Yashwanth 42, Vishnu Balaji 3/16) bt Karnataka Youth, Malur 115/8 in 20 overs.   Canara Union 34 in 10.1 overs (Kushal Pramesh 4/1) lost to The Bangalore Cricketers 38/4 in 5.2 overs.   Sparklers 53 in 14.4 overs (Samarth Hegde 3/13, Sharana Basava 3/7) lost to Wilson Garden 57/3 in 8.3 overs (Ayudh Sharma 28 n.o.).   Young Lions Club 158/8 in 18 overs (Prajwal 35, Shareef 30, Chandrashekar 4/29) bt Seshadripuram College 103/9 in 18 overs (Shrihari 65, Jayasurya 3/16).   Huttons 154/8 in 20 overs (Naveen 29, Sai Susheel 25, Ronaq 26, Dushyanth 33) lost to Hanumanthnagar 156/2 in 17.3 overs (Rakshith 31, Vikram 72 n.o., Thejas 29).   Dolphins 126 in 20 overs (N.S. Tarun 31, Adarsh 31, Aditya 3/24) lost to Bangalore Sports 130/8 in 19.2 overs (Jeetu 28, Vaibhav 26 n.o., Siddhil 4/36).   Young Pioneer 151/8 in 20 overs (Pavan 54, Anish 45) bt Sangam CA 147/8 in 20 overs (Mujahid 38, Kamal 26, Adarsh 29, Rahul 34 n.o.).      R. Kishan and Preemal Joan wrested back the lead at the end of the first block of six games in round two of the Karnataka State Tenpin Bowling Championships on Wednesday. A total pinfall of 1218 on the day took Kishan to 3533. Akaash Ashok Kumar, with 3514 pins, is second while Salman Khan with 3559 is third. In the women’s category, Preemal had a fine day, scoring 1042 pins to regain the lead and finish with a total pinfall of 3013 from 18 games. Overnight leader Geetha Poojary slipped to second position (2977).     Akshay Neranjen and Hridika Vora emerged the leaders in men’s and women’s amateur categories respectively with identical cards of 2-under 70 at the end of the first round of the RBG South Zone Tour Championship 2020 here on Wednesday.  Men’s Amateur & Teen A Boys: Akshay Neranjen 70; Dhruv Bopanna 71; Shaurya Binu 72.   Women’s Amateur & Teen A Girls: Hridika Vora 70; Nishna Patel 77, 81 Vidushi Keni .    Saraswathipuram SC defeated RBNCC by 30-runs in the final of the Sri M. Gopalaswami memorial cricket here on Wednesday.  The scores (final): Saraswathipuram SC 228 for eight in 50 overs (Ashun Kumar Shetty 54, Goutham Sagar 45, Yashaswin Gowda 35 n.o., M.B. Darshan four for 49) bt RBNCC 198 in 48.3 overs (L. Hemanth Kumar 51, Kruthik Krishna 42, P.V. Preetham 35, L. Karthik Kumar three for 34) .
17 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Ambati Rayudu to represent Andhra||An official of the Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) said that Ambati Rayudu will represent the State in the forthcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 championship. Since Rayudu was born in Guntur and had represented Andhra long back, it was like homecoming for him, the official said. He, however, added that it is not yet confirmed if Rayudu will play for Andhra in the Ranji Trophy. Interestingly, a senior HCA official told The Hindu that Rayudu was keen to play for Hyderabad but the top brass was not keen because of the comments he made while announcing is retirement from First Class cricket in November, 2019.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 08:14 IST,||Sudoku - December 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Mammootty||Chef Sandhya S Kumar had a choice: board the flight and leave her precious set of seven knives behind or stay back in Dharamshala. As personal chef to Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez, Sandhya had accompanied her to Himachal Pradesh for the shooting of Bhoot Police, when airport security raised objection. “I cannot do without them,” she says; each of her knives costs about Rs. 5,000. “Although Jacqueline tried to persuade them, the security was extremely suspicious about my serrated bread knife! Finally, I had to write an undertaking stating my profession, and that those were not weapons but a chef’s kit, before they let it be taken in cargo,” Sandhya adds. As celebrities insist on fresh, cooked food that adhere to their diets, trained personal chefs with years of experience in leading restaurants, often become part of their entourage when they travel. Personal chefs are de rigueur in Hollywood, where celebrities insist on sticking to strict diets when travelling or on shoots. Signature touch In India now, experienced personal chefs are sought after, for their curated menus, signature dishes and ability to innovate with healthy food. Keerthy Suresh, for instance, reportedly engaged a chef during the lockdown to come up with healthy meals for her. The job comes with unique challenges. Harsh Dixit, Ranbir Kapoor’s personal chef, talks about how he searched high and low for tomatoes in Bulgaria and also created a three-course meal for 12. The menu included five different kinds of dumplings, two Asian main courses and one dessert, all cooked in a basic set up with two small induction cook tops and a miniscule sink. “It is the challenge of coming up with flavourful food with local produce and serving it with finesse that makes it an interesting profession,” asserts Mumbai-based Harsh. Leneesh Vaikom, Malayalam actor Mammootty’s personal chef for 10 years, mentions that the star insists on oats puttu for lunch and maintains a strict vigil on his low-carb diet. “Mammookka hardly has any sweets and carbs. He is fond of seafood, especially certain varieties of fish like pearl spot. But he likes them curried and not fried,” says Leneesh, who now has his own catering unit that supplies film units. Harsh says while travelling with stars may sound romantic,there is a lot of hard work involved. It becomes tougher when the hotels they stay in either lack cooking facilities or don’t permit guests to cook. “We have to make do with whatever kind of kitchen has been provided for us. And we do all the shopping and clean up the kitchen afterwards,” Harsh adds. Culinary challenge He says travelling with Ranbir and cooking with local produce is always an adventure. “I now know Ranbir’s likes and dislikes and also how many calories he requires per meal. So, whether it is Bulgaria, Varanasi or Manali, I believe in sourcing local produce to ensure that it is fresh and I cook with that,” says Harsh, who has been working with the Bollywood star for over two years. Not all stars enjoy experimenting with their diets, however, so chefs need to think up out-of-the-box solutions. Sandhya carried ingredients such as almond milk and walnut milk for Jacqueline. Their professional training comes in handy when finding innovative ways to create tasty, comforting meals for actors on diets. “For instance, it is the cream, butter, ghee and the cashew paste that make butter chicken a calorie-rich dish. But I have learnt to replicate these ingredients with tofu purée or yoghurt to come up with a butter chicken that is soaked in flavours, minus the calorie-rich elements. If served with garlic naan, the taste has almost the same flavour profile as butter chicken,” says Harsh. Leneesh, on the other hand, travels with pouches of homemade masalas and powders, as Mammootty’s wife, Sulfath Kutty, insists on him using only these in his cooking. Besides speciality masalas, every chef has a trusty kit that they carry with them no matter where they go. Harsh travels with a spatula, weighing scale, tongs, micro blender, knives and so on. Sandhya insists on carrying a food styling kit, along with her knives. Apart from cooking for celebrities, these personal chefs also organise bespoke menus and cook for intimate events and private functions: a useful skill in 2020, as people find ways to navigate the festive season while adhering to physical distancing norms to limit the spread of COVID19. “One day I might be working for an ad film and dressing the food, often fake, for the camera. Another day, it might be for a celebrity who wants a certain kind of food planned for a small do…” says Sandhya, adding that as long as she is working with food, she has no complaints.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to retro||Vijay Antony lives in the now. He is currently busy with half-a-dozen Tamil projects all of which are in various stages of production. “I have always been occupied with work,” says the music composer-turned-actor. “I envy audiences for enjoying music. It is difficult for me to do the same because I am always knee-deep into film-related work.” Vijay, however, has taken a trip to the past, albeit musically. He has given his musical touch to the superhit ‘70s track ‘Namma Ooru Singari’ ( Ninaithaale Inikkum ) for Carvaan Lounge Tamil , an initiative that seeks to recreate retro tracks for the modern music lover. “I wanted it to be a tribute to the late legend SPB,” he recalls. “It’s a fantastic song and is always part of my memories. In fact, my ‘Banaras Pattu Katti’ track was inspired by it.” Vijay Antony has tried to give his own spin to a song that has charmed Tamil audiences over the years. “I have many limitations as a musician,” he says. “Even for my own compositions like ‘Chillax’, I cannot sing the part Charulatha Mani (singer) delivers. For ‘Singapore Singari’, I opted for flat notes. I tried to give it my attitude and a fresh treatment.” He doesn’t believe that there will be comparisons with the original. “Audiences know my brand of music having listened to songs like ‘Naaka Mukka’. This rendition is in the realm of what they expect from me.” ‘Namma Ooru Singari’ is very dear to the ‘70s generation that grew up on MSV’s magical melodies, but Vijay Antony himself is a self-confessed Ilaiyaraaja fan. “He was ruling the roost when I started watching cinema,” he says, “I have a very personal connection listening to his numbers growing up.” One of Vijay Antony’s last big announcements was about taking a pay cut; in May, the actor voluntarily offered to take a 25 percent pay cut. “It was very instinctive,” he says. “I have myself produced about ten films and know the difficulties that one goes through. Even on projects that I only act in, I tend to think and feel like a producer. I believed that taking a pay cut would help ease the burden on the producers of the three films that I was a part of.” Fans can see a lot more of him as an actor-producer rather than as a composer. “I see a bigger role for myself in that space,” says the actor, who has Thamizharasan , Khaki , Agni Siragugal , Kodiyil Oruvan , Pichaikaran 2 in hand, besides untitled projects with Balaji Kumar and Vijay Milton. He adds, “Since I am acting and editing my work these days, finding time is a big challenge. Once a year, when the right opportunity presents itself, I will compose music.”  The music videos of Carvaan Lounge Tamil season 1, by Amazon Prime Music and Saregama, are available on YouTube
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh tidings of comfort and joy||Is it even Christmas if the carollers don’t sing? While COVID-19 is the Grinch trying to steal Christmas this year, resilient group of carollers from the city are determined to fight back and spread Yuletide cheer with their music. All grand plans of convening in front of an appreciative, live audience had to be shelved but the show will go on. As is the norm this year, carol groups too have taken to online platforms to regale listeners with renditions of popular music synonymous with the season. For the last 25 years, Kingslin Pon Bhabha, coordinator of Octet Cantabile, and his team members have been participating in carol performances across the country. Every time, just before they get on stage, they have a ritual of praying together. This time, however, the prayer will happen virtually. Although Kingslin feels that virtual performances are devoid of the actual emotions of a live performance, he is happy that the avenue to do what they love is still open. “During Christmas season we perform live in at least 10 programmes across Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and cities in Kerala. This time it is just three programmes for which we sent our videos to London, Mumbai and Bengaluru. The recordings were done in our respective homes. This was a new area of exposure for us,” he adds. Some of the carol groups admit that they were in a limbo as they waited for months trying to gauge the situation post lockdown in March. Redeemer Church Choir, Anna Nagar, which normally starts its practise in August only got around to it last month. “By November we knew for sure a live event would not be possible. The other choir groups too were resorting to virtual shows,” says Emmanuel Ponraj, the choir director. It is the first time in 35 years, since the church began holding this annual event that its pews will be empty and the orchestra’s tunes replaced by silence. “The church has a capacity of 500 but during our concert every year, it overflows with people. There is variety in our programme,” says Emmanuel. Keeping the situation in mind, everything is scaled down this time. The choir, which usually features 50 singers, will have only 35 singers; the piano will be the only accompanying instrument. The choristers recorded their audio bits in their homes and got together at the church to shoot the video during which they lip-synced. “Of course, physical distance was maintained,” Emmanuel says, adding, “The décor too is low profile this year.” The nearly 75-minute long concert will be launched on their YouTube channel on December 20 at 8pm. Perhaps the most tech savvy of the lot is 24-year-old Atul Jacob Isaac, who revived the Madras Philharmonic and Choral Society (MPCS) last year with Christmas Pudding — a concert blending traditional carols and modern musicals. Unlike most other choristers and conductors, Atul is no stranger to virtual concerts. Having been part of one earlier this year, he says, “Virtually, people in the choir don’t get to listen to each other. A virtual concert is like a puzzle where each person’s recording is like pieces coming together to complete the puzzle.” This year’s Christmas Pudding will be a 30-minute programme with five pieces done by five ensembles. All the compositions are originals. Like a few other groups, MPCS too has participants from countries like Switzerland, England and Australia. “A song is delegated to each individual. We have to string the songs together,” explains Atul. The deadline to complete it is December 20, with the actual show going live on December 23 on MPCS’s Instagram and YouTube page. Other than the heart-warming music and the comfort it provides, the highlights of carol nights also include grand decorations at the venue: Christmas trees, tinsel and, in the case of Madras Musical Association (MMA), candles. Their annual feature — Carols by Candlelight — is a regular fixture for many Chennaiites. Given the virtual format, it was initially a challenge to bring in this popular element into the online domain. But the team at MMA worked it out, and will now have each chorister holding a candle as they sing their lines individually from the safety of their homes. Due to the virtual format, the choir’s conductor for eight years — the revered Augustine Paul — will be another glaring miss. “He has given us the music tracks and there will be a message from him on the day of the virtual concert,” says Mary. It will be livestreamed on December 19 at 6.30 pm on MMA’s YouTube Page. Mary Rodrigues, president of the MMA, points out that the virtual concert has a silver lining: choir groups from all over the world can participate now. There are 30 teams: from Poland, Kuwait, Singapore, England and different parts of India this year. “Generally, due to time constraint, we have eight to 10 teams,” says Mary. She adds, however, that she will miss watching the 1000-strong audience, of all ages and from different walks of life, join in with candles. “We stand on stage every year and see the candles light up the dark, and year on year it fills me with as much awe as the first time.”
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A rainbow in the library||Bright red chairs around yellow tables, sky blue walls with clouds and birds painted on them... what was once a dimly lit library with paint peeling off its walls is now a vibrant space, thanks to the Build A Library project and Aravani Art Project. The library belongs to Panchayat Union Primary School, Kolapakkam, and is among seven others that received a facelift this year. For this project, transgender artists from Aravani Art Project (a women and transwomen art collective that does collaborative public art projects) worked with the Rotary Club of Madras Next Gen to add colour to libraries in Government schools. “We created fun, vibrant libraries that are safe spaces for children to learn the arts,” says Samia Sait, a member of the club, adding that they also fixed lights, fans, doors and windows that were not in good condition. More importantly, they stocked the libraries with books collected from donors. “By mid-2021, we hope to refurbish nine more libraries in the city,” says Samia. Among their fund-raising drives for the initiative is the upcoming Bake A Library event. “We have got home-bakers from the city donating goodies for our cause. We will sell on their behalf and proceeds from the sale will go towards the Build A Library project,” she adds. The event is also a book drive; Samia says that those who are willing can donate books as well. “They can Dunzo the books to us, drop them off at the venue, or we could go collect them from their homes.” The bake sale, she says, will be controlled for crowds, so that people can attend and shop in limited numbers. “They can also pre-order on our website and get the goodies home-delivered,” she says, adding that 40 home-bakers will be sending goodies such as muffins, cheese cakes, cookies, quiches and more.  The Bake A Library sale is on at Black Orchid, Chamiers Road, on December 19 and 20. For details, call 9841224265. Shop online at bakesale.rotarynextgen   .com.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Walk, paddle, leave||Endurance runners at Chetpet Ecopark have thus far enjoyed admiration from walkers, joggers and others who frequent the wide, open space. But starting this week, the attention has shifted to a set of bright blue, green and yellow kayaks and stand up paddle boards. Surf Turf, in association with the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation, has launched stand up paddling and kayaking in Chetpet lake. “We thought of this idea last year. We knew this way we could add value to the park that already has boating and fishing,” says Arun Vasu, partner, Surf Turf. The team was all set to launch earlier this year, till the lockdown in March threw a spanner in the works. They are finally back in action with four kayaks and as many paddle boards. “Chennai is one of the first cities in the country to have water activities like these in the middle of the city,” says Arun. The lacation makes it more accessible to people who have been deterred from participating in all the adventure sports of the East Coast Road by the long drive there. The setting is perfect for beginners or those who are nervous around large water bodies, says Arun. The lake has around six to eight feet of water at the moment but this drops down to four feet during summer, he adds. There is a small island with a tree in the middle of the waterbody with lots of birds to look at, and the comforting presence of the banks on either side. To understand the demand, the team from Surf Turf ran trial sessions on three weekends in January and were pleased with the response. “Without promoting the sport, we got around 12 people on each weekend and most of them were first timers,” says Arun. Kayaking, he says, is an easy entry into water sports, while stand up paddling needs a little more skill. “Both are great workouts. You could put in more power. It is good for your core and lower body, or you could make it a relaxed activity and watch the sunrise and sunset,” he adds.  Surf Turf at Chetpet Eco Park is open through the day from 6 am to 6 pm. For pricing and bookings, call: 9907540541
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||In guerrilla mode||For the past 20 years, veteran theatreperson Michael (Mike) Muthu has been directing plays to raise funds for Mellow Circle’s Prathyasha, a home for HIV positive children. If not for the pandemic, this would have been Mike’s 21st play for them. His plan was to adapt Willa Cather’s short story, The Burglar’s Christmas , and he toyed with the idea of making it into a movie on a budget of a regular theatre production. It seemed logical and the project was greenlit, resulting in a 90-minute movie whose production began last month and was wrapped in under 11 days (“We were always in guerrilla mode.”) Mike was drawn to Cather’s story because of its premise, particularly the ending. While adapting it for the screen, however, he weaved in a backstory. “I worked on what leads up to the situation the characters find themselves in,” says Mike over phone, adding that the movie is cut between two timelines and is told in a series of flashbacks.  The Burglar’s Christmas is Mike’s fourth film as a director. The catch to adapting a short story or a play for a film format is to be aware of the language the medium commands, he says. “Theatre is dialogue-heavy and has long scenes. There are probably five to 12 scenes at the most for a play. But in a movie, there are a lot more scenes. The writing and thinking process are completely different for these two,” he adds. Although Mike Muthu has been in theatre for over 25 years, cinema has always fascinated him. Many theatrepersons have transitioned into cinema lately, and Mike feels the proportion will only increase further. “Theatre has its own charm, yes. But if I direct a play, it would be seen by what 1,000 people? On the other hand, if I make a movie and put it on YouTube, you hit a million views or at least hope you hit that number,” he says, adding, “Filmmaking has become much easier now and is not as expensive as it used to be. It’s a medium that attracts a swarm of people.” The Burglar’s Christmas will be screened at The Magic Lantern preview theatre on December 20. For tickets, call: 9944224848.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A house visit from pongal vada||While this Margazhi music season is going to be virtual, people were in for a pleasant suprise when Sastha Catering Services announced the launch of their canteen at The Mylapore Fine Arts Club. “Chennai music season is synonymous with sabha canteens and without them, wouldn’t the experience be incomplete?” asks R K Venkatesan, proprietor, Sastha Catering Services. This year, sabhas in the city have united to form the Federation of City Sabhas, to present, Yours Truly Margazhi, featuring online concerts. Venkatesan explains that the Federation, wanting music fans to experience the surge of excitement that piping hot filter coffee and ghee drenched pongal brings, decided to retain one canteen. The canteen serves breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner. “As always, filter coffee will be available through the day, and during dinner time, we will serve masala milk. On January 1, there will be a special Malabar wedding feast” says Venkatesan. Venkatesan adds, “We have also tied up with delivery partners — so people across Chennai can order from us,” he explains. So you can now catch a kutcheri online, and bringsabhafood home. To order, call 63692 43506.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Under watchful eyes||The dream of a space telescope took 20 years to realise. Thirty years later comes this incredible story of one of the complex machines ever made, the Hubble telescope, which has made more than 1.3 million observations and enabled over 15,000 scientific papers to be written. Its history has been dramatic, but it is an invention that opened up the universe in unimaginable ways. Keen to know more? Here’s an anniversary film that tells its story and also puts the spotlight on scientists and astronomers who use it on a daily basis, as well as astronauts. Tune in to Hubble: The Wonders of Space when it premières on December 19 (9pm) on Sony BBC Earth. Meanwhile, answer these questions...three winners get to stand a chance to attend online space courses from Astro Space Camp. Hubble is named after which astronomer? a) Mark Hubble b) Newton Hubble c) Edwin Powell Hubble  How long does it take for Hubble Space Telescope to make one orbit around Earth? a) 85 minutes b) 95 minutes c) 120 minutes  Hubble Telescope is a joint project between... a) NASA and European Space Agency b) ISRO and European Space Agency c) NASA and ISRO  Send in your entries along with your complete name, mailing address and contact number to metro@thehindu.co.in
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Sapa Sourdough and Pastry, Mysuru||Last year German baker Dina Weber shipped out about 40 loaves of stollen from her baking studio in Mysuru. This year, she is sending out 400 — so far. “A lot of people know us from social media, and ask if we can send them our products,” says Dina over phone, adding however that she was hesitant to courier breads and cakes, which may not travel well. Stollen was a perfect solution (Rs. 1,100 for 700 grams). “It is a traditional German bread, and supposed to be kept for up to a month. It’s dense and heavy, so perfect for sending to other cities,” she says. The festive, cake-like bread, originally from Dresden, is a Christmas treat, and often features a rich rope of marzipan at its heart. “It is luxurious, with special ingredients,” says Dina, explaining how they started soaking the dry fruits in rum in October, and the butter for the stollen is infused with spices for 24 hours, before it is incorporated in the dough. Inspired by the stollen made in Ore mountain range, in East Germany, her version includes almond flour, soaked in milk, overnight. The process does not end when the bread is pulled out of the oven, wrapping the bakery in its heady scent. “After baking we dip it in melted butter, and then coat it in icing sugar, says Dina, adding, that keeps it moist, but also makes it last longer. Sapa began as a small outfit in Mysuru four years ago, when Dina began making breakfast, featuring salads and sourdough, for yoga students. “I was backpacking in South East Asia, and when I came to India, I met my husband who is Tamilian,” she says, explaining that they spent one-and-a-half years working in organic farms and volunteering at food projects across the country before deciding to settle in Mysuru. This March, Sapa formally launched as a bakery, and given the enthusiasm with which it has been received, Dina is cautiously considering expansion. Meanwhile, she and her three-year-old are busy pasting glitter on cards for her family in Germany, to pack into Christmas parcels along with her Indian stollen.  Message sapabakery on Instagram to order stollen.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to retro||Vijay Antony lives in the now. He is currently busy with half-a-dozen Tamil projects all of which are in various stages of production. “I have always been occupied with work,” says the music composer-turned-actor. “I envy audiences for enjoying music. It is difficult for me to do the same because I am always knee-deep into film-related work.” Vijay, however, has taken a trip to the past, albeit musically. He has given his musical touch to the superhit ‘70s track ‘Namma Ooru Singari’ ( Ninaithaale Inikkum ) for Carvaan Lounge Tamil , an initiative that seeks to recreate retro tracks for the modern music lover. “I wanted it to be a tribute to the late legend SPB,” he recalls. “It’s a fantastic song and is always part of my memories. In fact, my ‘Banaras Pattu Katti’ track was inspired by it.” Vijay Antony has tried to give his own spin to a song that has charmed Tamil audiences over the years. “I have many limitations as a musician,” he says. “Even for my own compositions like ‘Chillax’, I cannot sing the part Charulatha Mani (singer) delivers. For ‘Singapore Singari’, I opted for flat notes. I tried to give it my attitude and a fresh treatment.” He doesn’t believe that there will be comparisons with the original. “Audiences know my brand of music having listened to songs like ‘Naaka Mukka’. This rendition is in the realm of what they expect from me.” ‘Namma Ooru Singari’ is very dear to the ‘70s generation that grew up on MSV’s magical melodies, but Vijay Antony himself is a self-confessed Ilaiyaraaja fan. “He was ruling the roost when I started watching cinema,” he says, “I have a very personal connection listening to his numbers growing up.” One of Vijay Antony’s last big announcements was about taking a pay cut; in May, the actor voluntarily offered to take a 25% pay cut. “It was very instinctive,” he says. “I have myself produced about ten films and know the difficulties that one goes through. Even on projects that I only act in, I tend to think and feel like a producer. I believed that taking a pay cut would help ease the burden on the producers of the three films that I was a part of.” Fans can see a lot more of him as an actor-producer rather than as a composer. “I see a bigger role for myself in that space,” says the actor, who has Thamizharasan , Khaki , Agni Siragugal , Kodiyil Oruvan , Pichaikaran 2 in hand, besides untitled projects with Balaji Kumar and Vijay Milton. He adds, “Since I am acting and editing my work these days, finding time is a big challenge. Once a year, when the right opportunity presents itself, I will compose music.”  The music videos of Carvaan Lounge Tamil season 1, by Amazon Prime Music and Saregama, are available on YouTube
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Like a Swiss watch’||Anthony Horowitz has had a busy 2020. The new Alex Rider novel, Nightshade , where the teenage spy battles a secret cult of young assassins, is out. Also the BBC production, Alex Rider , starring Otto Farrant, is streaming on Sony LIV. Moonflower Murders (Penguin Random House Rs. 699), the sequel to Magpie Murders (2016) featuring Susan Ryeland is also on the shelves. While admitting the year has been bad for him personally and world in general, thanks to COVID-19 and Sean Connery’s passing, the 65-year-old author looks at the pandemic as a time to take stock and evaluate. Speaking over the phone from London, Horowitz talked of detective fiction, the decision to continue writing Alex Rider books and the reason to put himself into the Daniel Hawthorne novels. Excerpts. Did you always conceive of the Susan Ryeland novels as a series?  Magpie Murders is probably the most successful novel I have written. I planned to write only one. When we sold the television rights, the producer immediately wanted to know if there would be a sequel. Also my publisher said to me, ‘We love Susan Ryeland, Magpie Murders has been a big success, why don’t you write another one?’ So I began to think about whether I could play the same trick twice. I thought for about six months and then had an idea. I realised I could do it again in a way that could completely trick the audience. That was how Moonflower Murders began. How similar or different are Atticus Pünd and Hercule Poirot?  Atticus does have some similarities to Poirot in the sense that they are both outsiders. Atticus is also different from Poirot; he is a darker character. He has been a victim of the Nazis. He has seen evil in its purest form, which colours everything that he does. He is Jewish and Greek, lived in Germany, been in a labour camp, and his whole family is dead. Could you comment on the structure ofMoonflower Murders, which likeMagpie Murdersuses the book-within-a-book format?  These books are very complex to write. It involves a lot of thinking, notes and time to make it easy to read. They are a little bit like a Swiss watch. Inside the watch is complex mechanism with cogs, wheels, diamonds and batteries. What you have in Magpie Murders and Moonflower Murders is a book inside a book. In both the books you have novelist Alan Conway, hiding the solution to a modern mystery in his novel set in the 1950s. Susan, Conway’s editor, has to find the solution using clues from Conway’s novel. The reader gets two books for the price of one. Why did you choose to set the Atticus novels in the 1950s?  Because of Agatha Christie, Ngaio Marsh, Dorothy L Sayers, Ellery Queen and so many wonderful writers of the Golden Age. The world of the 40s and 50s detective novel was more elegant, slower and cerebral. Why did you choose to insert yourself in the Daniel Hawthorne novels?  In my books, I try to do things that nobody has done before. When I came to write the Daniel Hawthorne novels, The Word is Murder , The Sentence is Death and a third novel that is coming out in 2021, I had an idea to turn things on its head. I will make myself, Anthony Horowitz, the narrator. I did this not as some kind of ego trip but because it amused me. Instead of being the writer who knows everything, the beginning, the middle and the end, all the suspects, the clues and everything, I will become the one person in the book who knows nothing. These books are not about me. I don’t talk about my life, my family or career. I am just the narrator. What are the pros and cons of writing for television?  Writing for television is my joy, pleasure and happiness. Obviously you have to work out the budget. You have to be prepared to get lots of notes from the director, the actors, the producer, the executive producers, husbands and wives, from everybody — that could be a con. I wrote Foyle’s War 16 years ago. I produced the show with my wife, Jill Green, and it was a pleasure working with her. Also, television reaches a wider audience and that is great too. I’m very proud of the work I did on Foyle’s War, Midsomer Murders and Agatha Christie’s Poirot . Why did you choose to continue the Alex Rider series?    The one fear I have is writing a book that is not as good as the one before it. I worried that if I went on writing Alex Rider novels, they would become boring. So I decided to stop writing them. My publishers were unhappy, and also a lot of teachers and librarians wrote to me saying children wanted to read more of Alex. I also realised Alex was also quite sad at the end of Scorpia Rising . I thought I should return to Alex’s world and make him happy again. I am glad I did, because I still have lots of ideas and the two Alex Rider books I have written since — Never Say Die and Nightshade are quite good. What do you think of the television show?  I am lucky that I had a brilliant adapter in Guy Burt. My wife and her company produced it. Otto Farrant is perfect as Alex, so is Brenock O’Connor as Alex’s friend, Tom. We had a wonderful director; it was one of those lucky things; everything went right. You were commissioned to do continuation novels for Holmes and James Bond by the Arthur Conan Doyle estate and the Ian Fleming estate. Is there any follow up toThe House of SilkandMoriarty(Holmes) andTrigger MortisandForever and A Day(Bond)?  I have just finished a three-part 10,000-word Sherlock Holmes novella for the newspapers for Christmas. It is a fun story. It is called The Adventure of Seven Christmas Cards . As for Bond I cannot say anything but watch this space!
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Mammootty||Chef Sandhya S Kumar had a choice: board the flight and leave her precious set of seven knives behind or stay back in Dharamshala. As personal chef to Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez, Sandhya had accompanied her to Himachal Pradesh for the shooting of Bhoot Police , when airport security raised objections. “I cannot do without them,” she says; each of her knives costs about Rs. 5,000. “Although Jacqueline tried to persuade them, the security was extremely suspicious about my serrated bread knife! Finally, I had to write an undertaking stating my profession, and that those were not weapons but a chef’s kit, before they let it be taken in cargo,” Sandhya adds. As celebrities insist on fresh, cooked food that adhere to their diets, trained personal chefs with years of experience in leading restaurants, often become part of their entourage when they travel. Personal chefs are de rigueur in Hollywood, where celebrities insist on sticking to strict diets when travelling or on shoots. Signature touch In India now, experienced personal chefs are sought after, for their curated menus, signature dishes and ability to innovate with healthy food. Keerthy Suresh, for instance, reportedly engaged a chef during the lockdown to come up with healthy meals for her. The job comes with unique challenges. Harsh Dixit, Ranbir Kapoor’s personal chef, talks about how he searched high and low for tomatoes in Bulgaria and also created a three-course meal for 12. The menu included five different kinds of dumplings, two Asian main courses and one dessert, all cooked in a basic set up with two small induction cook tops and a miniscule sink. “It is the challenge of coming up with flavourful food with local produce and serving it with finesse that makes it an interesting profession,” asserts Mumbai-based Harsh. Leneesh Vaikom, Malayalam actor Mammootty’s personal chef for 10 years, says that the star insists on oats puttu for lunch and maintains a strict vigil on his low-carb diet. “Mammookka hardly has any sweets and carbs. He is fond of seafood, especially certain varieties of fish like pearl spot. But he likes them curried and not fried,” says Leneesh, who now has his own catering unit that supplies film units. Harsh says while travelling with stars may sound romantic,there is a lot of hard work involved. It becomes tougher when the hotels they stay in either lack cooking facilities or don’t permit guests to cook. “We have to make do with whatever kind of kitchen has been provided for us. And we do all the shopping and clean up the kitchen afterwards,” Harsh adds. Culinary challenge He says travelling with Ranbir and cooking with local produce is always an adventure. “I now know Ranbir’s likes and dislikes and also how many calories he requires per meal. So, whether it is Bulgaria, Varanasi or Manali, I believe in sourcing local produce to ensure that it is fresh and I cook with that,” says Harsh, who has been working with the Bollywood star for over two years. Not all stars enjoy experimenting with their diets, however, so chefs need to think up out-of-the-box solutions. Sandhya carried ingredients such as almond milk and walnut milk for Jacqueline. Their professional training comes in handy when finding innovative ways to create tasty, comforting meals for actors on diets. “For instance, it is the cream, butter, ghee and the cashew paste that make butter chicken a calorie-rich dish. But I have learnt to replicate these ingredients with tofu purée or yoghurt to come up with a butter chicken that is soaked in flavours, minus the calorie-rich elements. If served with garlic naan, the taste has almost the same flavour profile as butter chicken,” says Harsh. Leneesh, on the other hand, travels with pouches of homemade masalas and powders, as Mammootty’s wife, Sulfath Kutty, insists on him using only these in his cooking. Besides speciality masalas, every chef has a trusty kit that they carry with them no matter where they go. Harsh travels with a spatula, weighing scale, tongs, micro blender, knives and so on. Sandhya insists on carrying a food styling kit, along with her knives. Apart from cooking for celebrities, these personal chefs also organise bespoke menus and cook for intimate events and private functions: a useful skill in 2020, as people find ways to navigate the festive season while adhering to physical distancing norms to limit the spread of COVID19. “One day I might be working for an ad film and dressing the food, often fake, for the camera. Another day, it might be for a celebrity who wants a certain kind of food planned for a small do…” says Sandhya, adding that as long as she is working with food, she has no complaints.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh tidings of comfort and joy||Is it even Christmas if the carollers don’t sing? While COVID-19 is the Grinch trying to steal Christmas this year, resilient group of carollers from the city are determined to fight back and spread Yuletide cheer with their music. All grand plans of convening in front of an appreciative, live audience had to be shelved but the show will go on. As is the norm this year, carol groups too have taken to online platforms to regale listeners with renditions of popular music synonymous with the season. For the last 25 years, Kingslin Pon Bhabha, coordinator of Octet Cantabile, and his team members have been participating in carol performances across the country. Every time, just before they get on stage, they have a ritual of praying together. This time, however, the prayer will happen virtually. Although Kingslin feels that virtual performances are devoid of the actual emotions of a live performance, he is happy that the avenue to do what they love is still open. “During Christmas season we perform live in at least 10 programmes across Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and cities in Kerala. This time it is just three programmes for which we sent our videos to London, Mumbai and Bengaluru. The recordings were done in our respective homes. This was a new area of exposure for us,” he adds. Some of the carol groups admit that they were in a limbo as they waited for months trying to gauge the situation post lockdown in March. Redeemer Church Choir, Anna Nagar, which normally starts its practise in August only got around to it last month. “By November we knew for sure a live event would not be possible. The other choir groups too were resorting to virtual shows,” says Emmanuel Ponraj, the choir director. It is the first time in 35 years, since the church began holding this annual event that its pews will be empty and the orchestra’s tunes replaced by silence. “The church has a capacity of 500 but during our concert every year, it overflows with people. There is variety in our programme,” says Emmanuel. Keeping the situation in mind, everything is scaled down this time. The choir, which usually features 50 singers, will have only 35 singers; the piano will be the only accompanying instrument. The choristers recorded their audio bits in their homes and got together at the church to shoot the video during which they lip-synced. “Of course, physical distance was maintained,” Emmanuel says, adding, “The décor too is low profile this year.” The nearly 75-minute long concert will be launched on their YouTube channel on December 20 at 8pm. Perhaps the most tech savvy of the lot is 24-year-old Atul Jacob Isaac, who revived the Madras Philharmonic and Choral Society (MPCS) last year with Christmas Pudding — a concert blending traditional carols and modern musicals. Unlike most other choristers and conductors, Atul is no stranger to virtual concerts. Having been part of one earlier this year, he says, “Virtually, people in the choir don’t get to listen to each other. A virtual concert is like a puzzle where each person’s recording is like pieces coming together to complete the puzzle.” This year’s Christmas Pudding will be a 30-minute programme with five pieces done by five ensembles. All the compositions are originals. Like a few other groups, MPCS too has participants from countries like Switzerland, England and Australia. “A song is delegated to each individual. We have to string the songs together,” explains Atul. The deadline to complete it is December 20, with the actual show going live on December 23 on MPCS’s Instagram and YouTube page. Other than the heart-warming music and the comfort it provides, the highlights of carol nights also include grand decorations at the venue: Christmas trees, tinsel and, in the case of Madras Musical Association (MMA), candles. Their annual feature — Carols by Candlelight — is a regular fixture for many Chennaiites. Given the virtual format, it was initially a challenge to bring in this popular element into the online domain. But the team at MMA worked it out, and will now have each chorister holding a candle as they sing their lines individually from the safety of their homes. Due to the virtual format, the choir’s conductor for eight years — the revered Augustine Paul — will be another glaring miss. “He has given us the music tracks and there will be a message from him on the day of the virtual concert,” says Mary. It will be livestreamed on December 19 at 6.30 pm on MMA’s YouTube Page. Mary Rodrigues, president of the MMA, points out that the virtual concert has a silver lining: choir groups from all over the world can participate now. There are 30 teams: from Poland, Kuwait, Singapore, England and different parts of India this year. “Generally, due to time constraint, we have eight to 10 teams,” says Mary. She adds, however, that she will miss watching the 1000-strong audience, of all ages and from different walks of life, join in with candles. “We stand on stage every year and see the candles light up the dark, and year on year it fills me with as much awe as the first time.”
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A rainbow in the library||Bright red chairs around yellow tables, sky blue walls with clouds and birds painted on them — what was once a dimly lit library with paint peeling off its walls is now a vibrant space, thanks to the Build A Library project and Aravani Art Project. The library belongs to Panchayat Union Primary School, Kolapakkam, and is among seven others that received a facelift this year. For this project, transgender artists from Aravani Art Project (a women and transwomen art collective that does collaborative public art projects) worked with the Rotary Club of Madras Next Gen to add colour to libraries in Government schools. “We created fun, vibrant libraries that are safe spaces for children to learn the arts,” says Samia Sait, a member of the club, adding that they also fixed lights, fans, doors and windows that were not in good condition. More importantly, they stocked the libraries with books collected from donors. “By mid-2021, we hope to refurbish nine more libraries in the city,” says Samia. Among their fund-raising drives for the initiative is the upcoming Bake A Library event. “We have got home-bakers from the city donating goodies for our cause. We will sell on their behalf and proceeds from the sale will go towards the Build A Library project,” she adds. The event is also a book drive; Samia says that those who are willing can donate books as well. “They can Dunzo the books to us, drop them off at the venue, or we could go collect them from their homes.” The bake sale, she says, will be controlled for crowds, so that people can attend and shop in limited numbers. “They can also pre-order on our website and get the goodies home-delivered,” she says, adding that 40 home-bakers will be sending goodies such as muffins, cheese cakes, cookies, quiches and more.  The Bake A Library sale is on at Black Orchid, Chamier’s Road, on December 19 and 20. For details, call 9841224265. Shop online at bakesale.rotarynextgen   .com.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Walk, paddle, leave||Endurance runners at Chennai’s Chetpet Ecopark have thus far enjoyed admiration from walkers, joggers and others who frequent the wide, open space. But starting this week, the attention has shifted to a set of bright blue, green and yellow kayaks and stand up paddle boards. Surf Turf, in association with the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation, has launched stand up paddling and kayaking in Chetpet lake. “We thought of this idea last year. We knew this way we could add value to the park that already has boating and fishing,” says Arun Vasu, partner, Surf Turf. The team was all set to launch earlier this year, till the lockdown in March threw a spanner in the works. They are finally back in action with four kayaks and as many paddle boards. “Chennai is one of the first cities in the country to have water activities like these in the middle of the city,” says Arun. The location makes it more accessible to people who have been deterred from participating in all the adventure sports of the East Coast Road by the long drive there. The setting is perfect for beginners or those who are nervous around large water bodies, says Arun. The lake has around six to eight feet of water at the moment but this drops down to four feet during summer, he adds. There is a small island with a tree in the middle of the waterbody with lots of birds to look at, and the comforting presence of the banks on either side. To understand the demand, the team from Surf Turf ran trial sessions on three weekends in January and were pleased with the response. “Without promoting the sport, we got around 12 people on each weekend and most of them were first timers,” says Arun. Kayaking, he says, is an easy entry into water sports, while stand up paddling needs a little more skill. “Both are great workouts. You could put in more power. It is good for your core and lower body, or you could make it a relaxed activity and watch the sunrise and sunset,” he adds.  Surf Turf at Chetpet Eco Park is open through the day from 6 am to 6 pm. For pricing and bookings, call: 9907540541
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Words that matter||Have an English story or poem in not more than 150 words and not less than 75 words? Online platform Our Own Poems and Short Stories (OOPSS) is just the space for you. Launched on September 9 this year by friends Jayesh P and Rajat Sikder, it was inspired by certain things they observed during lockdown. “People were doing a lot of things, writing/posting about it online. Some were writing about it very well,” says Jayesh. While Jayesh is a marketing communications consultant/event management professional based in Thiruvananthapuram, Mumbai-based Rajat is an advertising professional. The decision on the word limit was the result of research which showed that people preferred to read (online), short, crisp content over the lengthy. “People want to consume more content in less time, so we discussed short reads that can be read in two or three minutes,” says Rajat. When things get back to normal, they believe people would keep coming back to short reads. YouTube tutorials helped them create the platform, friends chipped in with logo design and fine-tuning the website. Word was spread by sharing a poster announcing OOPSS to their friends via WhatsApp. The response has been overwhelming, they say, with enough content in the bank. They post one piece — either a story or poem — every day. “We are getting many new authors,” Jayesh says. Jayesh and Rajat want these writers’ works to reach “a wider, relevant network with people who have a genuine appreciation for the content,” says Rajat. The idea is to get people with a similar interest together, while creating a space and also encouraging reading. The duo’s friendship goes back more than a couple of decades, to Lucknow where their fathers worked. They were classmates until Class 10, at St Mary’s High School there and lived in the Railway Colony. They lost touch after Jayesh moved to Kerala, but reconnected many years later. Conversation between them, during lockdown, led to the formation of the platform. “We have always wanted to do something together,” says Jayesh. OOPSS (oopss.in) is part of Ddruid Creative Platforms, through which they intend to do more creative work together. They have been getting a large number of entries for publication but are strict about the word limit, “Anything less than 75 is too less and more than 150 words is too much. It might be easy with verse, but telling a story in 150 words is not. There are takers for it, contributors are making an effort to tell their stories within that space,” says Jayesh. “We couldn’t tell the OOPSS story in 150 words!” he jokes. An editorial board selects the content, no copy is edited except for grammatical errors. “We send back copies that exceed word limit; sometimes writers don’t want to change anything, other times they rework the copy,” says Jayesh. The platform is free, and so designed that contributors can either write on an interface or send in their works as an attachment. What about other Indian languages? “We would love to go into other languages, but that would require a different team and online infrastructure. We have only just started. There is time,” Jayesh says.  People want to consume more content in less time, so we discussed short reads that can be read in two or three minutes Rajat Sikder
17 December 2020||Sonipat,||Farmers set up pit stop in middle of NH-1 between Kundli, Singhu||Nestled between Ashoka University and a popular roadside motel, farmers from Punjab and Haryana — participating in the protest at Delhi’s Singhu border — have created a kilometres-long pit stop in the middle of National Highway 1. With the agitation for the repeal of three controversial agriculture laws gathering momentum and more farmers joining in every day since November 26, the biggest issue the pit stop solves for the protesting farmers is providing a space for the simultaneous parking and cleaning of an estimated 300 tractors and stocked trolleys. Strategic location The pit stop came up around the relatively large road divider around three weeks ago. It occupies several kilometres between the Kundli and Singhu border toll booths.  Space to freshen up before each trip to the protest site at Singhu border, access to bathrooms, and a massive motel that has several food stall are the other draws in addition to a strategic advantage: choking another pivotal access point to the National Capital Region at short notice, if required. “We came from Ludhiana, a trip of over 300 km, but could not find space for our tractor. There are many like us who reached a little late and could not reach the (Singhu) border with vehicles, so we set up camp here. We sleep on separate mattresses but have to share multiple blankets because it is so cold and there is traffic on both sides,” said Chanraj Singh as vehicles whizzed past on either side of him. “There are three langars operating – two by Punjabis and one by Haryanvis – but sometimes we feel like having dhaba food and go across the road where there are many restaurants. The owner ofGolden Hut Punjabi Dhabahas opened the bathrooms there for us to bathe whenever we ask,” he added. Chanraj’s elder brother Gurpreet, who also came to the site on his tractor, explaining the merits of the spot: “It is a relay point for farmers substituting for each other as well as for receiving supplies from home.” “Those who come with the supplies either rest here for a bit before taking part in the protest and heading back or substituting for someone who has already taken part in the protest. Under no circumstances can the number of tractors and protesters at the agitation be allowed to dip,” he said. Their friend, also named Gurpreet Singh, travelled to the Delhi border from Bhatinda. “The pit stop is located around 13 km from the spot where protesting farmers have erected a stage adjacent to the toll booth, heralding the territorial jurisdiction of the Capital. The pit stop can be utilised to enhance the blockade further,” he said. “If our leaders ask us to, it will take us just a few minutes to block this route between Delhi and Haryana – mainly the Kundli area – with our tractors. We are used to climbing bigger obstacles than concrete road dividers while driving them,” he said.   The pit stop is a sort of relay point for farmers substituting for each other at the Singhu border protest site, 13 km away, as well as for picking up supplies Gurpreet Singh farmer from Punjab
17 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Resolve impasse over farm laws, says Gehlot||Citing the concern of industry bodies, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday urged the NDA government at the Centre to address the grievances of farmers protesting against the agriculture sector laws and resolve the impasse over the contentious legislations. Mr. Gehlot said the industry bodies, such as the Confederation of Indian Industry and the Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry, had raised an alarm regarding the losses that the economy was suffering as a result of farmers’ agitation. “It will further delay the economic recovery,” he said. Mr. Gehlot pointed out that the farmers were themselves bearing hardships while protesting on roads and in cold nights. He said the government must address their grievances and resolve the impasse. The agitating farmers continued the blockade of Delhi-Jaipur national highway near Shahjahanpur at the Rajasthan-Haryana border for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. Farmers from different areas of the State continued to reach the spot with their tractor-trollies. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s State coordinator Sanjay Madhav said the agitation had received support from the panchayats of the Shahjanpur region of Alwar district.
17 December 2020||December 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to retro||Vijay Antony lives in the now. He is currently busy with half-a-dozen Tamil projects all of which are in various stages of production. “I have always been occupied with work,” says the music composer-turned-actor. “I envy audiences for enjoying music. It is difficult to do the same because I am always knee-deep into film-related work.” Vijay, however, has taken a trip to the past, albeit musically. He has given his musical touch to the superhit ‘70s track ‘Namma Ooru Singari’ ( Ninaithaale Inikkum ) for Carvaan Lounge Tamil , an initiative that seeks to recreate retro tracks for the modern music lover. “I wanted it to be a tribute to the late legend SPB,” he recalls. “It’s a fantastic song and is always part of my memories. In fact, my ‘Banaras Pattu Katti’ track was inspired by it.” Vijay Antony has tried to give his own spin to a song that has charmed Tamil audiences over the years. “I have many limitations as a musician,” he says. “Even for my own compositions like ‘Chillax’, I cannot sing the part Charulatha Mani (singer) delivers. For ‘Singapore Singari’, I opted for flat notes. I tried to give it my attitude and a fresh treatment.” He doesn’t believe that there will be comparisons with the original.           The music videos of Carvaan Lounge Tamil season 1, by Amazon Prime Music and Saregama, are available on YouTube
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi police instal nine layers of barricades at borders||After farm unions intensified their ongoing agitation at the Delhi borders, the police have instaled nine layers of barricades at key points to prevent the entry of protesters into the national capital. A senior police officer said this is the first time in the history of any protest in Delhi that such massive security arrangements have been made. Around 8,000 security personnel have been deployed at the borders. At Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, the police have instaled nine layers of barricades – three layers of iron barricades with barbed wires on top, three layers of concrete jersey barriers locked with iron chain, one layer of iron containers filled with sand and two layers of sand-laden dumpers. The officer added that they have got intelligence inputs that after December 15, the protest will be intensified as more people from Punjab and Haryana will be joining the agitation. “We have also deployed more security personnel at the borders. Apart from Delhi Police, personnel from the paramilitary force have also been deployed. We have been making all possible efforts to maintain peace. There have been no attempts at forceful entry into the national capital by the farmers,” said the officer. He added that the Rapid Action Force, armed with anti-riot gear and water canons, is at the forefront of the security line. The policemen from Haryana and Delhi are meeting every day to share intelligence inputs as they have to keep a watch on anti-social elements. As per an intelligence report, there are around 10,000 protesters at the Tikri border, 25,000 at Singhu and 2,000 at Ghazipur. At Singhu and Tikri borders, more security personnel are being deployed under the supervision of Joint CP-rank officer. The police personnel have been deployed with three DCP-rank officers and one Joint CP-rank officer. At Nirankari ground in Burari, there are around 120 police personnel along with one DCP-rank police officer.
17 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhiites to get relief from cold by end of week: IMD||Cold wave conditions prevailed in the national capital on Wednesday with the minimum temperature settling three degrees below normal at 5.8 degrees Celsius. The maximum was four notches below normal at 18.6 degrees Celsius. Lowest maximum temperature The weather station at Palam recorded a maximum of 16.2 degrees Celsius, which was the coldest part of the city during the day, while the Lodhi Road station, at 4.8 degrees Celsius, recorded the lowest minimum. On Tuesday, the minimum was 4.1 degrees Celsius and maximum 18.5 degrees Celsius – both the lowest recorded this season so far. The India Meteorological Department has forecast that cold wave conditions are likely to persist for around 24-48 hours with relief likely only after Friday. Dense fog was also reported in the city on Wednesday morning, with the visibility falling to below 100 metres at Palam. Cold wave and cold day conditions are being experienced in the Capital as cold winds are blowing towards the plains from the Himalayas that received fresh snow due to the influence of a Western Disturbance, said the weatherman.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Improvement in Delhi’s air quality likely today: SAFAR||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida deteriorated slightly but remained in the ‘poor’ category on Wednesday, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi was 262 on Wednesday, up from 230 on Tuesday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The effect of stubble burning on Delhi’s air quality was low on Wednesday. The city’s air quality is likely to improve on Thursday. “The AQI is forecast to improve on Thursday to ‘moderate’ category but it will not last long. AQI is forecast to slip to the ‘poor’ category on Friday and further deterioration is expected on Saturday,” read a statement by government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. Moderate dispersion Also, surface-level winds were moderate, which led to moderate level dispersion of pollutants. Faster surface-level winds help in better dispersion of pollutants, said the agency. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to fall and cold wave conditions are likely but better ventilation conditions are forecast for the next two days due to faster winds.
17 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Rare Assam temple turtles released in the wild||Twenty-two hatchlings of temple-reared black softshell turtles, considered extinct in the wild, were released in a major wetland within the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. These turtles were hatched five months ago at the Nagshankar Temple in north-eastern Assam’s Biswanath district, under a collaborative conservation programme among the State Forest Department, NGO Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA-India) and the temple authorities. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, the freshwater black softshell turtle (Nilssonia nigricans) is extinct in the wild. The very few that survive are scattered with other rare freshwater turtles in constricting temple ponds, mostly in Assam. This was the first time that turtles hatched in temple facilities have been released in a wetland — Sildubi Beel — on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra.
17 December 2020||New Delhi,||Farmers still protesting in the chill as Centre cannot let go of ego: Rai||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi convener Gopal Rai visited protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Wednesday and took stock of the facilities that are being provided by the Delhi government. “These farmers have been protesting here for the last 20 days. The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled Centre roll back the anti-farmer laws and resolve the issues. The BJP is dealing with the issue with an ego and that is why in this winter, the farmers had to sit on the streets,” said Mr. Rai, who is also the Environment Minister. It is unfortunate that PM Narendra Modi has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers, he said, adding: “I want to ask the PM: Are the Opposition parties only here to support the government? The work of the Opposition is to criticise the government whenever necessary. AAP was born from a mass movement and we will protest whenever the government does anything wrong,” Mr. Rai said. He said that the Delhi government has been running kitchens for the protesting farmers and has also set up mobile toilets and drinking water facilities. “Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh came to Delhi, met the Home Minister, and returned. He did not meet the farmers. But now he is speaking the language of the BJP and accusing AAP. This is a deliberate attempt to divert attention,” Mr. Rai added.
17 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Owaisi in U.P. to stitch alliances for election||After winning five seats in Bihar, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has set its sights on stitching alliances in Uttar Pradesh as its president Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday held talks with OBC leader Om Prakash Rajbhar here and praised Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav. Mr. Owaisi met Mr. Rajbhar, the president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, who is a former State Cabinet Minister and BJP ally-turned-rebel. The Hyderabad MP said he had joined the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM), a front of half-a-dozen smaller parties in U.P. including the SBSP and former BSP Minister Babu Singh Kushwaha’s outfit. “I have not come here to change names. I am here to win hearts,” Mr. Owaisi said at a joint press conference with Mr. Rajbhar. He said he would meet Shivpal Yadav and take things forward. “We must accept that janaab Shivpal sahab is a big face in U.P. politics and has great experience,” Mr. Owaisi said. Asked if it was necessary for Opposition parties to come together to challenge BJP, Mr. Owaisi said he was doing his bit. “Bigger parties would have to answer this.” Mr. Rajbhar said the BSM constituents would contest the 2022 Assembly election in U.P. together.
17 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Ranking for panchayats in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government proposes to take up ranking of achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the village panchayat level for the first time with the emphasis on the quality of public service works as well as the infrastructure utilised by the villagers. The ranking would measure the panchayats’ capacity to create the infrastructure and dispose of the pending matters, Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said here on Wednesday.  Preparations reviewed Mr. Singh reviewed the preparations of Jaipur district’s Govindgarh panchayat samiti for achieving the SDGs, for which the NITI Aayog has released the guidelines. Mr. Singh said the ranking exercise would help find out the utilisation of services of schools, public libraries, e-mitra centres and public toilets in the villages.
