18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to study context of charges against judges||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to launch a detailed examination into the circumstances under which a person can make public allegations of corruption against the judiciary. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra also decided to hear arguments on laying down procedure to be adopted if such statements of corruption are made in public against sitting as well as retired judges. Prashant Bhushan case The Bench framed the two questions while hearing a contempt case initiated against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his remarks on corruption in judiciary in an interview to Tehelka magazine published in 2009. “In what circumstances can such statements [on judicial corruption] be made? Under what circumstances can these allegations need to be made public... We need to hear arguments on these issues,” Justice Mishra observed, listing the case for hearing on Monday. 1992 judgment The Bench referred to the majority judgment delivered by Justice (as he was then) J.S. Verma for a Constitution Bench in 1992 concerning the removal of Justice V. Ramaswami, a Supreme Court judge.  The judgment had laid down the procedure to deal with allegations against a sitting judge. The judge had to be given a fair opportunity to be heard before an inquiry committee formed under the Judges Inquiry Act of 1968. The judgment had limited the inquiry process against a judge to be done within a tight and limited circle of high judicial functionaries and parliamentarians. It did not want “busybodies to meddle”.       The dominating spirit of the 1992 judgment was to “preserve the right, interest and dignity of the judge, which is commensurate with the dignity of all the institutions and functionaries involved in the process”. The Bench said the judgment was against publicly making allegations against judges. But senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, for Mr. Bhushan, said the “idea that you [a critic] cannot go to the Press is a bad decision”.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEET, JEE won’t be postponed: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition by students to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) citing COVID-19 after recording the exam authorities’ promise that all necessary precautions would be taken to keep safe the candidates, whose numbers run into lakhs. “Education should be opened up. COVID may continue for a year more. Are you going to wait for another year? Do you know what is the loss to the country and the career peril to the students?” Justice Arun Mishra, who headed the three-judge Bench, asked the petitioners. The petition was filed by 11 students from 11 States. The NEET and the JEE are scheduled for September. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, for one of the petitioners, submitted that the “Honourable Prime Minister has said a vaccine is on the way. Let us wait for that...” Justice B.R. Gavai pointed out that the question of when a vaccine would come was left to experts, and the court had no intention to get into that domain. Justice Mishra said, “Are you not demanding that the court should be opened up amid COVID? Do you see this glass partition fixed here [between the judges]?... When we are getting ready to open up, you say exams should not be held.”
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs DU to conduct physical exams from Sept. 14||The High Court on Monday directed Delhi University to commence the physical examination for those final-year students who have not opted for the online mode of Open Book Examination (OBE) from September 14. “We are of the opinion that the university should expedite conducting physical examinations so that the entire process can be over at the earliest,” a Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said. The High Court gave the direction after DU stated that it will commence the physical examinations only after September 20. ‘Unreasonable timeline’ “The aforesaid timeline is quite unreasonable, particularly since earlier hereto, the university had stated that only when they see as to how many students actually participate in the online mode of examination, would they have an idea as to the number of leftover students,” the court noted. “By now there should have been enough data for the university to analyse the number of students who intend to sit for the examination physically,” the Bench remarked. Some of the counsels appearing for the students contended that the University Grants Commission has not issued any advisory to Central Universities for accommodating final-year students. Taking note of the submission, the High Court said, “The UGC shall take steps at the earliest to issue a fresh advisory in this regard to all Central universities.” The High Court also directed DU to verify the number of Persons with Disabilities category students who would wish to sit for the physical exams again though they may have taken the OBE mode of examination.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cases spiral as 1,725 more test positive, toll rises to 169||New COVID-19 cases in the State went up by 1,725 on Monday, alongside 1,131 recoveries. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the outbreak began went up to 46,140, of which the active cases or the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State is 15,890. A total of 30,025 people in the State have till date recovered from the disease. 13 deaths The State’s official toll, which has been rising steadily in proportion with the exponential increase in cases, reached 169 on Monday with the Health Department adding 13 more deaths to the official tally. Five of these deaths were in Kasaragod, three in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Alappuzha and one each in Kannur, Kozhikode, and Malappuram. On Monday, 93% of the new cases reported – 1,605 out of the 1,725 new cases – were locally acquired infections. These include infections reported in 31 health-care workers. No epidemiological link could be established in 94 cases.  Thiruvananthapuram continued to maintain its dubious and consistent status of having the highest number of new positive cases daily, with 461 cases, of which 450 are locally acquired infections, including that of 15 health-care workers. Cases in other districts include Malappuram 306, Kozhikode 46, Alappuzha 139, Ernakulam 129, Kollam 48, Thrissur 156, Kasaragod 97, Palakkad 137, Kannur 77, Pathanamthitta 2, Wayanad 15, Kottayam 89, and Idukki 23. The State has quarantined over 1.64 lakh people, of whom 13,697 with COVID-like symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours is 26,150. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 571.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID protocol will apply to State’s Onam celebrations||The State government will make arrangements to celebrate Onam adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday decided not to have Onam celebrations in public places and to put curbs on Onasadya in public places. In view of the spurt in COVID-19 positive cases, extra precautions would be taken during the festive season.  District Collectors were asked to convene a meeting of traders and the police were asked to ensure physical distancing in public places. Shop functioning Shops would function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Diners would be allowed in hotels and restaurants, but they would have to follow physical distancing. Hotels and restaurants would function till 9 p.m. Steps would be taken to sanitise hotels and restaurants and permission would be granted to commence functioning.  The Health Department and District Collectors were asked to carry out more COVID-19 tests, as a large number of people were expected to reach the State during Onam holidays. A campaign would be launched to enforce face masks among the youth by the departments concerned, the Chief Minister told the meeting. A COVID first-line treatment centre would be set up at Central Jail, Poojappura, in view of the spurt in cases among jail inmates. A COVID-19 Brigade Special Team would be deployed in the prison.  Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and State Police Chief Loknath Behera attended.  A COVID FLTC will be set up at Central Jail, Poojappura, in view of the spurt in cases among inmates.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||CM puts official machinery on high alert||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the official machinery to be alert round-the-clock to prevent loss of life and property in the wake of heavy rains and floods being witnessed across the State. He asked the officials to take precautionary measures on war-footing with the forecast of heavy to very heavy rains for the next couple of days. At a meeting held at Pragathi Bhavan here on Monday to review the preparedness of the official machinery, the Chief Minister directed the officials to set up control rooms at every level and not to hesitate on expenditure for taking up relief and rehabilitation measures. Reports sought The CM also instructed the officials to get reports from all villages, towns and cities on a daily basis to take steps to prevent/restrict the loss. He complimented the power utilities for maintaining the grid frequency in spite of high fluctuation in the energy demand following rains and floods. He also had words of encouragement to the municipal department for preventing any major loss in cities. Officials of the disaster management, revenue, water resources, energy, municipal, panchayat raj, agriculture, roads and buildings and other departments participated in the meeting. He inquired about impact of rains and floods particularly in Warangal Urban, Warangal Rural, Karimnagar, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Peddapally, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Mulug and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. “Although the situation so far has been under control in spite of heavy flood to many of the projects and minor irrigation tanks during the last four-five days, the forecast of more heavy to very heavy rains in the catchment areas of Godavari, Krishna, Tungabhadra, Pranahitha and Indravathi rivers warrants higher preparedness”, the Chief Minister told the officials. Against the past experiences of many minor irrigation tanks suffering breaches in the event of heavy inflows, the restoration works done under Mission Kakatiya had strengthened the tank bunds and structures.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cases dip with drop in tests||Telanganites breathed a little easy with only 894 samples testing postive for COVID-19 on Sunday, which is the lowest number of cases in a day in the past one-and-a-half months. However, this does not indicate sudden drop in prevalence of the infectious disease. Only 8,794 tests to detect coronavirus were conducted on Sunday which is the lowest number of tests in a day in the past one month. Usually, the number of tests and cases drop on weekends. This trend was observed from the last week of July. While around 20,000 tests are conducted on weekdays, only around 8,500-12,500 tests were conducted on July 26, August 2, 9,15, 16 (all weekends). The 894 cases detected on August 16 include 147 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 85 from Rangareddy, 69 from Karimnagar. Test results of 421 swab samples are awaited. The toll crossed 700 as 10 more COVID patients died. Out of the total 92,255 cases , 21,420 are active, 70,132 were discharged, and 703 died. At 42 State government hospitals, 3,396 oxygen beds, 453 ICU beds, were available on Sunday. In case of 120 private hospitals, 1,343 oxygen beds, and 714 ICU beds were available.
18 August 2020||Pune,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 6 lakh mark||In its lowest single-day surge in nearly two weeks, Maharashtra reported 8,493 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, as the State’s total case tally breached the 6 lakh-mark to reach 6,04,358 of which 1,55,268 are currently active. With 228 new deaths, the total death toll has risen to 20,265. Recoveries outweighed today’s spike in cases, with as many as 11,391 patients being discharged, taking cumulative recoveries thus far to 4,28,514. However, today’s surge — the lowest since August 4 when 7,760 cases were reported — has to be viewed in the context of only 44,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours as opposed to the average 70,000 samples in the past few days. “Till date, of 32,06,248 laboratory samples, 6,04,358 (18.8%) have tested positive with nearly 44,000 samples being tested across the State in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.9%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate was 3.35%. 753 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported just 753 new cases, taking its case tally to 1,29,479, of whom only 17,704 are active. Witj 40 new fatalities, the city’s death toll reached 7,173. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Navi Mumbai civic body area reported 250 fresh cases taking its total tally to 23,264. With eight deaths, its cumulative death toll has risen to 553. Raigad reported ten fatalities, taking its total death toll to 359, while 115 new cases saw its total case tally rise to 13,686. Pune reported a spike of over 1,800 cases, taking its case tally to 1,32,481, while 54 fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,247. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was just over 26,450 with the recovery rate standing at 76.5%. Nashik district in north Maharashtra, a major virus hotbed, witnessed a surge of 810 fresh cases as its total tally soared to 27,151 of which 9,882 are active. The district reported eight deaths, taking the toll to 676. Neighbouring Jalgaon saw a spike of 362 fresh cases while reporting 11 new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 18,229 of which 5,192 are active, while the death toll has climbed to 692. Satara in western Maharashtra reported 11 deaths as its total death toll climbed to 235. With 205 fresh cases, the district’s total case tally has reached 7,591 of which 2,767 are active. Neighbouring Kolhapur reported 339 new cases, taking its total tally to 14,241 of which 6706 are active. With seven new deaths, the district’s death toll has gone up to 382. Dr. Awate said currently 10,53,659 people across the State were in home quarantine and 37,556 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
18 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Central Railway deploys Ninja drones to bolster surveillance||While it operates limited commuter services for essential workers, the Central Railway’s Mumbai division has begun using Ninja drones for bolstering security and surveillance on its network. At least two criminals have already been apprehended red-handed in the midst of attempted thefts at railway yards. Two Ninja unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have been procured to keep an eye over large tracts of railway properties where manpower is limited, including station premises, railway track sections, yards and workshops. These drones have an operational range of two kilometres and can fly upto 25 minutes at a stretch, with a take-off weight of upto two kilograms. They can capture HD images during daylight with real-time tracking, video streaming and automatic failsafe modes.  Staff obtain license  “A team of four staff from the RPF’s modernisation cell have been trained and obtained a licence for flying these drones. Drones are a cost-effective way to enable security,” said Central Railway chief PRO Shivaji Sutar. The staff trained to use the drones would be operating them for the inspection of railway assets and ensuring safety of yards, workshops and car sheds. “With the help of the drones, we can keep a watch on criminal and anti-social activities in railway premises like gambling, throwing of garbage and hawking. Two such criminals were apprehended on a real-time basis already - one in the Wadibunder Yard area and another in Kalamboli yard while they were trying to commit theft inside a railway coach,” Mr. Sutar pointed out. Mapping of railway assets to assess the encroachments on railway property, crowd monitoring during critical situations, are the other instances wherein the drones would be used by Central Railway. Across Mumbai division, drone beats have been designed depending on the area to keep a watch on and the sensitivity of the area. The Railways hopes to deploy the drones during accidents or disasters as well. “Vulnerable sections can be analysed for safe operations of trains. Besides, surveillance can also be done at disaster sites to help guide rescue operations,” Mr. Sutar said.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Don’t want construction on Poush Mela grounds: CM||Amid the mayhem at Visva-Bharati University (VBU) over the erection of a boundary wall on its Poush Mela ground, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she doesn’t want any construction to take place there, and asked the police to convene a meeting of stakeholders. Underscoring that Visva-Bharati was a central varsity, Ms. Banerjee also said that she had a word with the Governor regarding Monday’s violence on the Poush Mela ground and told him that the State’s role in the matter was “limited”. “The governor had called me. We had a discussion over the violence that took place on the ground. I told him that Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore founded it with a vision to celebrate different festivals.... l told him that I don’t want any construction to take place on that ground,” she said. Not first instance The CM said there had been a problem over a seminar on the campus earlier as well. “I have asked the SP (Superintendent of Police) to convene a meeting of university authorities and the local administration,” she said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has also expressed his dismay over the violence at the varsity. “Situation of law and order in Visva Bharati is alarming. Am trying to be in touch with CM to secure peace in temple of learning. As per VC violators of law have entered campus and destroyed property. CS, HS, DM and SP @MamataOfficial have not responded to call of Visva Bharati,” he tweeted. Talking about her government’s measures to deal with the COVID-19 crisis, Ms. Banerjee said 89% COVID-19 patients were recovering without having to go to the hospital, she advised people with little or no symptoms to opt for home isolation if there is space, and seek help from telemedicine service “From 4.5%, the mortality rate has come down to 2%. There is no reason to be too scared of COVID-19 but if one develops breathing problems, please get him treated fast,” the Chief Minister implored. She also said the State has facilitated the installation of “oxygen-generating devices” at designated COVID-19 hospitals to help patients with breathing problems. “We have procured 300 such machines. We will buy more,” Ms. Banerjee said. Dig at Opposition Without naming any political party, Ms. Banerjee claimed that some people were indulging in politics at police stations and violating the COVID-19 restrictions. The Bharatiya Janata Party had recently held demonstrations at police stations and elsewhere in the State over issues like law and order, COVID-19 situation and the rationing system. “There are some people who are undertaking political programmes at police stations. The Central government has issued a circular prohibiting any large gathering, except for festivals like weddings where a restricted number of people are allowed. There is no scope for any political programme involving a large number of people,” Ms. Banerjee said in an apparent dig at the saffron party. In a state of 10 crore population, those out to malign West Bengal for one or two unfortunate incidents should look at the situation in States ruled by their own parties, the CM said.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Violence erupts on Visva-Bharati campus||Violence erupted in Visva-Bharati, a Central university in West Bengal, on Monday as locals protesting against the construction of a boundary wall on Poush Mela grounds ransacked the campus. Poush Mela, the annual winter fair organised by the university, draws thousands of people from the State. The locals were opposed to the the boundary wall construction. Thousands of people led by local Trinamool Congress leaders stopped the construction work, took control of the equipment, including an earthmover and brought down some structures on the campus. Videos of angry mobs ransacking university property were circulated on social media and aired by television channels. Governor talks to CM Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to social media saying he spoke to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the issue. “Just had word with (the) Chief Minister over Visva Bharati’s worsening law and order scenario. She has assured that administration @MamataOfficial will take all steps to restore law and order. Am sure those enjoined with ( the) task will rise to the occasion”, he said on Twitter. Later in the day, the Chief Minister told journalists that she did not want any construction at the university that would spoil its natural beauty. “I do not want any construction, the construction that will barricade the natural beauty of the place. We have to keep in mind that construction does not always bring the message of natural beauty,” she said. Maintaining that Visva-Bharati is a central university, she stated that she had directed the administration to amicably sort out the issue. “ I learnt that some construction activities were going on and some outsiders were present. Students and people of Bolpur did not like it,” Ms. Banerjee said. Suspension of activities Meanwhile, the university authorities have sent a proposal to the Centre to suspend all activities till normality prevailed. A representative of University Executive Council, Sushobhan Banerjee, expressed regret that despite large deployment of police there was no intervention from the authorities to prevent the violence. Located in Birbhum district, the university was set up by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore in 1921. Over the past few years, the university, located at a place called Santiniketan, which means abode of peace, has been in news for violence and protests on the campus.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports 82 more deaths, 6,780 new COVID-19 cases||The State has reported 82 more COVID-19 deaths and 6,780 new infections, taking the toll to 2,732 and the tally to 2,96,609 as of Monday morning. According to the health bulletin, the recovery rate crossed 70%. At present, there are 84,777 active cases with 2,09,100 patients, including 7,866 in the past 24 hours, recovering. The death rate is still at 0.92%.  Positivity rate In the past 24 hours, 44,578 samples were tested and so far, 29,05,521 samples have been tested. The positivity rate of the tests conducted so far is 10.21%. Prakasam district reported 13 new deaths, the highest in the State. It is followed by East Godavari (10 ) and Chittoor (8). Guntur and Kadapa reported eight deaths each while West Godavari and Srikakulam reported six deaths each. Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported five deaths each, Krishna reported three and Nellore reported two deaths. East Godavari again reported the highest single-day tally in the State. It reported 911 new cases and is followed by Guntur (776), West Godavari (724), Anantapur (535), Srikakulam (527), Kadapa (523), Visakhapatnam (519), Nellore (481), Vizianagaram (462), Chittoor (458), Kurnool (372), Prakasam (357) and Krishna (135). The district tallies and their recovery rates are as follows: East Godavari (41,204, 63%), Kurnool (33,952, 78%), Anantapur (30,062, 81%), Guntur (26,915, 70%), Visakhapatnam (25,327, 77%), West Godavari (24,306, 77%), Chittoor (23,917, 61%), Nellore (17,645, 70%), Kadapa (17,331, 73%), Srikakulam (15,258, 64%), Vizianagaram (13,095, 48%), Krishna (12,479, 74%), and Prakasam (12,223, 60%).
18 August 2020||GUNTUR,||UPI-based payment launched at village, ward secretariats||In a bid to ensure easy digital payments in the rural areas, the State government has launched Unified Payment Interface (UPI)-based transactions at the ward and village secretariats. Launching the initiative at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said people now can make the payments for availing of services at the village and ward secretariats. “The government has entered a tie-up with Canara Bank and National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) to facilitate the UPI-based payment services at the village and ward secretariats. All the 15,404 village and ward secretariats in the State have been brought under a single banking system,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The new payment system will ensure instant, secure and contactless payments, much to the convenience of people. The Chief Minister said the government is now providing 545 different services at 15,404 village and ward secretariats across the State. Easy governance “There is a village or ward secretariat for every 2,000 people and we have recruited volunteers to ensure the smooth implementation of the welfare schemes. All these measures are aimed at bringing governance to the doorstep of the people,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy.
18 August 2020||ELAMANCHILI (WEST GODAVARI DIST.),||Alarm as Godavari breaches danger mark||The River Godavari is flowing at dangerous level at Bhadrachalam. The level had touched 61.60 feet by 6 p.m. on Monday, and it might increase further, officials said. Flood water entered many island villages and people were shifted to safer places. Officials were cautioning people over rising water levels in West and East Godavari districts. According to the data available with Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, the level in the Godavari touched 66.9 feet in August 2006 and 61.6 feet in August 2013 at Bhadrachalam. Polavaram Sub-Collector and K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana said about 4,000 families were affected in 35 habitations in Velerupadu, Polavaram and Kukunur mandals . “By afternoon, about 1,500 families, mostly Adivasis, had been shifted to safer places,” the Sub-Collector said. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, along with Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police (SP) K.Narayan Naik and Joint Collector K. Venkataramana Reddy visited the flood-affected habitations. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, who visited the affected villages, said flood water entered about 70 habitations in Amalapuam, Mummidivaram and other areas and in the merged mandals. About 5,000 families were affected, he added. Officials on alert Narsapuram DSP K. Nageswara Rao said people residing in Peddalanka, Kanakayalanka, Ayodhyalanka, Marimoolalanka, situated in Elamanchili and Achanta mandals and Navarasapuram in Narsapuram mandal, were shifted to safer places. “Pickets have been arranged in island villages,” said Narsapuram Sub-Collector K.S. Viswanathan. AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services Director K. Jayaram Naik told The Hindu that 20 SDRF teams have been deployed in vulnerable villages in East Godavari and West Godavari districts. NDRF 10th Battalion Command Zahid Khan said officials were in touch with the AP State Disaster Management Authority (ASPDMA) and teams had been sent to East Godavari.Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Jaggaiahpet MLA and Whip Samineni Udaya Bhanu and SP M. Ravindranath Babu visited Lingala village in Vatsavai mandal as Munneru was overflowing on the main road. At Prakasam Barrage, the surplus was 1,25,000 cusecs by 5 p.m. and irrigation officials were releasing water. Heavy inflows ‘Inflows into Nagavali and Vamsadhara Rivers were about 10,000 cusecs each as there was good rainfall in the catchment areas in Odisha. Officials are on high alert to tackle the situation in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. tapping phones of critics, alleges Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to initiate immediate and stern action to check the alleged phone-tapping by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and private persons in Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to Mr. Modi on Monday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the ruling party has been illegally and unlawfully tapping the phones of any person or institution raising their voice against the government. It appears that the YSRCP had now even targeted the judiciary as it is facing hurdles from it, he added. Phone-tapping can be done only in case of threat to national security or in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, threat to friendly relations with foreign countries. Further, Section 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 are violated by this government as there is no reason as per the above Acts to tap the phones of leaders of opposition parties, advocates, journalists and social activists. Thus, it directly stands against Articles 19 and 21 of fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution, wherein the right to privacy is violated.  ‘Threat to institutions’ Such illegal and unlawful practices by governments or private persons, if unrestrained, would lead to destruction of institutions that were built painstakingly over a period of time. Therefore, it would be appropriate to order an inquiry by a competent body of the government of India, Mr. Naidu added. He marked a copy of the letter to Union Minister for Communications, Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP claims BJP ‘scripted’ Shaheen Bagh stir||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of scripting the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh and executing the Delhi riots in its name after losing the Delhi Assembly elections earlier this year. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj alleged at a press conference that the people who protested were also part of the BJP. Mr. Bharadwaj’s allegations came in the wake of several Shaheen Bagh residents joining the BJP here. The Shaheen Bagh protest was a civil society sit-in staged against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. It started in December last year and continued till March-end. The BJP accused AAP of trying to save its face given the alleged role of its suspended councillor Tahir Hussain in the riots while the Congress accused the ruling party of attempting to divert attention from the failures of the Delhi government. “A lot of people went there [Shaheen Bagh] to protect democracy and they will be shocked to know that they were betrayed as the protest was scripted by the BJP. Yesterday [Sunday], BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta and [party vice-president] Shyam Jaju did a press conference and said all major leaders of Shaheen Bagh have joined the BJP. Now, people who raised anti-national slogans will be part of BJP? Or were they BJP’s people who were protesting there on directions of the party,” asked Mr. Bharadwaj. The AAP leader said that the Delhi election could have been fought on electricity, water, roads, pollution, or dengue, but the BJP had fought it on Shaheen Bagh. “It is not that Parvesh Verma or Anurag Thakur created this strategy. Such a strategy is planned at the topmost level and it was decided that BJP will fight the Delhi election on Shaheen Bagh,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. ‘AAP diverting attention’ Reacting to the AAP allegations, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the ruling party, instead of addressing the problems faced by the people of Delhi in the middle of a pandemic, is trying to divert the attention of the public by bringing up Shaheen Bagh. “Delhi, which used to be know for its development and harmony when Sheila Dikshit was the Chief Minister, has now become famous for communal riots. There are so many infrastructural issues and problems but the government is not addressing them,” Mr. Kumar said. BJP media panellist Nighat Abbas argued that the residents of Shaheen Bagh “had now understood that the CAA did not seek to deprive any-one of citizenship and had decided to choose the BJP”. “Everyone knows that AAP leader Tahir Hussain is the main accused in the riots... Hussain was in direct contact with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan and party leaders,” she alleged. “Today, when the people of Shaheen Bagh want to go with the BJP, AAP is scared because now Muslims will not suffer any more exploitation for vote bank,” she said.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||CET results on August 20; no change in engineering fees||The results of the Common Entrance Test (CET), the gateway for seats to engineering, agriculture and several other professional courses, will be announced on August 20. In good news for students, there will be no change in the fee structure for the engineering stream. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan announced this after a meeting with the Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges’ Association. The seat matrix of the courses will also remain the same as the previous academic year. “There will be no hike in fees in view of COVID-19 and the flood situation,” Mr. Narayan said. He also said that for the first time, the results were to be announced in just 19 days after the examination. There will be two types of fee structures. In one of the compositions, it has been decided to fix fee of Rs. 65,360 for CET students and Rs. 1,43,748 for COMED-K students. In another composition, it will be Rs. 58,808 for CET students and Rs. 2,01,960 for COMED-K students, he said. Online counselling Counselling, including document verification, will be conducted online and students will not have to visit any of the Karnataka Examinations Authority nodal centres. The counselling will be done before October. “Students can take counselling from their respective places. They need not come to Bengaluru. After selecting the college of their choice, they should get admitted within the scheduled time. There will be two rounds of counselling and one round of extended counselling. There will not be an additional round,” the Minister said. He added that college managements should return unfilled seats within the prescribed time. CET 2020 was held on July 30 and 31 amidst a slew of precautionary measures, which included thermal screening at the entrance of the exam hall and making it mandatory for students to wear masks, among others. The exam was scheduled to be held in April but was postponed due to the pandemic. Around 1.94 lakh students had registered for the test. Students who tested positive wrote CET at COVID care centres, while those who had symptoms or were from containment zones wrote the test in a separate room.  Students need not come to Bengaluru for counselling. There will be two rounds of counselling and one round of extended counselling. There will not be an additional round. C.N. Ashwath Narayan Higher Education Minister
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||ILI treatment centres for all panchayats||The Health Department has asked all districts to establish systems to test all influenza-like illnesses (ILI) at the panchayat level itself, in line with the revised testing strategy of the State. The revised strategy suggests testing of all ILI cases, including those who are not COVID-19 suspects, using rapid antigen test kits . The districts have been directed to start ILI outpatient clinics in a separate building in every panchayat area at fixed times and make arrangements for antigen testing. The focus should be on the symptomatic. (ILI has been defined as acute respiratory infection with a fever of 38 degrees C with either cough, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose with mucous discharge or sore throat within the last 10 days). Focus on clusters Going into the third week of August, Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Malappuram districts have been asked to focus on rigorous cluster contaminant strategies. The department, on analysing the epidemic trend in districts in the first week of August, had asked the districts to increase testing so as to keep the test positivity (percentage of people who test positive amongst those tested) below 5%. However, in the second week of August, test positivity remains over 5% in Thiruvananthapuram (8.9%), Palakkad (5.84%), Ernakulam (6.7%), Kasaragod (10.1%), and Malappuram (12.5%). The department has flagged three districts where test positivity has gone up in the second week of August in comparison to the previous week – Palakkad (from 3.8 % to 5.84%), Kottayam (3.1 % to 4.9%), and Kannur (2.3 5 to 4.3%). If the total positive cases reported in the first week of August was 8,087, it went up to 9,577 in the second week of August. The deaths reported also went up from 29 to 37 during the same period.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Facebook India public policy chief files complaint over threats||Delhi Police on Monday registered an FIR after Ankhi Das, the public policy director of Facebook India, filed a complaint at the Chittaranjan Park police station after she allegedly received threats and offensive messages on social media. A senior police officer said a case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and the Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) unit is investigating the matter. Ms. Das said the threats were directed at her after the publication of an article in T he Wall Street Journal on August 14, which was picked up “in a mischaracterised and distorted manner in India” by various publications. She has identified a few Twitter and Facebook accounts in her complaint. The WSJ report had clai-med that Ms. Das didn’t apply Facebook “hate speech” rules to individuals and groups linked with the BJP. “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” said a Facebook India spokesperson on Monday.  (With inputs from Yuthika Bhargava)
18 August 2020||Pune,||‘51.5% people in Pune have developed antibodies’||The results to the first COVID-19 sero (serological) surveillance study conducted for Pune city have shown that 51.5% of the population surveyed in five ‘high-incidence’ wards within Pune civic body limits had developed antibodies. The study indicates that there has been an extensive spread of infection in the five highly-infected wards sampled in Pune city, with seroprevalence ranging from 36.1% to 65.4%, across all types of dwellings. The sero-surveillance samples were collected between 20 July and August 5, with random blood samples of 1,664 persons taken by teams from five ‘high-incidence’ wards in Pune city: Yerwada, Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi, Rastapeth-Ravivarpeth, Kasbapeth-Somwarpeth, Navipeth-Parvati. The study was carried out by epidemiologists from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, under the guidance of Prof. L. S. Shashidhara; the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU); the Christian Medical College (CMC) at Vellore and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) at Faridabad. The THSTI developed the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based test which helped to detect the IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies against the virus. The study was funded by a Rs. 75 lakh-grant from the Persistent Foundation. The presence of antibodies indicate that the individual was infected in the past and mounted an immune response to the infection. “While our tests estimate the presence of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in a substantive portion of the population [in the selected wards] and suggest past infection, it does not necessarily indicate that the individual is resistant to subsequent infection. Neither is the high seroprevalence necessarily an indicator of population-level immunity,” said Dr. Aurnab Ghosh of IISER, who was one of the principal investigators of this survey. Given that Pune city, with nearly 15,000 active positive cases and over 1,800 deaths was a virus hotbed, Dr. Ghosh said one of the chief objectives of the survey was to help understand whether or not a second wave of infection would hit the city. “Seroprevalence identifies infections that were asymptomatic or symptomatic but undetected. Such data provides insights into the trajectory of the disease and has implications for clinical management and public health control strategies,” he said. Results showed that seropositivity (the state of having or not having detectable antibodies against a specific antigen) of 43.9% was observed among people residing in bungalows, while it was 56-62% among those in tenement or hutment dwellings.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Avoid unjustified activities against me, Governor tells V-Cs’ Council||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said the activities of the State’s vice-chancellors Council are “in the nature of unjustified slur against his office”. Mr. Dhankhar wrote a letter to Surjan Das, vice-chancellor, Jadavpur University, who is the president of the Council (WBVCC), urging him to engage in a dialogue. “The WBVCC activities have taken the shape of a slur campaign against the office I hold and such a stance is wholly unbecoming of the position the members of the WBVCC, including you, hold. Vice- chancellors are expected to be role models in society by exhibiting exemplary conduct,” Mr. Dhankhar said in the letter. The Governor referred to the language employed in the resolutions, particularly with respect to the development relating to the Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University as “far distanced from decorum and fact situation”. Earlier this year, the Governor had issued a notice to the vice-chancellor of the university raising questions on why he did not receive any notice or intimation about the convocation. The WBVCC had also expressed reservations to a letter by the Governor which said communications required to be sent to him as the Chancellor should henceforth be directed to him and “not through any other authority”. In a statement, the WBVCC in June said “they perform their duties in consonance with the terms of the existing Acts and Rules issued from time to time, specifying the roles of the State government, Hon’ble Chancellor, vice-chancellors and other statutory authorities”. In July, the situation aggravated when most of the V-Cs gave the virtual meeting called by Governor a miss and Mr. Dhankar said the education in the State was “politically caged”. Time and again differences between the Chancellor and the V-Cs have come to the fore. On certain occasions, the Chancellor was prevented from participating in the convocations of these universities owing to protests.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. sees a spurt in applications under revised e-pass system||With the Tamil Nadu government issuing ‘instant e-pass’ to applicants who furnish their Aadhaar or ration card details along with their mobile phone number, there has been a spurt in applications for such permits for inter-district travel. Consequently, there was unusually heavy traffic on several highways, while major toll plazas witnessed vehicular congestion on Monday. Hundreds of cars and two-wheelers entered Chennai from other districts after months of lockdown, which left many stranded outside the State capital. Prior to the revision of the e-pass system, permits for inter-district travel were issued only for medical and personal emergencies. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said, “From today [August 17] onwards, e-passes for inter-district movement will be auto-generated. It will be a hassle-free system.” He reiterated that people should apply for the permits only for genuine purposes. During the past few months, the Greater Chennai Corporation had issued e-passes for 33% of applicants. In Chennai, 7,433 e-pass applications were approved on Monday, as against the daily average of around 2,000 permits. As many as 2,040 of the applicants were those who had been stranded elsewhere. On an average, Chennai receives 15,000 applications per day, officials said. Following the government’s decision to allow the automatic generation of e-passes, the Coimbatore district administration received around 4,000 applications. Until recently, the district administration had approved around 60% of applications citing death, wedding or medical emergency as the reason for travel, with sufficient proof. In Erode district, a total of 2,950 e-passes were issued on Monday, as against an average of 450 permits issued per day earlier. Tiruppur district witnessed a nearly five-fold rise in applications, with 3,807 of them approved as of 5 p.m. on Monday. Revenue officials said that till Sunday, 700 to 800 e-passes per day were approved manually under the old system by the Tiruppur district administration. New categories Many had applied under the newly-added categories of ‘work-related’ (including property registration) and ‘return of stranded people’. Similar spikes in applications were seen in districts like Perambalur, Pudukottai, Karur, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur in the delta region. In Madurai, “on an average, the district administration would receive 3,000 applications, of which around 500 would be approved each day. Today [Monday], there was a definite rise [in applications] and we are still compiling the figure,” an official said. Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay said the authorities had been strengthening teams around the district borders, anticipating a large number of vehicles. Apart from the Health Department’s mobile swab units, police and revenue officials will also be monitoring the situation, he said. Chennai witnessed traffic congestion as thousands of people from the southern and western districts of the State made their way to the city. (With inputs from Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi regions)
18 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Three-time legislator works two months in his paddy field||At a time when people are increasingly shying away from ‘non-lucrative’ agriculture, a three-time lawmaker from Odisha’s Nabarangpur district makes it a point to toil in his fields at least two months a year. Amid heavy rain creating a favourable condition for paddy crop, Biju Janata Dal MLA Manohar Randhari, representing the Dabugam constituency, is engaged in transplanting paddy saplings in his land at Pujaripada village. He, along with a set of labourers, intends to complete the transplantation before Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro takes the call on convening the monsoon session of the Assembly. ‘Not for photo-ops’ “I don’t do farming for photo-ops. Agriculture is my profession while my position as an MLA is a way of serving people. Being the only son, I had been assisting my father in farming from a young age. He passed away last year and all responsibility of farming fell on my shoulders,” says the 45-year-old MLA. Mr. Randhari has 25 acres of land located in Pujaripada, Kesriguda and Bhatigam villages — a rain-fed region. His sister, Padmini Dian, who represents the Kotpad Assembly segment in Koraput district, is the Minister of Textile, Hand-looms and Handicrafts in the Naveen Patnaik government. “I usually use a tractor for tilling. But I plough land with bullocks where tractor cannot enter,” he says. The MLA, who represented the Nabarangpur constituency in 2009 and 2014 before shifting to Dabugam in 2019, ensures that he remains present in the field for a month around August and another month in winter when the paddy is harvested. “My involvement in the field does not affect my job as an MLA. I usually engage in hours of interaction with people of my constituency in the evenings,” he says. Mr. Randhari earns around Rs. 7 lakh to Rs. 8 lakh per year from paddy cultivation, keeping aside about 10 quintals of milled rice for providing cooked food to people visiting him. “Everyone should participate in agriculture, which is facing a grave crisis. The production should be enough to meet one’s requirement while the rest should be sold for others’ consumption. I sincerely hope that my involvement in agriculture encourages others,” says the MLA.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||BMC guidelines for Ganpati immersion||Issuing guidelines for the Ganapati festival, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said the civic body will collect Ganesh idols from the devotees even at natural visarjan spots and no one will be allowed to immerse the idol on their own to avoid overcrowding. The BMC statement said Mumbai city has 70 natural idol immersion spots while 167 artificial spots have been created for this year, which is five times more than that of last year. “It will be mandatory to perform visarjan by following all physical distancing norms and avoid crowding,” the statement said. The civic body has also appealed citizens to bring Ganesh idols at home three to four days in advance to avoid crowds on streets a day before the festival. As per the guidelines, the civic body will be setting mobile idol collection centres, where devotees can give their idol after performing final puja at home. The immersion spots can be accessed by those living within a 1-2 km perimeter of them. “Citizens will not be allowed to do visarjan in natural spots on their own. The concerned ward offices will make arrangements for idol collection where citizens will give the idol and the civic body will immerse the idols by following all the rituals,” the BMC said. Each ward will have minimum of seven to eight such collection arrangements, which will be set up at open grounds, pandals of public Ganesh mandals and will be publicised well in time. It has appealed to perform final puja of the idol at home, before handing over it to the civic body’s centres.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in Bengal near 1.2 lakh||Another Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA who had tested positive for COVID-19 recently died in Kolkata on Monday as cases and mortalities continued to rise in West Bengal. The State recorded 3,080 cases of the viral infection, taking the number of total cases to 1,19,578. Forty-five fatalities were also reported, taking the death toll due to COVID-19 to 2,473. Active cases in the State stand at 27,402. Samaresh Das, the deceased MLA, represented the Egra Assembly constituency in Purba Medinipur district. The three-time MLA was 76 years old, and had other co-morbidities along with the contagious viral infection. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed condolences over the death and said the MLA’s death has left a political void. This is the second death of a sitting MLA from West Bengal due to COVID-19. In June, Tamonash Ghosh, a three-time MLA from the State’s ruling party, who represented Falta Assembly constituency in the State’s South 24 Parganas succumbed to the viral infection. Earlier this month, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and former MP Shyamal Chakraborty died after testing positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the State government started a COVID-19 patient management system that will provide online information on patients receiving treatment for the disease. The CM said that September 1 will be observed as ‘Police Day’ to honour the contribution of police personnel in the fight against the pandemic. She also announced that activities of the Police Welfare Board will be strengthened in the State.
18 August 2020||Staff Reporter,||No permission for Ganesh fete at public places: DGP||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Monday made it clear is no permission for celebrating Ganesh Navaratri Utsavams at public places in the State this year due to the pandemic situation. Stern action would be taken if any organisation, group or individual arrange pandals violating the rules, he said. Vinayaka Chaviti falls on August 22 this year. Members of the Ganesh Utsava Committee, Ganesh Navarathri Utsava Committee, Vinayaka Mandapa Committee and other organisations, area committees, colonies associations, traders and individuals have been celebrating the festival at public places in a grand manner every year by taking permission from the police. “We request the devotees to celebrate Vinayaka Chaviti at homes in striuct adherence to the COVID norms. The police will not issue permissions for putting up pandals, performing pujas at public places and for immersion of the idols,” the DGP said.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||47 patients shifted after KIMS runs out of oxygen||As many as 47 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and were on oxygen support at Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), had to be shifted after the hospital ran out of oxygen supply. The Department of Health and Family Welfare swung into action after the 108 helpline received a call informing that there was shortage of oxygen supply in the hospital. All 47 patients were shifted to seven hospitals. Twenty were on ventilator, said Regina Joseph, cluster head at the BBMP war room. Chandramohan K.N., deputy director of Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka, said the patients are stable. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said he had directed officials to ensure that 20 oxygen cylinders are sent to KIMS.
18 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Bodies of three fishermen found||The bodies of three of the four fishermen who went missing when their boat capsized near Koderi fishing harbour in Udupi district on Sunday were found on Monday. The deceased are Naga Kharvi, Lakshman Kharvi and Chandrasekhar Kharvi. A search is on for Manjunath Kharvi. The Udupi district police said Naga Kharvi, 55, was a resident of Karkikali, Uppunda, in the district. His nephew Bharkar Kharvi on Sunday filed a complaint with the Byndoor police stating that his uncle had gone fishing in the morning as the Arabian Sea was calm, along with 11 others on a boat called Sagarashree. When the sea became rough by afternoon, they began returning to Koderi fishing harbour. However, while entering the breakwater channel of Yedamavinahole to reach the harbour, their boat capsized and hit the breakwater wall.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rains damage power T&D infrastructure||Heavy rains and floods across the State caused disturbance in power supply at some places and damaged the transmission and distribution infrastructure, including washing away of seven towers of the 220 KV transmission line in Karimnagar district, and two 33 KV sub-stations were inundated in Warangal district. Chairman and Managing Director of TSGenco and TSTransco D. Prabhakar Rao reviewed the situation by holding a teleconference with the CMDs of Southern and Northern Discoms and other key officials.
18 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Rs. 32-crore drainage project launched||Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty on Monday launched a Rs. 32-crore underground drainage project to be taken up in Thiruvail, Baiturli and Angaragundi areas in his constituency. Speaking on the occasion at Thiruvail, the MLA asked people to cooperate with the government during the implementation of the project. The MLA said that two wet wells and a sewage treatment plant will be constructed as part of the project being implemented through KUIDFC. In another function at Ganeshapura, the MLA distributed title deeds to 74 families. Speaking at the function, he said that since he became MLA, 4,500 families in his constituency have been given title deeds.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain-washed Rajpath||
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Alert over plot against BJP, RSS leaders||The Centre has warned of an alleged terror plot by “Pakistan establishments” to murder select leaders of right wing organisations, including the BJP and the RSS, and called for adequate measures to protect them. The terror groups were under pressure to carry out the attack at the earliest, sources in the Tamil Nadu police told The Hindu on Monday. States alerted In an alert sent to all States, central intelligence agencies, quoting reliable inputs, warned that India-based transnational criminal and underworld networks were tasked [by Pakistan establishments] to gather details of the target persons including their place of stay, routine activities and day-to-day movement.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Hospital to arrange call for Varvara Rao||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital to arrange a video call between poet Varavara Rao and his family. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition against Taloja prison authorities seeking directions for them to submit a detailed report on the course of action followed by them post the hurried discharge of Mr. Rao from JJ Hospital on June 2. Advocate Sudeep Pasbola, appearing for Mr. Rao, said the family last spoke to the poet on July 31 and a medical report was awaited from the hospital. NIA counsel Anil Singh said Mr. Rao was shifted to Nanavati Hospital at the family’s request so there should not be any complaints from the family.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||BDA to hold public meet on PRR today||Amid rising COVID-19 cases and despite demand by environmentalists, activists and citizens to postpone the public hearing on the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR), the BDA is going ahead with the public consultation on Tuesday as scheduled.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||More Delhiites develop antibodies against virus||About 29% of 15,350 people whose blood samples were randomly collected from across the national capital for the second serological survey, held earlier this month, have developed antibodies against COVID-19.
18 August 2020||patna,||Defections begin in poll-bound Bihar||In poll-bound Bihar, expelled Janata Dal (United) leader and former Industries Minister Shyam Rajak on Monday joined the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal while three RJD MLAs hopped over to the ruling JD(U). The Assembly elections are due in the State in October-November.
18 August 2020||Srinagar,||We were not invited to I-Day events: J&K parties||J&K’s regional parties, including the NC and the PDP, have claimed that none of their top leaders was invited to the Independence Day functions in Srinagar, presi-ded over by newly appointed Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha. None of their leaders attended the L-G’s ‘At-Home’ function either.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||NGT fines four companies for air pollution in Mahul||The National Green Tribunal has said that conditions prevailing in Mahul, Ambapada, and Chembur are sometimes likened to that of a ‘gas chamber’, in an order passed last week directing four Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, Sea Lord Containers Limited, and Aegis Logistics Limited to pay fines of Rs. 286 crore for causing air pollution. An NGT bench was hearing a plea on August 13, which sought execution of an NGT order passed on December 18, 2015, for controlling air pollution in the areas.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||SIT to investigate police assault during lockdown||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, to set up a special investigation team consisting of two police officers within 24 hours to investigate the matter where four policemen allegedly assaulted a man to death for violating the lockdown in Vile Parle in March. A Division Bench was hearing a PIL, which cited instances of police brutality inflicted on kirana shop and dairy store owners during the lockdown. The PIL said that uniformed police personnel without name and badges, accompanied by local youth and municipal workers in civil dress, were at the fore of committing acts of violence.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Former BJP leader joins TMC in Bengal||Accusing the BJP government at the Centre of not fulfilling its promises and ignoring the interests of West Bengal, former saffron party leader Krishanu Mitra on Monday joined the TMC in the presence of senior leaders and office-bearers. Mr. Mitra, once a spokesperson of the BJP’s State unit, was handed over a TMC flag by Education Minister and party’s secretary-general Partha Chatterjee. “Today Krishanu Mitra is joining our party. We welcome him to the TMC family,” Mr. Chatterjee said. Mr. Mitra said the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC is in the only force in Bengal, which can protect the interests of the Bengalis.PTI
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Bengali film director Raj Chakraborty tests positive for COVID-19||Bengali filmmaker Raj Chakraborty on Monday said he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was in home quarantine. “I have been tested COVID-19 positive. My father has been hospitalised recently, but he has been tested negative both the time. In home quarantine right now. Rest of my family members will be testing for COVID-19, too. These are the trying times,” he tweeted. The Bojhe Na Se Bojhena director and his wife Subhashree Ganguly are expecting their first child. Earlier, Bengali actor Koel Mallick and a few members of her family had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, but have now recovered.PTI
18 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad sees 201 new cases, Belagavi 171||Dharwad district recorded 201 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths, while Belagavi recorded 171 fresh cases and nine deaths on Monday. As many as 279 persons were discharged from hospital in Belagavi on Monday, while 180 were discharged in Dharwad. So far 4,156 persons, in all, have been discharged from hospital in Belagavi and that number is 5,014 in Dharwad. The number of active cases in Belagavi is 3,679 and in Dharwad, it is 2,602. Meanwhile, Bagalkot recorded 164 new cases and one death, Davangere 16 cases, Chitradurga 21 cases, Gadag 99 cases, Haveri 43 cases and four deaths, Uttara Kannada 89 cases and one death and Vijayapura 106 cases and three deaths.
18 August 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,890 fresh cases, 120 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,890 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking its tally so far to 3,43,945. With 120 more deaths, the toll rose to 5,886. As many as 1,185 persons tested positive in Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 1,17,839.
18 August 2020||Chennai,||SPB remains critical, still on life support||Singer S.P. Balasubrahm-anyam, who was hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, continues to be on life support in the Intensive Care Unit, a health bulletin from MGM Healthcare said on Monday. The hospital said his condition remained critical and that an expert team was closely monitoring his vital parameters.
18 August 2020||Chennai,||As Tasmac shops reopen, experts call for caution||With Tasmac outlets all set to reopen in Chennai on Tuesday, public health experts have a word of caution — crowding should be prevented, and mask wearing and maintenance of physical distancing should be ensured at the shops.
18 August 2020||Vijayawada,||17brief3||A joint venture comprising Subhash Projects and Marketing (SPML), an infrastructure development company, and others has emerged as a successful bidder for the contract for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS).
18 August 2020||Vijayawada,||17brief2||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde adjourned to August 19 the hearing on the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by the State government on the three capitals issue. The Chief Justice recused himself from the case as his daughter reprensenting a private party in a petition on the same matter in the High Court.
18 August 2020||Srinagar,||3 CRPF jawans, 2 militants killed||Three security personnel and two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, including a wanted ‘commander’, were killed in a day-long gunfight in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Monday. The gun battle started after the militants appeared from an orchard and started firing at a joint checkpoint of the CRPF and the police at Tindim village of Kreeri in Baramulla district around 9.15 a.m. “Two CRPF jawans and a Special Police Officer (SPO) were killed [in the firing]. Just minutes after the attack, a Special Operations Group (SOG) of the police engaged the militants. One injured militant managed to go inside the orchard, while another started firing from a tree. He was killed first and subsequently the injured militant was killed,” Director-General of Police Dilbagh Singh said in Srinagar. An Army soldier was also injured during the gunfightand was shifted to a hospital in Srinagar “in a critical condition”. The three deceased security personnel were identified as SPO Muzaffar Ali and constables Lokesh Sharma and Khursheed Khan of the CRPF’s 119 Battalion. The police identified the ‘commander’ as Sajad Ahmad Mir alias Haider and Anayatullah Mir, both from Baramulla. The police said Haider was LeT’s chief for north Kashmir and was behind the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari and his family members. “Haider was one of the most wanted commanders in J&K. Like slain Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant Burhan Wani, Haider too would lure youth into militancy,” Mr. Singh said. Haider was also behind a series of audio messages released online to threaten political workers. “Haider had started working like slain Hizb ‘commander’ Reyaz Naikoo. His killing is a big success,” Mr. Singh said.  A CRPF official said militants attacked a security picket in Nehama in Kulgam district. “A CRPF personnel was injured,” the spokesman said.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Expert group meets vaccine makers||The National Expert Group on COVID Vaccine Administration met leading domestic vaccine manufactures — Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Zydus Cadila, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals and Biological E — here on Monday. “The meeting provided the group with inputs about the present stage of various candidate vaccines being developed by the indigenous manufacturers. Companies also presented their expectations from the Union government,” noted a statement issued by the Health Ministry. COVID-19 testing Releasing figures about the COVID-19 testing in the country, the Ministry said India’s cumulative testing had risen from 1.2 crore on July 14 to 3 crore on August 16, with the positivity rate registering a rise from 7.5% to 8.81% in the same period. It added that the higher number of tests would push the positivity rate initially, but as the Delhi experience had shown, it would eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, tracking and timely clinical management. The Ministry added that India had now conducted 3 crore tests, aided by the expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country. “We conducted 7,31,697 tests in the last 24 hours. We are now planning to increase our testing capacity to 10 lakh tests daily. Building on this achievement, the Tests Per Million [TPM] have seen a sharp increase to 21,769,” said the release. It maintained that early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases, thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases. ‘Health infrastructure’ Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, presiding over the inaugural session of the two-day CII Public Health conference on Monday, said the pandemic had given India a chance to structurally reimagine a robust public health infrastructure. “COVID-19 has also exposed gaps in our system and showcased our underinvestment in our overall public health infrastructure... Our priority needs to be focused on the improvement of rural healthcare infrastructure through government facilities,” chairman, CII Public Health Council and Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Randeep Guleria said. Though Ayushman Bharast has served the people effectively, there are several supply side concerns that need to be addressed, said Vinod Paul, member, NITI Aayog. He added that there was a need to augment our healthcare infrastructure and try to reach 2 beds per 1,000 people by 2025.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||4G SIM cards disconnect ASHAs||At the frontline of the country’s battle against COVID-19, Accredited Social Health Activists, or ASHAs, in Haryana have gone on strike after they were issued new Jio 4G SIM cards and their old SIMs disabled to ensure they migrate to Android phones for better monitoring of service delivery. But the workers, paid poorly with salaries often delayed, say they cannot afford smartphones to use the new SIM cards. “In the last week of July, our existing mobile numbers were disabled and we were offered new 4G SIM cards along with an Internet data package. These will only work on a smartphone, which many ASHA workers can’t afford. We have not been able to perform our duties since this move and have been told that if we don’t activate the new number, we won’t get another one,” says Sudha Pal, general secretary of the Haryana ASHA Workers’ Union. The ASHA workers say they were promised smartphones in 2018, but the procurement has been delayed. Crucial tool Ms. Pal and 200 other ASHAs have been protesting outside the office of the Chief Medical Officer of Faridabad for over a week now. An estimated 20,000 ASHAs are on strike across 22 districts of Haryana. They completed 10 days of stir on Sunday. Mobile phones help ASHA workers remain in contact with beneficiaries, receive calls seeking assistance such as during child birth, and send updates and GPS locations of new COVID-19 cases. The issue has fuelled anger pent up among frontline workers — ASHAs, Anganwadi Workers and Auxillary Nurse Midwives — who have been given additional responsibilities since March, including spreading awareness about preventive measures against COVID-19 as well as detecting and referring suspected cases. They have been delivering these services despite the lack of any protective personal equipment or security from attacks while out on surveys. This is in addition to their routine work, which for an ASHA worker includes screening pregnant women, lactating mothers as well as children for communicable and non-communicable diseases, vaccination, care during pregnancy and child birth, among others. Their income, which is a combination of a fixed honorarium of Rs. 4,000 and additional earnings from task-based incentives, has gone down since the COVID-19 outbreak as they are not able to deliver services which fetch them extra money. For their COVID-19 related activities they were promised an incentive of Rs. 1,000 in March, and another Rs. 500 by the State government. They are yet to receive the latter. In fact, 42-year-old Jeevanti Devi is yet to receive her salary for July. She supervises 418 households, or a population of 1,894 people in Faridabad’s Indira Nagar where sewage from small factories, workshops and houses collects in open drains making the area vulnerable to diseases.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala records 1,725 cases, 93% from local spread||Tamil Nadu added another 5,890 cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Monday, taking its overall tally to 3,43,945. Another 120 deaths were recorded, with the toll rising to 5,886. In Chennai, 1,185 persons tested positive, taking the total positive cases in the city to 1,17,839 of which 1,03,358 were discharged and 12,003 were under treatment. Three districts had 300-plus cases - Coimbatore - 393, Cuddalore - 389 and Tiruvallur - 308. A total of 5,667 persons were discharged after treatment in the State. This included 660 in Chennai, 477 in Tiruvallur and 465 in Chengalpattu. As of date, a total of 2,83,937 persons were discharged in T.N. A total of 67,532 samples were tested in the State during the last 24 hours. This took the total number of samples tested till now to 37,78,778. A private laboratory - Aarthi Scans and Labs, Thanjavur - was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are currently 62 testing facilities in the government and 74 in the private sector. In Kerala Kerala began the week with a rise in its COVID-19 incidence by 1,725 cases on Monday, alongside 1,131 recoveries. The total for cases went up to 46,150, of which 15,890 were active cases or patients currently under treatment in hospitals. A total of 30,029 persons recovered. The State’s COVID-19 death toll touched 169 on Monday, with the Health Department adding 13 more deaths.  On Monday, 93% of new cases – 1,605 of 1,725 – were locally acquired infections, including infections in 31 healthcare workers. No epidemiological link could be established for 94 cases. Thiruvananthapuram again had the highest number of new positive daily cases at 461, of which 450 were locally acquired infections, including that of 15 healthcare workers. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours stood at 26,150. 10.21% positivity rate Andhra Pradesh reported 82 more COVID-19 deaths and 6,780 new infections, taking the toll to 2,732 and the tally to 2,96,609 on Monday. The health bulletin said the recovery rate had crossed 70%. There were 84,777 active cases. In 24 hours, 44,578 samples were tested with the positivity rate of tests conducted so far at 10.21%. Prakasam district reported 13 new deaths, the highest, followed by East Godavari (10) and Chittoor (8). Guntur and Kadapa reported eight deaths each while West Godavari and Srikakulam reported six deaths each. Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported five deaths each, Krishna reported three and Nellore reported two deaths. East Godavari again reported the highest single-day tally of 911 new cases, followed by Guntur (776), West Godavari (724), Anantapur (535), Srikakulam (527), Kadapa (523), Visakhapatnam (519), Nellore (481), Vizianagaram (462), Chittoor (458), Kurnool (372), Prakasam (357) and Krishna (135). In Telangana Telanganites breathed slightly easier with a reduced 894 samples testing positive on Sunday, the lowest number of cases in a day in the past one-and-a-half months. However, this did not indicate a sudden drop in the incidence. Only 8,794 tests to detect coronavirus were conducted on Sunday, the lowest number in the past one month. Both tests and cases were lower on weekends from the last week of July. The 894 cases on August 16 included 147 from Greater Hyderabad, 85 from Rangareddy, and 69 from Karimnagar. Test results of 421 samples were awaited. The toll rose to 703 as 10 more patients died. Of the total 92,255 cases, 21,420 were active.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Hyderabad bureaus)
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Congress steps up attack on govt.||The Congress on Monday alleged that Facebook India’s “inaction” against objectionable and hateful content destabilises democracy but the company may be guided by its business interest in India. While reiterating its demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to probe allegations against Facebook India that it “favoured” the BJP, the party also alleged that the kin of a top FB India official was linked to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidharthi Parishad, the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The issue also led to a Twitter spat between BJP MP Nishikant Dubey and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, after Mr. Tharoor said he would like to hear from Facebook on the issue. Reacting to Mr. Tharoor’s comment, Mr. Dubey tweeted,“The Chairman of Standing Commitee does not have the authority to do anything without discussion of the agenda with its member. @ShashiTharoor stop @RahulGandhi agenda without authorisation by the Committee and Speaker @ombirlakota.” Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra then quickly pointed out that Facebook was already part of an agreed agenda with the Speaker’s approval at the beginning of the year. “Amazing how @BJP jumps up & down at anything to do with FB’s interests!” she said on Twitter. “You are absolutely right @mahuamoitra, and by imputing motives to my decision, @nishikant_dubey has brought the Committee’s work into disrepute, a matter I will take up. Extraordinary that an MP would suggest that a matter of such great public interest should NOT be taken up by us!” Mr. Tharoor tweeted.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Withdraw FIRs against protesters’||The joint platform of 10 Central trade unions on Monday wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah seeking withdrawal of the First Information Reports (FIRs) filed against workers who had recently taken part in protests against the government’s labour policies. In their letter to Mr. Shah, the unions said FIRs had been filed against “peaceful protesters protesting against the labour policy, disinvestment and privatisation of public sector enterprises and for raising the genuine issues of the front rank coronavirus fighters”. “The working people are compelled to come out in protest during the pandemic period due to continuing miseries being heaped on them by the government. Mask wearing and physical distancing was strictly practised while organising the protests,” the letter stated. The unions said despite the precautions and rules regarding COVID-19 being followed, the police had filed FIRs on grounds of violations. ‘Vindictive attempt’ “It smacks of a vindictive attempt at muzzling the democratic rights of the unions to represent the grievances of the workers, the wealth producers and the service givers. This is unacceptable,” the letter said. The unions asked Mr. Shah to have the FIRs withdrawn. The letter to the Home Minister was signed by the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jungle raj peaking in U.P., says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for the “worsening law and order situation” and “caste violence”. In a tweet, Mr. Gandhi targeted the Yogi Adityanath government for the killing of a Dalit sarpanch (village head) in Azamgarh’s Basgaon and alleged that the “jungle raj” of caste violence and rape was “peaking”. “Now another terrible incident — Sarpanch Satyamev, being a Dalit, said ‘no’, due to which he was killed. Condolences to the family of Satyamev ji,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Last week, 42-year-old Satyamev was shot dead, triggering mob violence in the area. The police have invoked the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against four persons in connection with the killing. Separately, in a Facebook post, Ms. Vadra said, “Bulandshahr, Hapur, Lakhimpur Kheri and now Gorakhpur. Such repeated incidents have proven that the Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in providing security to women”. ‘No fear of law’ Gruesome crimes were taking place against women as there was no fear of law in the minds of criminals in the State, she said, adding that the police and administration were not able to provide adequate security. “The Uttar Pradesh government should review the law and order system and take every step to ensure the safety of women,” she stated.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Reimagining and reinventing the Indian economy||The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the global economy and India is no different. The significant reduction in domestic demand caused by the nationwide lockdown has pushed the economy towards contraction in the first quarter of 2020-21, and the impact is likely to be felt in subsequent months as well. In this regard, Honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has taken decisive and commendable action to mitigate the impact of the virus outbreak, from both a health and an economic perspective. On May 12, 2020, Mr. Modi unveiled a mammoth stimulus package totalling Rs. 20 lakh crore, which works out to about 10% of GDP, making it one of the most substantial relief plans in the world. The stimulus package can help revive businesses, which are finding it difficult to operate without adequate availability of credit. This is especially true for India’s 60,000-odd start-ups, which are facing an acute liquidity crunch. The situation presents an opportunity to take bold action to promote investments, protect existing jobs and create new jobs. A lot more needs to be done, however, to resuscitate the country’s growth engine. At this juncture, what India needs is a two-pronged strategy to successfully navigate the current crisis. First, minimise the damage caused by the COVID-19 and clear a path to recovery and second, rebooting and reimagining India by promptly exploiting new opportunities unleashed by evolving business scenarios. The three mantras should be bigger, bolder and faster execution of this strategy. Key strategies The strategy should address four major economic cylinders: a) Big Business Houses which are a major contributor to GDP and large employment generators. b) MSMEs which are the lifeline of the country, generating wealth for the middle class. c) Start-ups, which bring innovation and transformation to our country’s economy. d) Our Indian brothers and sisters living abroad, the NRIs and OCIs — they not only serve as unofficial ambassadors of India, but their heart beats for India and through their contacts, can bring huge investments into India. 1. Big business houses should be supported by the government to reopen their operations by way of tax incentives or ease of procurement of raw materials or other goods and services on credit as this will energise consumer demand and boost the functioning of vendor or ancillary industry in the MSME sector (which has potential for job creation). 2. The RBI should consider single one-time window for restructuring business loans, as required, by all banks. There is a high probability that non-performing assets are likely to rise once the prevailing moratorium is lifted by RBI. The government and RBI also urgently need to assure banks, that their business decisions will not be questioned, to encourage credit flows. 3. The Centre can prepare a five-year plan on getting at least 60% of those companies, desiring to move manufacturing out of China to India. 4. Making India a global trading hub — devise an incentive regime for companies setting up global trading operations from India. 5. The States should think of establishing self-contained “industrial cities” that earmark space for manufacturing, commercial, educational, residential and social infrastructure. 6. The 10 sectors identified by the government fit into the Make in India campaign — electrical, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, automotive, mining, electronics, heavy engineering, renewable energy, food processing, chemicals and textiles. Japan, the U.S. and South Korea have already shown interest. Sunrise sectors 7. It should also encourage sunrise sectors as part of re-imagining Indian economy such as battery manufacturing (storage systems)/ solar panel manufacturing. The government can also consider giving impetus to “Deep Tech”-leveraged businesses — blockchain, robotics, AI, machine learning, augmented reality, big data analytics, cyber security, etc. 8. India is amongst the top start-up ecosystems globally. Several of them are in pre-Angel or Angel-Funding stages and are under significant pressure to stay afloat in view of a lack of adequate liquidity. Start-ups not only help drive innovation, but also create jobs. The government needs to provide support to the start-up ecosystem. 9. The auto industry which contributes significantly to GDP (nearly 9%) deserves special treatment. In addition to reducing GST rate, old vehicle scrap policy with tax incentives for creating a demand for new vehicles may be formulated. There is need to recognise Auto Sales Industry channel partners as MSMEs 10. Plug-and-Play model: Maharashtra has created a turnkey ‘plug-and-play’ model for foreign investors. Similarly, other States must get their act together, be it on land acquisition, labour laws and providing social, environment and other infrastructure. Land should be made available for projects with all necessary pre-clearances — at Centre’s level (including Environmental), State’s and Municipal dispensations. 11. Reforms in labour laws do not only mean permission to hire and fire. Leeway should be given to strictly enforce discipline within the factory premises and demand higher productivity. The moves by U.P., M.P. and Gujarat are welcome signals. The government should provide health insurance for migrant labourers as experimented by certain States. 12. Investments of NRIs and OCIs in India should be treated on par with those of Resident Indians as regards interest and dividend repatriation and management control of Indian companies. It may be mentioned that the Chinese government had called on rich overseas Chinese to invest in China with minimum government control, and massive investments followed. This has contributed to China’s prosperity and economic rise. A similar investment boom can take place in India through NRIs and OCIs. Indian diaspora’s direct investment should be incentivised, perhaps in terms of a plug-and-play model to ensure that they do not end up spending lots of time in getting approvals to start a business. One-time repatriation of foreign earning: The proposition is to reduce the current rate of 15% on a gross basis on dividends from foreign subsidiaries to 5%. This would lead to more influx of funds and thereby be expected to support local projects. Tax exemptions The government may also consider providing tax exemption on passive income like dividends, interest on bank deposits, income from mutual funds earned by NRIs from India, if such income is reinvested back in India. Also, capital gains should be taxed at 50% of applicable rates for next 3 years. Incentives for attracting new investments: We need to reconsider the approach to taxing interest, dividends and royalty paid to overseas investors. For instance, though interest on several forms of debt qualifies for a concessional 5% tax rate, this is limited by fairly stringent thin capitalization norms. The government could consider a 3 to 5-year moratorium on the applicability of thin capitalization norms to ensure that businesses are able to leverage on low cost borrowings from group entities abroad. The government may consider relaxation of norms pertaining to issue of shares to resident entities owned by NRIs. Further, relaxation should be provided for any funds received from NRIs, subject to production of simple documents such as Bank Foreign Inward Remittance Certificate (FIRC) /KYC documents. 13. An off-shore investment centre like Singapore can be opened in Mumbai, where Indian domestic laws and taxation will not be applicable. MNCs may route their investments into India through the centre. Foreign legal firms and banks along with domestic institutions can be invited to have a presence in the centre.  (G.P. Hinduja is a   prominent industrialist)   The current situation presents an opportunity to take bold action to promote investments, protect existing jobs and create new jobs
18 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Muslim organisations wary of UAE-Israel deal||The U.S.-brokered diplomatic deal between the UAE and Israel has not gone down well with Muslim organisations, which have been espousing the Palestinian cause for years. Most of them, however, are guarded in their response about the peace accord, which they believe, will impact geopolitics in West Asia. “Already some Muslim nations have hailed the treaty. The deal was inked under the influence of the United States,” E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, national organising secretary of the Indian Union Muslim League, said. He said that the Palestinians had already slammed the decision of the UAE to normalise ties with Israel. Shaikh Muhammad Karakunnu, secretary, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Kerala chapter, said that the UAE was forced to succumb to the interests of U.S. imperialism. “The decision to recognise Israel is dangerous for Palestine. The Palestine cause will be lost, ” he said. Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen ( KNM) president T.P. Abdulla Koya Madani felt that Palestine-Israel conflict had been an international issue for long. “No religious attribution can be attached to the deal. However, some undercurrents can be seen as its timing has come on the eve of the U.S. Presidential elections,” he said. Social critic Hameed Chendamangaloor said that Muslim organisations in the State would have to dilute their declared anti- Israeli stand. “Most organisations have been vociferously opposing the Israeli occupation of the West Bank since 1967. Now the Sunni majority nations appeared to be divided on the deal. But they are opposed to Iran more than Israel. At the same time Turkey and Qatar are also supporting the Muslim Brotherhood. Even the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation is divided on the accord,” he said.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DST funds 2 companies for new COVID-19 diagnostics||The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has funded two companies, FastSense Diagnostics (FD) and Module Innovations (MI), to develop antibody kits as well as a quicker version of the Rapid RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test that is now the most widely used diagnostic approach to test for COVID-19. MI is a Pune-based healthcare start-up that is working on a point-of-care diagnostic kit which can detect the virus in “10-15 minutes”. The diagnostic kit is being developed on the lines of one of its products called ‘Usense’, which is a point-of-care diagnostic kit that can detect urinary tract infections within 15 minutes. The start-up is now developing nCoVSENSE, a test device that can detect antibodies generated against COVID-19, Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST, said in an interview on Monday. “We have also funded FastSense, which will develop a modified PCR test for confirmatory analysis in lesser time compared to existing detection methods [about 50 samples can be tested in an hour]. This can provide on the spot results in less than 15 minutes per sample,” Professor Sharma said. Rapid antigen tests While several companies have been authorised to market indigenous or foreign RT-PCR test kits approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, there are only three companies that have been approved to sell rapid antigen tests: SD Biosensor, Vishat Diagnostics and Mylab Discovery Solutions, another Pune-based company that was also the first indigenous company approved to market its RT-PCR kits. Antigen tests detect the presence of the virus quicker than the PCR, but have a higher rate of missing out on those who may be carriers of the virus. A rapid PCR test using an alternate technology, called RT-LAMP, which reportedly speeds up testing, developed by the Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), an autonomous DST institute and whose technology has been transferred to the Kochi-based Agappe Technologies, has not been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), according to an updated list of approved manufacturers on the ICMR website. Another company being supported, said Professor Sharma, was Seagull Biosolutions, Pune, a start-up working on developing platform technologies to produce vaccine and immunotherapeutic agents.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED launches probe into ‘hawala’ racket involving Chinese firms||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has initiated a money laundering probe into a “hawala” racket allegedly involving some Chinese companies and shell entities that was unearthed by the Income Tax Department earlier this month. About a week ago, the Department conducted searches in 21 premises of suspects in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. It zeroed in on a Chinese national who had been living under the pseudonym Charlie Peng. He held an Indian passport purportedly issued from Manipur. His real identity was established as Luo Sang. The Department alleged that he used about 10 bank accounts, which were opened using fraudulent means. In a statement, the Department said the operation was conducted based on information that some Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and “hawala” transactions through several shell entities. According to the Department, the searches revealed that at the behest of the Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities. “A subsidiary of a Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs. 100 crore bogus advances from the shell entities for opening retail showrooms in India,” it said.
18 August 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Rakesh Asthana appointed BSF Director-General||The Union government on Monday appointed the 1984-batch Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Director-General (D-G) of the Border Security Force (BSF). He will also continue to hold the additional charge of the post of D-G, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Mr. Asthana was earlier Special Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) where he had a tussle with the then CBI Director Alok Verma, who had filed a bribery case against Mr. Asthana in 2018. Following the tussle between the two officials, the Central government had removed them as per the order of the Central Vigilance Commission. Mr. Asthana was later given a clean chit in the alleged bribery scandal. On Monday, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the appointment of Mr. Asthana along with the additional charge till July 31, 2021 — the date of his superannuation. Presently, he is D-G, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), after he was removed from the CBI in November 2018. The government has also appointed 1986-batch Andhra Pradesh-cadre officer V.S.K. Kaumudi as Special Secretary (Internal Security) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. He has been shifted from the Bureau of Police Research & Development. A 1986-batch, U.P. cadre, IPS officer Jawed Akhtar has been moved from Special D-G, CRPF to D-G, Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guard to fill the vacancy due to the superannuation of Nageshwar Rao.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka will make riot accused pay for damage to property||The State government has decided to go hard on rioters in D.J. Halli where three persons were killed in police firing last week. The police have now defined the violence as a terror act and invoked the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, while the State government has decided to make the culprits pay for damage to public and private property. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police, which had been tasked with probing the conspiracy behind the violence on the fateful night, have added sections of UAPA to two related FIRs on Monday. “What the accused have done in D.J. Halli, clearly comes under the definition of Section 15 of UAPA, 1967, that defines a terror act. So, we have decided to invoke those sections,” a senior police officer said. Conviction under UAPA will likely attract a life sentence. The city police’s move has triggered speculation that the State government may hand over the probe to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Senior police officials refused to comment. Ban sought The police adding sections of UAPA, 1967, to the riot-related FIRs comes a day after Arvind Limbavali, who led BJP’s fact-finding committee to D.J. Halli on Sunday, appealed for investigation by NIA that can only probe terror cases. “It has come to light that an organisation like Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which has its operations in multiple States, is involved. It’s a matter of national security,” Mr. Limbavali had reasoned while arguing for an NIA probe. The BJP and the State government have expressed intent to ban the Popular Front of India (PFI) and SDPI. At a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday, the State government has decided to make those accused of rioting pay for the damage to property. It was decided to approach Karnataka High Court for appointment of a claim commissioner, as per the order of the Supreme Court, for the purpose of assessment of damage caused to public and private property and its recovery. There had been demand from the BJP on the State government to follow the Uttar Pradesh model and make rioters pay for damage. However, efforts by the U.P. government has run into legal hurdles. The government has also decided to form a special team of three public prosecutors to help the police. There are nearly 60 FIRs registered in connection with the violence last week. Being the first-ever review meeting after the D.J. Halli riots last week, Mr. Yediyurappa not only took stock of the situation, but also reviewed the incident and the police response, sources said. He was happy that the situation was controlled within a few hours and contained from geographically spreading, sources said. The meeting also reviewed the case against the PFI and the SDPI and whether a ban can be recommended. The city police are also considering booking the main accused in the riots case under Goonda Act, which will ensure they stay in prison for a year without bail. They have already opened rowdy sheets against 70 arrested.
18 August 2020||KOCHI,||Govt. takes over Mulanthuruthy, Onakkur churches||The Ernakulam district administration took over the Mulanthuruthy Marthoman Church (St. Thomas Church) and Sehion Church at Onakkur, near Piravom, in the early hours of Monday on the orders of the High Court of Kerala. The churches are located about 30 km east of Kochi. The church premises had been occupied by hundreds of Jacobites since Sunday evening. Forcible entry The police broke open the gates, arrested the believers, including bishops and priests, who were on the premises. Those arrested include Joseph Mar Gregorios, metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, and bishops Kurilos Mar Theophelos and Isaac Mar Osthathios. A spokesman of the Jacobite group said those arrested were released by the police on bail.   The Ernakulam District Collector on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that he had taken over the Marthoma Jacobite Syrian Cathedral, Mulanthuruthy and its premises and the lock is presently in his custody. The court adjourned the case to Tuesday to consider a review petition filed by the parishioners of the church. Joseph Mar Gregorios had said on Saturday that the Jacobite group was hopeful of a favourable decision from the High Court. The Supreme Court had ruled on July 3, 2017 at control of all parishes of the Malankara Church should be handed over to the Orthodox faction and that all parallel administration of parishes should end. The Mulanthuruthy church is part of the Malankara Church history. It is about 1,500 years old and relics of St. Thomas, an apostle of Jesus, are believed to have been interred here. The Jacobite group claimed that there were around 2,500 families of the group in Mulanthuruthy against a much smaller number of the Orthodox group in the parish. Peter K. Elias, trustee, said there was no provocation from the Jacobites to subject them to ‘brutal action’ by the police. The Jacobites had only sought time till the High Court heard their case on Monday.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian, Nepalese diplomats discuss bilateral projects||Indian and Nepalese diplomats on Monday met in Kathmandu and reviewed the status of a number of ongoing bilateral projects. This is the first diplomat-level meeting between the two sides in the current year that saw the Kalapani territorial dispute. The talks marked the Eighth Meeting of Nepal-India Oversight Mechanism. The meeting did not take up the territorial dispute, but the officials reviewed the status of construction of bridges over the Mahakali river, which is near the disputed region. “Both sides underlined the need for the expeditious implementation of the bilateral projects. In this connection, they agreed to undertake necessary measures to timely address problems and obstacles in the course of implementation,” declared a press statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal. The two teams, led by Nepalese Foreign Secretary Shankar Bairagi and Indian Ambassador in Kathmandu Vinay Mohan Kwatra, discussed cross-border railways, Arun-III hydropower project, Pancheshwar multipurpose project, construction of the Nepal Police Academy and Ramayana projects among other items. The discussion came two days after Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli greeted his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on the 74th Independence day of India and sought “meaningful bilateral dialogue”.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tweets were only bona fide criticism, say eminent persons||Prominent personalities, including retired Supreme Court judges, senior apex court lawyers, former bureaucrats and Services chiefs, authors and veteran journalists, have expressed their anguish at the top court’s conviction of civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his two tweets. A statement signed by former Supreme Court judges Ruma Pal, B. Sudershan Reddy, Aftab Alam, G.S. Singhvi and Madan B. Lokur; former naval chiefs L. Ramdas and Vishnu Bhagwat; activists Aruna Roy and Harsh Mander; author Arundhati Roy; veteran journalist N. Ram; senior advocate Indira Jaising; and former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah said the tweets were bona fide criticism of the court. To convict Mr. Bhushan of contempt for his criticism showed the judiciary in poor light, they said. “To hold that such criticism shakes the foundations of the judiciary and needs to be dealt with an iron hand, appears to be a disproportionate response which could, in fact, diminish the reputation of the court,” the statement said. They said it spoke poorly of the judiciary’s confidence in itself if a tweet by an individual was perceived by judges to shake the very foundation of public trust in them. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, on August 14 convicted Mr. Bhushan for contempt by scandalising the court with his tweet on a photograph of the Chief Justice of India astride a bike and another on the role played by the court in the past six years. His sentence hearing is scheduled for August 20. Another statement by hundreds of lawyers from across the country conveyed their “firm view that the judgment [of August 14] must not be given effect to, until a larger Bench, sitting in open court after the pandemic has the opportunity to review the standards of criminal contempt”. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Mr. Bhushan, informed the Bench that a review is being filed.
18 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Saudi to end services of expat Principals||An order of the Ministry of Education in Saudi Arabia asking management of all private and international schools to dismiss expatriate Principals has evoked mixed response among Non-Resident Indians (NRI), especially Keralites. Many feel that the quality of education and discipline will be compromised and that school managements will substantially increase the tuition fee. “Private schools will be forced to create a new post to accommodate a Saudi national,” said P. Bincy, a parent and teacher at Damman. She said that schools will increase the fee. “Now the monthly fee ranges from 300 to 500 Saudi riyals. The fee is higher in American schools,” Ms. Bincy said. Immediate effect However, many others feel that the infrastructure of schools will improve with the Saudi national at the helm. “Most Indian schools are only interested in monetary benefits rather than improving the academic quality. So a qualified Saudi monitoring an educational institution will be a game changer,” a teacher who wanted to remain anonymous said. He said education imparted in the majority of Indian schools was rated unsatisfactory when compared to schools in Kerala.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Nishikant Kamat passes away at 50||Filmmaker-actor Nishikant Kamat died at the age of 50 in Hyderabad on Monday evening. He was admitted to AIG Hospital on July 31 after complaints of fever and excessive fatigue. Mr. Kamat was suffering from liver cirrhosis for the last two years. “Since yesterday, he developed respiratory failure and hypotension. Despite maximum efforts, his condition deteriorated, eventually leading to multiple organ failure,” said the hospital in a statement. In 2004, he made his debut as an actor in Hava Aney Dey and as a filmmaker in 2005 with the commercially successful Marathi film Dombivali Fast . The film won him a National Award. He made his entry into the Tamil film industry with Evano Oruvan (2007) starring R. Madhavan, a remake of Dombivali Fast . In 2015, Mr. Kamat directed Drishyam , which was among his biggest hits in Bollywood. “My equation with Nishikant was not just about Drishyam , a film which he directed with Tabu and me. It was an association that I cherished. He was bright, ever-smiling. He has gone too soon,” actor Ajay Devgn wrote on Twitter. The filmmaker also directed Mumbai Meri Jaan (2008), Force (2011), Lai Bhaari (2014), Madaari (2016) and Rocky Handsome (2016). “I worked with him 12 years ago in his first Hindi film, Mumbai Meri Jaan , and it was an experience I will always value,” actor Soha Ali Khan wrote on Instagram. As an actor, Mr. Kamat was last seen in Vikramaditya Motwane’s Bhavesh Joshi Superhero . “What we will miss is his very unique way of thinking and storytelling, as much as the person he was,” producer Ronnie Screwvala said in a tweet.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Heart flown from Pune to Chennai||COVID-19 restrictions and the non-availability of flights did not prevent a heart from being flown from Pune to Chennai to save the life of a 37-year-old woman on Sunday. The heart of a 39-year-old woman, who was declared brain-dead at a private hospital in Pune, was brought to Chennai via an air ambulance. With the police creating a ‘green corridor’ for unrestricted movement of the ambulance, the heart was then swiftly taken to MGM Healthcare hospital, where it was transplanted successfully on to the recipient. A statement issued by MGM Healthcare said Monday’s transplant was the second by the hospital since COVID-19 lockdown began. According to the hospital, the recipient from Chennai was suffering from end-stage heart failure and transplant was the only hope for survival. On August 15, the hospital received an alert about the potential donor at a private hospital in Pune. With the recipient already registered with National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) and the patient in Pune being confirmed as a compatible donor, requisite regulatory procedures were initiated for the transplant, the hospital said. “The biggest challenge was non-availability of commercial flights. As the surgery was done through a scheme of Tamil Nadu government, arranging a chartered flight was challenging. Aishwarya Trust was kind enough to come forward and sponsor an air ambulance,” said K. R. Balakrishnan, chairman and director of Cardiac Sciences and director of the Heart and Lung Transplant programme at the hospital. The hospital said the police in both Pune and Chennai created ‘green corridors’ for the ambulances to travel without delay.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||10 teaching-centric varsities to be set up in Karnataka||To realise the goals set by the National Education Policy (NEP) by 2030, the State government will establish six research-centric and 10 teaching-centric universities in addition to 34 autonomous educational institutions in three years, said Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Speaking at a press meet on Monday after discussions with Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar and a meeting of the task force constituted for the implementation of NEP, he said the task force would submit a draft report in the next five days. The roadmap for the implementation of the policy will be submitted before August 29, he said. Apart from discussions with the Chief Minister and Mr. Suresh Kumar after submission of the roadmap, amendment to the laws, administrative reforms, and consolidation of resources required for the implementation of the policy would be done in an expeditious manner, he added. “The government has decided to achieve all goals mentioned in the policy in a time-frame of 10 years and this has been termed as ‘Target- 2030’,” a release quoted him as saying.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. dismisses Cong. demand for JPC probe||The government on Monday dismissed demands made by the Congress for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to probe allegations based on news reports that the social media site Facebook had refused to remove hate speech by BJP leaders from its portal in order to protect its business interests in India. Speaking to The Hindu , Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Congress’s demand was a “manifestation of their [Congress] frustration” and that the party was known to denigrate and try to discredit all institutions in the past, if it didn’t find decisions made by these institutions convenient for itself. “The Congress has not spared any institution, constitutional or otherwise, in its frustration at being out of power. From the Supreme Court to the Election Commission [EC] on the issue of Electronic Voting Machines [EVMs] to the Comptroller and Auditor General’s office to even the Lok Sabha Speaker, the Congress has tried to cast aspersions on their working if it doesn’t find it conducive to its desires. After having done all that and finding no takers, the Congress has shifted its mark to Facebook. This is a manifestation of their frustration,” he said. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has possibly mistaken ‘FB’ to stand for ‘Frustration Book’,” he added. The demand for a JPC probe was made by the Congress on Sunday after a Wall Street Journal report said Facebook public policy head in India, Ankhi Das, had cautioned against censoring posts amounting to hate speech by BJP leaders in order to protect the social media site’s business interests in the country. ‘Rahul a loser’ Law and Telecommunications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had combated Mr. Gandhi’s allegations on the issue by terming him a “loser” and by pointing out that the Congress had been “caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook” in order to “weaponise data” before the 2019 General Election. The monsoon session of Parliament, sources say, is likely to commence in the first week of September amid the COVID-19 pandemic.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has possibly mistaken ‘FB’ to stand for ‘Frustration Book’ Pralhad Joshi Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ester Filmtech to set up polyester film unit near Hyderabad||An advanced polyester film manufacturing facility with an investment of Rs. 1,350 crore will be established near Hyderabad by Ester Filmtech, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ester Industries. The end products, from the plant planned at Chandanvelly, Shabad mandal, will find applications in packaging material and contribute to strengthening of the value chain of flexible packaging industry. Three phases  Ester proposes to export 30-40% of the production, thus helping establish Telangana’s footprint on global flexible packaging map, the company said. The proposed Rs. 1,350 crore investment is to be made in three phases. The first phase, with a capital outlay of Rs. 500 crore, is scheduled to be completed by September, 2022. The project is likely to create around 800 direct employment opportunities. Ester made the announcement following a virtual meeting Chairman Arvind Singhania and Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao had on Monday. Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan was present. The decision of Ester Filmtech to chose Telangana was influenced by industry friendly policies and growth oriented approach of Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao and Mr. Rama Rao. Compared to other States, Telangana is far ahead in respect of investment friendly climate, ease of doing business and industry friendly policies like TS-iPASS and T-IDEA, Mr.Singhania said. A release from the Minister’s office welcomed Ester Industries to Telangana, and Mr. Rama Rao assured all possible support from the State government in getting the plant commissioned at the earliest. One of the leading producers of polyester films, engineering plastics and speciality polymers in the country, Ester Industries has manufacturing facilities in Khatima, Uttarakhand with a capacity of 67,000 TPA of polyester resin, 57,000 TPA polyester film and 30,000 TPA speciality polymers and 16,500 TPA engineering plastics. The company currently exports about 30% of its production of polyester films. Speciality Polymers are manufactured primarily for the US and other overseas markets. In recent weeks, this is the third major investment proposal announced on the outskirts of Hyderabad. In July, Welspun Group formally opened its Rs. 1,100 crore flooring plant in Chandanvelly and said an additional Rs. 500 crore investment is on cards. At the inauguration Mr.Rao, who also laid foundation for Welspun’s Rs. 400 crore Advanced Textiles facility, said Shabad mandal may play host to the largest industrial park of Telangana, a 3,600 acres facility, if the farmers and locals extend support. More recently, Medha Group began work on a Rs. 1,000 crore rail coach factory in Medha’s facility, in Kondakal village, Shankarpally in neighbouring Rangareddy district.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED to probe Rs. 1,100 crore online gambling racket||The Enforcement Directorate has registered a money laundering case against a Chinese national and his three Indian accomplices in connection with an illegal online gambling business involving transactions worth over Rs. 1,100 crore. The online gambling was being run by various entities, which functioned allegedly under the China-based “Beijing T Power Company”. Acting on complaints of cheating, the Hyderabad police arrested Yah Hao, who headed the Southeast Asia operations, Ankit Kapoor, Neeraj Tuli and Dheeraj Sarkar, in Delhi last week. Based on the case registered by the Hyderabad police, the ED has initiated a money laundering investigation. It is alleged that those running the websites manipulated results, thereby cheating those placing bets. The funds were diverted to various accounts. The police managed to track a couple of accounts and intercepted about Rs. 30 crore.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||SC to look into context of charges against judges||He suggested that the questions framed could be referred to a larger Bench. He also referred to a judgment given by the same Bench on August 14 in a suo motu contempt case against Mr. Bhushan for his tweet on a photograph of Chief Juatice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a motorbike and another on the role of the Supreme Court in the past six years. The Bench had convicted Mr. Bhushan for contempt by scandalising the court. A sentence hearing is due on August 20. “We intend to file a review. It [judgment] suffers from great imbalances”, Mr. Dhavan said. At this point, senior advocate Kapil Sibal for the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka , Tarun Tejpal, intervened to urge for a quietus in the 2009 contempt case. Mr. Dhavan also agreed, saying “a closure may be put to this [case]”. Justice Mishra addressed Mr. Dhavan, saying “we wanted to close this case but you said you need to be heard”. In his affidavit filed recently in the 2009 contempt case, Mr. Bhushan objected to the court’s view that his remarks on judicial corruption amounted to “per se contempt”. Allegations of corruption cannot be “per se” contempt because truth is a defence to contempt proceedings, he has argued. He said truth was a defence under Section 13 (b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. “When such truth/defence is invoked, the court to hold the alleged contemnor guilty of contempt will have to necessarily return a finding that (a) such defence is not in public interest; and (b) the request for invoking such defence is not bona fide”, he said. The senior lawyer stated that he used the word ‘corruption’ in a wider sense to include any act of impropriety other than merely financial corruption. “Corruption in public life has a wide and expansive definition. Corruption is not restricted to pecuniary gratification alone but various instruments identify its particular forms such as bribery, embezzlement, theft, fraud, extortion, abuse of discretion, favouritism, nepotism, clientelism, conduct creating or exploiting conflicting interests”, he said.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET, JEE will not be postponed, says SC||The court refused the petitioners’ plea to withdraw their petitions. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the National Testing Agency, said they wanted the exam to go on. “The exams must go on. We have taken all the precautions,” he submitted. The court recorded the submission. The petitioners argued that the decision to hold the JEE through online mode and the NEET through offline mode in centres across the country was “utterly arbitrary, whimsical and violative of the fundamental right to life of lakhs of affected students”. The petition said, “Due to strong possibility of getting affected by COVID-19, many students may be deprived from appearing in aforesaid JEE-NEET Exams, which will be in flagrant violation of their fundamental right within Article 14 of Constitution”. The petition pointed out that the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India had cancelled its examinations and the remaining exams of the CBSE/ICSE/ISC had also been cancelled.  The exams must go on. We have taken all the precautions  Tushar Mehta Solicitor General
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Alert over Pak. plot against BJP, RSS leaders||In an alert sent to all States, central intelligence agencies, quoting reliable inputs, warned that India-based transnational criminal and underworld networks were tasked [by Pakistan establishments] to gather details of the target persons including their place of stay, routine activities and day-to-day movement. State intelligence units were told to sensitise prominent leaders of BJP, RSS, VHP and ABVP of the threat perception and also keep their Personal Security Officers informed of the input.  “Senior police officers have been asked to scale up the security cover of such leaders depending upon the existing threat perceptions. The intelligence machinery has been geared to mount vigil on activists/sympathisers of religious fundamentalist outfits. We are keeping a close watch on those involved or wanted in the recruitment of cadres to the IS or attempts to do so in districts like Cuddalore in the recent past,” a senior police officer in Tamil Nadu said. In another note, instructions were issued to intensify security at airports, air strips, seaports, atomic/nuclear power installations and major water resources. Major attack Quoting an interception of a crucial communication, the note said some banned extremist outfits that had the backing of Pakistani intelligence agencies, had planned a major attack in the country and had specific plans of infiltration along the country’s border with Bangladesh or Myanmar. “Though Tamil Nadu is not cited as a target in the communication, we have shared the input with all security establishments. The recent busting of a racket by the Tamil Nadu police that resulted in the arrest of about 20 terror suspects who had plans to cause attacks in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi is an indication that extremist elements have some links here for logistics support,” the officer who preferred not to be quoted said.
18 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||4 washed away in Krishna||Four persons, including a six-year-old girl, from Kurvakula islet who ventured into the swollen Krishna on the Karnataka-Telangana border on a coracle, were washed away on Monday. They were identified as Roja, 6, Sumalatha, 35, Narasamma, 40, and Parvathi, 50. As per the information provided by Santosh Kamagouda, Assistant Commissioner (Raichur sub-division), as many as 13 persons were in the coracle. Nine of them, identified as Vishnu, Nagappa, Jangleppa, Mohan, Anjinamma, Anjanappa, Ushappa, Thimmappa, and Nagesh, managed to reach the riverbank after the coracle capsized. It is learnt that they were returning to their islet after buying groceries at Panchamadu village in Telangana. “After a heavy quantum of water was discharged from Basavasagar reservoir, we had closed all the regular routes to and from the islets to ensure the safety of the people. However, these persons ventured into the dangerously overflowing river through some irregular route,” Mr. Kamagouda, who was at the spot overseeing the rescue operation of an NDRF team, told The Hindu. As news reached the district headquarters, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar, Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam and other senior officers rushed to the spot.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Formless infinite principle||In the tenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, the glories of the Lord that had been spoken of in the seventh and also in the ninth chapters are explained further. Repeated references are for the sake of reinforcing the mysterious and mystic aspects of the Lord’s infinite glories that are shown here to be only a mere speck of what remains unknown and unfathomable, pointed out Swamini Satyavratananda in a discourse. As one tries to meditate on the Lord’s Vibhuti, the upasana gets strengthened gradually. The most striking aspect of His glories is the inherent dual aspect, the manifest and the unmanifest forms He assumes. The manifestation is for the sake of His devotees who are keen to know more about Him. In fact, it is possible to invoke the Infinite God even in a small handmade mould of Haridra Kumkum. God is always available to His bhaktas in whatever form they wish. When He appears as Rama, Krishna or Devi, it is to be understood that these are forms of the one and eternal ‘changeless, formless, infinite principle.’ These forms are aids to realisation as in the case of Saint Thyagaraja’s Rama bhakti or in the case of Meera Bai who shines in her Krishna bhakti. Their devotion makes them perceive the eternal Lord in their Ishta devata with whom they are able to converse with ease. The Purana stories are to be interpreted as symbolic of higher truths with the help of sastra knowledge even as they are storehouses of moral values for the common man to imbibe. The puranas try to capture the infinite principle in tangible terms even as a picture that captures a memorable moment is only a version of the reality. One has to seek beyond the representation that speaks of a Ravana with ten heads, or of a physical destination such as Vaikunta or Kailasa.
18 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||4 booked for accusing ex-BJP Mayor of conversion||The Aligarh police on Sunday booked four persons, including a woman, who accused ex-BJP Mayor Shakuntala Bharti of forcibly changing the religion of her sister to get her married to a Hindu boy. The police said the girl was an adult and she eloped with the boy on her own will and that her statement has been recorded under 164 CrPC before a magistrate. Nazia Saifi called a press conference on Sunday with the help of two local journalists and a local AIMIM leader. The police arrested journalists Faizan and Shiraz Ahmed from the spot for violating prohibitory orders and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Ms.Saifi alias Asiya and AIMIM leader Mohd. Nazim escaped. The police also invoked Section 153A (promoting enmity between different communities) and 505(2) (making statements to spread hatred) of the IPC against the four. In a video, Ms.Saifi could be heard saying that her sister had been missing since August 7. She said her husband had filed a complaint but the police didn’t do anything. “When I threatened to go to the media, the police brought my sister in a car accompanied by Ms. Bharti and I was not allowed to speak to my sister. Ms Bharti is converting Muslim girls... ,” she says in the video. Ms. Bharti told reporters that the allegations were baseless and she would leave the State if they were found to be true.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||FB policy chief files complaint over threats||The Delhi police on Monday registered an FIR based on a complaint filed by the public policy director of Facebook India, Ankhi Das, that she has been receiving “violent threats” to her life.  The police said a case has been registered under relevant sections of law on Monday and investigation has been taken up by the Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection unit of the Delhi police. Ms. Das said the threats were in relation to an article published in The Wall Street Journal  . She has identified a few Twitter and Facebook accounts in her complaint.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. denies former party leader’s tweet||Former party spokesperson Sanjay Jha tweeted on Monday that around 100 Congress leaders have sought a change in the party’s leadership. “It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MPs), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC,” Mr. Jha, who was suspended earlier by the Congress, said on twitter. Denying it, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told The Hindu that canards were being spread at the behest of the BJP.
18 August 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool MLA, who tested positive for COVID-19, dies||Trinamool Congress MLA Samaresh Das, who tested positive for COVID-19 recently, died on Monday morning at a health facility in Kolkata. He was 76. He represented the Egra Assembly constituency in West Bengal’s Purba Medinipur district. The three-time MLA had other co-morbidities along with the viral infection. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences and said the MLA’s death had left a political void. This is the second death of a sitting MLA from the State due to the pandemic. In June this year, Tamonash Ghosh, a three-time Trinamool Congress MLA who represented the Falta Assembly constituency in South 24 Parganas, succumbed to the viral infection. Earlier this month, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and former MP Shyamal Chakraborty died after testing positive for COVID-19. The number of infections in West Bengal has crossed 1.16 lakh and the deaths have gone up to 2,428. A number of COVID warriors and public representatives, including those representing the civic bodies of the State, have died in the past few months after contracting the virus.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bollywood director passes away in Hyderabad||Bollywood director Nishikant Kamat, best known for his 2015 film Drishyam , succumbed to illness at 4.24 p.m. at a private hospital here on Monday. The 50-year-old director was admitted at AIG Hospitals on July 31 with complaints of fever and excessive fatigue. The hospital’s management said he did not have COVID-19. He had been suffering from liver cirrhosis for the past two years. Doctors at the private hospital started the treatment with antibiotics and supportive medication to which he showed improvement. However, his condition deteriorated with progressive liver dysfunction and drowsiness. Kamat was shifted to the ICU. He suffered from respiratory failure and hypotension (low blood pressure) from Sunday.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Plea for early hearing against 2G verdict||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday urged the Delhi High Court for an early hearing of appeals filed by it and the CBI against the 2G case verdict acquitting A. Raja and others. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the ED, said the CBI has concluded its argument on January 15 this year but thereafter, the case could not be heard due to the COVID-19 pandemic . “One of the biggest trial this country has witnessed was carried out at the behest of the Supreme Court and at the cost of the public exchequer. This trial has to be brought to its logical conclusion,” the ASG said. Justice Sethi said if the agencies wish for an early hearing in the appeals, which are listed for October 12, they can file an application for preponement of the hearing. In December 2017, a Special CBI Court here had acquitted Mr. Raja, Ms. Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and ED cases relating to the 2G case.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Foreign Secy. likely to visit Dhaka today||Bangladesh is likely to receive a $1 billion assistance from China for an irrigation project on the Teesta which has been at the centre of a water-sharing negotiation with India. The decision was taken after the Teesta water-sharing agreement with India failed to materialise, Bangaldesh government sources told Eurasianreview, an online publication. The issue has come to the forefront as Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is expected to pay a day-long visit to Dhaka on Tuesday to deal with the emerging challenges in bilateral ties.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod sought for action against actor||A petition has been filed before the Attorney General of India, K. Venugopal, seeking his consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against actor Swara Bhaskar for her “scandalous” statements against the Supreme Court. The petition filed by Karnataka resident Usha Shetty refers to an address by Ms. Bhaskar in a public meeting organised by the Mumbai Collective following the top court’s judgment in the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute case in November last year in which the court had ordered the handing over of the disputed land to the Hindus to build a temple. According to the petition, Ms. Bhaskar said: “We are living in a country where the SC states in a judgment that demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.” It said she questioned the court’s belief in the Constitution. Ms. Shetty, represented by advocates Anuj Saxena, Prakash Sharma and Mahek Maheshwari, said Ms. Bhaskar’s statements in her address on February 1 were “derogatory and scandalous in nature, putting a big question on the judiciary and their integrity to the Constitution”. The petition said Ms. Bhaskar’s statements were not only a cheap publicity stunt to get a brief applause but also an attempt to turn the masses to resist and revolt against the Supreme Court. What she said amounted to scandalising the court to “provoke a resistance against the judiciary as an institution”, the petition said. Mr. Maheshwari’s complaint on a tweet by civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan about Chief Justice S.A. Bobde on a bike was suo motu taken cognisance of by the apex court. Mr. Bhushan had challenged how the court could have taken cognisance of this complaint without the Attorney General’s prior consent under the Contempt of Courts Act.
18 August 2020||Patna,||Flood situation in Bihar grim, 81.56 lakh affected||The flood situation in Bihar remained grim, affecting 81.56 lakh people in 16 districts with the water level in the Ganga continuing to rise, officials said. The water level increased by 5 cm to 24 cm in Buxar, Munger, Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon, and at Digha Ghat in Patna, according to a bulletin issued by the State Water Resources Department. The river’s water level at Gandhi Ghat was 48.62 metres, 2 cm above the danger mark, it said. The water level will rise further over the next few weeks.
18 August 2020||Mangaluru,||Bodies of three missing fishermen found||The bodies of three of the four fishermen who went missing when their boat capsized near Koderi fishing harbour in Udupi district on Sunday were found on Monday. The police gave the names of the fishermen as Naga Kharvi, Lakshman Kharvi and Chandrasekhar Kharvi. A search is on for the other missing fisherman Manjunath Kharvi. The Udupi district police said that one of the deceased Naga Kharvi (55) was a resident of Karkikali, Uppunda, in the district. Complaint His nephew Bharkar Kharvi on Sunday filed a complaint with the Byndoor police stating that his uncle [Naga Kharvi] had gone fishing in the morning as the Arabian Sea was calm, along with 11 others on the boat called Sagarashree. When the sea became rough by afternoon, they began returning to Koderi fishing harbour. However, while entering the breakwater channel of Yedamavinahole to reach the harbour, their boat capsized because of the rough waves and hit the breakwater wall. While eight swam to safety, his uncle and the other three, Lakshman Kharvi, Manjunath Kharvi and Chandrasekhar Kharvi, went missing, the complainant said. Naga Kharvi’s body was found at around 9 a.m. on Monday on the seashore, the police said and added that the two other bodies were traced later. Byndoor police have registered a case of unnatural death.  The four were among 12 fishermen who went fishing in the Arabian Sea when it was calm on Sunday morning
18 August 2020||Kochi,||Chennithala moves HC against collection of call details||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has moved the Kerala High Court challenging the government decision to collect the call data records (CDR) of COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine at their houses or hospitals. The police have been collecting the CDR on the basis of a circular issued by the State Police Chief on August 11. Circular details The circular asked the Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence) and the Police Headquarters to take up the matter with telephone service providers for the collection of CDRs, he submitted before the court on Monday. Lacks legal authority The police had started collecting the CDRs of COVID-19 patients in large scale from telecom companies without the consent or knowledge of the patients. There was no legal authority on the part of the police chief to issue such a circular to collect the CDRs, he submitted. ‘Illegal’  Terming the collection of the CDRs illegal, unfair, unjust and arbitrary in nature, Mr. Chennithala pointed out that it was in total violation of the fundamental right of privacy of individuals guaranteed by the Constitution.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Training for survey officials begins||An online training course for around 200 new recruits to the Survey Department began here on Monday. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan inaugurated the programme organised by the Modern Survey Training Institute. Survey Director R. Girija presided.
18 August 2020||Kochi,||HC dismisses petition against Kunju||The High Court on Monday dismissed a writ petition seeking action against V.K. Ebrahim Kunju and his son for allegedly threatening a person who had filed a complaint against the former Minister for alleged illegal money transfers. At the same time, the court directed that the allegations raised by the petitioner regarding the money transfer be investigated and to bring the matter to its logical conclusion. Probe result An inquiry by the Inspector General of Police, Vigilance, the court pointed out, had revealed that the petitioner and Mr. Kunju had met at a few places and the meetings were consensual. The materials furnished in the case did not reveal that the petitioner was threatened by the former Minister and his son. Investigations by the Enforcement Directorate and the Vigilance were in progress regarding the complaint of the petitioner that Abdul Sameer, director of a printing and publishing company which runs a Malayalam daily, had deposited Rs. 10 crore in the bank account of the daily during the period of demonetisation.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Plea against allowing Dutt to act in KGF-2 dismissed||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday dismissed a PIL petition questioning the casting of Sanjay Dutt, who had served imprisonment in connection with offences linked to the Mumbai blasts of 1993, in the Kannada film KGF-2.  A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while declining to entertain the petition filed by G. Shivashankar, a social worker from Hubballi. Pointing out that Mr. Dutt was convicted for possessing arms illegally and had undergone imprisonment, it was contended on behalf of the petitioner that people of Karnataka were opposing allowing of Mr. Dutt to act in Kannada film as he was convicted, which was upheld even by the Supreme Court. However, the Bench said that the petitioner was unable to show any provision of the law that prevents Mr. Dutt from acting in any film and the law that prevents Hombaale Films Ltd., which is producing the film, from allowing Mr. Dutt to act in its film.  KGF-2, is a sequel of KGF Chapter 1 that had a star cast including Yash, Srinidhi Shetty and Raveena Tandon. The film is directed by Prashanth Neel, with music by Ravi Basrur. and is produced by Hombaale films. KGF-2’s initial release was slated for October but has been postponed as Mr. Dutt has taken a break from acting to undergo treatment.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition remains critical||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health continues to remain critical and he is on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said on Monday. “The condition of Mr. Mukherjee continues to be critical. His vital and clinical parameters are stable. He is on ventilatory support and is being closely monitored,” the hospital said in a statement.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||NHRC notice to U.P. police after inspector asks girl to dance||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh Director-General of Police (DGP) over a report of an inspector allegedly asking a girl to dance when she had gone to file a molestation complaint. The NHRC took suo motu cognisance of a media report that said that an inspector of the Govind Nagar police station in Kanpur had asked the girl to dance in lieu of filing an FIR against her landlord’s nephew. The NHRC asked the DGP to submit a detailed report within six weeks.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||SC order on Prashant Bhushan sent a ‘chilling message’: CHRI||The SC order finding lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt was a “sign of the current deterioration in the state of free speech in the country”, the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative has said. The ruling sent a “chilling message”, the CHRI said in a statement.
18 August 2020||Srinagar,||Our leaders were not invited to I-Day events, say J&K parties||J&K’s regional parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have claimed that none of their top leaders was invited to the Independence Day functions in Srinagar, presided by newly-appointed Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. None of the five MPs or leaders from the NC, the PDP and the PC attended the Lt. Governor’s ‘At-Home’ function either. Government sources said invitations were sent to all MPs from Kashmir for both the events.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rajiv painting sale: HC dismisses plea against Priyanka, Milind Deora||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a petition seeking action against Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and party leader Milind Deora over alleged cheating in the sale of a painting of the late Rajiv Gandhi by the late M.F. Hussain for Rs. 2 crore to former CEO of Yes Bank Rana Kapoor. The court said it was “necessary” for the petitioner, an NGO, to exhaust the remedies available to it before directly approaching the HC. The court said Akhil Bhartiya Shanti Pratishthan could approach the trial court, which is already seized of the case against Mr. Kapoor in connection with the Yes Bank scam.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. and aided schools begin admissions||Government and government-aided schools across the State began admissions on Monday for Classes 1, 6 and 9, fully complying with the COVID-19 safety protocols. The outbreak of the pandemic delayed the admissions this year. The Directorate of Matriculation Schools initiated the process of admissions under the Right to Education Act, 2009. Private schools submitted details of seats available in their entry-level classes to the district-level education officials. All schools were asked to follow the standard operating procedure issued by the government during the admission process. Teachers were deputed to check the temperature of students and parents who came to the premises as well as to ensure that everyone was wearing masks. Good response “Schools across the State received good response and we have directed them to ensure that there is no crowding on campus. The admission process will be carried out in a staggered manner and they will strictly follow physical distancing norms,” said S. Kannappan, Director of School Education. For students who completed their admission process, the schools distributed free textbooks and notebooks. No clarity on reopening Schools have remained shut since March and there is no clarity on their reopening date. The School Education Department has asked schools to initiate the admission process with special consideration for parents and children who may be unable to reach the schools next week because of the COVID-19 restrictions. Class 11 admission G.J. Manohar, correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School, Chennai, said that there were several enquiries for Class 11 admissions on Monday. “Registration forms have been given to them and they will be called to the school campus in small batches to complete the admission formalities,” he added.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,890 fresh infections, 120 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,890 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 3,43,945. With 120 more deaths, the toll rose to 5,886. As many as 1,185 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 1,17,839. Of this, a total of 1,03,358 persons have been discharged from hospitals and 12,003 are undergoing treatment. Three districts reported 300-plus cases — Coimbatore (393), Cuddalore (389) and Tiruvallur (308). Recoveries in State A total of 5,667 patients were discharged on Monday, including 660 in Chennai, 477 in Tiruvallur and 465 in Chengalpattu. As of date, 2,83,937 persons across the State have been discharged after treatment. Of the 120 persons whose deaths were recorded on Monday, three were in their 30s. Among them was a 30-year-old man from Tirunelveli who was admitted to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital, Asaripallam, on August 15. He had diabetes and chronic kidney disease. He died due to the co-morbidities, COVID-19 pneumonia and cardiopulmonary arrest, the medical bulletin said. A 33-year-old man from Tirupattur, who had no co-morbidities, was admitted to a private hospital in Salem on August 7 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for 10 days. He died on August 16 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Three nonagenarians also succumbed to the infection. They included a 94-year-old man from Tirunelveli, who was admitted to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital on August 14 and died on August 15 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19. While Chennai accounted for 24 of the 120 deaths, Coimbatore recorded 10 fatalities. Chengalpattu, Ranipet and Tiruchi had seven deaths each. With this, Chennai accounts for a total of 2,478 deaths, followed by Tiruvallur with 341 deaths. The new cases took Tiruvallur’s overall tally past 20,000. Five districts had 200-plus cases — Theni (279), Salem (266), Chengalpattu (224), Virudhunagar (212) and Kanniyakumari (209). Among other districts, Dindigul recorded 153 cases and Pudukottai 163. The fresh cases took the tallies of Theni and Thoothukudi districts beyond the 10,000-mark. Another 20 returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Samples tested A total of 67,532 samples were tested during the past 24 hours, taking the total figure to 37,78,778. A private laboratory — Aarthi Scans and Labs, Thanjavur — was approved for testing. There are currently 62 testing facilities in the government sector and 74 in the private sector.  A total of 5,667 patients were discharged on Monday, including 660 in Chennai, 477 in Tiruvallur and 465 in Chengalpattu. As of date, 2,83,937 persons have been discharged in State
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Port-Maduravoyal corridor plan endorsed for CRZ clearance||The proposed four-lane Chennai Port to Maduravoyal elevated corridor, spanning 20.5 km, by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), has been recommended for Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance by the Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry. The project also includes reconstruction of the Navy Quarters with a built-up area of about 12,846 sq m and three bungalows. Revised alignment Since the alignment of the elevated corridor passes through the naval area, the buildings will be demolished and alternative residential buildings will be built, the project proponent submitted. The Rs. 1,815-crore project, which began in 2010, was put on hold in 2012 following objections over its alignment. The old alignment was proposed to have begun from Gate No. 10 of the Port but has been modified to begin with the Chennai Port. Under the old alignment, the project was supposed to have a total of 1,013 piers, which have now been reduced to 639 piers. The proposed corridor will pass through major urban and commercial areas in the city such as Chintadripet, Egmore, Aminjikarai, Nungambakkam, Arumbakkam, Koyambedu and Maduravoyal. Based on submissions and deliberations, the committee recommended the project for CRZ clearance and imposed certain conditions. The project will require prior clearance from the Standing Committee of the National Board of Wildlife, and the project proponent will have to replant a minimum of five times the number of trees affected due to the project, ensuring their survival rate is not less than 85%. “No excavated material shall be dumped in water bodies or adjacent areas. The site shall be restored to its near original condition after completion of construction,” the committee said.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court to deliver judgement on Vedanta’s plea today||Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and V. Bhavani Subbaroyan of the Madras High Court are slated to deliver their verdict on Tuesday on a batch of cases filed by Vedanta seeking permission to reopen its Thoothukudi Sterlite copper smelting plant that remains sealed since May 28, 2018 due to environmental concerns. The issue had gained greater national prominence after 13 persons were shot dead in police firing against anti-Sterlite protesters on May 22, 2018. Thereafter, the company agitated the issue before the Supreme Court which on February 18, 2019 directed it to approach the High Court and ventilate all its grievances. Accordingly, Vedanta filed 10 writ petitions in the High Court challenging a series of orders passed by the State government and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The cases were admitted by a Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan on March 1, 2019. Thereafter, when they got listed before other Benches as per roster, a couple of judges in two different Division Benches recused and so the matters were ordered to be listed before a Bench led by Justice Sivagnanam on June 11, 2019. The then Chief Justice Vijaya Kamlesh Tahilramani had ordered the listing of the case. Since Justice Sivagnanam was sitting along with Justice Subbaroyan, the Bench began hearing the case from June 20, 2019 and held 28 special sittings till August 30, 2019. Even before arguments could conclude, Justice Sivagnanam got deputed to the Madurai Bench of the High Court for three months from September 1, 2019. When the advocates made a joint representation to let him be in Chennai for about a week, Chief Justice Tahilramani rejected it and ordered the cases to be listed in Madurai before Justices Sivagnanam and R. Tharani. This administrative order created a delay in completing the hearing since the lawyers felt that listing the case before a new judge in the Bench would force them to argue the matter afresh. Subsequently, on orders of the incumbent Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, the cases were listed once again before the old Bench from December 16, 2019. Finally, the lawyers wound up their arguments on January 8 when the Bench reserved its verdict.
18 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||At T. Nagar, Aadi loses its sheen||For businessmen, retailers and traders at Thyagaraya Nagar, the shopping hub of Chennai, Aadi season this year was tough — most big brands and retail names could only make 30%-40% sales, while the others managed to sell just 15%-20%. Those running businesses here for decades said if the number of COVID-19 cases drops, sales may improve in October, ahead of Deepavali. Or else, they will have to wait until 2021. Sales were subdued at Pothys, which first mastered the art of this particular sale way back in the 1990s. It first started the sale as Aadi Kazhivu in Tirunelveli, with the objective of disposing of excess, unsold and slow-moving stock. Slowly, other retailers in the area followed suit, and the phenomenon of Aadi sale thus took birth in T. Nagar, the retail capital of the State. “Only essential shopping happened this season, especially for marriages. Consumers who walked in shopped for necessities, while a few bought for sentimental purpose,” said Ramesh Pothy, managing director of the shop. Compared to last year, Pothys sold only 30% this year, and is hopeful that businesses will pick by Deepavali. P.A. Ravindran, general manager, Chennai Silks, said in general, business was not good in Chennai, but in the districts, it was otherwise. “Due to travel restrictions, people who normally come to Chennai for Aadi shopping went to shops in their own districts,” he said, adding that people’s spending capacity had come down. This year, several shops in T. Nagar, including Chennai Silks, Pothys and Sundari Silks, expected that Aadi sale would happen online. But online shopping was not successful. “Only our regular customers purchased online. I would say roughly 2% of sales happened online for us,” Mr. Pothy said. “We also tried online sales, but it wasn’t that successful,” Mr. Ravindran said. The traditional way R. Manmohan Ram, managing partner of Sundari Silks, had a different story. “We have maintained our Aadi sale, mainly on our website, and it has done well,” he said. “After reopening during the second lockdown, the footfall has been higher. Customers are shopping with a set goal,” he added. Sundari Silks even experimented with the traditional format, where a sales person was sent to the customers’ [on request] houses, with a variety of options to choose from. Businessmen who operate on Ranganathan Street said sales were down by 70%-80%, as their customers comprised those who relied on public transport for commuting. Sundar. J, managing director of Jeyachandran Textiles, said they did not put out any Aadi announcements this year. Another big retailer here, who has multiple branches in T. Nagar, said employees in various sectors did not turn up as they were working from home. “The government has clearly instructed that we should close shops by 7 p.m. and those working from home also end their day by 6.30 p.m to 7 p.m,” he added. Though there is no concrete data on overall sales in the hub during Aadi , by some estimates, shops in the hub normally (organised and unorganised) hit revenues of over Rs. 2,500 crore during  the season, said traders.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Direct flight service from Kolkata to Chennai resumes||Direct flight services from Kolkata to Chennai have resumed. Last month, the Kolkata airport had announced that it would not have any flights coming in from Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Nagpur and Pune, since the cities were reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases. Since then, there have been no departures to Kolkata from Chennai. As a result, there were no flights arriving from Kolkata to the city. But on Sunday night, a direct flight from Kolkata arrived in Chennai, and this is likely to continue. Officials of the Airports Authority of India said that for now, there would be just one direct flight from Kolkata. “There will be many passengers who have been waiting to come for various reasons like treatment or personal emergencies. The flight leaves Kolkata at 9.30 p.m. and arrives here by 11.40 p.m.,” an official said. So far, there were only flights with stopovers in Bengaluru or Hyderabad, and instead of a two-hour journey, a passenger would end up spending four-five hours travelling. Moreover, the fare was expensive. At present, though there are no direct flights to Kolkata, passengers continue to go there, taking flights with stopovers in Bengaluru or Guwahati, officials said.  Recently, direct flights to Mumbai, too, resumed from the city, but there have been no direct arrival flights yet. Initially, just one flight to Mumbai resumed, and now there are two — one departing at 1.45 p.m. and another at 2.40 p.m. Passengers have been waiting for direct flights to resume because when there are stopovers, the fare turns out to be very high. The Chennai airport is looking to operate more flights in the coming days.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With Tasmac shops reopening, experts call for caution||With Tasmac outlets all set to reopen in Chennai on Tuesday, public health experts have a word of caution — crowding should be prevented, and mask wearing and maintenance of physical distancing should be ensured at the shops. The State government has decided to open liquor outlets in the Greater Chennai Police limits, with the exemption of shops in malls and containment zones. The outlets will function from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., and each shop will issue 500 tokens a day. While the move is seen as inevitable and a part of the process of opening up, public health experts insist on putting in place measures to ensure compliance with mask wearing, physical distancing and handwashing. An epidemiologist said that people should avoid crowding at the outlets. “Everyone should wear masks and follow a queue system. There should be markings on the floor to ensure that people stand in designated spots, and appropriate action should be initiated in case of violations. Sitting and standing near the shops in groups should not be permitted,” the expert said. The expert stressed on the importance of physical distancing and wearing of masks, considering the rise in COVID-19 cases in areas where there weren’t as many earlier. There was also a risk of new clusters forming. P. Kuganantham, former city health officer, said that during the last meeting with the government, he suggested that the number of counters at the outlets be increased to prevent crowding, and adequate spacing be ensured. A public health expert, who did not wish to be named, said, “Alcohol hinders social inhibitions. Those under the influence of alcohol will not follow norms or hygiene practices. In addition to all this, alcohol is a health risk. It affects the liver, and thereby reduces immunity levels,” he said.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP’s polarisation agenda won’t work’||The BJP’s alleged attempt to polarise voters on religious lines ahead of the 2021 Assembly election will not work as voters in the State can easily differentiate between their religious beliefs and attempts at communalisation, according to TNCC president K.S. Alagiri. “The BJP cannot differentiate between religious beliefs and communal politics. That is why it is resorting to using Gods like Murugan and Vinayaka for politics. The party’s leaders are confused. People won’t fall for their divisive agenda in Tamil Nadu,” he told The Hindu on Monday .  Mr. Alagiri said the BJP won’t gain politically from the recent support gained from two DMK functionaries, like former Deputy Speaker V.P. Duraisamy and MLA Ku. Ka. Selvam, as they had no ideological standing. The DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance was ahead in the race for the 2021 polls as M.K. Stalin was its Chief Ministerial candidate unlike the AIADMK which was a divided house, he said. Mr. Alagiri will kick off the Congress’ pre-election campaign on August 20 from Tiruppur. A team of 150 members, which has been sent to the party high command for approval, will reach out to the voters. Each week, Mr. Alagiri plans to cover three Assembly constituencies. The Congress will undertake padayatras to reach out to people in all villages.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containment activity shifts to southern, western parts of city||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started shifting the focus of COVID-19 containment activities from the north zone to the southern and western parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said cases in the northern parts had stabilised. Zones such as Royapuram, which registered the largest number of cases in the past, have reported less than 30% of the cases every day. Senior officials on Monday started focusing on new zones such as Alandur, where a rise in the number of cases has been observed. Alandur has registered 535 active cases. Over 13% of the total cases in the zone are active cases. Ambattur, in the west, continues to be the zone reporting the largest number of cases in the city. Over 1,500 active cases have been registered in Ambattur. Valasaravakkam has also reported 1,026 active cases of COVID-19. The civic body has registered a case fatality rate of 2.1%. The case fatality rate has been the highest in Teynampet. “But Teynampet has stabilised,” Mr. Prakash said. At fever camps held on Monday, 24,273 residents were screened by doctors. As many as 1,512 swabs were taken for testing. Perungudi residents gave 143 swabs for testing. As many as 164 residents have given swabs in Adyar for testing on Monday.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar for civil services aspirants conducted||Kingmakers IAS Academy in association with The Hindu conducted a free webinar ‘Unakkul Oru IAS’ on Sunday. The event was broadcast live on YouTube for the benefit of students who are preparing for the civil services examinations. The webinar was aimed at creating awareness of civil services exams and motivating more students to appear for them. Vivek Harinarain IAS, who was part of the 1980 batch, gave the participants insights into the importance of the various services. Speaking about his success, Bala Nagendran, one of the toppers in the recently announced results, shared his experiences and journey as a visually-impaired aspirant. Chitraa, IRAS, who topped the personality test in 2019, also shared her insights with the students. Sathyashree Boominathan, honorary director, Kingmakers IAS Academy, hosted the event. The speakers and the academy director interacted with the participants and answered questions which were posted online.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rationale behind move inexplicable, says TTV||AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Monday came down heavily on the State government for deciding to reopen Tasmac liquor outlets in Chennai from Tuesday. “At a time when the impact of COVID-19 has not reduced in Chennai, the decision, made without any consideration of the interests of the people, is the worst,” Mr. Dhinakaran said in a statement. Terming the move “inexplicable”, the AMMK leader contended that it was only after Tasmac outlets reopened in parts of the State, other than Chennai, that cases multiplied there.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan criticises State govt.’s decision||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan on Monday criticised the State government’s decision to reopen Tasmac liquor shops in Chennai from August 18. In a social media post, Mr. Haasan said the State government was admitting that the people who frequent markets and places of worship have COVID-19, but was saying that no case has been found in Tasmac shops. “Are the floodgates being opened because the State government has not found any COVID-19 case in Tasmac shops?” Mr. Haasan asked.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK not dependent upon leaders: Minister||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju on Monday said that the ruling AIADMK was not “dependent upon [its] leaders.” “This party is full of volunteers,” Mr. Raju told reporters in Madurai, while replying to a question whether his party would institute a reward, on the lines of the BJP’s offer of SUV cars for those who strove hard for the party’s success in the election. “Today, 1.5 crore cadre are working to form Amma’s government next year. So, all of them will have to be rewarded,” observed the Minister. Answering a question on the discussion a group of Ministers had on the issue of the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the Assembly election in 2021, Food Minister R. Kamaraj, said “there is nothing that took place behind the scenes. The AIADMK is a disciplined organisation. It is the party’s leadership that will decide the issue and announce the decision too.”
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murugan meets CM||BJP State president L. Murugan called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the latter’s official residence on Monday requesting him to allow public installation and immersion of Vinayaka idols on the occasion of Vinayaka Chaturthi. The government had imposed restrictions on the festivities this year in view of the pandemic. Vinayaka Chaturthi “We sought permission to celebrate Vinayaka Chaturthi in public. We have given assurance to the Chief Minister that we will abide by the government regulations (on physical distancing),” Mr. Murugan told reporters. He claimed Mr. Palaniswami assured him that he would consult the officials and take a decision. Mr. Murugan said there was no political discussion at the meeting and added that there was a lot of time for such discussions to happen. While the Hindu Munnani has said that it would publicly celebrate the festival across the State, the BJP has been pushing the government to allow the celebrations. Mr. Murugan had earlier claimed the government was placing obstacles to celebrating a God known to remove obstacles.  We sought permission to celebrate Vinayaka Chaturthi in public
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City Collector rejoins duty after recovering||Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi on Monday joined duty after recovering from COVID-19. According to officials, at least 33 officials from the Chennai Collectorate had tested positive. “All of them have recovered. There are no active cases,” an official said. The Collector tested positive on July 28 after a series of meetings held for COVID-19 containment in various parts of the city. She had visited Ripon Buildings for several meetings before testing positive. Most of the staff members from the Revenue Department of the district administration have reported to work after recovering, officials said. Owing to the recovery of all officials in Chennai Collectorate, the risk of infection of visitors to the premises has reduced. Civic officials have also disinfected the premises of the Chennai Collectorate after revenue officials tested positive. The Corporation, which has a large number of frontline workers, continues to report a rise in the number of cases. However, over 300 frontline workers have recovered. The State government has compensated the families of some of the 13 frontline workers who died of COVID-19. Better treatment Frontline workers have requested the government for better compensation and treatment for those testing positive, following which several initiatives have been taken. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Monday presented awards to civic workers who contributed to containment measures. The Corporation has arranged for testing of frontline workers who interact with residents. “We are providing psychosocial support for frontline workers after they tested positive. The family members also receive counselling,” said an official.  We are providing psychosocial support for frontline workers after they tested positive Corporation Official
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child falls to death in Anna Nagar||A six-year-old boy died after accidentally falling from the third floor of a building in Anna Nagar. The incident happened on Sunday while the father was inside their house on the third floor. Police identified the victim as Ashis, 6, son of Prem, a Nepalese national who works as a security guard at the apartment. The family was allotted a space on the terrace of the building. On Sunday, while Mr. Prem was inside the building and his wife had gone to work, the boy, who was playing on the terrace, accidentally slipped and fell from the building. He died on the spot. On information, personnel from the Thirumangalam police station reached the spot and recovered the body. A case was registered.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Contracts predating the RERA Act cannot be revised’||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has said agreements signed before the RERA Act cannot be rewritten and directed Hazel Realty Pvt. Ltd. to pay compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each to four home buyers. In four separate petitions, J. Vinaikumar, C. Viswanathan, D. Rajasekar and R. Lakshmi Prasanna said they had booked the flats in the developer’s residential project in Paruthipattu village, Tiruvallur, and paid over 90% of the amount but the same had not been delivered. They sought compensation under the provisions of the RERA Act. The price for the flats ranged from Rs. 35 lakh to Rs. 38.5 lakh and they were expected to be delivered between 2015 to 2019. In response, the firm said the delay was due to factors beyond its control and that it was ready to pay compensation at the rate of 18% per annum for the value of pending construction. TNRERA noted that any agreement already entered between the developer and the buyer prior to the RERA Act would not be affected. Entitled to compensation In the present cases, the agreements were signed on December 4, 2012. The RERA Act came into effect from June 22, 2017, and as per the provisions of the Act, the contract could not be rewritten, the regulatory agency added while rejecting the buyers’ plea for additional compensation beyond the agreement. It ruled that the four buyers were entitled for compensation as per the original agreements till the delivery of flats. It awarded Rs. 20,000 to each towards litigation expenses.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar series to begin from Aug. 19||The Hindu Education Plus will be hosting a series of career counselling webinars throughout August, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. The free webinar series will focus on ‘Current and Emerging Career Opportunities’ for students. The first will be held on August 19 and will be on nursing and paramedical sciences. Bellur Rajashekar, former dean, Manipal College of Health Professions; Roy K. George, national president, Trained Nurses Association of India and principal, College of Nursing, Kozhikode; and Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai; will speak during the webinar. The webinar will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., and students of Classes IX to XII can attend. To register, visit https://bit.ly/THEPSRM or scan the QR code.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special summary revision of electoral rolls announced||With the Election Commission of India (ECI) announcing the special summary revision of electoral rolls with reference to January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date, youngsters who complete 18 years of age that day, can apply for inclusion in the electoral rolls and others can make corrections, if any. Online filing is also possible by visiting the website www.nvsp.in and the Voter Help Line mobile app, the Chief Electoral Officer said in an official release. During the claims and objection period, i.e. from November 16 to December 15 of special summary revision 2021, an elector or an eligible citizen who wants to get enrolled or wants to make deletion/correction/ transposition in the existing entry may submit form 6, 7, 8 or 8A. “If the name of the elector is already in the roll, but he/she has lost the EPIC, then the voter may apply any time in the Taluk Office/ Zonal Office in Form 001,” the release stated. For the inclusion of Indian citizens living abroad, Form 6A should be submitted directly to the Electoral Registration Officer concerned or sent by post to the Electoral Registration Officer. The integrated draft electoral roll would be published on November 16 and after the period for filing claims and objections between November 16 and December 15, the final electoral roll would be published on January 15, 2021. Tamil Nadu’s current Assembly term is set to end in May 2021.
18 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Cancer Institute launches COVID-19 testing||The Cancer Institute (WIA) has launched COVID-19 testing for patients. According to a release, the pandemic has led to a considerable decrease in patient footfalls across all healthcare facilities, and the Cancer Institute too, was significantly affected. Failure of many patients to reach on time had led to diagnostic and treatment delays. Now, the institute is starting COVID-19 testing, using the RT-PCR technique.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases filed for and against installation of Vinayaka idols||An association of artisans, whose members make idols of Lord Vinayaka using paper pulp and clay, has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to permit installation of idols on roadsides, streets and in public places during the coming Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. Tamil Nadu Kaivinai Kagithakoozh Vinayagar Silaigal Matrum Kaliman Pommaigal Thayaripalargal Sangam, represented by its president K. Murugan, had filed the case, claiming that it was unfair on the part of the government to have banned the installation of idols due to COVID-19. The association claimed that only a floating population comes to worship the idols when they remain installed in a place while a crowd gathers only on the day when these idols were taken on a procession to be immersed in nearby waterbodies. The government organised a meeting with various Hindu organisations on August 5. The organisations assured it that they would avoid crowding during immersion. Despite such assurance, the government had banned the installation of idols, the association said. On the other hand, one K. Ilanchelian of Tiruvannamalai filed a petition to restrain Hindu Munnani from installing the idols in defiance of the government restriction.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ED inquiry against DMK MP stayed||The Madras High Court has stayed all further proceedings in an inquiry initiated by the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) against DMK MP S. Jagathrakshakan with respect to purchase of shares of Chrome Leather Company Private Limited in 1995. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani also called for the records of a civil suit filed in 1963 from the custody of a judicial magistrate in Chengalpattu. The High Court Registry was directed to obtain the records in a sealed cover within four weeks.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB remains critical, still on life support||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who was hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, continues to be on life support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), a health bulletin from MGM Healthcare said on Monday. The hospital said his condition remained critical and that an expert team was closely monitoring his vital parameters. His son, S.P. Charan, had posted a video with a health update about his father on Sunday, where he expressed hope about his recovery. On Monday, again, Mr. Charan shared a video and said, “Dad is critical, but stable. There are no complications and doctors feel that this is a good sign.” He also thanked everyone for their prayers.
18 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kin of lorry driver given compensation||The Chennai Metrowater Tanker Lorry Contractors’ Association gave nearly Rs. 1.16 lakh to the family of R. Muthukrishnan, 56, a lorry driver who died in an accident at the Taramani water filling point in May. The association’s president, P.S. Sundaram, and secretary S. Kesavaram were present.
18 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman booked for NEP protest||The police booked a case against Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman for staging a protest against the NEP in violation of prohibitory orders.
18 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cow dies five days after crude explosive blows off its mouth||A dairy farmer’s cow, whose mouth was blown off when it accidentally chewed a country-made explosive, died after five days of suffering near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district on Monday morning. The cow was unable to consume fodder or drink water after the crude explosive, locally called ‘avittukai’, exploded in its mouth while grazing in a field on Wednesday. The explosive, which is usually laid as a bait in farms adjoining forests to hunt wild boar, was believed to have been wrapped with an eatable that made the cow bite it. Muhammed Jafar Ali, a dairy farmer from Chengal Padugai near Kallar, said the dead cow was among six others that he depended on for income. “The cow was left in my field for grazing on Wednesday morning. It used to wander around the field and vacant lands for grazing. It did not return on Wednesday. On Saturday, I found the cow with its mouth blown off. It has a calf,” he said. A photo of the injured cow suckling its calf was widely circulated on social media. Mr. Ali said that he informed officials of Mettupalayam forest range about the incident as the place falls under its limit. However, according to Mr. Ali, Forest Department staff repeatedly questioned him whether he laid the crude explosive. “How could I do that, risking the lives of my family and cows?” he lamented. Though the farmer lodged a complaint with the Mettupalayam police in connection with the incident on Sunday, the police were yet to register a case. The Forest Department has registered a case under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. The investigation is under way. A Forest Department official said the farmer was not eligible for compensation from the department as the cow did not die in the attack of a wild animal.
18 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionaries take charge||Five DMK leaders, who the party president had appointed heads of party units in the district, assumed office on Monday. A release said Singanallur MLA N. Karthik took charge as the party’s Coimbatore urban east unit head, Payya Gounder as urban west unit head, C.R. Ramachandran as Coimbatore north unit head, Thendral Selvaraj as south unit head, and Senathipathi as east unit head. The DMK, until recently, had four district units in Coimbatore. In a recent revamp of administrative set-up, the party increased the units by adding Coimbatore east unit. The release said all the newly-appointed unit heads took charge after garlanding statues of Periyar and Anna.
18 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to set up COVID-19 Care Centre for Women||Coimbatore Corporation would soon set up a COVID-19 Care Centre for women, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said. The Corporation, in association with the district administration, had set up such a centre at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex a few weeks ago to treat asymptomatic COVID-19-positive persons. This, it said, was to reduce the burden on doctors and resources at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, which was being used to treat persons with COVID-19 symptoms. The Corporation had initially set up a 300-bed facility at the Complex, but later almost doubled it as the number of asymptomatic positive persons increased. And being the only centre, the Corporation sent both men and women patients there. But during the course of their stay, given the facilities available and the feedback received from the positive persons, the Corporation had decided to set up an exclusive COVID-19 Care Centre for Women, Mr. Jatavath said. The civic body would establish the centre in the next few days , he added. Sources said the Corporation looks to set up a 200-bed facility and had zeroed in on a Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department-run school on Marudhamalai Road, near Vadavalli. The civic body had approached the Department for permission and expected a favourable reply. Meanwhile, the Corporation on Monday carried out an intensified drive near 100 Feet Road, after the test results of 23 of 30 employees of a jewellery showroom turned positive. The Corporation expected the results of the remaining 90 persons by Tuesday. An employee of the jewellery showroom had tested positive a few days ago, forcing the Corporation to shut down the showroom and collect samples.
18 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Panel asked to submit interim report on elephants in T.N.||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden S. Yuvaraj on Monday directed the 11-member expert committee which he formed to study elephant population in Tamil Nadu from 2006 to submit an interim report before the final report to be submitted by the end of this year. Mr. Yuvaraj held a meeting with I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle; D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division; A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer; and D. Boominathan of World Wide Fund (WWF), Coimbatore. Committee’s chairperson Shekar Kumar Niraj, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife); member secretary S. Anand, District Forests Officer, Madurai; Sivaganesan from Chennai; C. Arivazhagan, managing trustee of the Indo American Wildlife Society in Chennai; veterinarians M. Kalaivanan, from Theni and A. Predeep from Chennai attended the meeting through video conferencing. After reviewing the committee’s activities so far, Mr. Yuvaraj made the members of the committee fix a timeline to come up with the interim report at the earliest and the final report on or before December 31, 2020. The committee was formed to study elephant population and their movement in Tamil Nadu from January 1, 2006 to June 30, 2020, especially after Coimbatore Forest Division witnessed several elephant deaths. While 15 elephants died in the forest division at the time of the formation of the committee on July 4, the death toll reached 17 on August 10.
18 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar series on career counselling from tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus and SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) will organise a webinar series on career counselling for school students from August 19. The first webinar on Wednesday will focus on nursing and paramedical sciences. Speakers for the webinar are Bellur Rajashekar, former Dean of Manipal College of Health Professions; Roy K. George, National President of Trained Nurses Association of India and Principal, College of Nursing, Kozhikode and Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRMIST, Chennai. The webinar will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on Wednesday. Students in Classes IX, X, XI and XII who are interested can register for free of cost using the link https://bit.ly/ THEPSRMor scan the QR code.
18 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Hindu outfits to go ahead with Ganesh Chathurthi celebrations’||Hindu organisations would go ahead to celebrate Ganesh Chathurthi on August 22 if the State government were to deny permission, Indhu Makkal Katchi State secretary Senthil told reporters on Monday at the Collectorate after participating in a meeting the district administration had convened. The Hindu organisations had submitted a petition to the government seeking permission to celebrate Ganesh Chathurthi at least for a day, without the usual fanfare. The government should lift the ban it had imposed on celebrating the festival and if it did not, they would celebrate it throughout the State by installing idols at public places. ‘Adhere to guidelines’ Meanwhile, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday urged the various organisations to adhere to the guidelines issued by the State government. Official sources said that they reiterated their demand to install the idols in Tiruppur district. However, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that permissions would not be granted for installing idols in public places and for processions as per the directions issued by the State government.
18 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge into LBP canal increased||Discharge from Bhavani Sagar Dam into Lower Bhavan Project (LBP) canal for irrigation has been stepped up from 1,700 cusecs to 2,000 cusecs on Monday. Water was released into the canal on August 14 to benefit 1,03,500 acres in three districts and the discharge, which was initially 500 cusecs, was increased to 1,700 cusecs over two days. Public Works Department officials said that the discharge will be further increased to 2,300 cusecs so that water reached the tail-end farmers. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 1,605 cusecs while the outflow was 3,400 cusecs, including 800 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals and 600 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal. The water level stood at 101.82 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 30.172 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.
18 August 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||All seats grabbed within a few hours||Within a few hours of admission process, Karaikudi Ramanathan Chettiar Municipal High School announced through public address system that admissions to Class six was over and more than 500 parents with their children returned home disappointed. Finally around noon, it was declared that all admissions were over. A parents told The Hindu that the school was on a par with any private school in the town. After it was upgraded to a high school about six years ago, the strength had increased. The school had been achieving centum results in 10th board examinations. Hence, such a demand for admission. Headmaster A. Peter Raja said there were 700 applications for the 200 seats. Prior to 2014, the school had 218 students and six teachers. After he took charge, the students were told to wear uniform, ties and shoes on the lines of private schools, which was well received among parents, he said. Now the school has 1,325 students and after improving infrastructure, more students could be admitted from next year.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, parents see government schools with new eyes||Admissions for Classes one, six and nine began in government schools on Monday, with the adoption of necessary COVID-19 safety precautions. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said in Madurai that admissions were taking place at around 2,000 schools in the district. “There has been no official announcement as yet on last date for admission. So parents, especially those under home isolation, need not panic and rush to schools for admissions,” he said. All schools have been instructed to ensure that parents and students wore face masks during admission process. Schools had been instructed to provide sanitisers and hand washing facilities, he added. S.S. Pandiarajan, Headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School in Samayanallur, said admissions for each class were being held in separate rooms. “It was ensured that not more than 10 students and parents were allowed inside a room,” he said. Distribution of books, bags and uniforms to admitted students were also held in separate rooms, he said. “The COVID-19 pandemic has pushed many less privileged families into deep economic distress and some families might not be enthusiastic to enrol their children in schools. Also, due to the non-availability of public transport, many students from interior parts might not be able to reach the school. Hence, our teachers will visit the students of feeder schools at their homes and help in getting them admitted,” he added.  Virudhunagar Teachers in Virudhunagar district expect a significant increase in admission in government schools, especially in rural areas. Many workers in match, fireworks and allied units have either lost job or receive ‘reduced income.’ “With private schools forcing parents to pay fees in advance even as the actual date of re-opening of schools is not known, those who cannot afford the high fees look up to government schools,” a teacher in Sivakasi said. Though the admission has started for classes 1, 6 and 9, the teachers have been encouraged to admit students seeking admission to any class, an official said. The economic crisis among the working classes alone could not be the only reason, say District Educational Officer (Sivakasi) T. Krishnamoorthy. “In the last few years, the infrastructure at government schools even in rural areas, like classrooms, toilets and labs, have improved a lot,” he said. The schools have qualified teachers and what with textbooks, notebooks, school bags, geometry boxes, bicycles, laptops and other freebies, they prove as attractions for people now, he said. Admission for Plus I in Government schools would begin from August 24. Chief Educational Officer M.K.C. Subashini said text books were distributed immediately upon admission.
18 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to ensure 50% OBC reservation in medical seats||The Centre must ensure that the last month’s Madras High Court judgement to reserve 50% of All India Quota (AIQ) seats in medical colleges for students from Other Backward Classes (OBC) was strictly enforced, said Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and Student Federation of India (SFI). DYFI State secretary S. Bala said here on Monday that of the 850 seats for postgraduate courses, 425 belong to students from OBC category. But those seats were given to students coming under other categories. SFI district secretary S. Veldeva said only 15% of seats were given to students belonging to Scheduled Castes though they were entitled to 18% reservation. This anomaly had robbed the opportunity for thousands of youth. If it was enforced now, students who join from this academic year will stand to benefit, Mr. Bala said.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: HC seeks further status report from CBI||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday took cognisance of the fact that the investigation in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks had resumed and was in progress. Earlier, the team of CBI officials probing the case had tested positive for COVID-19. Perusing the status report submitted by the CBI, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that prima facie the investigation was on the right track and more time was required for scientific analysis of the evidence collected in the case. The court directed CBI to file a further status report in the case. Further, the court directed the Director General of Police to file a status report with regard to the Standard Operating Procedure to be adopted during arrests. The State had earlier informed the court that a high level panel comprising Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, Law Secretary and other stakeholders would convene a meeting in this regard. With regard to the case of S. Raja Singh, found in a Sub-Jail with multiple injuries allegedly sustained due to custodial torture, the court directed the State to submit a report on the progress made in the investigation in the case. The court directed the status reports be submitted to the court in a sealed cover on September 7. Counter affidavits were submitted to the court in the contempt proceedings initiated against two police officers D. Kumar, C. Prathapan and a constable Maharajan who had allegedly not cooperated with the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate at the time of inquiry. Their appearance before the court was dispensed with till further orders. Meanwhile, the bail petition of suspended constable Murugan, an accused in the case, which came up for hearing before Justice V. Bharathidasan was adjourned to August 25.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Free career counselling webinars from tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus will host a free webinar series on career counselling throughout August to discuss current and emerging career opportunities in different fields. The webinar series, which is presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be of benefit to parents and students of Classes 9 to 12 to make informed decisions on higher education. The webinar scheduled for August 19 from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. will be on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities in nursing and paramedical sciences.’ The speakers are Dr. Bellur Rajashekar, former Dean, Manipal College of Health Professions; Dr. Roy K. George, national president, Trained Nurses Association of India and Principal, College of Nursing, Kozhikode; and Dr. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. Those who are interested can register athttps://bit.ly/THEPSRMor scan the QR code to attend the webinar.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to protect Palk Bay||A fisherman from Ramanathapuram district has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and State to restrain private parties from dumping waste soil and hazardous chemical waste into the Palk Bay. He said it had taken a toll on marine life. The petitioner, G. Joseph, Secretary for Ramnad District Fish Workers Trade Union, said that waste soil and hazardous chemical waste were being dumped into the bay for constructing a bridge for the Uppur thermal power plant. The bridge was being constructed to draw sea water that was to be used as a coolant. He said that the constriction of the bridge which extends from Uppur to Thondi in Ramanathapuram district had an impact on marine life. The Palk Bay was getting exposed to pollution which was a threat to the marine environment. Therefore, the private contractors must be restrained from dumping waste into the sea, he said. Further, he sought a direction to the Ramanathapuram Collector to refrain from granting permission to quarrying sand in the region. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the Centre and the State and directed a status report be filed in the case.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects convention centre work||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the progress of the construction of a convention centre at Tamukkam ground, here on Monday. According to a press release from the Corporation, the project is carried out under the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission at a cost of Rs. 45.55 crore. While the total area of Tamukkam grounds is 9.68 acres, currently a two-storey convention centre will come up on an area of 2.47 acres. The ground floor will have a multi-purpose hall which can accommodate up to 3,500 people. There will also be a separate kitchen and dining hall on the ground floor that can accommodate up to 840 people. There will be three guest rooms on the first floor. The underground parking lot can accommodate 250 four-wheelers and 215 two-wheelers, the release added. The Commissioner instructed the officials to expedite the completion of the project.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to test seeds||A press release from Tamil Nadu Food Grains (CPS) Marketing Yard, a special purpose vehicle established with the assistance of the Union government, has asked farmers to test seeds in their facility in view of the threat of entry of unsolicited seeds into the country. S. Rethinavelu, Chairman and Managing Director of the facility, said that there is a threat of entry of unsolicited seeds which may have the capacity to harm food production, spread diseases, and can pose environmental problems. He urged farmers to test the seeds for its moisture, germination capacity and vigour. By testing the seeds, the farmers can avoid sowing sub quality seeds, he added.
18 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||136 test positive in Madurai||A total of 136 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 12,888. According to the State Health bulletin, all the cases were indigenous. Twenty persons were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities. The total number of discharged rose to 11,424. The active cases remained above the 1,000 mark with 1,140 cases. Three patients succumbed, including a 90 year-old man who was admitted to Railway Hospital. Virudhunagar district recorded 212 new cases that took the total number of positive cases to 11,400. With 158 patients getting discharged on Monday, the total number of discharge has increased to 10,221 and the number of active cases stood at 1,021. A 40-year-old man died at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Saturday. With this, the death toll in the district has increased to 158. Theni saw 280 fresh cases and the tally crossed the 10,000 mark and stood at 10,189. The number of people discharged was 295. The district has 2,913 active cases and 116 deaths have been recorded so far. In Dindigul, 155 tested positive and the tally stood at 4,910. The number of people discharged was 96. The district has 838 active cases, 94 people have died. Ramanathapuram saw 49 new cases, with which the total number of cases went up to 4,064. There were 44 discharges. The district has 502 active cases and 89 deaths were recorded till date. In Sivaganga, there were 49 new cases and the tally rose to 3,423. There were 58 discharges and 405 active cases. So far 86 patients have died due to COVID-19 in the district. Southern districts Even as the number COVID-19 cases in Thoothukudi district is showing a downward trend, the district’s total infection crossed the five-digit figure of 10,000 on Monday with the addition of 75 cases. After 75 fresh cases were reported on Monday, the tally touched 10,040 and the district now houses 1,022 active cases after 178 patients were discharged. Kanniyakumari reported the highest number of infections with 209 new cases that took the district’s tally to 7,699, surpassing Tirunelveli having 7,625 cases with an addition of 100 patients. While Kanniyakumari witnessed the death of five patients, Tirunelveli lost six. After 194 patients were discharged, Kanniyakumari had 1,467 active cases while Tirunelveli had 1,383 cases as 161 patients were discharged. Three more persons died in Tenkasi and the district saw 147 new cases bringing its total tally to 4,052. After 129 patients were discharged, the district had 1,201 COVID-19 cases.
18 August 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector honours awardees||Collector V. Santha on Monday greeted the three women of the district - Senthamilselvi, Muthammal and Anandavalli who had received the Kalpana Chawla award for their courage and valiant act of rescuing two youths from drowning at Kottarai reservoir in the district recently. The three women received the award from the Chief Minister during the Independence Day celebrations on the recommendation of the Collector. The Collector invited the awardees to the Collectorate here on Monday during which the women displayed the gold medals, appreciation certificates and cheques given to them by the State government.
18 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Curtains down on Anglo-French Textiles mill in Puducherry||It’s curtains for the century-old Anglo-French Textiles (AFT) mill with the Puducherry government taking a formal call on closing it down due to mounting losses and financial burden. The Industries Department has announced the closure of the mill under Section 25-O of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, sparking resentment among trade unions. In an official statement, P. Priyatarshny, Managing Director of AFT mill, said that the government had taken a policy decision to wind up all units and close down the mill with effect from April 30, 2020. “Based on the report of an expert committee, the government has announced its decision to close down the mill permanently. The mill had been incurring mounting losses and its net worth had aggregated to Rs. 207.13 crore. Funds were not available to meet even the day-to-day expenses and the situation had reached a juncture where it cannot be sustained,” an official said. Illegal decision: CPI(M) The CPI (M) has launched a signature campaign, calling the government’s decision illegal. “The government’s decision is unwarranted and the future of hundreds of workers and employees, who were hoping to see light at the end of the tunnel, has been dashed. The government should immediately reconsider its decision and take steps to restart the mill,” said R. Rajangam, secretary of CPI(M).  “The machinery was old, and without modernisation, it was very difficult to run the mill effectively. Blatant administrative transgressions committed by non-political chairmen and senior IAS officers, who held the reigns of the mill in the past, led to its present status,” sources said. The mill has remained closed since 2013 following mounting losses, rapid erosion of the net worth of the company and prevailing labour unrest because of non-payment of statutory dues to employees. According to G. Sugumaran, secretary, Federation of Peoples’ Rights (FPR), “The unique identity of Puducherry has been buried several feet deep since the AFT mill has been the landmark of the Union Territory for decades.” CM blames L-G for order Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday accused Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi of “unilaterally” issuing the closure order on the Anglo-French Textile (AFT) Mill, overlooking government’s various suggestions to restart operations. “We will write to the Centre again to demand revival of the mill,” Mr. Narayanasamy said.
18 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘1,196 mobile medical teams deployed’||As many as 1,196 mobile medical teams had been deployed to conduct fever detection camps across Tamil Nadu as to avoid delay in COVID-19 patients reporting to hospitals, Health Minister C.Vijayabaskar said here on Monday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the COVID Siddha Care Centre at the Government Women’s College campus here and the preparation of food to be supplied to COVID 19 patients, Dr. Vijayabaskar said the medical teams comprised doctors, nurses and pharmacists. Results of samples lifted at the fever camps were being made available within 24 hours and those testing positive are immediately admitted to the hospitals. Dr.Vijayabsakar also disclosed that steps were being taken to provide additional equipment such as CT scanners and mobile X-ray units wherever required. This has helped early detection and treatment of cases where the lungs of the patients have been affected. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and other officials accompanied the Minister, who also inspected a few medical camps being held in the district.
18 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||At least 90% of patients have comorbid conditions: Dean||While the central region continues to record a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, Pudukottai and Thanjavur have also recorded a sharp increase in the number of deaths. With twenty-five deaths over the last one week, Pudukottai has recorded 60 deaths as on Sunday, while Thanjavur had recorded 73. M. Poovathi, Dean, Pudukottai Medical College Hospital, said that the primary reason is that patients reach the hospital only after the intensity of the infection turned severe. “At least 90% of the patients were over the age of 70 and had co-morbid conditions. These patients were brought to the hospital at a later stage, at that stage medical intervention too, cannot help,” she said. A majority of the deaths and even the significant rise in COVID-19 cases in Pudukottai was due to the exposure of those over the age of 70 to large gatherings, Dr. Poovathi said. “They have attended funerals, weddings, and other such gatherings. The main cause of the spread of the virus in the region is the public events,” she said. The patients also tend to ignore their co-morbid conditions, Dr. Poovathi said. “The patients’ blood sugar levels are not maintained, they have stopped taking medication for blood pressure, we have witnessed several such instances,” she said. Dr. Poovathi requested family members and children of adults with co-morbidities to ensure that they do not venture outdoors for any such events. Meanwhile, in Thanjavur, where 73 total deaths have been recorded so far, patients are only accessing the government services when it became too late, said S. Maruthudurai, Dean, Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. “Even though the municipal authorities and the Department of Public Health are holding fever camps across the district, patients have a false sense of security,” he said. Most patients only arrive at the hospital after seven or more days of suffering from symptoms and by that time it is too late, Dr. Maruthudhurai said. “A CT scan of the lung is taken and if the CORADS (Computerized Oncology Radiation and Data System) score is between three and five, the patient can be helped, but many come after six,” he said, adding that the lung involvement in the infection too, is important. “Rapid Response teams are available and tests and treatment is given on priority for those with co-morbidities. It is necessary for the public to acknowledge them and utilise them,” Dr. Maruthudurai added.
18 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Water released through Mettur dam’s east and west canals||Four State Ministers raised the shutters for release of waters through east-west canals of Mettur dam on Monday to irrigate 45,000 acres in Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts. According to officials, 500 cusecs of water has been initially released through the canal for irrigating 16,433 acres in Salem, 11,377 acres in Namakkal and 17,230 acres in Erode. The water would be released till August 31, a release said. Talking to reporters, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said that water released from the canal would be used to irrigate 27,000 acres in East banks of the canal and 18,000 acres along the West banks of the canal. He added that seeds, fertilizers are available in ready state across Tamil Nadu. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at Mettur dam on Monday morning was 99.03 ft against a total scale of 120ft and the stored capacity of water at the dam was 63,590 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 14,182 cusecs and outflow to Cauvery river from the dam was increased from 13,500 cusecs of water to 16,500 cusecs.
18 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Surendran produced in Salem court||The Cyber Crime Cell of CCB produced Surendran alias Nathigan in a court here on Monday in connection with cases registered against him for publishing malicious content on Kandha Sashti Kavasam online. Surendran, an anchor of YouTube channel Karuppar Kuttam , was arrested and remanded in Puzhal prison. Based on charges registered against him in Salem, he was brought from Puzhal and produced before Judicial Magistrate-II here on Monday. The court postponed the hearing to August 31. He was taken back to Puzhal prison.
18 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders attempt self-immolation||Three transgender women attempted self-immolation in front of the Collectorate here on Monday alleging threats from a few members from their community. Ramya, Niranjana and Bharathi alleged that the members were forcing them into flush trade and they should pay them if they refused it. Police personnel deployed at the Collectorate prevented the attempt. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.
18 August 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Recovery rate in State highest in the country: Health Minister||The percentage of patients recovered from COVID-19 in the State was highest in the country, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. After inspecting hospitals in Sivaganga district on Sunday, he told the media here that 87% of positive patients had recovered in the State, a majority of them from government hospitals. In the last two months alone, 15,000 doctors, para-medical personnel and other frontline workers had been posted to fight the pandemic. Those who relied on private hospitals for treatment of any ailment till five months ago, had realised the efficiency of government hospitals now. Doctors and other hospital staff had risked their lives to save patients admitted to COVID-19 wing of government hospitals across Tamil Nadu. To a query, he said only in rare cases will a recovered patient affected again. People must follow the guidelines of doctors even after discharge from hospitals, he said. Along with allopathy, siddha and ayurvedic systems ere also available for COVID-19 treatment. In Chennai alone, 20 hospitals treated patients with Siddha medicines. The CM had instructed that such facilities were to be opened in every district. Plasma treatment had begun in Chennai followed by Madurai and Tirunelveli. The government had earmarked Rs. 2.35 crore for procuring equipment. More districts would have the facility soon. Sivaganga’s feat The Minister said as many as 234 pregnant women who tested positive for COVID-19 in government hospitals in Sivaganga received good treatment and went home with healthy babies in the last four months. The newborns had tested negative and were safe. Appreciating the team of doctors led by Government Sivaganga Medical College Dean A. Rathinavel, he said their efforts had resulted in the district reporting lowest number of active cases in southern districts. As many as 42,000 people were screened and 2,823 who tested positive for COVID-19 had been cured.There were 2,115 beds available in Sivaganga district and there need not be any apprehension that hospitals were not admitting patients saying the beds were full. The Covid care centre functioning in a private engineering college had adequate infrastructure, he said. Patients at the isolation ward at Amaravathipudur expressed satisfaction over food served to them. People could siddha treatment at Sweden Mission Hospital in Tirupattur. The old building of the the Sivaganga GH had been refurbished to accommodate 300 beds of the COVID-19 wing, the Minister said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Collector J. Jayakanthan, Joint Director of Health Ilango Maheswaran, the Dean, and Medical Superintendents Meena and Mohamed Khan were present.
18 August 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||DLSA reaches out||Despite the limited functioning of courts under the pandemic threat, the District Legal Services Authority was reaching out to women and children who face sexual abuse, said Virudhunagar Principal District and Session Judge, A. Muthusaratha. Hoisting the national flag at the district court complex here on Saturday on the occasion of Independence Day, she said women facing harassment in family and aged people were also being given legal aid. The DLSA was extending its help to the inmates of jails, too, she added. Karaikudi Students of Sri Sarada Niketan College for Women, Karaikudi celebrated the 74th Independence Day on the college premises, on Saturday. The event was presided over by Swami Athmananda Maharaj and the flag was unfurled by freedom fighter P.V. Arumugam. The freedom fighter encouraged the youth to ensure the country was corruption-free. He also highlighted and appreciated the role of youth in the development of the country. Director of the institution, M. Meenalochani, and Principal of the institution, S. Sivasangari Ramya, took part in the programme.
18 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Siddha care centre to start functioning from tomorrow||A 50-bed Siddha Care Centre for COVID-19 patients is to start functioning at Kumbakonam from August 19, according to Collector M.Govinda Rao. Disclosing this to reporters at Kumbakonam on Monday, the Collector said that the facility had been created at an educational institution near Kumbakonam where the novel coronavirus patients who wish to get treated for the virus infection under the Indian system of medicine could get admitted and undergo treatment. Provisions have been provided at the centre to increase the number of beds to 200 in case if more number of patients prefer to opt for Siddha treatment. As on Monday, 5000 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 virus infection and of this 926 were under treatment. This included those in home isolation and monitoring, he added. Stating that 106 places have been declared as `containment zones’, Mr.Govinda Rao said that 147 persons had opted for home isolation and 40 of them had tested negative for coronavirus after treatment. Earlier he inspected the wholesale vegetable market complex at Kumbakonam where necessary arrangements had been made for the retail vegetable traders to carry on their business on a turn basis of 80 traders in three shifts in a week from August 18. In addition to this, retail sales of vegetables were allowed at eight places in Kumbakonam town, he said.
18 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity team visits excavation site||A team of experts from the Madurai Kamaraj University landed on Monday at Sivakalai, where the Department of Archaeology is carrying out excavations at the hillock since May 25, to collect samples from the burial urns for DNA analysis. Led by M. Prabhakaran, 10 officials from the Department of Archaeology, a group of research students and 80 workers are doing excavations at the Sivakalai hillock where evidence of ancient human settlements has reportedly been found. The team, which has so far dug 50 pits in the hillock, has recovered 31 burial urns, most of which had been covered with properly designed lids. Since the urns contained human skeletons, the excavators approached the Madurai Kamaraj University for conducting DNA tests on the bones to ascertain their age, which is essential for estimating the period of the civilisation era. As a team, led by Pitchaiyappan came to Sivakalai on Monday, two burial urns were opened to take the bones for DNA analysis. Assistant Director of Archaeology Sivanantham, who has camped at Sivakalai, said there were signs that ancient Tamils, who lived in Sivakalai in the hillock, led a civilised life like their counterparts at Adichanallur 3,000 years ago. “The bones collected from the burial urns will be taken to the university for DNA analysis, which is likely to take several months. We believe that we might get iron and other earthen articles from the burial urns when we open them. These articles will also be sent for carbon dating and other related analysis to ascertain the age of Sivakalai settlement,” Mr. Sivanantham said. “The age of the bones collected from the burial urns can be determined when we analyse the tooth and the jaw… The final results of the analysis may be available after a year or so,” said Dr. Pitchaiyappan, who was accompanied by Dr. Sudhakar from Department of Biotechnology of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University.
18 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw EIA draft notification: fishermen||Demanding the withdrawal of the Environment Impact Assessment draft notification 2020, fishermen submitted a petition at the Collector’s Office on Monday. The petitioners said Environment Impact Assessment draft notification 2020, which had been drafted in favour of corporates, was aimed at restricting fishing operations of country boat and mechanised boat fishermen. At the same time, it spread a red carpet to corporate firms carrying out fishing operations in big way causing irreparable damage to the marine ecosystem. Instead of ensuring exemplary punishment to those who damage the fragile marine ecosystem, the notification paved way for giving incentives to those who trawl the ocean indiscriminately. Hence, the Notification should be withdrawn, they said. A group of transgenders, in a a petition, said they performed traditional Tamil folk art through their group ‘Sakhi.’ But, due to the lockdown, were without work and struggling. Hence, their services could be utilised for creating awareness of COVID-19. A group of Naam Thamizhar Katchi functionaries, led by Thoothukudi Assembly Constituency secretary V. Senthilkumar, submitted a petition seeking protection to their party’s Vilaathikulam Assembly segment secretary Chellappa and action against those who were spreading malicious campaign against him and his family on social media.
18 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||College students drive home a message||National Service Scheme volunteers of Kamaraj College conducted an awareness campaign recently on ‘Garbage-free India’ at Manjalneerkayal village. The campaign focussed on the importance of segregating waste, especially single-use plastic goods, and the importance of afforestation. The students also sensitised the residents on how open defecation affected their health. The students painted the walls with pictorial messages to drive home the importance of solid waste management.A group of transwomen performed traditional dances such as karagattam and paraiattam to create awareness of environmental conservation.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of shops at Kallikudi may be over by Sept. first week||The Department of Agricultural and Marketing is pulling out all the stops to complete the allocation of shops to traders at the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city by first week of September. Significantly, 108 traders of the Gandhi Market, who were earlier allotted shops at the market but had failed pay rent or renew the agreements, have now paid their dues and are to be given priority in allocation of shops now. The 108 traders have been called for counselling by the Selection Committee on August 19 and 20 to discuss issues such as the revised rentals for the shops. The traders have been sent individual communication asking them to attend the counselling. The counselling is to be conducted in batches in four sessions spread across the two days, source told The Hindu . Based on the outcome of the counselling, the allotment of the rest of the shops will be finalised by the Selection Committee, headed by the Collector. With a petition pending before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking the opening of the Kallikudi Market, the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business is keen to complete the allotment at the earliest. Wholesale traders of the Gandhi Market, for whom the Central Market at Kallikudi was originally intended for, have been opposing any move to shift them out of the Gandhi Market, claiming that the Kallikudi market complex was too far away from the city and the shops did not suit their requirements. The District Market Committee had in June called for fresh applications from traders for allotment of 623 shops at the market after revoking the allotment of 288 shops to traders at the market, many of them traders at the Gandhi Market, as they had failed to function and renew the agreements. The shops were allotted in 2018 for a period of 11 months and the agreements have not been renewed after that. As many as 968 applications were received in response to the call. Official sources indicated that the shops were now in good demand and many had made substantially higher bids over the minimum rentals fixed by the authorities. Earlier this month, a handful of farmers groups had opened about 15 shops at the market to enter the retail market. However, due to poor patronage, most of them could not sustain their operations. Officials said three shops were functioning still. Both officials and farmers groups expect the market to become fully functional once public transport resumes and the lockdown restrictions are eased. The District Market Committee had allotted 104 shops to 52 Farmers Interest groups (FIGs), Farmers Producers Groups (FPGs) and Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) at nominal rent. Notices have been sent to 28 of the groups who have not taken possession of the shops. It is reliably understood that Department officials have recommended to the higher authorities that the norms for allotment of the shops to the farmers groups be relaxed. Earlier, shops were allotted to groups based on their seniority. Groups started under the Collective Farming Scheme were also given priority. Officials have recommended that recently formed groups which have evinced interest in running the shops can also be made eligible for allotment and expect a decision soon.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus will host a series of free webinars, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, this month on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities’ in different fields. The first webinar, on ‘Nursing and paramedical sciences,’ will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on August 19. Bellur Rajashekar, former Dean, Manipal College of Health Professions; Roy K. George, National President, Trained Nurses Association of India, and Principal, College of Nursing, Kozhikode; and Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be the key speakers. The session will be moderated by R. Sujatha, Deputy Editor, The Hindu . The session is open to students of classes IX, X, XI and XII. To register, visit https://bit.ly/THEPSRM or scan the QR code.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘RRB conducts all exams in a fair and transparent manner’||The Railway Recruitment Board conducts all exams in a fair and transparent manner without any bias and there was no scope for discrimination based on the state of residence of the candidates as alleged in certain quarters, the Southern Railway has said. In a clarification issued in the wake of protests by some railway apprentices in front of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here seeking permanent jobs in railways and alleging discrimination against candidates of Tamil Nadu, the Southern Railway said that there was reservation based on the origin of the State or state of residence. “There is no manual intervention at any stage from online application to conducting computer based test and evaluation,” said B.Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, said in a statement. The primary responsibility of the Railway Recruitment Boards, situated at 21 locations, was to recruit technical and non-technical working and supervisory staff (Group C) required for their allotted jurisdictional divisions of the given railway zone. The applications would be called for by the RRBs from eligible candidates through centralised employment notifications published in the RRB websites and in Employment News. The candidate had the option to choose any of the 21 RRBs and allotted the one which had been opted. Candidates belonging to Tamil Nadu have opted not only for RRB-Chennai but to various RRBs. The RRB had issued a common notification in February 2018 for the post of Assistant Loco Pilot and Technicians for filling the vacancies across zonal railways and production units. RRB,Chennai had confirmed that of the total candidates applied, 51% were from Tamil Nadu and a total number of 3218 candidates were selected for the posts of Assistant Loco Pilot and Technicians. Of the total selection, 17% were from Tamil Nadu, the release said. Most of the candidates were not eligible for the post of Technicians as majority of them were diploma holders or engineering graduates whereas the qualification required for technicians was ITI. However, for the post of Assistant Loco Pilot, 53 % of candidates selected were from Tamil Nadu. The Railways engaged apprentices in workshops and production units to impart them technical training with the objective of developing skilled manpower. Employment in railways is not guaranteed on completion of Apprenticeship. The procedure of certificate verification for the 541 candidates allotted to the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here was scheduled only after the Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines on Unlock -3 effective up to August 31. The notified candidates had arrived Tiruchi by flight and underwent 14 days mandatory quarantine. Swab tests were also taken as per safety protocols. The results of the tests were verified by the railway authorities through Tiruchi district portal. Sample of e-pass of two candidates were submitted to Tiruchi Collector for perusal, Mr.Guganesan said.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 626 new COVID-19 cases, 15 more deaths||The central region recorded 626 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, a slight drop over Sunday’s count of 695. Fifteen more persons — seven in Tiruchi, two each in Pudukottai, Thanjavur, and Karur, and one each in Perambalur and Tiruvarur — died in the region, according to the State Health Department’s bulletin. In Tiruchi, men aged 69, 57, 76, 53, 80 and a 65-year-old woman died with comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension died. In Pudukottai, a 68-year-old woman with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and a 71-year-old man with diabetes and coronary artery disease died of respiratory failure. A 62-year-old man from Thanjavur died of COVID-19 and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. A 71-year-old man from Karur with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and Systemic Hypertension and a 66-year-old with diabetes died at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital, while a 71-year-old man from Tiruvarur died of respiratory failure. Pudukottai reported the highest number of fresh cases on Monday, with 163 patients testing positive. Among them were primary contacts, antenatal mothers, patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI). In Tiruchi, 121 patients tested positive, among which some were residing in containment areas. The patients were admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, 25 patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 55 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Thanjavur recorded 113 new cases of the viral infection, many of who were primary contacts, frontline workers, antenatal mothers and local cases whose contacts are yet to be traced. The patients are undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and a few private hospitals in the city. Ariyalur recorded 76 new cases among which 25 hailed from Ariyalur, 10 each form Sendurai and T.Palur, 20 from Jayankondam and eight from Thirumanur. The patients are admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, Tiruchi MGMGH and the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Tiruvarur recorded 72 new COVID cases, while Karur recorded 37 new cases. Two healthcare workers from the Government Medical College Hospital, Karur tested positive while many primary contacts also tested positive. In Perambalur district, 34 patients tested positive for the viral infection, taking the total number of cases reported so far in the district to 975. However, 724 of them have recovered and returned home. Of the 37, 20 hailed from Perambalur town while eight belonged to Veppur and six to Veppanthattai and three to Alathur. Meanwhile, 400 new throat swabs, from primary and secondary contacts and those from containment zones were lifted and sent to the testing facility. In Nagapattinam, eight local contacts, one patient with symptoms of SARI and one interdistrict traveller tested positive. Seven patients were admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College, patients to a private hospital in Chennai, and one to a private hospital in Tiruchi.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special focus on districts with over 10% positivity rate, says Health Secretary||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Monday said that special focus was being accorded in those districts where COVID-19 positivity rate, or the number of samples that test positive among the total figure, was more than 10%. The focus was being accorded to Cuddalore, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu, Kanyakumari, Tiruvarur, Tenkasi, Theni and Karur districts in an effort to bring down the positivity rate, Mr. Radhakrishnan told reporters here after reviewing the COVID-19 prevention measures taken in Tiruchi district. The Health Department was also continuously monitoring districts where the positive cases were below 10 % such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruvallur districts. The positivity rate in Tiruchi was 5.96 %, he said. Necessary instructions had been given to the administration authorities of those districts which were performing well to continue with their field-level measures in controlling the spread of the infection, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Maintaining that aggressive testing for COVID-19 was being carried out across Tamil Nadu, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the RT-PCR testing had been done on nearly 38 lakh people in the State so far. In addition to this, sustained monitoring at the field-level apart from tracing the high-risk contacts and testing them would also have to be done. He said the cases were coming down in Tiruchi, Madurai and Virudhunagar districts. Replying to a query. Mr. Radhakrishnan said those with mild symptoms should immediately subject themselves to testing as nearly 98.3% of such cases could be completely cured. Answering a query on the alleged shortage of beds, Mr. Radhakrishnan said over 1 lakh beds were available for COVID 19 patients across the State out of which over 10,000 beds were allocated in private hospitals. More than 3,500 ventilators were available in government hospitals. The State government was planning to buy ventilators additionally. Action had been initiated against a couple of private hospitals in the State which had charged excessively. Further, 10 private hospitals had paid back the additional amount collected from patients, he said.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stir against clogged drains||A group of residents of Bheema Nagar protested by dumping silt from drains in the locality in front of the Tiruchi City Corporation office to draw attention to the clogged drainages and the civic body's alleged apathy to the problem. Members of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK), along with the residents, arrived at the civic body’s head-office on Bharathidasan Salai and dumped some silt collected from the drains on Monday morning. Udhuman Ali, district secretary, TMMK, said that residents had raised several complaints and even submitted petitions to the City Corporation Commissioner but in vain. “They waited for months but the civic body did not respond. After the silt was dumped, workers rushed to the locality and cleaned the drains immediately,” he said.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mitigate hardships of students’||Aided College Teachers' Association (ACTA) has urged the Directorate of Collegiate Education to mitigate hardships of students due to suspension of regular classes caused by the prolonged lockdown to contain spread of COVID 19 virus. “The emphasis on attendance of students for online classes by some of the colleges at a time when those in rural parts have no access to digital connectivity, has created a ground for a serious disparity,” S. Sahaya Sathish, General Secretary of ACTA, said in his petition addressed to the Director of Collegiate Education. The final year students were in a precarious state. Though no decision has been taken for conduct of semester examinations for final year UG students, colleges were going ahead with the process of admissions for PG programmes. The Directorate has to issue instructions for postponing PG admissions to a later date, Prof. Sahaya Sathish said. The case of students who are required to clear arrears ought to be factored in while planning conduct of examinations for final semester. The problems of the student community and the psychological stress they go through warrant a comprehensive solution, Prof. Sahaya Sathish said said.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Swachhata Pakhwada set in motion||'Swachhata Pakhwada', the national cleanliness fortnight is to be observed in BHEL Township through segregation of bio-degradable and non-bio-degradable wastes, and spreading of awareness on 5S — sort, set in order, shine, standardise and sustain — to curb use of plastic products, especially single-use plastics. Addressing the heads of all products and functional groups through video conference, R Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, observed that the national cleanliness fortnight was especially significant during the COVID-19 pandemic and called for individual participation of all employees in the Swachhata Pakhwada activities in the factory and township until August 31.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal rooster fight: four arrested||The Samayapuram police arrested four persons in connection with an illegally organised rooster fight close to a farm at Esanakorai near here on Sunday when total lockdown was in place. Cash amounting to Rs. 43,310, six two-wheelers and a van were seized from the spot by the police team. Police sources said they received information on Sunday evening about a rooster fight taking place at Esanakorai following which a team immediately went to the spot. On noticing the police team, some persons took to their heels apparently by jumping into an irrigation canal nearby and others escaped through another route along with the roosters. The police managed to intercept four persons S. Dharmaraj (35), P. Ashok (23), K. Selvaraj (60) and K. Anand (30) and arrested them. They were subsequently released on bail.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||All-women webinar||Supported by National Skills Network, Indian Welding Society (IWS) teamed up with Fronius India to conduct an all-women webinar on 'Celebrating independence from stereotype' on the eve of Independence Day, with the idea of encouraging women to excel in domains hitherto considered masculine.  Apoorva Kulshreshtha, Geeta Kshirsagar and Shreya Kulkarni of Fronius India, the anchors, facilitated interaction between the participants and the women panellists constituting A. Santhakumari Additional General Manager, Welding Research Institute; Renu N. Gupta, Senior DGM, L & T, Mumbai;S. Malarvizhi, Professor, Annamalai University; Bijayani Panda, Associate Professor CMR Institute of Technology, Bengaluru; and Madhuri Dubey, Founder National Skills Network.
18 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dak adalat on August 28||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional level Dak Adalat 11 a.m. on August 28. Grievances of postal customers would be heard during the adalat. Complaints should be sent in advance and contain full details such as date and time of posting, full address of the sender and addressee, registration receipt number with the date and office of booking for MO/VP/Registered or insured/ Speed Post articles. If the complaint is about the savings schemes or Postal Life Insurance or Rural Postal Life Insurance, the complaint should contain the details of the recovery, account number, name and full address of the depositor, name of the post office and any reference of the postal department, if available. Only those cases which have been taken at divisional/units and the complainant was not satisfied with the response can be brought to the Dak Adalat. No fresh cases will be entertained, A.Govindarajarn, Postmaster General, Central Region-TN, said in a press release. Customers can send their complaints to M.Gunasekaran, Assistant Director (BD & PG), O/o PMG, Central Region, Tiruchi - 620 001, on or before August 21. Complaints should be sent only through ordinary, registered or Speed Post. Complaints sent through private couriers will not be accepted. The covers should be superscribed as ‘Dak Adalat – June 2020.’ Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Dak Adalat will be conducted through video conferencing or teleconference or video call. Hence, the current residential address, phone number and name of the nearest post office should be indicated by the complainant, the release added.
18 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur GH faces sudden shortage of doctors in O&G Dept.||The Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital faced a sudden shortage of doctors in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G) on Sunday amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Hospital sources told The Hindu on Monday the Department had four doctors, of which one recently contracted the disease and was under home quarantine. Two more doctors, despite testing negative, exhibited symptoms of COVID-19 and did not report for duty for the past few days. A postgraduate doctor went on leave to prepare for the final-year examinations, the sources said. This left the O&G Department with no doctors on Sunday. While normal deliveries were carried out by doctors from other departments, critical cases were referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital in Coimbatore district and the Government IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital in Erode on Sunday, the sources said. There was delay in deputing doctors from other government hospitals in the district to the Tiruppur GH, the sources claimed. A senior official from the Health Department said doctors from government hospitals in Madathukulam, Udumalpet and Avinashi Blocks were deputed to the O&G Department on Monday. More doctors from other hospitals would be deputed this week, he said. The situation was expected to improve in the coming weeks after the doctors return to duty, the official said.
18 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned baby handed over to DCPU||Doctors at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, on Monday, handed over a girl baby who was found abandoned in a dustbin at Palavanjipalayam on August 10 to officials from the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU). Hospital sources said the baby’s mother did not come forward to take the baby. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy named the baby ‘Sridevi’ before handing her over to the DCPU.
18 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||24 captive elephants weighed in MTR||Twenty-four of the 27 captive elephants in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) were weighed on Monday. The forest officials said that each of the animals had put on 75 to 125 kg in body weight over the last three months. The quarterly exercise is conducted to keep tabs on the health of the elephants kept captive in MTR. On Monday, elephants kept at Theppakadu, Bombax and ET Mara camps were brought to the weigh bridge in Thorapalli for the exercise. Except three senior pachyderms, all other elephants were weighed on Monday. “The three older elephants cannot walk long distance and so were left behind at their camps,” said M.Dhayananthan, Forest Range Officer, Mudumalai Range. “Elephants usually get heavier during monsoon season due to the availability of more food,” he said. Forest department officials said that one of the temple elephants, brought back to Mudumalai last year, has grown much healthier and has gained back some more weight. Deputy Director of MTR (Core Area) S. Senbagapriya was also at Thorapalli overseeing the weighing of the elephants.
18 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Former race horses, abandoned on streets, impounded||The Nilgiris Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) on Monday began impounding former race horses, abandoned on the roads of Udhagamandalam by their owners during the COVID-19 lockdown. Nagina Reddy, nodal officer for the NSPCA, told The Hindu that the former race horses, sold to people in the town for offering rides to tourists, had been left to fend for themselves by their owners since the outbreak of COVID-19. “Since the owners did not have any use for them after the ban on tourism, the horses were left on the streets. Many get injured or killed in accidents,” said Ms. Reddy. On Monday, three horses were impounded by the NSPCA, with assistance from the Department of Animal Husbandry and the police. The horses were brought to the Ooty Race Course, where they were boarded onto special vehicles using a ramp. The police were tasked with maintaining law and order and preventing confrontations between horse owners and officials involved in the impounding of animals. Rama Sasmal, joint-secretary, NSPCA, said around 50 former race horses were being used to offer rides to tourists in Udhagamandalam. “Most of these horses are taken good care of when they are racing, and so, when they retire and are not taken care of by their new owners, the animals get sick quickly and die,” said Ms. Sasmal. She added that most horses, if not looked after properly, die within a span of six months to a year after they retire. Giving good care The impounded horses will be taken to Mavanallah, where they will be properly stabled and fed by the India Project for Animals and Nature (IPAN). Ms. Reddy said the Nilgiris District Collector had sanctioned Rs. 2 lakh to feed the impounded horses. The horses will be kept and looked after in Mavanallah, until tourism is allowed again in the Nilgiris. Once word spread among owners that the animals were being impounded, they quickly moved to remove the horses from the town’s roads. The NSPCA vowed to keep track of the animals and to impound any if found roaming the roads. Jeffrey Kendall, consultant to the Ooty Race Course, said the original owners of the race horses gave them away at the end of their racing careers to “good homes, riding schools and educational institutions”. “Unfortunately, after the horses are given away, the original owners have very little control over what the new owners do with them, and sometimes, these new owners let them onto roads, where they turn a problem,” he said.
18 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||M. Petchimuthu, 24, of Soolakkarai, who went missing on Sunday was found dead in a well along Maththanaickenpatti Road on Monday. Police said Petchimuthu, who was under medication for mental illness, was depressed after he lost Rs. 11,000 in an online investment plan that promised huge returns. The details are yet to be ascertained,” the police added. The body was found on Monday morning in the abandoned farm well. Fire and Rescue Services personnel fished out the body. Soolakkarai police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. Woman dies in accident A 58-year-old woman, S. Subbulakshmi, of A. Ramalingapuram near Sattur, succumbed to injuries she sustained after the two-wheeler she was riding pillion was hit by a speeding car on Monday. The woman and her husband, P. Sennappan, 62, were returning home after attending a funeral. When Sennappan tried to cross the Sattur- Virudhunagar highway, a car coming from Sattur hit the bike at around 8 a.m. Both were rushed to the Government Hospital in Sattur where she died.
18 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||4,000 e-passes issued on a single day||Virudhunagar district administration on Monday issued around 4,000 e-passes for people from various districts to come to Virudhunagar district. “Till now, the average number of e-passes issued in the district was around 300-400 each day. But, after the State Government relaxed the norms for passes for travel from today, the request has increased and also the number of e-passes issued has also increased,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. He said that the people coming to Virudhunagar district for long stay need to undergo seven days quarantine. “There are some exemptions given to those who had tested negative within 96 hours before arrival. Similarly, it is exempted for those who come for a short stay of less than 48 hours,” he added. The district administration is gearing up a plan to screen people coming to the district and keeping them in quarantine to avoid spread of the infection.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Admissions begin at govt. and aided schools||Amid COVID-19, admissions began at government, aided and private schools to classes I, VI and IX in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem and Krishnagiri districts on Monday. In Coimbatore, the admissions began at 777 primary schools, 235 middle schools, 85 high schools, 108 higher secondary schools, 186 government-aided schools and 84 Corporation schools. A total of 296 private schools also began admissions in the district, according to sources in the Department of School Education. All schools were directed to ensure COVID-19 precautionary measures. Upon completion of the admission process, the students were provided with textbooks and notebooks. Transfer certificates and Class X provisional marksheets were also issued in all schools. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said that arrangements were made at the entrances of all schools to ensure that the students and parents wear masks and to provide hand sanitisers. Separate rooms for admissions and provision of books were arranged in all schools, she said. Only 20 students along with their parents were allowed in one hour to prevent overcrowding. “The admission process is likely to be completed in two to three days and those left out might visit the schools in the next two days,” Ms. Usha told The Hindu . If any student is unable to visit the school in person, their parents might visit the school to complete the admission process. Even if the parents are unable to visit the school, they shall call the respective headmasters of the schools and the admission process will be completed online via Education Management Information System (EMIS) portal, the CEO said. In Tiruppur, CEO R. Ramesh told reporters that the admission process began as per the standard operating procedures issued by the State government. In Erode, officials at the School Education Department said that admission was good in most of the schools. They added that Plus One students can get their provisional mark sheets till August 21 and admissions for them will commence from August 24. In Salem, speaking to reporters after releasing water through Mettur dam’s east and west canal School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan said, “schools admissions have begun today (Monday) and there are opportunities for students to transfer to other schools as well. Admissions to Class 11 would begin from August 24 and students could study their preferred stream at preferred school.” Chief Education Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy said, “schools have been advised to form separate teams for admissions and to issue transfer certificates. Teachers have been advised to provide students with time schedule of Kalvi channel and acquaint them with using QR code printed in books.” Mr. Ganesh Moorthy said that in some schools, to avoid crowd, they have issued tokens and mentioned particular days for admission for certain classes.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18 die of COVID-19 in Western region||Among the districts in the Western region, Coimbatore continues to see more COVID-19 cases, with the district on Monday reporting 393 new cases and 10 deaths. The COVID-19 tally in the district crossed 9,000 mark on Monday. The district has so far reported 9,362 positive cases and 196 deaths. Four patients aged 64, 60, 68 and 35 died at private hospitals in Coimbatore on Sunday, two patients aged 56 and 93 died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday and Sunday, and three patients aged 70, 57 and 48 died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday, a patient aged 68 died at the hospital on Sunday. Two officers of the CB-CID in Coimbatore tested positive for the disease on Sunday, in addition to the two sleuths who contracted the disease on Saturday. The 393 cases reported on Monday were from places including Gandhipuram (33), Selvapuram (19), Rathinapuri (16), Ganapathy (13), Edayarpalayam (9) and Udayampalayam (6). 268 cases in Salem Six patients who were undergoing treatment for the disease died in Salem district. According to health officials, a 57-year-old sanitary worker from Kitchipalayam, two men aged 70 and 65 from Gugai, and a woman aged 53 from Vazhapadi died on Monday. A 73-year-old man from Kudiyatham, 58-year-old man from Kallakuruchi died on Sunday. The number of COVID-19 positive cases touched a new high in Salem with 268 cases on Monday. According to health officials, 265 cases were indigenous including 179 from Salem Corporation limits. Two patients had returned from Jharkhand, Kerala and one had travelled to Madurai. Namakkal reported 65 cases. The patients include a police personnel, lab technician and 18 persons with travel history to Chengalpattu, Erode, Salem, Coimbatore, Tiruchendur and Tiruchi. 70 in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported one death and 70 positive cases, taking the district’s tally to 1,601. A 71-year-old man from the district died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday, the media bulletin said. Two frontline workers – a 38-year-old man working as operation theatre assistant at Udumalpet Government Hospital and a 44-year-old woman working as staff nurse at Avinashi Government Hospital – tested positive for the disease. 137 in Erode An 87-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, died in Erode on Monday. The district recorded 137 new cases, taking the districts’ tally to 1,582. Nine persons were discharged on Monday. 27 in the Nilgiris Of the 27 persons who tested positive in the Nilgiris on Monday, nine were from Kannerimukku in Kotagiri and 15 from a single village near Udhagamandalam. The total number of cases in the district stood at 1,083. Of this, 944 persons had recovered and 135 were under treatment. Twenty-eight persons tested positive for the disease in Dharmapuri, taking the district’s tally to 1,035. In Krishnagiri, 14 persons tested positive, taking the total count to 1,672.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sees spurt in applications under revised e-pass system||He reiterated that people should apply for the permits only for genuine purposes. During the past few months, the Greater Chennai Corporation had issued e-passes for 33% of applicants. In Chennai, 7,433 e-pass applications were approved on Monday, as against the daily average of around 2,000. As many as 2,040 of the applicants were those who had been stranded elsewhere. On average, Chennai receives 15,000 applications per day, officials said. Following the government’s decision to allow the automatic generation of e-passes, the Coimbatore district administration received around 4,000 applications. Until recently, the district administration approved around 60% of applications citing death, wedding or medical emergency as the reason for travel, with sufficient proof. In Erode district, a total of 2,950 e-passes were issued on Monday, as against an average of 450 issued per day earlier. Tiruppur district witnessed a nearly five-fold rise in applications, with 3,807 of them approved as of 5 p.m. on Monday. Revenue officials said that till Sunday, 700 to 800 e-passes per day were approved manually under the old system by the Tiruppur district administration. New categories Many had applied under the newly-added categories of ‘work-related’ (including property registration) and ‘return of stranded people’. Similar spikes in applications were seen in districts like Perambalur, Pudukottai, Karur, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur in the delta region. In Madurai, “on average, the district administration would receive 3,000 applications, of which around 500 would be approved each day. Today [Monday], there was a definite rise [in applications] and we are still compiling the figure,” an official said. Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay said the authorities had been strengthening teams at the district borders, anticipating a large number of vehicles. Apart from the Health Department’s mobile swab units, police and revenue officials would also monitor the situation, he said. Chennai witnessed traffic congestion as thousands of people from the southern and western districts of the State made their way to the city. (With inputs from Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi)
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Patient ill-treated in Krishnagiri GH||Collector S. Prabhakar has urged staff of the government hospital to handle patients with care following action taken against a hospital staff for reckless behaviour with a patient. The Krishnagiri government headquarters hospital staff Bhaskar was caught on camera ill-treating a wheelchair-bound patient, evidently unable to haul himself up to his bed. Bhaskar is seen hurling abuses on the patient, who is asking to be helped on to the bed from the wheelchair. The video went viral on Whatsapp. Following this, the joint director of medical services ordered suspension of the man along with departmental inquiry. The Collector, in its wake, has urged government hospital staff to ensure patients are treated with care and avoid such reckless behaviour in the future. Meanwhile, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) in Chennai on Monday called for a report from the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss, took suo motu cognisance of a media report about the incident and called for a report within three weeks.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder bid||The Sulur police arrested a 26-year-old man on charges of attempting to murder two elderly men with a sickle late on Sunday. The arrested was identified as Sathish Kumar of A.K. Ramasamy Thevar Street near Sulur. Police said that N. Kumarasamy (61) and his son Akhilesh, residents of Nagarajapuram on Kalangal Road near Sulur, had gone to A.K. Ramasamy Thevar Street on Sunday to visit K. Kumaresan (82), the former’s father-in-law. After dropping Kumarasamy at the house, Akilesh left for his house in a car. As Akilesh reached A.K. Ramasamy Thevar Street junction, Kumar, an autorickshaw driver, came on a two-wheeler from the opposite direction. Kumar reportedly rode the two-wheeler in a negligent manner and came very close to the car. An argument broke out between Akilesh and Kumar, after which the former called his father over phone to inform the incident. Kumarasamy and Kumaresan reached the spot and assaulted Kumar. Following this, Kumar went to his house and came back with a sickle and attacked Kumarasamy and Kumaresan with it, police said. Sulur inspector Sundara Pandian said that Kumar was arrested for attempt to murder.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till August 17||Cases on Monday: 393 Persons tested +ve so far: 9,362 Active cases so far: 2,484 Persons recovered: 6,682 Death: 196   Cases on Monday: 70 Persons tested +ve so far: 1,601 Active cases: 501 Persons recovered: 1,052 Death: 48
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Coimbatore  Due to maintenance works at Tatabad sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m to 4 p.m on August 19 in the following areas: Mettupalayam Road, Alagesan Road (part), Narayanaguru Road, Saibaba Colony, Home Science College, Forest College, N.S.R Road (part), Central Theatre, D.B. Road, Flower Market, Patel Road, Kaleeswara Nagar, Sellappa Gounder Street, C.S.W Mills, Rangai Gounder Street, Sukrawarpet, Marakkadai, Theppakula Maidanam, Ramnagar, Avinashi Road, Gandhipuram, Siddhapudur, Balasundaram Road, Race Course, Circuit House, Air Force Administrative College, Tatabad, Alagappa Chettiar Street, 100 Feet Road, Alamu Nagar, Sivananda Colony, Hudco, Pudiyavar Nagar (part), Avarampalayam (part), Bharathi Park 1,2, Bharathi Park Cross 1,2,3 and Raja Annamalai Road. Due to maintenance works at Podanur sub-station, there will be no power supply on August 19 between 9 a.m and 2 p.m. in the following areas: Nanjundapuram, Vellalore, Konavaikkalpalayam, Sriram Nagar, Indira Nagar, Anbu Nagar, J.J. Nagar, Annapuram, Avvai Nagar and Easwaran Nagar. Due to maintenance works at Kurichi sub-station, there will be no power supply on August 20 between 9 a.m and 2 p.m. in the following areas: Sidco, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, M.M. Patty (part), Sundarapuram, Eachanari and L.I.C Colony.  Erode  Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on August 20 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.
18 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rural teacher uses VR tools in his online classes||A young science teacher working in a village in Belagavi is using augmented reality and virtual reality tools to teach children online. Basavaraj Sungari, who is a teacher at the government primary school in Bhutaramanahatti in Belagavi taluk, is creating videos for his students during the extended lockdown period. An avid user of new-age technological tools, he has created 3D content using mobile and desktop applications. He has also been using some video editing tools to create videos in Kannada to explain physics, chemistry, and biology concepts. He is using Arloopa, a mobile app that helps artists embed their videos with images or videos using augmented reality and virtual reality technology. “Such tools are used by young people to develop games. But I found them useful in creating content that can be easily understood by rural students,” he said. His two videos about wildlife and the solar system have been a huge hit with students. In one video, he is seen inviting an Asian elephant into the classroom. He starts speaking about the characteristics of the elephant while it is seen shaking its head and moving its ears. In another video, he explains concepts such as solar eclipse, while virtual models of the sun, moon, and the Earth move in elliptical orbits in front of him. Poornima Naik, a class 5 student from Bhutramanahatti, she liked the wildlife video as it felt very lifelike. “It was as if the teacher was standing beside a live elephant while he spoke to us. It was very interesting.” Mr. Sungari wants to further refine his videos. “I am also working on making my videos interactive. If we can develop free or low-cost video content that is interactive, we can easily sail through the lockdown period,” he said. He also recognises the problems with online classes and feels that they can not replace classroom teaching. He said some rural students, especially those from poor families, were missing out on video lessons because of scarcity of resources or lack of access to smart phones. “We could distribute phones to our students if some donors help us,” he said. He has also been speaking to community leaders in the villages to see if they can contribute money or used phones to students in need.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 shadow over Ganesh Chaturthi||This time of the year, Chandana, 33, would have been busy preparing for Ganesh Chaturthi. She would be mall hopping and making multiple trips to her favourite shops to buy new saris for herself and relatives, sometimes jewellery, among other things. “But now I am scared to step out. For the first time, I am shopping for saris online,” she said. Every year, come Ganesh Chaturthi, various businesses related to the festival get invigorated – from idol-making to flower growers and sellers, and from shamiyana on rent to band troupes. But this year is different. A surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city has meant that people are planning low-key festivities, which in turn has meant that this festive season is going to be a damp squib for the businesses. G.M. Diwakar, a flower trader, said that the Ganesh Chaturthi market is huge and diverse, which includes idol-making, clothes, jewellery, flower business, band troupes, shamiyana. “Thousands of rupees are spent even on a small Ganesh pandal on flowers and shamiyana. But as there is no public installation and immersion of Ganesh idols this year. Hence, all related businesses have fallen flat,” he said. He added that as many markets are closed, there is absolutely no business for flower traders as well as for farmers who grow flowers, who are now suffering huge losses. Customers wary From Varamahalakshmi and Ganesh Chaturthi, festivals come knocking for a few months, which call for new clothes and jewellery. However, the pandemic has forced people to celebrate the festival in a simple way. Prakash Prigal, a wholesale trader and president of The Bangalore Wholesale Cloth Merchants’ Association, said that there was around 70% dip in wholesale business owing to the surge in COVID-19 cases in the city from the past two months. “During Varamahalakshmi and Ganesh Chaturthi, wholesale cloth from the city is in great demand across the State. But this time, we have hardly got orders from other parts of the State,” he said. N.K. Prabhakar, a retail trader from Hassan, said that the purchasing power of traders has been low for a long time. “By this time, we would have ordered huge amount of cloth from Bengaluru. This time, we have ordered less than 50%,” he said adding that the rent and transportation cost have remained the same, which is hitting them hard. Ashok S., a cloth merchant in Ganganagar in the city, said customers are not willing to buy even with a 50% discount. “Old stocks has piled up. Most of our stock has been unsold for over three months. There is no demand. There has been a slight rise in business from the past few days, but we do not know if it will sustain,” he said. With gold prices going up each day, the situation is no different for the jewellery industry. “The lockdown resulted in reduction of purchasing power of the middle class and upper middle class. Now the lockdown is lifted, but gold prices are soaring. Only those who have money and see gold as a good investment are buying jewellery,” said Dinesh P. of The Jewelers’ Association. A jeweller from K.R. Puram said that most of their business happens during festival seasons, but this year there has been no “festive flair”. “Apart from the lack of business, we are also tense about the safety and security of our shops. We just cannot close the shop and keep the jewellery at home,” the jeweller said. Malls see visitors Though retailers, shopping complexes and malls have taken necessary precautions to welcome customers, shoppers are wary. A few neighbourhood malls are witnessing a slow but steady rise in footfall on weekends, but huge, destination malls are struggling to attract customers. T.G. Vinod, CEO of Elements Mall, said that neighbourhood malls would have increased footfalls around any festival season. “However, this year there has been no festival crowd so to speak. We are noticing a very slow but steady increase in weekend footfalls from the past couple of days,” he said. An office-bearer at Garuda Mall said that once cinema halls open, they were expecting to draw some more crowds. “However, till a vaccine is is ready, returning to normalcy remains a distant dream,” he said.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for D.J. Halli violence was in touch with accused in terror module case||The city police, who arrested Samiuddin, 34, a resident of K.G. Halli and an alleged worker of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for last week’s D.J. Halli violence, have now uncovered that he was constantly in touch with the accused in the RSS worker Rudresh murder case of 2016 and with members of the recently busted Islamic State (IS)-inspired local terror module Al-Hind over the last few years. However, both modules are considered to be busted and the new revelation that Samiuddin was constantly in touch with the accused in the two cases will open up the probe into whether there are any remnants of these modules still active and whether the arrested was a part of such modules. “If any of the remnants of these modules are still active, then their role in the D.J. Halli violence will be a matter of interest. The probe is in a very initial stage right now, and a direct link between these cases cannot be drawn now,” said a senior official. Samiuddin was arrested based on technical evidence that indicated he was at the scene of violence that fateful night. “This person had come to adverse notice of the city police earlier too for his suspected links with fundamentalist modules, but was not arrested for lack of evidence. But a thorough probe into the call detail records (CDR) has now revealed he was in touch with the accused in both cases,” a senior police official said. RSS worker Rudresh was hacked to death in Shivajinagar in October 2016 and members of Popular Front of India (PFI), an organisation associated with SDPI, were among the arrested. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had probed the case. The agency had conducted raids at multiple locations across the State in February 2020 and busted a new terror module Al-Hind that was inspired by IS. The NIA chargesheet in the case against 17 suspects, filed in July this year, alleges Mehboob Pasha in association with Khaja Mohideen and Sadiq Basha, had founded Al-Hind at Gurappanapalya to carry out terror attacks in South India for establishing Islamic Khilafat in India and were active from April 2019. The module was in touch with an unidentified IS handler through the dark web and was planning to carry out terror attacks, before it was busted, the chargesheet alleges. Meanwhile, the D.J. Halli police have arrested one of the prime accused named in the FIR — Wajid, who had been to the police station on the night violence broke out to lodge a complaint against P. Naveen Kumar for the derogatory social media post against Islam, along with SDPI leader Muzammil Pasha and others and later allegedly provoked the mob to turn violent, alleging the police were trying to protect Naveen Kumar. Wajid was formerly associated with Janata Dal (Secular). However, he reportedly quit the party and floated his own local outfit. Wajid had also put up posters on social media saying Pulikeshi Nagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy had gone missing during the COVID-19 lockdown, which led to a complaint against him. The police had called and counselled him, sources said. The condition in D.J. Halli remains tense even though it is under control, the ity police said. Commissioner Kamal Pant has extended prohibitory orders in the jurisdiction of D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police stations till the morning of August 21. It was supposed to end on Tuesday morning.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Public meet on PRR today||Amid rising COVID-19 cases in the city and despite demand by environmentalists, activists and citizens to postpone the public hearing on the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR), the BDA is going ahead with the public consultation on Tuesday as scheduled. Bengaluru Urban DC and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) will be part of the public consultation, which will be held at Nityotsava convention hall on Doddaballapur Road in Yelahanka taluk from 11 a.m. However, after strong opposition from the public, the BDA has decided to also hold a virtual conference on September 3. “As per the suggestions of elected representatives and the public, BDA would like to convene a ‘virtual conference’ on September 3 at 12 p.m. to receive environmental related public comments on the PRR project. Further, details on registration for the virtual conference will be published in the BDA website,” a statement issued by the BDA said. In the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, several organisations had demanded that the BDA postpone the consultation. Others have suggested that the development authority convene multiple meetings to reduce crowds, and receive suggestions and objections online as well. Environmentalist and chairman of Bangalore Environment Trust (BET) A.N. Yellappa Reddy said that as almost everything the BDA has said and planned can be scientifically contended in terms of its negative impact on overall ecology, there needs to be point by point scrutinisation and review. “A PRR of around 65 km is not a small issue. It is an issue that has the potential to change the fate of the city. Hence, such projects should be taken up only after a serious deliberation with various stake-holders. But this is not the right time for a public meeting in view of the unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases in the city,” he said. Leo F. Saldanha of the Environment Support Group (ESG) said, “A matter of very serious concern is that the said public hearing has been called in fundamental violation of directives of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the orders of the government of Karnataka per the Disaster Management Act, 2005 that public assemblies must not be organised in an effort to contain the spread of COVID-19 disease. These orders are operational as of date. They do not grant any exception to such public hearings as is sought to be held in the instant case.”
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) plans to stage Statewide protests over Ordinances||Janata Dal (Secular) leaders huddled online on Monday to discuss the current political situation in the State and strategise the party’s response to a series of Ordinances that have been passed to amend crucial legislation by the BJP government. “We are opposed to the Ordinances that have been brought about to change the APMC Act and the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, and the dilution of labour laws. They are not in favour of farmers and the common man,” former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda told presspersons here before the online interaction with party leaders across 30 districts. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy also joined the online interaction from his residence at J.P. Nagar in Bengaluru. Mr. Gowda said protests would be staged across the State, adhering to social distancing norms. “Party leaders and workers will submit memorandums to the Deputy Commissioners of the districts and later, the party will also petition the Chief Minister,” he added. Mr. Gowda also spoke about the D.J. Halli violence said it should be probed by a sitting judge of the High Court. The government has instituted a magisterial inquiry into the riots, but it will not help identify the reasons behind the riots, he said. “The reasons for the riot should come out. Did it happens because of internal differences in the Congress? I do not want to comment much,” he said. He added that while more than 300 persons have been arrested/detained in connection with the riots, innocent people should not be punished.  We are opposed to the Ordinances brought about to change the APMC Act and Karnataka Land Reforms Act, and the dilution of labour laws H.D. Deve Gowda,JD(S) supremo
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Patients allege their data is being leaked||Patients who tested positive for COVID-19 are being bombarded with calls from companies providing “home isolation packages” and from private hospitals asking them to get admitted. This, they allege, is because their personal data provided at the time of giving their swabs for tests has been leaked. They alleged that the callers have all their details, including phone number, age, address, co-morbidities and their test result. The hospitals and other health care companies are even promising them discounts if they sign up for their COVID care packages “quickly”. One of the patients who tested positive said that she received more than half a dozen calls two days after her RT-PCR test had revealed that she was COVID-19 positive. “I was asymptomatic and had already consulted a doctor who had told me all the medical protocols to be followed. Yet I got calls from several hospitals stating that I need to be admitted. The people on the phone had all my personal details and it was a violation of my privacy,” said the woman working in a private company in north Bengaluru. A doctor who was providing home-based care for positive patients also complained that many of his patients had reported similar complaints. “The patients are already stressed and hospitals are using this situation to instil fear in them and force them to get admitted,” he said. He also said that this situation has also created an artificial deficiency of beds. “Patients who do not need to be hospitalised are occupying hospital beds and those in need of beds are running from pillar to post,” he added. N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said that if any citizen face such issues, they can complain to the civic body. He said that he had received “vague” messages about such instances but they had no leads. “We are sure that the data cannot be compromised from our end. If any data has been leaked, it is perhaps from labs that conduct these tests,” he said.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kateel visits riot-hit area, MLA’s residence||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel visited the violence-hit D.J. Halli and Pulikeshi Nagar Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house that was also the target of the violent mob last week, on Monday. Appreciating the “tough measures” taken by the State government, he said the violence seemed pre-meditated and smelt of “a conspiracy to kill Mr. Murthy”. He said from his experience in coastal Karnataka, the violence seemed like a “terror act”. “Initial reports suggest Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was involved in the violence. They are emboldened by the previous government withdrawing several cases against them. A Congress MLA ensured the accused in the Padarayanapura violence returned home from jail in a procession. All this has created an environment where such elements thrive,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Murthy met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday and submitted a memorandum seeking security and a fair probe. He has also pressed for a probe either by a judicial commission or by the Central Bureau of Investigation, sources said. This was the first time the MLA the Chief Minister since the incident. He was accompanied by BJP MLA Arvind Limbavali who led the party’s fact finding committee to D.J. Halli.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS criticises govt. over family carrying body on bicycle||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday slammed the government over the travails of a family of a 70-year-old man whose body was carried on a bicycle for final rites for want of transport facility. On Sunday, family members of the deceased, whom the doctors suspected to be a COVID-19 positive, carried the body on the bicycle and alleged that the government officials did not help them shift the body to the graveyard in Belagavi district. “Relatives of the deceased had to carry the body for cremation on a bicycle amidst heavy rain. Chief Minister, where is your government? Why was an ambulance not provided? This incompetent government lacks humanity and has been a total failure in handling the pandemic,” Mr. Shivakumar tweeted. The two brothers, who carried the body, told reporters that due to the stigma attached to COVID-19, none of the neighbours or friends came to their help.  Chief Minister, where is your government? Why was an ambulance not provided? This incompetent government lacks humanity.D.K. Shivakumar
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS leaves for Delhi to meet high command||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday left for Delhi to meet the party’s central leadership and brief them about the political situation in the State in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Party sources said Mr. Shivakumar was accompanied by his brother and MP for Bengaluru Rural D.K. Suresh. This will be his first meeting with the top party leadership since taking over as KPCC chief. “The pandemic had prevented Mr. Shivakumar from going to Delhi so far,” a source said. He is scheduled to meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi, Congress organising general secretary K.C. Venugopal, and Priyaka Gandhi during his two-day visit. Besides discussing the State government’s alleged failures in providing flood and COVID-19 relief, they will also talk about the Congress’ preparedness if there is a midterm election, sources said. They said there is a strong belief in the Congress that Karnataka could be headed for a midterm Assembly election next year, based on their assessment of the current political situation in the BJP. “There have been talks of a change in leadership and the Congress’ assessment is that any such forced change in leadership could lead to a collapse of the BJP government,” a source said.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet to discuss date, duration of session||While the legislature session is expected to be under way in September, the location for it is yet to be decided. While an external location outside the Vidhana Soudha is being considered, sources said the traditional seat of the legislature isfinding favour as of now. Secretariat sources said it was likely that the next Cabinet meeting, scheduled on Thursday, would see discussions on the date and number of days of the session. “As per the rules, the legislature session has to be convened before the end of September. Once the Cabinet decides on the date, it will be sent to the Governor, who will convene the session officially. Once these processes are completed, the legislature secretariat will start the preparations,” a source said. Meanwhile, to adhere to the social distancing norms and the limitation that Vidhana Soudha has, the legislature secretariat has also zeroed in on two external locations in Bengaluru city — the auditoriums in GKVK and Palace Ground. This, however, poses a logistical problem as almost all the offices have to be set up at these locations. Besides, toilets and seating facility, among other things, need to be set up. “If the location is outside Vidhana Soudha, these facilities have to be set up on a war footing,” the source said. Sources said that though there is overwhelming support for the session to be held in Vidhana Soudha with adequate precautions in place, it will be Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri who will decide on the location. “We have given all the blueprints for the session to be held at Vidhana Soudha, and he has asked for additional inputs. He is likely to go through it and take a final call this week or the next.”
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SARI patients to get beds without test||The Department of Health and Family Welfare on Monday said government and private hospitals should provide beds to patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARIs) without a confirmatory COVID-19 test. Department Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that hospitals empanelled with the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust will be instructed to reserve ICU beds according to fixed targets, and add beds where necessary. The SARI cases will have to be admitted as a potential COVID-19 case. Once the patients are admitted, they will have to undergo a test. If the patient is found positive, he/she will be transferred from isolation to the COVID-19 block of the hospital. “If the test is negative, the person will be shifted from the isolation ward to the non-COVID block,” the Commissioner has said.
18 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Transferred||M. Maheshwar Rao, Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department (MSME & Mines), has been transferred as Principal Secretary Revenue Department in place of BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. G. Kumar Naik has been posted as Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department (MSME & Mines).
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manipal Hospitals launches plasma bank||With plasma of recovered patients being used for treatment of those who have tested positive, Manipal Hospitals has launched a plasma bank for advanced treatment of COVID-19. A press release issued by the hospital stated, “The key objective of this drive is to make plasma therapy readily accessible to all COVID-19 patients seeking treatment in Manipal Hospitals and registered through AMBER HEALTH. To support the cause, Manipal Hospitals, Old Airport Road, urges all COVID-19 recovered patients to come forward and help those in need to win this battle against the pandemic.” C. Shivaram, Head-Transfusion Medicine, Manipal Hospitals, was quoted in the release as saying, “Plasma therapy has turned out to be the shield of defence that can fight COVID-19 and is a good supplement to treatment modalities in use. To qualify as a plasma donor, a patient must be free from COVID-19 symptoms for at least 14 days. Patients need not worry about their antibodies during donation as we collect only a small portion of the antibodies.”
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Relieve teachers, HMs of COVID-19 duty’||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has written to the Commissioner of Department of Public Instruction directing them to release all government school headmasters, headmistresses and teachers from emergency COVID-19 duty as academic activities have begun. He has said that their absence is going to adversely impact the academic year and their services will be needed for the midday meal scheme and Vidyagama programme, which were initiated recently. “At least one teacher or headmaster needs to be present in the school to implement the scheme and programme,” he has said. TET on Oct. 4 The Minister has also announced that the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) will be held on October 4.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not likely to touch Amruth Mahal kaval land: VJNL||The Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd. (VJNL) on Monday told the High Court of Karnataka that it is not likely to touch the protected Amruth Mahal kaval lands in Chikkamagaluru district for the construction of canals under the Upper Bhadra project. “The notified kaval lands are under process of transfer in favour VJNL. We were not aware of kaval lands. There is a direction by the National Green Tribunal on protecting kaval lands as they are ecologically sensitive... We may need to take clearances from Wildlife (Protection) Act. We have not utilised the kaval land for the project so far,” said an advocate appearing for the VJNL. These submissions were made before a Division Bench during the hearing of the PIL petition filed by V. Girish and two other environment and wildlife activists from Chikkamagaluru. To a query by the Bench, the advocate clarified that the VJNL is not likely to touch the kaval lands while seeking time to submit detailed a response to the petition. The petitioners had contended that some parts of the land to be used for the project are part of the Basur Amruth Mahal Kaval Black Buck conservation reserve.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deaths cross 4,000 mark||With 115 new COVID-19 deaths reported in the State on Monday, the total number of deaths has crossed the 4,000 mark. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, the total number of deaths in the State stands at 4,062. There are also 16 deaths of patients who tested positive but died due to other reasons. Meanwhile, 6,317 new cases were reported in the State on Monday. With this, the total number of cases stands at 2,33,283. Of 6,317 cases, 2,053 were reported in Bengaluru Urban. The number of discharges on Monday was 7,071. The number of tests conducted in the State on Monday dipped to 37,700.
18 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nine more deaths||Nine more people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Monday, taking the total number of such deaths to 136. So far, 4,821 people have tested positive for the infection, and of them, 3,037 have recovered. As many as 250 new cases were reported.
18 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Long-pending industrial estate maintenance, tax collection issues to be sorted out soon||The long-pending problem pertaining to the tussle between KIADB, KSSIDC and local municipal bodies and maintenance and tax collection in industrial estates would be resolved soon, according to Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar. Speaking to presspersons after an informal discussion with representatives of different associations of various industrial estates and Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and visit to various industrial estates on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that the issue had become a complex one and had been discussed at various levels. “We are aware that the issue is pending since long. But we are going to sort it out once and for all. Already several rounds of discussions have taken place in the matter and we have arrived at a sort of consensus. This will be placed before the State Cabinet for discussion and a final decision. Once it is taken, it will be solved once and for all,” he said. To a query, the Minister said that already a Vision Group headed by Ullas Kamat of Jyoti Laboratories had been constituted to set up an FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) Cluster at Mummigatti Industrial Area near Dharwad where 500 acres was available for the purpose. “Already, a decision on establishing the FMCG Cluster has been included in the New Industrial Policy and the process has begun. Mr. Kamat is coordinating with other industries and we are hopeful of the project materialising at the earliest. However, because of COVID-19-induced lockdown, there has been a delay,” the Minister said.  Regarding non-utilisation of industrial plots allotted in various industrial estates, Mr. Shettar said that the department was aware of it and to assess the situation across the State, a land audit was being carried out. Subsequently, a decision would be taken to set things right, he added. Townships Earlier, in the informal meeting with industrialists, the Minister said that considering the housing requirements in industrial estates, the government was contemplating developing at least five townships in industrial estates to begin with. “It requires coordination with the Department of Urban Development and local bodies in rural areas. A decision will be taken soon. And, we will include Hubballi too,” he said. Responding to the demand for reducing the rate of industrial plots developed by KSSIDC, Chairman of KSSIDC and MLA Kalakappa Bandi, who was present in the meeting, said that he would convene a meeting by September 10 to sort out the contentious issues. Mr. Shettar clarified that while the penalty clause could not be done away with, it would be kept at the lowest. The Minister said that despite the COVID-19, investment worth Rs. 30,000 crore had been proposed in the State and of this, there were 10 memorandums of understanding pertaining to Yadgir region that were signed during Invest Karnataka-Hubballi event. Earlier, presenting their demands, the representatives of various industrial estate associations and KCCI, mentioned the pending issues of maintenance, taxation, infrastructure, townships and unscientific revision of rates of industrial plots on an annual basis and others and sought solutions. Mahendra Ladhad, Vishwanath Goudar, Ninganna Biradar, R.J. Bhat, Vishwanath Thite and others presented their views. Chief Executive Officer of KIADB N. Shivashankar and Managing Director of KSSIDC Mahesh Shirur clarified certain issues and addressed technical problems. MLA Arvind Bellad stressed the need for doing away with unscientific annual revision of land rates by KSSIDC. MLA Amrut Desai and Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil were present.
18 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Increased discharge from dams in Krishna basin causes concern||With the water level rising in various rivers and streams in thenorthern districts of Karnataka because of increased inflow into rivers in the Krishna basin, the district administrations have begun evacuating people as a precaution. Many have been moved to relief centres in Belagavi and Gadag districts. The discharge from various reservoirs in the Krishna basin has increased significantly owing to increased rainfall in south Maharashtra and in the northern districts of Karnataka. As a result, various bridges across the Krishna and its tributaries in Belagavi district have been submerged, cutting off road connectivity in several villages and towns. As per an official release, Maharashtra released around 1,21,081 cusecs of water into Krishna river on Monday. But the expected discharge at Kallol barrage on the inter-State border after 48 hours is expected to be around 2,75,000 cusecs. The inflow into the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir on the Krishna in Almatti was at the rate of 1,29,722 cusecs on Monday, while the outflow stood at 2,50,000 cusecs. The water level at the reservoir was 518.77 m. As the continued rains in Khanapur taluk increased the inflow into Renuka Sagar at Naviluteertha near Saundatti in Belagavi district, the outflow was increased to more than double what was released on Sunday. While the reservoir recorded an inflow at the rate of 37,383 cusecs, the outflow was 26,864 cusecs on Monday. Basava Sagar at Narayanpur on the Yadgir-Raichur district border recorded a further increase in inflow and outflow. According to officials, the rate of discharge was increased from 2.37 lakh cusecs at 5 p.m. on Sunday to 2.81 lakh cusecs at 11 a.m. on Monday, as the inflow went from 1.9 lakh cusecs to 2.4 lakh cusecs. Twenty-seven crest gates were opened to Monday to increase the outflow. Bridges under water Consequent to the increased discharge, Sheelahalli bridge in Lingsugur taluk was submerged in the floodwaters, thus severing road connectivity to around 10 villages. The Huvinahedgai bridge at Deodurg taluk in Raichur district too was submerged, cutting off the key connectivity between Raichur and Kalaburagi via Yadgir. The authorities diverted road traffic from Raichur to Kalaburagi via Tinthini bridge. Gurjapur barrage in Raichur taluk was partially submerged while Gadde Guli Basaveshwara temple at Huvina Hedagi, and Humantha and Basavanna temples at Gugal village in Deodurg taluk were completely submerged. On Monday, the outflow from Ghataprabha was at the rate of around 75,615 cusecs, while it was 15,744 cusecs at Hiranyakeshi, 10,801 cusecs at Markandeya, 13,364 cusecs at Ballari Nala, and 35,706 cusecs at Hidkal reservoir. In the flood-hit Lakamapur village at Naragund taluk of Gadag district, people had moved to the roadside and converted tractors and bullock carts as temporary shelters instead of moving to the relief centres set up by the district administration. On Monday, they moved to the relief centre after Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu met them and convinced them to shift. Earlier, they had demanded temporary sheds instead of moving to relief centres. In Konnur village, a high school has been converted into a relief centre and several people have already taken shelter. Benni Halla, Tuppari Halla, and other streams in spate in Dharwad district inundated farmlands, resulting in crop loss on several thousands of hectares. With the increased outflow, the Belagavi district administration has already set up relief centres at flood-prone villages in the district. On Monday, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath visited them and took stock of the situation. As a precautionary measure, 51 families of Hire Hampiholi and Chikka Hampiholi inRamdurg taluk have been shifted to the relief centre set up at the APMC yard and high school at Sureban. At Gonnagar village in the same taluk, 200 members of 48 families have been provided temporary shelter.
18 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pitambarappa Bilar passes away||Dalit leader and former nominated councillor of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Pitambarappa Bilar passed away at a private hospital in Hubballi on Monday night. He was 71.
18 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Over 1,000 islet residents stranded in Raichur dist.||With the water discharge from Basava Sagar (Narayanpur reservoir) built across Krishna river on the Yadgir-Raichur district border increasing substantially, 1,049 people from 312 families, including children and the elderly, residing on various islets formed by the river in Raichur and Lingsugur taluks were left stranded on Monday. A total of 104 people from 14 families were stranded on different islets in Lingsugur taluk — 68 people from 10 families at Madaragaddi-Halagaddi, 22 from three families at Karakalagaddi, and 14 from one family in Onkaragaddi. Similarly, 495 people from 298 families were stranded on different islets in Raichur taluk. While 450 people were from 142 families of Kurvakula, 45 were from 16 families of Agrahara. Meanwhile, 450 people from 140 families were stranded on the Kurvakurda islets. These people have been residing on these islets for generations and they often travel between their islets and the mainland by crossing the river on traditional coracles to purchase essential items and for other work. They remain unfazed even when four lakh cusecs of water is released from the reservoir as they live on the hilltops. They begin to worry only when the rate of discharge from the dam crosses six lakh cusecs. As the discharge from the reservoir crossed 2.8 lakh cusecs on Monday, a 23-member team from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) visited the villages and islets in Raichur taluk and took the stock of the situation. ‘Direction defied’ R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Raichur, told The Hindu that all the people from the three islets in Lingsugur taluk had been shifted to safer places a few days ago, but they had gone against the district administration’s direction and returned. “We had anticipated the heavy discharge from Basava Sagar and evicted all the people from the three islets in Lingsugur taluk much before the water level in the river rose alarmingly. However, many people returned to their native islets. We will evict them again. The people on the islets in Raichur taluk are safe at present and we will think of evicting them if the discharge from the dam rises further,” the officer said.
18 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Transferable Development Rights Cell approved for speedy project execution||After the Mangaluru City Corporation proposed to constitute a Transferable Development Rights (TDR) Cell to hasten the process of getting land for various development projects and issue such rights to those who have parted their land for projects, the council of the corporation gave its approval to the proposal in a meeting last week. The nine-member cell will be headed by a joint director. In a city-level inter-departmental meeting on August 5, 2019, the then Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada had instructed the corporation to constitute the cell as there was delay in getting land for the projects as there was delay in issuing TDR certificates to those who have surrendered their land for road widening, drainage and other projects.  The council has also allowed the corporation to sanction Rs. 3.71 crore to the Karnataka Slum Development Corporation to construct 500 houses for the poor on four acres of land at Kannur in the city. Houses have been proposed to be built under affordable housing in a partnership initiative under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The government has estimated the unit cost of each of the 500 houses at Rs. 7.24 lakh. Of this, the civic body will have to contribute its share of 10 % to each one of the houses which stood at Rs. 74,299. These houses have been proposed to be built for the physically disabled, senior citizens, persons from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, other backward classes, single woman, transgender and other weaker sections of society. The government has proposed to build those houses on ground plus three floor model with 21 blocks. If the government approved the project proposal in 2017, the 21-block layout plan was approved last year. In another move, the council has agreed that the corporation can deposit Rs. 60 lakh with the Forest Department for getting its 10 acres of deemed forest land at Padavu village for another project of 930 houses for the poor under affordable housing in a partnership initiative under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The funds are meant for compensatory afforestation on 20 acres of land identified at Tenka Edapadavu village and for cutting down trees on 10 acres of land at Padavu village.
18 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Student dies after being hit by truck||A second PU student of Navunda Government PU College died on the spot when a truck hit him in Navunda village in Udupi district at noon on Monday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Kishan (17), son of Ravindra Kharvi, a resident of Maravanthe village. Kishan was near the divider waiting to cross the National Highway 66 when the truck hit him killing him on the spot, the police added. Byndoor police have registered a case against the truck driver based on a complaint by Shankar M. Kharvi, a resident of Maravanthe, who said he was an eyewitness to the incident.
18 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Patients warned against hiding details of contacts||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Monday warned those who have tested positive for COVID-19 against hiding details of their primary contacts. Criminal cases will be filed against such patients who refuse to share the details of their primary contacts, he said in a statement. The Deputy Commissioner said that sharing the details of primary contacts is crucial to preventing the spread of COVID-19. If the patients refused to share such details, the earlier movement of such patients will be tracked through the location of their mobile phone connectivity and calls made. Mr. Jagadeesha said that when the primary contacts are known they will be subjected to COVID-19 sample tests to prevent the spread of the disease. Of the new cases being reported in the district, 50 % are related to primary contacts. Hence, tracing primary contacts becomes important, he added.
18 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sharp rise in child marriages during lockdown||A sharp rise in child marriages has been reported during the COVID-19 lockdown and the subsequent two months, with officials of the Women and Child Development Department stumbling upon over 100 such instances in Mysuru district alone between mid-March and July. Though the officials claimed they had averted most of the child marriages after receiving tip-offs, a follow-up by the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) has revealed that most of the child brides have been reunited with grooms, notwithstanding the undertakings submitted by their parents about the cancellation of the marriages. Member of the commission Parashurama M.L. told The Hindu that they received information about 108 child marriages, which had been reportedly averted. “We visited 12 houses for a follow-up and found that the child brides were living in the houses of their husbands,” he said. We asked how could the parents, who claimed to have cancelled the marriages, send the minor children away, thus making a mockery of the law,” he said. The brides in almost all the cases were aged between 14 and 17 and were from the rural parts of the district. “If 108 instances of child marriage had come to the notice of the authorities, one can only imagine how many more have taken place secretly,” Mr Parashurama said. The commission has sought details of such instances reported from across the State during the lockdown, he said. He said the parents had taken advantage of lax monitoring during the lockdown when officials of various departments and the police were deployed for COVID-19 duties. Schools and colleges also remained closed for an extended period, making it virtually impossible to monitor the attendance of girls. “The parents made use of these changes to secretly marry their under-aged children,” Mr. Parashuram said. Meanwhile, officials of the department said they had received a total of 64 complaints of child marriages between mid-March, when the lockdown was first declared, till the end of May, besides another 44 during June and July. Admitting that these figures were almost double those reported last year in the same period, Mysuru District Child Protection Officer S. Diwakar said they were, however, able to stop most of the marriages after receiving a tip-off. “We managed stop many despite difficulties in arranging officials and transportation to different places during the lockdown. In some cases, we had reached after the marriages had taken place. We have booked cases in such instances and are following it up,” he said. With regard to the commission’s contention about parents reuniting the children, after giving an undertaking to the authorities that they had cancelled their marriages, Mr. Diwakar said the officials were collecting more information and evidence to register FIRs against the parents.
18 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Early morning weddings||To maintain secrecy, most child marriages are organised in small, nondescript shrines in remote villages as early as between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m. According to Mysuru District Child Protection Officer S. Diwakar, child marriages in many parts of South Karnataka are being held in the dead of the night or the early hours of the day. “We had heard about ceremonies being held at midnight or early in the day in Raichur, Kalaburagi, and other parts of North Karnataka. In the southern regions, most of the child marriages used to be held only after 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. But, we are now seeing a new trend of them being held early in the morning even here,” he said. As authorities had warned the management of marriage choultries and major temples against allowing child marriages on their premises, the venue had shifted to small temples in remote villages, where the events are completed with fewer rituals. “In most cases, they just tie the knot and leave the place. We find it difficult to arrange the required personnel and transport to the venues when we learn about such marriages in the night,” he said. The authorities have identified social insecurities among people in rural areas as the leading cause for child marriage. Parents fear that girls, between 14 and 17 years, may elope with boys and spoil their social standing and reputation in the village. To prevent such a situation, the parents choose to marry girls before they attain the legal age of 18 years. According to Mr. Diwakar, girls who had discontinued their studies for a variety of reasons, are considered by parents to be the most vulnerable to eloping. This insecurity is most pronounced when girl children, who are out of school, are left alone at home while the parents work in the fields, he said. “In some cases, child marriages are also held so that elderly persons in the family can see their young ones married ‘in front of their eyes’,” Mr. Diwakar said.
18 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting sparks off speculation||A meeting involving BJP leader B.Y. Vijayendra, former Minister A.H. Vishwanath, and MP for Chamarajanagar V. Srinivas Prasad in Mysuru on Monday renewed speculation over Mr. Vishwanath’s entry into the Cabinet, which is due to be expanded shortly. Mr. Vishwanath was optimistic about making it into the ministry. “Do you have any doubts about it...?” he shot back when reporters asked him if he would become a Minister. But Mr. Vijayendra, emerging from the meeting at Mr. Prasad’s residence, said the issue of Cabinet berth for Mr. Vishwanath did not figure in the meeting.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Rs. 20 cr. spent on barricades’||The BBMP has spent around Rs. 20 crore in barricading areas where COVID-19 cases have been reported, said civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad. Speaking to reporters on Monday, he said, “If the estimated spend per zone has been around Rs. 2 crore, nearly Rs. 20 crore has been spent on barricading.” In Rajarajeshwarinagar zone alone (from June to August), an estimated Rs. 1.5 crore had been spent on barricading containment zones. The issue of alleged misappropriation of funds in barricading was reported by sections of the media. In Bharathinagar ward, a contractor had raised a bill of more than Rs. 69,000 per day for providing metal sheets for barricading containment zones. Mr. Prasad said he had sought a report from all the zonal chief engineers on the actual spend on barricading. “The officials have been asked to submit a report on how much is being spent, how the rates were calculated, who gave the approval and whether due diligence was exercised,” he said. He also said the BBMP had written to the State government on changing the containment zone classification. “We find no need for barricading an area 100 metres from the residence of any person who tests positive for COVID-19. In case of isolated cases, just a poster on the door and creating awareness among neighbours should suffice,” he said. Barricading may be essential in clusters where multiple cases have been reported. Potholes BBMP officials had been directed to fill all the potholes in the city, especially those on arterial and sub-arterial roads, within 15 days. “We have commissioned the hot mix plant. There should be no problem in getting quality asphalt and bitumen mix,” Mr. Prasad said.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man kills wife||A man who allegedly stabbed his wife in the throat with a pair of scissors has been arrested. The deceased is Nandini, 23, and her husband is Johnson. They had been married for three years. Their home is in Allalasandra.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police label D.J. Halli violence a terror act||The government has also decided to form a special team of three public prosecutors to help the police. There are nearly 60 FIRs registered in connection with the violence. Being the first-ever review meeting after the D.J. Halli riots, Mr. Yediyurappa not only took stock of the situation, but also reviewed the incident and the police response, sources said. He was happy that the situation was controlled within a few hours and contained from geographically spreading, sources said. The meeting also reviewed the case against PFI and the SDPI and whether a ban can be recommended. The police are also considering booking the main accused in the riots case under Goonda Act, which will ensure they stay in prison for a year without bail. They have already opened rowdy sheets against 70 arrested.
18 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||139 positive cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 139 COVID-19 cases and 110 recoveries on Monday. The fresh cases include 122 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. Thirteen people who came from other States, three from abroad and a Mannar native also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Mannar native’s source of infection is unknown. The district reported two more COVID-19 related deaths, taking the official death toll to 10. A 76-year-old hailing from Veeyapuram and a 75-year-old hailing from Alappuzha died on August 3 and August 10 respectively. However, their deaths were included in the list of COVID-19 deaths in the State on Monday. Of the total contact cases, 40 were reported from Kadakkarappally and another 25 from Punnapra. The rest of the contact cases include 13 from Cherthala South, six from Thumpoly and five each from Aryad, Pattanakkad and Aroor. The 110 people who made a full recovery include 91 who had contracted the disease through contact. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,404. District Collector A. Alexander issued an order banning fishing and sale of fish at Valanjavazhi fish landing centre in view of a spike in COVID-19 cases. Containment zones Ward 1 in Punnapra South and ward 13 in Ambalapuzha North grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
18 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Graft: CPI(M) unit secretary suspended||The CPI (M) has suspended its Nelemperoor branch secretary K.P. Sukumaran following allegations that he had siphoned off food materials meant for the people of a relief camp there. G. Unnikrishnan, area secretary, CPI (M), said that Sukumaran had been suspended from the party for one year. People had complained to authorities about food diversion.
18 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki gets testing facility||Finally, the district received its own COVID-19 testing facility with the virology lab attached to the Government Medical College, Idukki, receiving the consent of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct the test. An official of the Health Department said on Monday that around 100 tests would be conducted at the lab initially and the full-fledged operations would start in three days. The lab will exclusively cater to the district. Earlier, only emergency tests were conducted in the district and the samples collected were sent to the lab at Thlappady in Kottayam. This led to delay in getting results.Though the lab at the medical college was opened with much fanfare, no test could be conducted there due to the absence of recognition from the ICMR. Media reports on the delay in getting test results prompted authorities to take steps to move the ICMR for speedy recognition for the lab.
18 August 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Livelihood package for farmers||The Animal Husbandry Department is gearing up to execute a livelihood package worth Rs. 7 crore for farmers in dairy and allied sectors in Wayanad. The package would be executed under the Rebuild Kerala project and 4,510 farmers in dairy, poultry and pig farming sectors would get the benefit of it. As many as 700 dairy farmers would get a subsidy of Rs. 60,000 each to purchase cows. Applications should be submitted on or before August 22 and for details, contact veterinary clinics.
18 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||4 kg of cannabis seized, man held||A police team led by V. Rejikumar, Dy.SP, Narcotics, arrested a youth after seizing 4 kg of cannabis from him at Meenangadi in the district on Monday. The police identified the arrested as P.M.K. Ismail, 32, from Vadakara in Kozhikode district. The contraband was being transported on a truck from Karnataka to Kozhikode for sale, R. Ilango, District Police Chief, Wayanad, said.
18 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||129 cases, two deaths in district||A total of 129 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday and two patients under COVID-19 treatment died. The two patients who succumbed to the disease, a 57-year-old from Aluva and a 54-year-old from Moothakunnam, were being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. The Aluva native had diabetes and hypertension, while the Moothakunnam native had cancer. Fifteen people from Fort Kochi, three from Mattancherry and eight people from Palluruthy have tested positive. Nine people from Ayavana near Muvattupuzha, including an infant who is 26 days old, have been infected. As many as 57 people had tested positive so far, said Ayavana panchayat president Reby Jose. The cases were concentrated in the Kalamboor area where people lived in close proximity, he added. A health worker at the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital, and two workers at the Aluva fire station have tested positive. Others who tested positive are from Edathala, Eloor, Kalamassery, Kumbalangi, Kothamangalam, Nellikuzhi, Nettoor, Vengola, Vyttila, Thripunithura, Kottuvally, Kottapady, Keezhmad, Kalady, Kumbalam, Mulanthuruthy and Kunnathunad. Five people who arrived from outside the State tested positive. A total of 63 people recovered and tested negative, while 1,441 people are being treated for the disease. For testing, 1,128 samples were sent from government facilities and 1,041 swabs were taken from private labs and hospitals.
18 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Firm chosen to draft IMC master plan||The National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Ltd. (NICDC) has appointed CH2M HILL (India) Private Ltd. in consortium with CH2M HILL International Ltd. for preparing a master plan and a detailed project report for the Smart Integrated Manufacturing Cluster (IMC) in Palakkad. The contract valued at Rs. 6.78 crore would be for 30 months, said a press release here on Monday Approved The extension of the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor Project (CBIC) to Kochi and Coimbatore was approved by the National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) in September last year. The Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (KBIC) sought to optimise economic and employment potential, stimulating investment in manufacturing, agro-processing, services and export-oriented units. the press release said. The project also aimed at enhancing skill development and manufacturing infrastructure. The length of the corridor in Kerala would be nearly 160 km. Impact regions The IMC that would come along the corridor would boost manufacturing activities, including electronics, IT, biotechnology, and life sciences, in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, and Palakkad regions. In the first phase of the project, the State government would develop the Palakkad node where nearly 1,800 acres of land had been identified for developing the IMC, which would act as a hub for setting up major manufacturing units. Aim of the project The project would spur growth in micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSME) as well as supply chain logistics through private sector participation, acting as spokes for the Palakkad industrial development area. The project at Palakkad would also attract investment of Rs. 10,000 crore and generate direct employment for 22,000 persons and indirect employment of 80,000. The tax revenue to the State was anticipated to the tune of Rs. 585 crore a year, the press release also said.  The project is expected to attract investment of Rs. 10,000 crore and generate direct employment for 22,000 people
18 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sivasankar went abroad with Swapna: ED||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently as part of the probe into the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, admitted that he had travelled abroad with second accused Swapna Suresh on a couple of occasions. He further admitted that Swapna started a joint account with a third person, from which proceeds of the crime were found, as per his instruction. These were mentioned in the remand report filed by the ED at the District Principal Sessions Court (Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Cases) in Kochi on Monday. The report was filed by the ED in the court when Swapna, along with Sarith P.S. and Sandeep Nair, two other accused in the case, were produced upon the expiry of their 13-day custody period. The report said Mr. Sivasankar was ‘fully aware’ that the integrity of Swapna was ‘dubious’ and he had meetings with her in the UAE when the State machinery was there for five days in October 2018 to seek flood relief assistance. The report also said Swapna wielded ‘considerable influence’ in the Chief Minister’s office.  When Swapna was questioned on August 13, she revealed her association with Mr. Sivasankar. This led to a situation for further questioning of Mr. Sivasankar. The accused should be questioned further, the ED said in its report. ‘Cardiac issues’ Swapna’s counsel submitted that she developed chest pain while in the ED’s custody and there was a slight variation in the ECG taken at the hospital. He submitted that Swapna had a history of cardiac problems. The court remanded the accused persons in judicial custody till August 26 and issued a directive to the Superintendent of Kakkanad District Jail to give all medical aid to Swapna. The court will hear the bail plea of Swapna on Tuesday.
18 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work begins on new metro stretch||Kochi Metro Rail Limited on Monday began construction work of the 1.16-km metro stretch from SN Junction to the terminal station near the Thripunithura railway station by conducting the pile-load test. One major challenge that the KMRL is facing in the stretch is the presence of the railway overbridge after SN Junction which falls on a sharp curve having a 152-metre radius. To meet the challenge, KMRL is planning to construct a 60-metre special span. For this, a unique steel open web girder system will be adopted. The steel superstructure will be supported over the pier cap with a pedestal and bearing arrangement. “We completed the tender process in record time and now the pile-load testing has also started. We hope the results will be positive. Reaching Thripunithura is vital for KMRL as well as for people of the area,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, the metro agency’s MD. The initial pile-load test of 1,200-mm diameter circular pile for the stretch is being done to validate the safe pile capacity considered for the design. The test load is 1,050-tonne which is 2.5 times the safe load of 420 tonne considered in the design. The testing is expected to be completed in 48 hours. The KMRL has engaged the consortium of KEC-VNC for this phase of construction, says a press release.
18 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD takes action against autos, taxis operating without safety screens||Faced with a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Kerala, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has begun imposing fine on autorickshaws and taxi cars that operate without the mandatory polycarbonate screens between the driver and passenger area. The move is on the basis of an order issued by the Transport Commissioner in July, making transparent screens mandatory in three and four-wheeler public transport vehicles that operate in Kerala. “Violators of the safety norm can be charged Rs. 250 as fine, while fitness certificate is not issued to such vehicles which appear for the annual fitness test. The fine amount has been fixed as per provisions of Disaster Management Act,” said MVD sources. The screen was first introduced in Kochi in May, jointly by the MVD and the district administration, and made mandatory for taxi cars that ferried people from the airport. This was done as per World Health Organization norms. “With it being made mandatory for all taxi cars and autorickshaws, the cost has come down from Rs. 2,500 to approximately Rs. 1,200 in most parts of Kerala,” said G. Anantakrishnan, Malappuram RTO, who as RTO-Enforcement of Ernakulam played a key role in popularising the concept. A number of autorickshaws in Ernakulam too had installed screen partition, said Reji P. Varghese, Deputy Transport Commissioner (Central Zone-2). The screens are available at around Rs. 350 per piece. He said the MVD had begun handing over pumps and cleaning liquid to bus stands to clean private buses. Mr. Varghese on Monday inaugurated an initiative by city-based MGS Travels to disinfect cars using a four-tier method after each trip. The disinfection process involved exterior power soap-washing, interior power cleaning, sanitiser fumigation and UV sanitisation, said M.S. Anil Kumar, owner of the firm.
18 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demolition debris: PCB told to assess compensation imposed on municipality||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) to assess the environment compensation imposed on Maradu municipality and the service providers responsible for the safe disposal of the debris from the apartment demolition sites after the tribunal found that they had failed to comply with the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. An order issued by the Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said the SPCB could assess the environment compensation on the basis of the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board after giving reasonable opportunity to the civic body and service providers before fixing the quantum of the compensation. The State-Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on solid waste management had submitted a report before the tribunal in the first week of August stating that the SPCB could not delay the process of imposing environmental compensation on those responsible for the demolition debris of Alfa Serene apartments at Maradu that remained in the Vembanad lake. The Bench said that Maradu municipality was also duty-bound to monitor the implementation of the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 when they were giving authorisation on the basis of the management plan provided by the project proponent. “There is nothing to show whether the authenticity of the particulars given by the project proponent is genuine or not and whether any independent enquiry was conducted by the regulators in this regard as well,” it said. The committee appointed by the SLMC as per the directives of the tribunal has been directed to file a report as per the observations in the order before October 28. The chairman of the SLMC has been told to monitor the implementation of the tribunal’s directives and submit an independent report.
18 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID surge in West Kochi keeps officials on their toes||For a little over a month now, the COVID-19 cases in densely populated West Kochi have kept health officials on their toes with contact tracing and testing. The first person in the area tested positive on July 15, and since then, till August 16, as many as 420 people had tested positive from West Kochi, said District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan. In what is possibly the largest testing exercise in a single area in the district, over 5,110 samples were collected from West Kochi since the first positive case was detected, he added. Contact tracing A contact tracing process, complicated by the density of population in the area, and the possibility of people having gathered for work at the harbour or fish market, had yielded 910 primary and secondary contacts, said Dr. Kuttappan. “The contact tracing and testing process hinges on cooperation from the people, many of whom are worried that testing positive or even going for a test might mean that they are ostracised by others,” said a junior public health nurse (JPHN) from the area. She pegged the start of the spike in cases in West Kochi on a construction site where a worker had tested positive in July and about 42 of his contacts were traced, while the source of his infection remained unknown. The JPHNs, ASHA workers, health inspectors, junior health inspectors and the police were part of the contact tracing process, while doctors and officials at government hospitals in West Kochi had been supervising it, said a doctor at the Mattancherry Women and Children’s Hospital. Floating population “While tracing contacts we also realised that the area has a large floating population, and we would end up asking neighbours for new contact numbers and addresses of people who might have moved. Irrespective of a lockdown, people tend to be careless. A 24-year-old who tested positive had 14 primary contacts – all friends who had visited him,” said the nurse. The test positivity rate for West Kochi was 8.33%, said Dr. Kuttappan, adding that the strategy to contain the virus in the area remained one of tracing and aggressive testing of not just contacts, but also all symptomatic people. “In the fourth week since the disease was reported in West Kochi, we detected 172 positive cases. In the fifth week, which is last week, till August 16, only 57 cases were registered. If this continues, we might see a declining trend,” he said. FLTC at Mattancherry A 72-bed first-line treatment centre (FLTC) was functioning from the Mattancherry Town Hall and was running at full capacity, the doctor at the Mattancherry hospital said. “Several residents in these areas live in houses with single rooms. It is not possible for asymptomatic patients to remain in quarantine at home. Additional FLTCs would be necessary here, and another one is likely to begin functioning at Kalvathy soon,” added the doctor. Kalvathy, Division 2 of the Kochi Corporation, has borne the brunt of the disease, where about 127 people have tested positive and over 70 people have recovered so far, according to Zeenath Rasheed, councillor representing the area. For residents, however, the containment zone barricades had stood in the way of livelihoods, said Sheeja, a resident of Kalvathy, whose husband, a fish worker, has not been able to make it to the Thoppumpady harbour with the restrictions in place. Her own tailoring business had come to a near standstill, she said.
18 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Dams monitored throughout: KSDMA||The water levels in all dams in the State were being monitored round the clock and the reservoir operations in the State were being managed by the Irrigation Department, Kerala State Electricity Board, and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) considering forecast of the Indian Meteorological Department, the State submitted before the High Court on Monday. The State submitted an affidavit in a suo motu case initiated by the High Court. Nodal officers were appointed to monitor each dam under the Irrigation Department. With heavy rainfall along with huge inflows observed in dams under the Irrigation Department, a control room functioned 24X7 to coordinate with operations. Steps for monitoring the water levels in canals and rivers and to clear obstructions were also taken. Protective measures were ensured to prevent canal breaches, it submitted. Satellite phones Safety engineers were monitoring the dams of the board with round-the-clock vigilance. They were all provided with satellite phones in locations where mobile range was feeble and sporadic to communicate with the control rooms in case of failure of normal channel of communication. Control rooms were working round the clock at all major dam sites as well as at the Dam Safety Organisation Headquarters at Pallom, Kottayam, it submitted. Till August 15, all reservoirs of the board together had a storage of 2243.26 mcm, which was 63.50% of the total storage capacity.
18 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||48 cases in Kollam||The district reported 48 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 89 recoveries on Monday. Among the patients are 45 contact cases, two NRIs and the last one had travelled from Karnataka. Two health workers, a 31-year-old Vellimon resident and 22-year-old Kundara resident also contracted the virus through contact. While the first case is a staff of Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, the other health worker has been working at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. The district currently has 8,114 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 36,940. While 331 people completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 9,064 primary and 2,371 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. Currently five COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFTCs) are functioning in Kollam at Valakam, Sasthamcotta, Vilakudy, Asramam and Chandanathope.
18 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||K.J. Alphons courts row over COVID protocol||Former Union Minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member K.J. Alphons has courted a controversy for allegedly conducting an elaborate funeral of his mother in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. The controversy erupted after Mr. Alphons posted a video on his social media page the other day in connection with the launch of an anti-hunger initiative. In the video, he also stated that his mother, Brijith Joseph, had died of COVID-19 two months ago. The statement, however, drew a sharp reaction from those who had attended her funeral held at his native place in Manimala. In a social media post, activist Jomon Puthenpurackal alleged that when the news of the death was officially announced through media, it was nowhere mentioned that she had died of COVID-19. “Her body was laid to rest at Manimala, the native place of Mr. Alphons, after it was kept at his home and the church for the public to pay their homage,” he said. Clarification Mr. Alphons soon came up with a clarification that his mother had tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 five days before death. “Even though she was cured of COVID, her vital organs were badly damaged due to COVID. So is it wrong to say that she died of COVID?..,” Mr.Alphons’s message on his Facebook page read.
18 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox faction blames Jacobites’ ‘adamant stance’||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church here on Monday accused the Jacobite faction of taking the law into its own hands with the active support of those in power. Addressing mediapersons here on Monday, synod secretary Yuhanon Mar Diascoros Metropolitan and Biju Oommen, secretary of the Malankara Association, said the refusal of the Jacobite faction to adhere to the court order culminated in the forcible takeover of the Mulanthuruthy Marthoman Church on Monday. The takeover of the Onakkur church too was based on a ruling of the High Court in March this year. “The intransigence of the Patriarch faction on the issue and their belief that any court order can be overthrown through mob violence are the prime reasons for these violent clashes amidst the deepening COVID-19 situation,” the Metropolitan said.
18 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||89 new cases in Kottayam||Local transmission of COVID-19 continued unabated in Kottayam as 81 of the 89 patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Monday contracted the virus through contact. Kottayam municipality reported 17 cases, followed by Mundakkayam panchayat with seven cases. Maravanthuruth reported six more cases where as Vaikom municipality and Arpookkara panchayat had five cases each. Three persons came from abroad.
18 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Respite for Kozhikode; Thrissur sees biggest single-day spike||In a respite from the daily COVID-19 case load hovering around 100 and above, only 46 fresh cases were reported from Kozhikode on Monday. Two persons from the district died at the Government Medical College Hospital. Malappuram district also reported one death. According to a medical bulletin, the deceased are, a 47-year-old man from West Hill, Kozhikode city, and a 49-year-old woman from Mavoor. A release from the Health Department said that 33 of the new cases were through local transmission of the infection. Eight people had returned from other States, two from abroad and the source of infection of others is not known. The number of infected through local transmission in Thamarassery was 14 and in Kozhikode Corporation five. In Thrissur As many as 156 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur district on Monday. This was the highest number of cases ever reported in the district. Among the new cases, 150 were local transmissions. These include 37 cases from Amala Institute of Medical Sciences. The source of infection of nine persons is not known. There are now 9,135 persons under observation in the district. In Malappuram Malappuram registered 306 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. As many as 288 of them were found to have been infected through local transmission. COVID-19 claimed one more victim in the district when a 47-year-old man from Pookkottur died on Monday. The death took the COVID-19 toll in the district to 24. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 137 persons tested positive for the virus on Monday. They included one person each from Malappuram and Thrissur. While 101 of them were infected through local contacts, nine came from other States and three from abroad. The source of infection of 21 cases could not be traced. In Kannur As many as 77 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Monday. Of this, 59 contracted the disease through contact. Currently, there are 9,079 persons under observation. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district reported 97 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of this, 91 are local transmission cases.  In Wayanad Fifteen more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Monday. While 12 of them contracted the disease through contact, one arrived from abroad and two persons came from other States. District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared all wards of Meppadi grama panchayat as containment zones. All divisions of the Kalpetta municipality have been removed from list.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Malappuram, Palakkad, Kannur, Wayanad and Kasaragod bureaus)
18 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three 110-kV sub-stations commissioned||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has achieved a big leap in improving its transmission capabilities in the district by commissioning three 110-kV sub-stations. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconferencing opened the three projects, which were completed at Thambalamanna, Kuttikkattoor and Mankavu. The 33-kV Thambalamanna substation was upgraded to the status of a 110-kV station by spending Rs. 27 crore. KSEB officials said it would equip the board to reduce total transmission loss and assure better service to rural consumers. One of the major tasks in the project execution was the laying of an underground cable connecting Thambalamanna with the 110-kV Augustianmoozhi sub-station. Over 11-km distance was covered for the project. KSEB officials said the underground cable could be the longest in the State and would be able to ensure trouble-free transmission of power from nine major hydroelectric power projects. Though the estimated cost for the whole project was Rs. 33.25 crore in 2017, it was completed by saving Rs. 6.25 crore, they said. Mankavu and Kuttikkattor sub-stations were upgraded with an aim to ensure uninterrupted power supply in the Kozhikode urban area and its suburbs. Work on the Mankavu sub-station was carried out at a cost of Rs. 11.86 crore. Thalassery sub-station The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for the Thalassery 220-kV substation in Kannur through videoconferencing. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani inaugurated the Champeri 110-kV sub-station and Veliyambra 33-kV sub-station through videoconferencing. The Minister said Champeri sub-station was a permanent solution to the power problems facing the eastern hills of the district. Chamberi, Payyavoor, Chandanakampara, Kudiyanmala and Naduvil will benefit from the sub-station. MLAs A.N. Shamseer, Sunny Joseph, district panchayat president K.V. Sumesh, Electricity Board Chairman N.S. Pillai, Irikkur block panchayat president T. Vasanthakumari, grama panchayat presidents, district, block and grama panchayat members and officials were present.
18 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man who documented Kerala’s cultural history in frames||Punalur Rajan, who died here on Saturday at the age of 81, was an exceptionally talented photographer who specialised in taking black-and-white pictures of cultural icons. He is best known for the several celebrated photographs he took of Vaikom Mohammed Basheer, but his camera also captured other great figures of Malayalam literature like M.T. Vasudevan Nair, Thakazhi, S.K. Pottekkat, Madhavikutty and Sukumar Azhikode. Many of those photographs are not just artistically brilliant, but document Kerala’s cultural history as well. Perhaps no other photographer captured as many rare moments of Malayalam literature and did it with as much finesse. He published two books — Basheer: Chayayum Ormayum and MT yude Kalam — and both are collector’s delights. Besides beautiful pictures of the two most-loved Malayalam writers, the books have photographs of many other remarkable personalities who interacted with them over the decades. Shortly after the publication of his book on MT, Rajan had told this writer that photographing the writer was not as difficult as it was generally thought to be. MT paid the best compliment ever to Rajan when he said, “He is the spy the god sent to earth with a black-and-white camera.”
18 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K inks pact with Swiss firm||Against the backdrop of emerging challenges post-COVID-19, the Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) and Switzerland-based HELP Logistics have inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to engage in a collaborative partnership and provide consulting services and logistics training for the humanitarian community. The partnership aims to develop humanitarian logistics in India and the South Asian region by providing consulting services and logistics training to prominent players such as UN bodies and government institutions during a humanitarian crisis.
18 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Lensman recreates Dandi March in clay||Shiju Narayanan, a wedding photographer from Pangu near Kadampuzha in the district, had set his eyes on the country’s 74th Independence Day which was celebrated on Saturday when he started working on a statuette portraying the historical Dandi March taken out by Mahatma Gandhi. “Dandi March was entrenched in my mind from childhood. And this year’s Independence Day gave me the opportunity to give life to the imagery in my mind,” said Mr. Narayanan after finishing his statuette in chemical clay. The government had chosen the Dandi March as the central theme of this year’s Independence Day celebrations. “Although the march had taken place in March-April of 1930, our Independence Day is the best time to commemorate that historic occasion. What touched me in the Dandi March was the youthfulness of Gandhiji, who was well past 60 years of age then,” he said. Mr. Narayanan said the lockdown had given him a lot of spare time to vent his artistic imagination. He used thin iron rods as a base for the Dandi March statuette. Mr. Narayanan has plans to give shape to the famous scene of Mahatma Gandhi being led by his grandson Kanu Gandhi at Mumbai’s Juhu beach in 1937. This picture, taken while Gandhi was recuperating from an illness in Mumbai in December 1937, had recently popped up in the social media wrongly ascribing it to the Dandi March.
18 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||One more victim of flight crash dead||One more person who had been injured in the Air India Express B-737 flight crash at Karipur died at a private hospital at Perinthalmanna on Monday. Aravindakshan, 68, from of Tiruvali, died of heart attack on Monday morning. He was being treated for a fractured leg after the flight crash on August 7. He became the 19th victim of the Karipur crash. Eighteen persons, including the two pilots, were killed and 150 others injured when Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai AXB 1344 overshot and skidded off the runway and plummeted into a 40-metre deep valley while landing at the airport on August 7.
18 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta here on Monday reported one more COVID-19-related death and two local contact cases. An 82-year-old person from Thiruvalla died at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on August 16. The persons who tested positive during the day were a 55-year-old Anikkadu native and an 83-year-old Kaviyoor native. The 55-year-old woman had been undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College in Kottayam and was tested positive during a serum test. The 83-year-old, who had been admitted to a private hospital at Thiruvalla earlier this month, was once again taken to a private hospital three days ago.Meanwhile, 32 people who recovered from the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres here.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No let-up in cases in capital||The capital district’s daily COVID-19 caseload continued to grow unabated with 461 more testing positive for the viral infection on Monday. While the cluster at the Poojappura Central Prison also continued its rapid growth with 110-odd cases being reported on the day, several police officers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. With three more deaths — those of a 75-year-old woman from Poonthura who died on August 5, a 58-year-old Parassala native and a 42-year-old Muttada native, both died on August 13 — being confirmed as due to COVID-19, the district’s official death toll went up to 37. As many as 114 persons, including 110 inmates and four prison officials, were diagnosed with the disease when 362 people were tested at the Poojappura Central Prison. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients on the prison premises has grown to 477, including eight jail officials and a doctor. While all the 970 inmates in the prison have been tested, nearly 100 officials have also been subjected to antigen testing. Around 150 more officials would be tested on Tuesday, sources said. Twenty-eight police personnel were also diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Monday. These included personnel attached to the office of the Assistant Commissioner, Cantonment Sub-division (six); Special Armed Police (SAP – three); Rapid Response Force (RRF – two); Kerala Police Academy (one); and Armed Reserve Camp (one). A clerk attached to the Directorate of Crime Branch also tested positive. Notably, the two RRF had been posted on guard duty at the Cantonment House, the official residence of the Leader of the Opposition. Twelve police officers who came in close proximity with them have gone into quarantine. Also, one of the COVID-19-infected SAP officers had taken part in the recent Independence Day parade at the Central Stadium. Around 30 personnel who participated in the parade have gone into quarantine. 14 personnel at Ayiroor In the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police district, 14 officers attached to the Ayiroor police station, including the Circle Inspector, tested positive. They had been in quarantine ever since an accused in a theft case registered at the station was diagnosed with COVID-19 recently. Some of them had been involved in containment efforts in the coastal hamlet of Edava that formed part of the critical containment zone. COVID-19 cases continued to emerge in the coastal areas, even as the district administration eased restrictions in the region. Forty-two people tested positive when 88 were subjected to antigen tests in Beemapally and Valiathura. The Elakamon grama panchayat office in Varkala was closed after an employee was diagnosed with the disease. Cases were also reported at Balaramapuram (seven), Kallikad (six) and Chirayinkeezhu (three) in the district. Protest Meanwhile, the fisherfolk of Anchuthengu conducted a demonstration against the restrictions imposed in selling fish outside the containment zone. They demanded permission to sell fish in other places, including Attingal, Kadakkavoor and Chirayinkeezhu.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly gets its own television space||Sabha TV, an initiative of the Kerala Assembly, will serve as a bridge connecting the people, the government, and the Assembly, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Monday. Mr. Birla inaugurated Sabha TV via videoconference. “Efforts taken by the Kerala Assembly to acknowledge the changing times and take the Assembly proceedings directly to the people are welcome,” he said. Viewing of Assembly proceedings in their entirety by the people would help improve the functioning of the House, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Telecasting the Assembly proceedings and programmes on the history of the legislature would benefit the younger generation. Sabha TV would, in time, transform into a full-fledged channel, he said. The Chief Minister launched the website of the Speaker. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan presided. Sabha TV will also be available on the OTT (over-the-top) platform, he said. Law and Minister A.K. Balan launched the ‘dynamic website’ of the Assembly. Initially, Sabha TV will rent half-an-hour slots on prominent television channels to telecast programmes. The OTT platform is perhaps the first of its kind planned by an Assembly.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crime Branch begins probe into death of theft suspect||The Crime Branch has taken over the investigation into the alleged suicide of a person while in custody at the Fort police station here late on Sunday. Ansari, 38, of Karimadom colony, who was detained on suspicion of stealing a mobile phone from a tea-shop in East Fort, was found hanging inside a toilet in the police station after he was detained around 5.30 p.m. According to official sources, he was asked to sit in the Child Friendly Janamaithri Kendram building in the compound of the police station to prevent crowding in the lock-up to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. While two home guards were tasked with monitoring his movements, two of Ansari’s acquaintances who came to file a complaint in another case were incidentally present in the same building at the time. By around 9 p.m., Ansari allegedly borrowed a cigarette from one of them and went to the toilet in the Janamaithri building. Sensing something was amiss, a few police officers broke open the toilet only to find Ansari hanging by his dhoti from the ceiling, sources said. He was later confirmed dead at the General Hospital. With Ansari’s relatives alleging foul play, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay entrusted Assistant Commissioner, District Crime Branch, M.K. Zulfiquer with conducting a probe into the unnatural death. The failure of the police to record details of Ansari’s detention in the general diary has come under scrutiny. Besides, the police had not registered a case, citing they had not received a written complaint. No bruises While Ansari’s relatives alleged that he had been manhandled, an inquest under the supervision of a magistrate found no bruises on the body. While a preliminary probe pointed to the possibility of a suicide, the results of the post-mortem examination is awaited to ascertain the actual cause of death, a senior officer said. The deceased was a habitual offender. Meanwhile, the Kerala State Human Rights Commission registered a suo moto case in connection with the incident. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA - 1056, 0471-2552056)
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Home expo gets under way||More than 100 properties from 18 leading builders in Kerala are featured in the The Hindu Print cum Virtual home expo which got under way here on Monday. The 21-day event presented by State Bank of India and powered by Radianz will go on till September 6. The expo provides buyers with an exciting array of options — from budget homes and functional apartments, to lavish villas and luxury bungalows — on a single platform. Prices range from Rs. 35 lakh to Rs. 3.50 crore. Studio apartments and commercial spaces are also on sale. Interested buyers can visit the website www.thehinduhomeexpo.in or call Anjana (Thiruvananthapuram) at 75103 93649 or Mary Joji (Kochi) at 79073 55184 for details and registration. Enquiries can be also mailed to girish.kr@thehindu.co.in.  The Hindu call centre team will arrange a meeting with builders and site visits as part of the expo. Prospective buyers will have the option of live virtual tour of ready-to-move in properties. Attractive rate discounts and gift vouchers for furniture, home appliances and textiles await buyers. Loans from SBI SBI is offering home loans ranging from 6.95% p.a. Registered participants can also avail themselves of free consultancy for architectural and interior design. Participating builders include Asset Homes, Arcon Homes, Beacon Projects, Confident Group, Cordon, Favourite Homes, icloudhomes, Mansions, Nikunjam Constructions, Prime Property Developers, Prestige Group, PRS Builders, SFS Homes, Shanoor, Silver Castle, Sun Homes, Trinity, Urbanscape Properties, and VFive Homes. Gift sponsors include Tiptop furniture, Reshmi Happy Home and Swayamvara Silks.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||20,000-km roads upgraded in four years: Minister||Ten thousand roads in the State have been upgraded into bitumen macadam and bitumen concrete (BM&BC) in the past four years by the Public Works Department. This would come to 20,000 km, Minister for Public Works, G. Sudhakaran told a press conference on Monday. A record 517 bridges were also constructed during the tenure of the LDF government. Unparalleled development to upgrade road infrastructure was taken up in the past four years. The government had started paying 25% cost of land acquisition for six-laning of the NH-66 to expedite the NH work which was stalled for years. Already four reaches in Kasaragod and Kannur had been tendered by the NHAI. Officials posted Chief Engineers for bridges, roads and maintenance were posted taking the number of PWD Chief Engineers from 5 to 8. Work on 21 reaches of the Rs. 3,500 crore Hill Highway was on. The 650-km Coastal Highway, to be funded by the KIIFB, would cost Rs. 6,500 crore. In the World Bank-funded KSTP project, eight of the 12 projects had been completed. Forty roads were being reconstructed under Rebuild Kerala at Rs. 2,000 crore. The Alappuzha-Changanassery road was being reconstructed as per world class standards and tenders had been floated.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A marketing spree to make up for tourism lull||Once the COVID-19 crisis eases, Kerala Tourism is planning to attract domestic tourists through innovative campaigns on web portals, social media, television channels, radio, music streaming channels, and OTT (over-the-top) platforms. The campaigns have been developed after assessing the domestic tourism market in the post-COVID-19 scenario. It has been concluded that short trips will dominate the phase. One- to six-minute impressions will be featured on 14 web portals including The Hindu , BBC, and CNN as part of the online ad campaign at a cost of Rs. 1.18 crore. Bloggers will be brought on to project Kerala under the Kerala Blog Express Influence Engagement Activity. The initiative is estimated to cost Rs. 88.5 lakh. In the Rs. 2.36-crore Social Media Tactical Campaign, Kerala will be featured on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube. Vloggers and those in the fashion and lifestyle fields will visit least-visited tourism destinations and will come up with stories and videos as part of the Rs. 82.60-lakh Familiarising Kerala Campaign on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. The largest chunk, at Rs. 6.16 crore, has been earmarked for the campaign on TV channels. The State’s tourist attractions will be featured in Star Movies HD, Set Max, Star Plus, Sun TV, Maa TV, Zee Kannada, Pogo, Nick, and Discovery Channel. Music channels FM Radio and music streaming channels too will be made use of. The promotion on five radio channels based in Mysuru, Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, and Paytunes aggregator music streaming platform will cost Rs. 49.56 lakh. Disney+Hotstar and Jio Target-India have been selected for the OTT campaign, estimated at Rs. 29.50 lakh. For TV commercials and photoshoots, Rs. 1.42 crore has been set aside. Kerala Travel Mart The forthcoming Kerala Travel Mart will also be promoted using Facebook live videos and LinkedIn. The campaign will cost Rs. 59 lakh. The government has given administrative nod for the nine campaigns, estimated at Rs. 14.21 crore, which were approved by the working group on Tourism that met on June 16, under the Secretary, Tourism.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 protocols mooted for local body polls||The elections to local bodies in the State can be conducted provided COVID-19 prevention protocols are complied with, the Health Department has advised the State Election Commission (SEC). The election date will be finalised after high-level discussions and scrutiny of all aspects of the issue, V. Bhaskaran, State Election Commissioner, said here on Monday. Mr. Bhaskaran had held discussions with the Director, Health Services, on Monday against the background of the grim COVID-19 situation in the State. The protocols for election-related activities will be made available from the Health Department, he said. As the term of the elected local bodies ends on November 11, elections to all local bodies except the Mattannur municipality in Kannur district need to be conducted this year. It is the Constitutional duty of the SEC to conduct the elections in a time-bound manner, Mr. Bhaskaran said. Training programmes for election officials will be kicked off this month obeying the COVID-19 guidelines. Master trainers will undergo online sessions. They in turn will train election officials in batches of 30 at the block level. The SEC will implement disease prevention measures for election officials aided by the Health Department.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||19,000 Plus One seats for poor students of forward segments||Over 19,000 Plus One merit seats will have to be set aside for implementing the 10% reservation for students from the economically weaker sections (EWS) of forward communities in higher secondary education (HSE) and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) schools. The government has issued an order reserving 10% of the total seats, including the marginal increase of 10-20% sanctioned seats recently, in various batches in government higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools for students from the EWS in the unreserved category. At present, there are 2,824 Plus One higher secondary batches in 819 government schools. In the wake of the marginal increase in seats, the number of seats in each batch has gone up to 55 in eight districts and 60 in six districts. With 10% of the seats reserved for the EWS students, this comes to six seats a batch, taking the number of seats reserved for EWS students to 16,944 seats. VHSE seats Similarly, in the vocational higher secondary wing, the number of batches in government schools is 706. With 30 seats in a batch, the number of reserved seats comes to three, and the number of reserved VHSE Plus One seats 2,118. The 10% reservation for the EWS (six seats each) from the unreserved category will bring down the number of merit seats to 19 from the present 25 in a batch of 55 seats and 21 from the current 27 in a batch of 60 in government higher secondary schools, limiting the options for students without any reservation benefits in Plus One admissions. The order says the reservation is sanctioned for Plus One admissions in schools under the General Education Department that do not have minority status and allow reservation for Other Backward Classes. The applicants should not belong to SC, ST or Other Backward Classes. Their annual family income should be Rs. 4 lakh or less. It has also laid down how the family income should be calculated.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The Hindu journalist N.J. Nair passes away||N. J. Nair, 59, Deputy Editor, The Hindu , Thiruvananthapuram Bureau, passed away at a private hospital here early Monday following a brief illness. He joined the organisation as senior reporter in 1995 following a six-year stint as sub-editor in the Indian Express . Mr. Nair followed a strict work ethic and strived to have a distinctive story for the newspaper every day. He oscillated between writing articles on public finance and politics and dabbled in human interest pieces occasionally. He went by the affectionate name ‘NJ’. He was at the core of an extensive network of friends. They were from all walks of life and represented a microcosm of life in the capital. Lasting impression Mr. Nair’s affability seemed to have left a lasting impression on many. Several grieved his untimely death with a profound sense of personal loss. He was known for his warmth, rustic sense of humour and easygoing manner. He could spot stories for colleagues on the fly and was a resource person for many. He was a mentor to many a budding journalist. Music was an enduring passion for NJ. He was an alumnus of the Press Club Institute of Journalism (1987 batch). Condolences pour in Leaders cutting across political lines expressed their condolences to the bereaved family. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan said Mr. Nair’s commitment to journalism would be long remembered. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Mr. Nair covered the State’s developmental aspirations passionately without resorting to sensationalism and embraced informed reporting. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said NJ’s endearing manner belied a sharp focus on the news. “He never sought a personal favour from anybody. Whenever we met, his sole purpose was news and nothing else,” he said. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said Mr. Nair upheld the best journalistic practices epitomised by The Hindu . “He gave voice to all sides of an issue and cross-checked facts before publishing,” Dr. Isaac said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan, Law Minister A.K. Balan, Indian Union Muslim League leader M.K. Muneer and BJP State president K. Surendran expressed their condolences to Mr. Nair’s family, among others. Mr. Nair’s body was kept at the Press Club for friends and acquaintances to pay their last respects and was cremated later at the Shanthi Kavadam crematorium. Mr. Nair is survived by wife Sumam S. Kurup, sons Siddarth (final year MBA student in Brisbane, Australia) and Gautam (Test House, Technopark), and sister Geeta.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bureaucrat cheated govt., says Sudhakaran||Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran has lashed out at M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for ‘cheating the government.’ The Minister has termed Mr. Sivasankar’s association with Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, an ‘inexcusable crime.’ At a press conference on Monday, Mr. Sudhakaran said that though Mr. Sivasankar’s link to the gold smuggling case was yet to be proved, he alone was to be blamed for his nexus with Swapna. “He cheated the government. What mistake did the government commit if Swapna had taken money from the contractors of the Life Mission,” Mr. Sudhakaran asked. Calling Mr. Sivasankar a ‘traitor,’ the Minister said the bureaucrat must be punished constitutionally for his wrongdoings. The State government had suspended him for his association with people involved in the smuggling case.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated anganwadis||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the renovated anganwadi at the Upper Primary School in Thampanoor and at the Fort Sanskrit School. The project was implemented as part of the Smart City project. Both anganwadis were renovated with a dedicated play area, play equipment and more paved area.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smart office for KWA at Pongumoodu||Mayor K.Sreekumar inaugurated a smart office of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) at Pongumoodu on Monday. The office, built under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project of the city Corporation, will focus on handling online complaints from consumers and also function as an information counter. Water authority bills and other payments can also be remitted at the newoffice.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Women-centric projects at Vazhuthacaud||Vazhuthacaud is set to turn into a corridor for women with the opening of a slew of women-centric projects of the city Corporation. A women-friendly centre, a walkway with roof along the women’s college route, toilet facilities and bus shelters are part of the project that will be inaugurated on Wednesday. According to Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar, who is also the Vazhuthacaud ward councillor, the women-friendly centre would be of use to women who are commuting within the city as well as visiting from outside. “The women-friendly centre called ‘pournami’, located near DPI Junction, will have a cafeteria run by women, breast-feeding centre, toilet facilities and an Ayurveda clinic, which can be used by both men and women. A second building called ‘pulari’ located near Vazhuthacaud Junction will house an Akshaya centre, ward committee office and a few other government-related institutions,” says Ms. Ravikumar. Walkway The work on a women-friendly walkway with roofing from the Government College for Women to Vazhuthacaud is also progressing. Although the initial plan was to extend it till the Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School at Cotton Hill, the project had to be cut short due to opposition from shop owners in some areas, as they said that the roofed walkway would block the view to their shops. The walkway will be spruced up with the images of inspirational women on the walls. A bus stop, with cafeteria and toilets, is also coming up near Bakery Junction, near the waiting area for buses to the Poojappura- Karamana route.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State allows use of ADF for water scheme||The panchayat and beneficiary shares for implementing rural water supply schemes under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) can be mobilised from the Asset Development Funds (ADF) of MLAs, if needed, the State has decided. The Finance Department has issued orders in this regard, Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty said on Monday. The guidelines for the JJM require panchayats to contribute 15% and beneficiaries 10%.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job reservation for the differently abled||The State government has issued an order stipulating 4% reservation for the differently abled in all appointments through employment exchanges, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said in a statement. The reservation will be applicable to all appointments which are not made through the Public Service Commission.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Electricity employees to join nationwide stir||Electricity employees and engineers in Kerala will wear badges and take a pledge to protect the power sector as part of nationwide agitation on August 18 called by the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers. The campaign is to urge the government to withdraw the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and drop the move to privatise the power distribution sector in States and Union Territories.
18 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agriculture knowledge centres inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated the Farmer’s Day celebrations and agriculture knowledge centres at the block level via videoconference. The agriculture knowledge centres are meant to assist farmers at the grassroot level and bring them closer to the activities of the Agriculture Department and the Kerala Agricultural University.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Veterinary Science Congress on Nov. 14, 15||The Indian Veterinary Association Kerala (IVA), Kerala, is organising the 12th Kerala Veterinary Science Congress on November 14 and 15. The event will be hosted by the Thiruvanantha- puram unit. C. Madhu, Director of Animal Husbandry, released the brochure of the event here on Monday.
18 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fear is your worst enemy, Collector tells patients||There is nothing to fear even if you have turned positive for coronavirus, you can defeat it effectively just by being brave and following the instructions of the medical officers and paramedical staff, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu told the 112 newly-lodged persons in the upgraded Cancer Care Centre in Sarada Nagar in the city on Monday. Inspecting the arrangements and boosting their morale, Mr. Chandrudu said if one is composed and happy, and eliminates fear from one’s mind, returning home with negative status is an easy task. Fear was their worst enemy, he said, and to divert their attention from their illness, a movie screen had been arranged on the hospital premises, he said. On Monday, while 535 new cases were registered in Anantapur district, 918 were discharged (24,300 cumulative total) with 5,533 currently being treated. The cumulative tally of positive persons crossed the 30,000 mark (30,062) on Monday. With five deaths, total fatalities went up to 229. In Kurnool district too, the number of positive cases in 24 hours came down drastically to 372 by Monday 9 a.m. and the cumulative total went up to 33,952 with 26,407 discharged so far. In all 7,248 persons were getting treated and total number of deaths reached 297.
18 August 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||5,000 people evacuated from 47 tribal hamlets||At least 5,000 people affected by the flood in the Godavari river have been evacuated from 47 tribal hamlets in Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district by Monday morning. The Integrated Tribal Develop Agency (ITDA) has estimated that nearly 9000 people need to be evacuated from the Chintoor Agency, where Sabari, a tributary of the Godavari, is in spate. Relief camps “As many as 28 boats and seven launches have been engaged for evacuating people for the flood-hot areas. A 25-member team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) arrived in Chintoor agency on Monday morning. We expect the remaining 4,000 people will be evacuated by the evening,” Chintoor ITDA Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana told The Hindu in the afternoon. The officials said 51 relief camps had been set up, where the midday-meal staff have been been deployed to prepare food round the clock. In Kunavaram, among the most affected tribal pocket, 10 relief camps have been set up. The power supply has been disrupted in the entire Agency as flood water has entered the habitations. “Solar lights and candles are being supplied to the forest dwellers to help them manage the situation until they are evacuated,” said Mr. Venkata Ramana. In Yetapaka, the police station building is under neck-dip water. Drinking water supply Meanwhile, the Rural Water Supply authorities operated 50 motor boats to supply drinking water to the flood-hit habitations in Chintoor Agency and the Konaseema region to which the road connectivity were snapped owing to flood. “We have deputed 700 staff for supply of drinking water through boats to the affected villages. One lakh water packets have been procured from Rajamahendravaram and it will be supplied to the Chintoor Agency,” said RWS Superintending Engineer T. Gayatri Devi. Around 30 habitations in the Agency were supplied with drinking water through boats on Monday, she added.
18 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frustrated mother ‘attacks’ children||The Bangarupalem police on Sunday night rescued four children, three girls and one boy, who were reportedly being tortured by their mother for the last three months and confined at a house at Tambuganipalle, a forest-fringe village, in Chittoor district. According to information, Manjula (29), a native of Tambuganipalle, used to work in Bengaluru as a housemaid. A mother of five, two boys and three girls, she had reportedly deserted her physically-challenged husband four years ago. Stripped off her job and livelihood due to COVID-19 pandemic, she had returned to the village in April with her four children. With no job at hand, the family had to depend on government ration and relief distribution from voluntary organizations. The children, aged between four and nine, unable to bear the pangs of hunger, had started seeking food from the neighbourhood. Reportedly angered with this, the woman took to beating the children. As per police, the attacks were intensified since last week when the woman, out of frustration, resorted to branding the children’s private parts with heated objects after tying their hands and feet and forcing them to eat dust. On Sunday night, when the agonized cries of the children reached the neighbourhood, a grama volunteer barged in the house and found the children half-naked and writhing in pain.Police, along with volunteers of the Rural Organization for Poverty Eradication Services and Child Helpline 1098, rushed to the spot and rescued the children. Sub-Inspector V. Ramakrishna said that the children were allowed to stay with their mother after counselling her, but under the watch of the neighbourhood. A team of paramedical staff rushed to the village and provided first aid to the injured kids.
18 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector flags concern over dip in contact tracing||The steady rise in COVID-19 cases during the last one month has forced the district medical and health administration to step up efforts to trace the primary and secondary contacts in all municipalities and rural areas in Chittoor district even as the tally inched closer to 25,000, including 240 deaths by Monday. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, in a meeting with the task force officials here on Monday, said that between July 15 and August 15, over 120 deaths were reported in the district. He expressed concern at the slowing down of the contact tracing in the urban areas, especially in Puttur, Punganur, Madanapalle divisions, while the drive had picked up pace tremendously in the rural areas.
18 August 2020||ELAMANCHILI (W. GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 300 habitations plunge into darkness in West Godavari||Over 300 habitations, mostly Adivasi villages, plunged into darkness due to floods to the Godavari. As the flood water was flowing over seven feet and above in the villages in the Agency areas in East and West Godavari districts, many electric poles and transformers were submerged in waters. The APTransco officials stopped power supply to prevent untoward incidents like electric shock and short circuits. Transco officials appealed to the villagers not to touch the electric motors installed in fields, transformers, cables and poles, which were in waters for the last three days. Many Adivasi families staying in Koida, Repakagommu, Rudramkota, Koruturu, Gaddapalli, Ramavaram, Jeediguppa, Paidipakala, Singanapalli, Mamidigondi, Singanapalli, Patha Polavaram, Sirivaka, Kondrukota, Paidakulamamidi and other habitations in Polavaram, Velerupadu, Chinturu, V.R. Puram, Kunavaram mandals left for hilly areas. “We went to the nearby hill on Sunday evening as flood water entered Jeediguppa hamlet. All the huts were inundated," said Dora, a Konda Reddy tribal. “Communication has been cut off three days ago as rivulets and streams are overflowing on the roads due to heavy rains and floods. Many villages do not have power supply in the Agency area,” said a gram volunteer on anonymity.  Appeal to public Officials appealed to the public not to move in flood waters in the dark and travel in boats as knee-deep water was flowing in the villages. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana said that generators were arranged in the rehabilitation centres where about 1,500 families were shifted from the marooned habitations. “Snake bite vails have been supplied to all Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres (CHCs) in the Agency area. Besides, emergency drugs have been supplied to the dispensaries and PHCs,” said a medical officer.
18 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP making baseless allegations: Sucharita||Home Minister M. Sucharita has accused the Opposition leaders of making false allegations of phone tapping by the government, terming it a slander campaign. Addressing the media here on Monday, the Home Minister said that the Opposition leaders were resorting to such a campaign as they were unable to digest the welfare schemes being implemented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the people. Warned of action If the Opposition leaders had any proof, they should come out with it or else face action, she warned. The Home Minister said TDP leaders were trying to defame the government as they lost the elections and were decimated to 23 seats only. She said at a time when the government was moving ahead with welfare schemes for the poor, the Opposition was making baseless charges of phone tapping. Ms. Sucharita said all the promises made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy were implemented and there was all-round praise for him as being one of the best Chief Ministers in the country.
18 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for JNTUK Narasaraopet campus||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for the building of University College of Engineering of the JNTU, Kakinada at Narasaraopet in Guntur district, via video link from his office at Tadepalli on Monday. “The establishment of a campus of the technological university will usher in changes in the backward areas of Palnadu, turning the region into an educational hub,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy after the programme. He said the Narasaraopet campus would go a long way to fulfil the need for quality technical education in Palnadu region. “The government is in the process of sanctioning Rs. 80 crore for the college this year and another Rs. 40 crore next year. Plans are afoot to complete the construction of the building by the next year,’’ said the Chief Minister. Narsaraopet MP Lavu Krishnadevarayulu said 80 posts are lying vacant. Mr. Jagan said the government has given the nod for filling up 1,100 vancant posts in colleges and universities including the JNTUK’s Narasaraopet campus.
18 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more sanitiser death in Kadapa district||After a brief pause, yet another case of death by consuming hand sanitiser was reported from Pendlimarri town in Kadapa district on Monday. According to information, G. Ramanjeneyulu (35), a tailor by profession, reportedly consumed sanitiser diluted it in water to get a high. As his condition turned critical, Ramanjeneyulu was rushed to Kadapa in a 108 serive ambulance, but he breathed his last en route. Case registered Though the cause of death is officially yet to be confirmed, the police have registered a case and are investigating.
18 August 2020||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||This Vinayaka Chaviti, idols arrive at the doorstep of Vizagites||This year Vinayak Chaviti is not only going to be eco-friendly, but Lord Ganesha is also making his way to the doorsteps of Vizagites. Many families are opting for easily soluble clay idols that can be immersed at home, to avoid stepping out in the COVID-19 pandemic and also preferring home delivery of idols or do-it-yourself kits. Several organisations have come forth with eco-friendly Vinayak Chaviti puja kit and taking orders for home delivery. Bhagavatula Charitable Trust (BCT) has made 125 puja kits ready along with clay idols for the festival. “We have procured the nine-inch clay idols from the Potters’ Colony at Haripalem village in Achutapuram mandal, where the potters were struggling to make a living due to the impact of the pandemic,” says Sri Ram Bhagavatula of BCT. The kit contains around 20 items for the puja which includes cotton wicks, sandalwood powder, puja leaves, jaggery, betel leaves and coconut. Most of the items on the kit are procured directly from the farmers by BCT. Orders can be placed till August 19 through a call or WhatsApp at 9849734615. The kit will be home delivered on August 21. Tammana Divya is busy attending to the 600 orders she has already received for her eco-friendly Ganesha kit that she will be delivering to homes across Visakhapatnam and also Hyderabad. Her kit contains a terracotta pot, a Ganesha idol made with red soil, vermicompost and cocopeat, two kinds of seeds and a flowering plant in a pot along with puja items. “The idol can be easily soluble in the pot and when combined with vermicompost and cocopeat it will make an ideal potting mix for the plants. The seeds are provided separately, which can be planted in the terracotta pot. We are also giving an additional flowering plant from the Gajuwaka-based Amrutha Nursery,” says Ms. Divya. The seeds will be of leafy vegetables and herbs like spinach, amaranthus coriander and fenugreek that can be grown easily in the pot. “The response from Hyderabad has been overwhelming too and we have already closed orders from there due to logistics issues,” she adds. Orders can be placed till August 19 for Visakhapatnam at 8885295988. City-based organisation GIFTII has come up with a festive ‘Lambodara’ kit which comprise a clay idol with a jute pot, vermicompost, clay diyas and puja items. The idol has a seed embedded within it, which when dissolved along with vermicompost will make an ideal potting mix. The kit also includes kumkum powder, turmeric, camphor, and incense sticks. This can be ordered till August 20 at 8074485132.
18 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam logs 13 deaths||Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts registered 13 and 2 deaths respectively in the last 24 hours, taking the combined death toll due to coronavirus to 332. At least 431 new cases were recorded in Nellore district taking the tally to 17,645, while Praksam district’s caseload increased to 12,479 with 357 new cases. With this the death toll in Prakasam district alone rose to 174 and 148 in SPSR Nellore district. Attributing the continuing deaths to patients missing the golden period, Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar said the administration would encourage asymptomatic patients to opt for treatment from home while treating only symptomatic cases and those suffering from comorbidity condition in hospitals. The death rate was only 1.37% in the district, where 7,351 persons have been recovered with the help of a team of health staff working 24 x7. Meanwhile, Prakasam district COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards was felicitated by scribes led by Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists President I.V.Subba Rao for the high recovery rate in the district. The Union and State Governments should treat journalists also as COVID-19 warriors and provide insurance cover and best medical treatment. As many as 500 journalists and their family members had got infected in the State and 19 of them had succumbed to the disease, Mr. Rao said. Dr.Richards said the number of symptomatic cases and those requiring oxygen and ventilator support were on the rise in the district.
18 August 2020||PULLANGI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||She crosses a stream of hurdles to deliver a baby||A 22-year-old Konda Reddy tribal woman, who was carried on a cot by her villagers to cross a stream on Sunday evening, gave birth to a baby boy in the Rampa agency at midnight at Boduluru Primary Health Centre. The woman, Sadala Bhanu Kumar, was brought upto the stream by an autorickshaw. She was accompanied by her mother, husband and six villagers. A cot was also brought along with them from the village, Addarivalasam of Pullangi panchayat in Maredumilli mandal. The distance between the stream and the PHC is nearly eight km and she was taken by another autorickshaw from the stream. “My daughter complained of pains in the afternoon of Sunday afternoon. On being alerted about her health condition, the villagers arranged everything to cross the stream, Gundrathi, in the flood water,” said Sadala Seetamma, mother of Ms. Bhanu Kumari. As advised by the doctors at the Bodduluru PHC on Monday, Ms. Bhanu Kumari and her baby were taken to the Rampachodavaram Area Hospital in an ambulance for the neonatal care. “Both mother and baby are doing well and we want to return to our village only after the flood water recedes," Ms. Seetamma told The Hindu.
18 August 2020||Special Correspondent VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child trafficking: police now focus on properties of doctor Namratha||The city police team, probing the child trafficking case, now decides to investigate into the properties reportedly amassed by Dr. Namratha, the main accused in the case and the managing director of Universal Srushti Hospital. Sources in the Police Department say that properties worth crores of rupees in Davanagere, Coorg, Hyderabad, Visakhapatanam, Guntur, Vijayawada, Kolkata, and Bhubaneswar have been unearthed by the investigating team. The team, investigating the case, so far detected six alleged child trafficking cases. In total, 63 deliveries were reported in the hospital since 2017, and it is learnt the team is trying to trace all the 63 cases. This apart, probing deeper into the case, the team is trying to ascertain the background and authenticity in the delivery cases in which Dr. Namratha was involved prior to 2017. The accused has been practising since 2010 in different places, and efforts are on to dig out the details. With more people now lodging complaints, it is learnt that even a couple from the USA has expressed doubt on the veracity of delivery of their child, the police have intensified the pace of their investigation.  Network There are allegations that Dr. Namratha, through a well-oiled network in the rural areas and agents, conspired to target egg donors, destitute pregnant women and unwed pregnancies to procure babies for their trafficking. The doctor’s modus operandi is to sell the babies to rich families who are childless. So far the police have arrested 14 persons in the case, including Dr. Ch. Padmaja of Padmaja Hospitals and Dr. Namratha. The others include a couple of doctors working with them, agents, nurses, ANM workers and other staff members.
18 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma donors given away incentive||Indian Red Cross Society-Srikakulam chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao on Monday said that the government was giving Rs. 5,000 incentive and travelling charges for plasma donors. He said that the plasma donated by the patients who recovered from COVID-19 would save other patients. On behalf of the district administration, he handed over Rs. 5,000 cheques to G. Gopala Krishna and B. Gurunatha Rao. Jaganmohana Rao and said that awareness programmes on plasma donation would be taken up in all 38 mandals with the support of IRCS volunteers.
18 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19, other health issues hit businesses||As many as 30 traders have lost their lives due to coronavirus and other health problems in the last two months in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. While more than 10 businessmen died of coronavirus and other ailments in Narasannapeta town of Srikakulam district, eight persons of the community in Srikakulam and 12 in Vizianagaram district lost their lives. Lack of social distancing in market areas and currency transactions are said to be the main reasons for the spread of COVID-19. Many traders, who have been forced to open shops to meet their monthly expenses, rents, power bills and salaries of staff, have fallen prey to the virus. Big business houses need at least Rs. 2.5 lakh to meet their expenses. With the losses mounting every month, some owners are opening shops and becoming victims of coronavirus. City Plaza owner Kandukuri Nanaji, Durga Textiles owner Bogi Mutyala Rao, P. Padma Rao, a wholesale dealer of essential commodities, Vaddi Mutyala Rao, a businessperson, died recently in Srikakulam district. "The government has provided facilities to many COVID-19 patients for home isolation. But they are moving freely and spreading the disease. It is one of the main reasons for the spread of the disease in market areas. In spite of personal care, many traders lost their lives," said Perla Mahesh, co-treasurer of Srikakulam Chamber of Commerce. With several traders succumbing to COVID-19 and other diseases in the last one month, others are afraid of opening shops in Narasannapeta which is one of the busiest business centers of Srikakulam district. "The financially-hit traders are risking their lives to continue the business although transactions are not upto the mark," said Tangudu Janardhana Rao, a trader of Narasennapeta.  Denial of treatment Several gold and cloth merchants have also contracted the coronavirus and four persons died recently in Vizianagaram. "Many hospitals are denying treatment for normal diseases in these times of coronavirus. It is one of the main reasons for the death of some traders in Vizianagaram," said N.V. Srinivasa Rao, president of Vizianagaram Gold Merchants' Association. In the backdrop of the COVID-19 threat, many shops are functioning only for two to three hours in the morning. A curfew-like situation is prevailing in the busiest trade centres from afternoon.
18 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases cross 15,000-mark in Srikakulam||The number of COVID-19 positive cases crossed the 15,000-mark in Srikakulam district on Monday. With the emergence of 527 new cases, the tally went up to 15,306. The district, which was under the green zone till April last week, witnessed a surge in the cases later. According to sources, the number is also on the rise in the rural areas. Many persons, who tested positive, are reportedly moving freely, violating home isolation norms. It is said to be one of the main reasons for the spread of the disease at a fast pace. As many as 2,642 patients are currently in home isolation as per the government records. Meanwhile, in Vizianagaram district, 13,190 cases were reported so far. Fortunately, many of them recovered and 6,954 have been identified as active cases. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari urged people to undergo the test in case they have any symptoms.
18 August 2020||Staff ReporterVIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private hospitals denying treatment under Aarogyasri, complain patients||Many private and corporate hospitals are reportedly not admitting patients under the Aarogyasri scheme on the pretext of lack of beds. As there is a delay in getting reimbursement from the government under this scheme, the hospitals are depriving the poor of the facility. The patients suffering from diseases like cancer and kidney move from pillar to post to get treatment in the hospitals. Normally, the patients can join the Government Hospital for treatment under the scheme, but the district hospital is being totally used for COVID-19 patients. With the possibility of spread of the COVID-19 disease, normal operations have been stopped, according to officials. It has turned into a boon for private hospitals as they get more admissions of the patients who can afford the fee. ‘Priority to rich’ "The private hospitals are giving top priority for the patients who can pay the fee immediately. They deny treatment under the Arogyasri on one pretext or the other. What is the use of the Arogyasri card when it is not valid," said B. Adinarayana, a patient suffering from a cardiac problem. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari said that the government had powers to take action against the hospitals which were denying treatment under the Arogyasri scheme. "Arogya Mitra assistants are not available in some hospitals. Their presence would help patients to process the documents quickly. But it should not be taken as an excuse to reject operations and treatment under the government's health scheme," she said. "We would ask all hospitals to furnish details about the recent operations taken up under the scheme. Then, we will be knowing the hospitals which reject treatment for poor patients," she added. Vizianagaram Jana Sena Party leader Tyada Ramakrishna Rao asked the government to ensure admission of COVID-19 patients under the health scheme since coronavirus was included in the diseases' list. "Denial of treatment is claiming the lives of many. It is really unfortunate. The government should initiate action against the hospitals that deny treatment under the scheme," said Mr. Ramakrishna Rao. Probe sought CPI Vizianagaram district joint secretary Bugata Ashok asked the government to conduct an inquiry into the functioning of private hospitals. "The government says people need not bear medical expenses if they cross Rs. 1,000. But the reality is totally different. The hospitals are fleecing patients and their family members with hefty fees. The fee for COVID-19 treatment crosses Rs. 5 lakh in medium range hospitals too. The hospitals should be made to collect fees which were fixed recently by the government," he added.
18 August 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of recoveries crosses the 20,000-mark in the district||There appears to be a few bright spots in the fight against COVID-19 in the district. The number of discharges from hospitals, COVID Care Centres and home isolation have crossed the 20,000-mark, while the active positive cases are around 4,700, as on Monday. The number of discharges have gone up in the last 10 days and this has given some breathing space to the district administration. “Today in the hospitals we have over 3,000 vacant beds and in the CCC the number of vacant beds are over 4,000,” said district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. “The district, especially the city, has been seeing a spike in cases in the last five to six weeks. On July 1, the total number of cases was around 900 and as on Monday the tally was 25,212. The district recorded over 14,000 cases in the last 16 days. But the number of discharges has gone up from 2,000 to 20,000 in the last two weeks,” said Dr. Sudhakar. But despite the vacancy of beds increasing, the administration has decided to continue with the rule of admitting patients only with symptoms of Hypoxia (drop in oxygen level) and Dyspnea (breathlessness). This is crucial, as beds have to be reserved only for critical care and high- risk patients. The rest, mild to moderate cases can be treated at CCC or at home isolation, said Dr. Sudhakar. Denotified clusters Another bright spot is the increase in denotified clusters. From 39 denotified clusters, it has gone up to 171 in the last 10 days. This indicates that there have been no cases reported from some dormant clusters in the last 28 days. While denotified clusters have increased rapidly, there is a marginal increase in the very active clusters from 130 to 149, in the last 10 days. Drawing inference from the statistics, Dr. Sudhakar explained that new clusters are not being added in the rate that was happening in the last one month. “Most of the cases that we are recording now are from the existent very active or active clusters. This indicates that the spread is slowly getting limited to the existent clusters,” he said. To tackle the spread in the existent clusters, the district administration has laid out the strategy of test, track and treat. The case have also increased due the enhanced level of testing, added Dr. Sudhakar.
18 August 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third alert sounded as flood situation worsens||The third warning was issued by the River Conservator (Godavari-Andhra Pradesh) as the flood level of 17.75 feet was recorded over the crest of the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage (SAC) at Dowleswaram at 3 p.m. on Monday. The discharge stood at 19.21 lakh cusecs. According to the office of the Godavari Flood Conservator (SAC-Andhra Pradesh), the flood status is termed ‘dangerous’ when it reaches 17.75 feet. In 2013 August, the flood level of 19 feet was recorded, it was 23.75 feet in August 1990 and in August 2006, it was 22.80 feet. The highest level of 35 feet was recorded during the 1986 flood since the construction of the barrage at Dowleswaram. “The river flows at a higher level during the flood and due to this, the entire length of the flood bank (in East and West Godavari districts) needs continuous monitoring, ” advises the Flood Contingency Plan for River Godavari-2020. The irrigation authorities are releasing 5,500 cusecs into the delta canals; 2,500 cusecs into the eastern delta, 2,000 cusecs into the western delta and 1,000 cusecs into the central delta. The branches of the River Godavari downstream the SAC are in full flow before joining the Bay of Bengal. Gowthami, flowing in the south eastern direction, splits into two branches — Vridha Gowthami and Coringa — before joining the sea at Yanam and Kakinada Bay respectively. Vasistha, another branch of the Godavari, divides into two branches before joining the Bay of Bengal at Kakinada Bay and Narasapuram respectively. Minister surveys scene The release of flood water resulted in inundation of a stretch of island villages such as Ganti Pedapudi Lanka, Voodimoodi Lanka, Aratigelavaripeta, Boorugu Lanka and Gurajapu Lanka in the Konaseema region. B.C. Welfare Minister Ch.Venu Gopala Krishna and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy took stock of the situation in P. Gannavaram mandal. “All measures are in place to prevent any loss of life in Konaseema region,” said the Minister.
18 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVVU bags two global research projects||Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU), Tirupati, has secured two international collaborative research projects. Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy and Dean T.S. Chandrasekhara Rao on Monday announced the details of the projects that are believed to take the varsity’s reputation far and wide. SVVU’s NTR College of Veterinary Science, Gannavaram, collaborates with the Royal Veterinary College, London and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana for the project titled ‘Modelling exposure to biological hazards in the dairy chains of Andhra Pradesh to inform food safety policy’. Associate professor T. Srinivasa Rao will be the principal investigator for the Rs. 1.80 crore project, funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the U.K. Department for International Development. The study focusses on ways to improve milk hygiene and reduce food-borne diseases, while the data generated can be used by the government in public health monitoring and aid farmers in dairy management. The second project ‘Lab on wheels: an innovative point-of-care test to diagnose Chlamydiales in One Health setting’, involving a financial outlay of Rs. 1.07 crore, aims at detection of the bacteria in poultry samples, workers in poultry farm and processing plants through mass spectrometry. The bacteria, which is transmitted from birds, can cause infertility in humans and hence is considered a high impact study. Dr. Reddy and Dr. Rao congratulated Dr. Srinivasa Rao for the accomplishment.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JV bags bid for Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme||A joint venture comprising Subhash Projects and Marketing (SPML), an infrastructure development company, and others has emerged as a successful bidder for the contract for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS). The Water Resources Department opened the price bids submitted by the infrastructure companies on Monday. While the estimated contract value (ECV) as per detailed estimates is Rs. 3,278.18 crore, the JV partners submitted the proposals with 1.9% excess, which took the bid to Rs. 3,340.47 crore. After reverse tendering and auction, the final bid came to Rs. 3,307.07 crore, which is 0.88% excess than the ECV. Navayuga stood in the second position by quoting 1.40% excess. The technical bids were evaluated on August 12. While Navayuga and Max Infra filed the proposals as individual firms, the SPML-led JV partners submitted the bids. The government had on July 27 invited bids for building the RLIS in the Engineering, Procurement and Construction(EPC) mode. The initial benchmark (IBM) value of the project as per the tender document is Rs. 3,278.15 crore. The government plans to draw 3 tmcft of water from the Srisailam reservoir to meet the drinking and irrigation needs of the critically and chronically drought-prone areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts. CM takes the lead The government targets to complete the project in 30 months. The Telangana government contends that the RLIS, proposed to divert substantial Krishna waters outside the basin, will adversely affect the interests of its farmers. The Krishna River Management Board, in July last week, directed the Andhra Pradesh government not to proceed ahead with the tender process for the RLIS till it was appraised by the Board and the Central Water Commission and also sanctioned by the Apex Council. Subsequently, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy urged the Centre to lift the embargo imposed on the RLIS and facilitate A.P. to go ahead with the project.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM focuses on pre-primary education||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the government is keen on reforming the pre-primary education system and the transition will start with the revision of 1st class syllabus in anganwadi centres, which will henceforth be called 'YSR Pre-Primary Schools'. At a review meeting on pre-primary education on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stressed the need for a complete overhaul of the education system, right from the kindergarten level, to achieve the desired results. He directed the officials to improve the facilities in YSR Pre-Primary Schools, especially drinking water and toilets, under the Nadu-Nedu programme. Infrastructure augmentation in these schools was estimated to cost Rs. 4,000 crore, the Chief Minister said and instructed the officials of the Finance Department to mobilise funds for the purpose. He also suggested that refrigerators be arranged in the schools to store food items that have relatively long shelf life. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted due priority to be given to faculty training in order to improve the standards of teaching. Women and Child Welfare Minister T. Vanitha and Commissioner Kruthika Shukla were among those present.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI recuses himself from ‘three capitals’ case||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde adjourned to August 19 the hearing on the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by the State government for a stay on the status quo imposed by the High Court on the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts. The adjournment came after the Chief Justice recused himself from the case to avoid a possible conflict arising from his daughter’s representation of a private party in a petition on the three capitals matter in the High Court. Justices Bobde, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian were hearing arguments on the SLP when an advocate brought to the Chief Justice’s notice that his daughter Rukmini Bobde was the counsel for a petitioner in the same matter (Decentralisation and CRDA Repeal Acts) in the A.P. High Court. Status quo for 10 days With this, Justice Bobde withdrew himself from the case. The SLP will now be heard by a different bench on the given date. The High Court granted status quo for 10 days on the impugned legislations on August 4 and subsequently extended it till August 27.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu flays ACP’s remarks on actor’s post||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former chief minister N. Chandrababu Naidu objected to the comments made by Vijayawada South Zone ACP N. Suryachandra Rao on film actor Ram Pothineni. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Naidu condemned the manner in which the ACP ‘threatened’ to serve notices to Mr. Ram for posting a comment on Twitter. “It amounted to violation of freedom of expression. A Tweet is also being considered an obstruction to the investigation in an unacceptable manner,” he said.  The TDP chief described the latest incident as another instance of how fundamental rights were being denied to people in Andhra Pradesh. There was no freedom to express one’s opinions. “Suppressing all dissenting voices would go down as a big blot on our democracy,” he said. Mr. Ram’s recent Twitter post on the Swarna Palace Covid Care Centre fire created a furore in the State. Consequently, ACP Suryachandra Rao had warned of serving notices if the actor continued obstructing the investigation into the fire mishap which left 10 patients dead and several injured.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three injured as car catches fire||Three persons suffered burns when the car in which were travelling went up in flames at Bharati Nagar here on Monday night. They were admitted to hospital where the condition of one person was stated to be critical. According to the Patamata police, Venugopal Reddy and his partners— Krishna Reddy, Gangadhar and Nagamalli —were in the real estate business for the past few years. They were also in the cars sales business. However, they suffered losses, and Venugopal Reddy asked the trio to meet him near a hotel near the New Government Hospital. After meeting his partners, Venugopal Reddy alighted from the car which caught fire. Onlookers broke open the doors and pulled the passengers out. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said a few persons were taken into custody in connection with the incident. Police are trying to establish the cause.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Hospitals MD seeks anticipatory bail||Dr. P. Ramesh Babu, managing director of Ramesh Hospitals, who is absconding along with the owners of Hotel Swarna Palace, soon after the fire mishap in the hotel-turned COVID Care Centre, filed a petition in court on Monday for anticipatory bail. Ten patients died and 20 others injured in the fire accident occurred in the COVID Care Centre, run by the management of Ramesh Hospitals at Eluru Road in the city on August 9. The accused have been at large for the last nine days. The hospital managing director filed the anticipatory bail petition in the Eighth Additional District Magistrate Court. The hearing was adjourned to August 21. The Governorpet police registered a case against the hospital and hotel management on the charges of negligence, homicide not amounting to murder and other charges. As many as 31 patients and ten hospital staff members were present in the care centre, when fire broke out in the ground floor of the hotel. A team, comprising the officials of the Police, Revenue, Medical and Health, AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services departments, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) was constituted to find out violations and lapses in running the COVID Care Centre by the hospital management. However, Ramesh Babu, in a press release said the hospital management, was not responsible for the incident and it was the responsibility of the hotel owners to take care of the patients.  Probe conducted Investigation teams conducted probe separately on the fire safety, COVID-19 protocol, fees collected from the patients, agreement made between the hospital and hotel managements, fire NOC, building plan, absence of fire-fighting equipment and other issues. The South Zone police, who are investigating the case, arrested Ramesh Hospitals general manager K. Sudershan, chief operating officer K. Rajagopala Rao and COVID Care Centre manager Venkatesh. They questioned Guntur branch chief operating officer Dr. R. Mamatha and others in the case. Meanwhile, the arrested hospital staff filed a bail petition in the lower court, and the arguments on the petition were adjourned to August 21. Officials probing into fire safety, COVID-19 protocol, fee pattern and other aspects reportedly found that both Ramesh Hospitals and Hotel Swarna Palace managements violated the norms and acted negligently causing the fire mishap.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PIL filed in High Court over phone tapping allegations||N.N. Grace, a resident of Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam, district filed a PIL in the High Court on Monday praying for an independent inquiry by a special investigation team of the CBI into the alleged tapping of phones belonging to some judges of the High Court and advocates who are arguing various cases against the State government. It is likely to be heard on August 18 (Tuesday) . Petitioner’s counsel J. Sravan Kumar said the action (tapping/keeping phones of the judges and advocates under surveillance) of the respondents (Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary-Home and the Director-General of Police) is in violation of the Telegraph Act, 1885, guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in People's Union for Civil Liberties V/s Union of India and the fundamental right of privacy embodied under Articles 14, 16, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The court has been requested to direct the CBI SP in Visakhapatnam, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, Internet Service Providers' Association and CEOs of BSNL, Reliance Jio Infocomm, Vodafone-Idea and Airtel not to accept requests by any government agency for tapping the phone of any person except in accordance with procedures established by law. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Departments of Telecommunications, Information Technology and Information & Broadcasting are among the respondents in the case.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP asks Naidu to lodge police complaint||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has asked TDP chief and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu to file a police complaint on the alleged phone tapping episode. Clarifying that no such complaint has been received by the police from any person in this regard, Mr. Sawang in a letter to Mr. Naidu on Monday, said as the allegations are grave in nature and related to violation on Indian Telegraphic Act, 1885, and Information Technology Act, 2000, it would be better to file a police complaint for taking the necessary action. The police are committed to protecting the rights of all citizens guaranteed by the the Constitution of India, the DGP said and appealed to Mr. Naidu to cooperate in protecting the rights of the people and uphold the Rule of Law.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC refuses to vacate HC order on house sites||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to vacate the suspension ordered by the High Court on implementation of G.O. 107 issued on February 25 through which the government proposed to allot house sites for the poor in the then CRDA area . A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde upheld the High Court’s suspension order and directed the government to get the issue resolved in the High Court itself. The government had issued orders to make the necessary changes in the CRDA master plan for allotting house sites and published a gazette notification, but the High Court suspended it. The government filed an SLP in the apaex court seeking vacation of the High Court’s order, but to no avail.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help desk set up for the flood-affected||The civic body has set up a 24-hour help desk to address the concerns of those affected by floods and heavy rain in the city. People can dial 0866-2424172 or WhatsApp to 8181960909 and register their grievance, be it stagnation of water on roads, flooding, drainage overflow, landslide or boulders rolling down on the hillslope areas. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that the help desk would be available round-the-clock and teams have been deployed to address issues of the residents.
18 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline staff felicitated||Andhra Pradesh JAC of Employees, Teachers, Workers and Retired Employees Association’s Krishna district (West) chapter president A. Vidya Sagar demanded that the government extend support and encouragement to government employees posted on COVID duties across departments. The association felicitated a few nurses and medical staff who have been rendering services for the past five months at APNGO Home on Monday.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension prevails as farmer makes suicide bid at Tahsildar’s office||A tense situation prevailed at the Tahsildar Office, when a farmer allegedly attempted suicide, at S. Rayavaram in the district on Monday. Polavarapu Kannayya of Pedapuppalam village owned 1.13 cents of land in Survey no. 304. On the death of Kannayya in 2007, his son P. Ramana, applied for transfer of the passbook on his name. The revenue officials while transferring the property on his name, registered the extent as 0.77 cents, instead of 1.13 cents. Ramana was illiterate and did not notice the discrepancy. His sons, Appa Rao and Nookaraju had been making rounds to the VRO Eswara Rao along with the documents for the last eight months, without any result. Later, they came to know that the 0.36 cents of land was registered in the name of P. Appalakonda of the same village reportedly after taking bribe from him. They questioned the VRO on it and he reportedly replied in a reckless manner. Vexed that there was no way of getting back their lost land, Nookaraju poured diesel on himself in a bid to take the extreme step but was prevented from doing so by those around him. Tahsildar Satyanarayana advised Nookaraju to lodge a complaint. Those who in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner assumes charge||Manish Kumar Sinha took charge as Police Commissioner here on Monday from Rajeev Kumar Meena. Prior to this, the 2000-batch IPS officer was posted as Intelligence Chief of the State. Mr. Meena has been asked to report at the police headquarters in Amravati. Mr. Sinha, who earlier had a stint in the CBI had investigated the allegations against Rakesh Asthana, the then number two in CBI. It may be remembered that he was also in charge of the bank scam investigations against jeweller Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi. Taking charge, Mr. Sinha said that policing would continue in the fair manner as set earlier and within legal framework. He thanked the authorities concerned for giving him the opportunity to work in a big city such as Visakhapatnam. He also said that focus will be paid on the ongoing cases.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. student drowns in Sariya waterfalls||A 20-year-old engineering student from Visakhapatnam reportedly drowned in Sariya waterfalls in Valasi village near Devarapalle in Anantagiri mandal of Visakhapatnam district, on Sunday evening. The missing student has been identified as S. Meenank. a third-year engineering student from a private college. According Araku Circle Inspector Pydaiah, four students from Visakhapatnam reached the waterfalls on Sunday evening and Meenank has gone missing, after they ventured into the waterfalls. The other three are said to be safe As per the police, the locals at Devarapalle and Valasi village tried to stop them from going towards the waterfalls, as there was heavy flow of water due to the rains. They also erected barricades on the approach roads to keep away outsiders due to COVID-19 pandemic, but they bypassed the barricades and sped away towards the falls, said Mr. Pydaiah. The body has been traced on Monday evening and sent to Chodavaram area hospital for post-mortem. A case under suspicious death has been booked by the police.
18 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Junior advocates asked to register names for stipend||Junior advocates can register their names on the websitehttps://ysrlawnestham. ap.gov.intill August 25 for getting a stipend of Rs. 5,000 a month under the YSR Law Nestham scheme. The website will be opened once in three months for registration, according to a statement issued by the Joint Director of the Social Welfare Department, Visakhapatnam, on Monday.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve services at VIMS, Collector directs officials||District Collector V. Vinay Chand directed the officials to improve the services at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). He visited VIMS on Monday and inspected the amenities at the hospital and the services being extended to patients. He interacted with Director K. Satyavara Prasad and other officials and inspected the wards through CCTV. He asked officials to add to the amenities at the hospital.
18 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smuggler gives police the slip||A ganja smuggler Mittipalli Nageswara Rao, who was nabbed on charges of ganja storage and peddling, managed to escape from New Port Police Station here on Sunday. However, the incident came to light on Monday morning. The City Task Force (CTF) police along with New Port police raided a house at Gandhinagar near Peda Gantyada area here on Saturday night and arrested Nageswara Rao and seized 486 kg of dry ganja worth Rs. 36 lakh from him. Nageswara Rao and the seized ganja was handed over to the New Port police for further investigation.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more succumb to coronavirus||The district recorded 519 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday taking the total count to 25,739 cases so far, since the outbreak of the pandemic. With the new cases, the total active cases stand at 4,576 and discharges go up to 20,983 with 705 new discharges on Monday. Five more persons died due to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 180. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, very active clusters are 149 and the active and dormant clusters are 73 and 515 respectively. Already 171 clusters have been denotified.
18 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-corporator’s hubby ‘ends life’||Former Corporator Peela Umarani’s husband Srinivas allegedly committed suicide at the Duvvada Railway Station on Monday. He reportedly mixed pesticide in a soft drink and consumed it. A suicide note was found at the spot. The body was sent to the Anakapalle hospital for post-mortem. Police suspect that property disputes could have resulted in Srinivas taking the extreme step. Those with suicidal tendencies can call dial police helpline no. 100.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perched on top||
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colourful offer||
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Filled to the brim||
18 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||4,659 people evacuated from flood affected villages||As the Godavari surged past 61 feet level, about eight feet above the danger mark, at Telangana’s temple town of Bhadrachalam on Monday evening, the swirling flood waters of the river marooned dozens of villages in Agency areas and snapped road link to interior tribal habitations along the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The water level in the river reached 61.5 feet at 7 pm on Monday, almost equaling the previous high of 61.6 feet recorded on August 3, 2013. The highest ever water level recorded at Bhadrachalam site was 75.6 feet on August 16 in 1986, followed by 70.8 feet on August 24, 1990, 66.9 feet on August 6 in 2006, and 63.5 feet on August 14, 1983. A state of high alert has been sounded across the flood prone and affected areas as the Godavari poised to peak to 65 feet due to incessant rains in the catchment areas and heavy inflows from its tributaries and barrages in the upstream region in the next 12 hours, sources said. As many as 4,659 people living in flood affected villages were evacuated to 76 flood relief camps in eight Agency mandals including Bhadrachalam, Charla, Dummugudem, Burgampadu, Aswapuram, Manuguru, Pinapaka and Karakagudem on Monday. Around 42 houses were damaged under the impact of heavy downpour and flooding in several low lying areas in the Agency mandals of the district in the last 24 hours, sources added. The road link between the divisional headquarters town of Bhadrachalam and Charla, Bhadrachalam-Kunavaram, the agency mandal of Andhra Pradesh, and various other tribal areas remained cut off for the second consecutive day due to flooding of low-level road points. The backwaters of the Godavari surrounded the main streets abutting the karakatta (flood bank) and caused water-logging in the vicinity of the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple complex. Collector M V Reddy camped in Bhadrachalam to personally monitor the flood situation and deployment of emergency response personnel for flood relief and rescue operations. Additional Collector D Anudeep visited some flood affected habitations in Pinapaka constituency in a boat and oversaw the evacuation of people inhabiting the low-lying areas to the relief camps at Nellipakabanzar and Seetharamapuram in Aswapuram mandal. The authorities have made control rooms fully operational in all the Agency mandals facing the threat of deluge to ensure prompt flood relief operations in view of the alarmingly rising water level in the Godavari. The NDRF and fire services department teams have been deployed in the flood prone areas to deal with the flood event. Official sources said the staff manning the flood relief camps have been asked to strictly adhere to coronavirus preventive measures to avert spread of the dreaded virus infection.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Local or community transmission, TS must keep up intensity of action’||Telangana’s Directorate of Public Health had stated last month that they have observed transmission of the virus in “communities”. But this is not the same as “community transmission” as technically defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO differentiates between “community” and “local transmission”. A country/ region is said to be in the stage of community transmission if there is inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases or by increased positive tests through sample testing, explained Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy. Chain mostly discernible For most cases in Telangana, the transmission chain is discernible and it is only in a smaller proportion of cases that the contact for transmission is unclear. Many cases have been traced to ‘super-spreading parties’. However, whether “local transmission or community transmission”, intensity of action will have to be maintained by the State irrespective of the phase of transmission, he said. The public health expert said a recent study from San Francisco observed that 71% of the transmission occurs in households, 17% in neighbourhood and 12% in the workplace. Masks reduce effective transmission by 8.6%., US statistical analysis showed that countries following recommendation of limiting gatherings to ≤10 people lowered the growth rate of COVID-19 significantly more as compared to counties which did not implement the guideline. Data from 149 countries showed that the incidence of COVID-19 decreased by an average of 13% in association with physical distancing interventions. No evidence was found of additional benefits from closure of public transport when four other physical distancing measures — school closures, workplace closures, restrictions on mass gatherings, and lockdown were in place. Earlier implementation of lockdown was associated with a larger reduction in the incidence of COVID-19, said Dr. Murthy. In the UK, models using data from more than 40,000 people estimated that combined isolation and tracing strategies would reduce transmission more than mass testing or self-isolation alone. Mass random testing of 5% of the population each week will lead to 2% transmission reduction. Self-isolation alone of symptomatic cases within the household will lead to a 29% transmission reduction. This increased to 35% for self-isolation alone outside the household, 37% for self-isolation plus household quarantine, 64% for self-isolation and household quarantine with the addition of manual contact tracing of all contacts; 57% with the addition of manual tracing of acquaintances.  In Brazil, a social isolation index was calculated and it was seen that on average, every 10% increase in the isolation index was associated with 26% fewer cases of COVID-19 and 18% fewer deaths. Another study observed that, if 80% of the population wears a moderately effective mask, nearly half of the projected deaths over the next two months could be prevented in the US. Other studies also show that use of face masks by the general public is potentially of high value in curtailing community transmission. Greatest benefits are when face masks are used in conjunction with other practices like social distancing and when adoption is nearly universal and compliance is high. This shows how beneficial conventional wisdom can control the pandemic, he added.
18 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Illegal Mephedrone manufacturing unit raided||The sleuths of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence recently raided a Mephedrone manufacturing unit on the outskirts of Hyderabad and arrested three people, including the kingpin of the gang, who was illegally manufacturing the psychotropic substance, which is banned under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act). They seized 142.6 kg of Mephedrone valued at Rs. 28.52 crore and 31 kg of Ephedrine worth Rs. 3.1 crore, apart from 250 kg of psychotropic drugs and raw materials worth Rs. 50 crore. US dollars and EU currency equivalent to Rs. 45 lakh was also seized. “One such consignment of Mephedrone sent from Hyderabad was intercepted at Mumbai. The consignment had been loaded in a private passenger bus as cargo with no persons accompanying it, to ensure that even if the consignment was caught, no individuals could be linked to it,” the DRI officials said. However, in a series of swift follow-up raids, the recipients of the consignment in Mumbai were identified and their premises, including a drug manufacturing laboratory in a residential premises, raided by the DRI, resulting in recovery of Mephedrone and Ketamine. According to them, the mastermind, who was illegally manufacturing the drugs, was arrested in Hyderabad and other two persons were arrested in Mumbai.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Encroachments: HC questions laxity||Telangana High Court on Monday sought to know from the State government if it had formulated any guidelines or policies on protection of water bodies spread over different parts of the State. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy suggested to the government to include a Deputy Superintendent of Police in Lake Protection Committees so that a tab can be kept on encroachments of water bodies. The bench was hearing a PIL plea on alleged encroachments of Peddacheruvu in Khajaguda of Serilingampally in Ranga Reddy district. The plea was filed by social activist Lubna Sarwath seeking intervention of the HC to protect Peddacheruvu. The petitioner charged that officials of Roads and Buildings and Municipal Administration began the work of laying a concrete road through the Full Tank Level area of Peddacheruvu. Hearing contentions of the petitioner’s counsel, the bench asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad as to why Ranga Reddy district Collector did not inspect lakes in his jurisdiction. “Why is the district Collector so lax?...why he does not inspect lakes falling under Ranga Reddy district,” the bench said. Expressing dissatisfaction over the response of the Collector on the matter, the CJ said the AG should at least speak to the Collector on the alleged rampant encroachments of water bodies in the district. “This is the fifth PIL on the same issue the High Court is hearing,” the bench said. It instructed the AG to place before it all details pertaining to lake encroachments by September 8.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||45 relief camps opened in ULBs||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has stated that the government has opened 45 relief camps in the urban local bodies (ULBs) to provide shelter to people facing inundation. He explained at a meeting held by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here on Monday that as many as 4,750 people were shifted to relief camps in Warangal city alone. Besides, a total of 1,898 houses in dilapidated condition were identified across the State and the people dwelling there were also shifted to relief camps during the past few days in the wake of heavy rains and floods. Stating that the government had set up disaster relief force in Hyderabad two years ago and they have 50 fully equipped vehicles to deal with natural disasters. Similar force was also being used to handle the present situation of flooding in Warangal and Karimnagar civic bodies. The force was all prepared to deal with disaster situations anywhere in the State, he noted. Besides, monsoon emergency teams were also set up in all cities and towns for swift response in the event of any disaster situation.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At least 37 patients at IMH test positive||At least 37 patients admitted to Institute of Mental Health (IMH), Erragadda, have tested positive for COVID-19. Of them, nine were admitted to Gandhi Hospital, and the rest isolated at IMH as their condition was not serious. Doctors from Government General and Chest Hospital are monitoring their health condition. IMH, the largest health facility in Telangana for patients with mental illness, has around 280 patients admitted. It is a challenge for patients in the wards to maintain physical distancing as some of them are closed wards. Screening from Aug. 13 IMH Superintendent M. Uma Shankar said since some staff members and doctors were diagnosed with COVID-19, the patients were screened starting from August 13. Four nurses, one assistant professor, a senior resident doctor, a post graduate student, and a male nursing officer (MNO) were found to have the infection. Except the assistant professor and the MNO, others have recovered and resumed duties.  Besides, some of the patients with physical ailments were taken to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) where COVID suspects are admitted for diagnosis and treatment. However, IMH administration said it cannot conclude source of infection as many new patients were admitted. The administration started to receive results of the tests performed on their in-patients from Saturday afternoon. On the whole, 37 patients tested positive, including three on Monday. Results of more are awaited. “Till now, 37 patients have been detected with coronavirus. The last phase of screening patients is on. Condition of none of the patients with COVID-19 is serious. If the condition of any isolated patient at the institute turns serious, they will be shifted either to Chest Hospital or Gandhi Hospital,” Dr Uma Shankar said. Though some of the patients do not have photo ID cards or phone numbers, IMH administration took up the initiative of getting them tested.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clinical efficacy of COVID drugs still being explored||Only Remdesivir and Dexamethasone drugs have demonstrated a positive response in a randomised trial till date, said PHFI’s Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy. Yet, clinical effectiveness of IV Remdesivir, a drug used for Ebola infection in the past and now for treatment of COVID-19, and its potential side effects remain inconclusive. Recent extensive systematic reviews of Hydroxychloroquine use showed its use was not associated with benefit or harm in relation to COVID-19 mortality. ACCORD trial has recently been registered and will study the efficacy of various drugs, including Bemcentinib, MEDI3506, Acalabrutinib, Zilucoplan and Nebulised Heparin, in hospitalised patients across countries. Other drugs that have been tried are Azithromycin, Chloroquine, Anakinra, Baricitinib, Favipiravir, Interferons, Ivermectin, Lopinavir, Losartan, Methylprednisolone, Nitazoxanide, Ritonavir, Toculizumab, Umifenovir, Vitamin C and Vitamin D. World Health Organisation (WHO) has not strongly recommended any specific drug for treatment and hence, clinical management of COVID-19 with a specific medication is still under investigation. Only advisories have been issued by the WHO, Center for Disease Control and Food and Drug Administration. Clinical trials are being conducted with COVID convalescent plasma to treat patients with severe or immediately life-threatening infection. This is not intended for the prevention of the infection, he said.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||290 rain-related complaints in GHMC||GHMC has received a total of 290 grievances pertaining to incessant rain for four days. On Monday, the corporation got a total of 107 grievances, pertaining to water logging, building or wall collapse, fallen trees, branches and repairs to road. The complaints were received via GHMC call centre, Dial 100 and My GHMC app. Of the 290 grievances, 97 pertained to tree falls and 25 to fall of tree branches. Complaints pertaining to road condition were 101, and to water logging, 52. The remaining were related to building/wall collapse, and dilapidated structures. Monsoon emergency teams attended to the complaints and solved them, a press release from GHMC informed. Besides, the Disaster Response Force teams too, 16 in number, were on the field and performed rescue and relief operations in three shifts, it said. GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar has instructed all the Zonal and Deputy Commissioner to be on constant vigil during rains.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||British Airways flights to London resume from RGIA||Hyderabad International Airport got re-connected with London Heathrow from August 17 onwards under the air transport bubbles as part of the efforts of the Central government with other countries to restart the international air connectivity. First flight of British Airways (BA 276), a Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner wide-bodied aircraft, took off with passengers early on Monday morning from Hyderabad Airport to Heathrow, London at around 7.50 a.m. The UK-based airlines will be operating four times weekly every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR, Eatala for Warangal today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday reviewed the situation in Warangal city witnessing flooding for the last couple of days at a high-level official meeting here. He asked Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and Eatala Rajender to visit the historical city to take stock of the situation on Tuesday. According to officials, the two Ministers would reach Warangal by helicopter on Tuesday morning and visit the areas inundated, review the relief and rehabilitation measures and also visit the MGM Hospital Ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Satyavathi Rathod, who are already camping there, would also join the two Ministers. After the visit of flooded colonies and other areas, the two Ministers would hold a review meeting with district officials to discuss rains, floods and COVID-19 situation and the action to be taken.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monsoon session of Assembly from Sept. 7||The State Government has taken a decision to hold the monsoon session of the Legislature from September 7. The decision was taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at a high-level meeting held on Monday. According to the officials of Chief Minister’s Office, the monsoon session is expected to discuss several key issues and take up several bills and resolutions and announcement of a few policy decisions. The Chief Minister and other Ministers who attended the meeting felt that the session should at least have 15 working days. The Chief Minister asked the Ministers and officials to be prepared to give proper information to the members and people from the floor of the Assembly and Council. He instructed Minister for Legislative Affairs Vemula Prashanth Reddy and Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Acharyulu to make arrangements so as to maintain social distance.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HGA to be made world class facility||Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud appealed to the officials of the Hyderabad Golf Association to submit a detailed proposal to develop the picturesque golf course adjoining the historic Golconda Fort into a world-class facility. The Minister went around the golf course and stressed the need to make the course, spread over 213 acres, into something which should be synonymous with Brand Hyderabad. Earlier on Sunday evening, the Sports Minister visited SAI-Gopi Chand Academy at Gachibowli and interacted with the players and the support staff, including chief national coach P. Gopi Chand.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineers told to take up restoration of damaged roads||Minister for Roads & Buildings Vemula Prashanth Reddy instructed engineers of the departments to take up restoration of roads damaged in the rains and floods so that no inconvenience is caused to road transport. In a meeting with Principal Secretary Sunil Sharma, Engineers-in-Chief I. Ganapathi Reddy and P. Ravinder Rao and other senior engineers, the Minister enquired about the roads and bridges damaged during the rains and floods for the past few days. He told them to prepare estimates for restoration of damaged roads and bridges and take up works after getting section. The Ministers asked the engineers to prepare estimates for permanent repairs and the works needed to be taken up immediately. He told the engineers on the field to be available in their headquarters and work in coordination with other departments.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Memorial award for medical students||Health, Education and Sports (HES) Society on Monday announced ‘Dr. KVR Prasad Memorial Award’ in memory of the society’s founder and city-based physician Dr. KVR Prasad who lost his battle against COVID-19 on July 2. The award would be presented to medical students who are eligible for admission in a medical college on merit but cannot afford to pay the fee. Society’s members said they will take care of the student’s undergraduation fee for four years. Eligible candidates who secured a merit seat through NEET UG in a government medical college in Telangana and have a family income of less than Rs. 1 lakh per annum may apply through ‘http://hes society.org/drkvrprasad/’. Dr Prasad established Sridevi Nursing Home, Sithaphalmandi, and continued to attend patients even when COVID cases were on the rise.
18 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CP urges citizens to celebrate festival at home||Hyderabad police on Monday urged people to do Maatam of Muharram at their home. “Similarly, Ganesh pujas should be done at home. No idol installation or any event will be held at public places as directed by the government. Keep yourself and the city safe,” Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted.
18 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||10k free clay Ganeshas in Nalgonda||People celebrating Ganesh Chaturti across Nalgonda can get a free clay Ganesha on behalf of the district administration. But the numbers are limited, and the free idols will be given on first come, first served basis. District Collector Prashant J Patil said orders for about 10,000 clay idols of size up to eight inch each were placed. According to officials, Nalgonda municipality will distribute 3000 idols, 2000 by Miryalaguda, and Halia, Chandur, Chityal, Nandikonda and Devarakonda authorities will distribute 1,000 idols each.
18 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||New electric scooter model ‘ETrance+’ launched||The IITH-incubated start-up PURE EV launched its latest electric scooter model ‘ETrance+’ at an ex-showroom price of Rs. 56,999. Demo video on https://fromsmash. com/PURE-EV-ETRANCE-Model-Demo-Video.
18 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Heavy rains lash Siddipet district||On Monday, a vehicle crossing a stream Thadkapally village in Nanganoor mandal lost control and was washed away in flood water. While three persons managed to come out of the vehicle and climbed a tree and were saved by locals. They were identified as B Sridhar, J. Suresh and A. Srinivas natives of Siddipet district. Driver who went missing was identified as J. Srinivas (33) of Rajanna- Sircilla district.) After climbing the tree they contacted Rajagopalpet sub-inspector who in turn alerted locals and police personnel. Siddipet ACP Rameshwar and Cheriyal Circle Inspector Srinivas Reddy rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operations. Two days ago a lorry from Husnabad to Siddpet was washed away at Baswapur bridge in Koheda mandal. All the efforts by the officials to save him failed and he is yet to be traced. Very recently, a fisherman at Matindla village drowned in a check dam These three incidents indicate the serious impact of the heavy rains that have lashed the erstwhile Medak district. From the day one of heavy rains, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has been monitoring the situation and alerting the officials over the incidents. In view of the heavy rains and overflowing of tanks and streams, the officials have stopped the vehicle traffic between Siddipet and Warangal districts with immediate effect. It was estimated that crops in hundreds of acres got submerged in rain water the crop loss is still being estimated by the officials. At many places the agriculture fields are submerged and resemble tanks. In Siddipet district alone the crop loss was estimated to be three lakh acres. About 300 hundred houses were damaged 120 of them partially. In Sangareddy district crop was lost in about 1,500 acres at Vatpally, Nagalgidda, Manoor and Kalher mandals. The loss was limited in Medak district.
18 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||Incessant rain kills 7 in 2 days in Gujarat||Seven people were killed in rain-related incidents in Gujarat in the last two days as intense spells caused flooding and water-logging, prompting the government to deploy 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the State, officials said on Monday. Widespread rain lashed many areas in the State in the day, with Mandvi taluka in Surat receiving 249 mm between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. The Met department has predicted “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places” in different parts of the State during the next three days. “Seven people have died in various rain-related incidents in Gujarat on August 15 and 16. We have deployed 13 teams of the NDRF to tackle any emergency situation,” relief commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar. Heavy rain prompted authorities to suspend traffic on 195 roads, including 16 State highways, during the day, a government release said. Dolvan in Tapi district received 205 mm rainfall, followed by Talala in Gir-Somnath (180 mm), Valod in Tapi (156 mm), Vansda in Navsari (155 mm), Waghai in Dang (135 mm), Mahuva in Surat (132 mm), Vyara in Tapi (114 mm) and Jodia in Jamnagar (110 mm), the release said. Rain also lashed parts of arid Kutch district, including Mandvi (133 mm) and Mundra (132 mm), it said. The fresh spell of rain has lifted water stocks in several dams. Gujarat has so far received 79.44 per cent of its average annual rainfall, the release said. A high alert has been issued as 94 dams are 90% filled, while an alert has been sounded for 10 dams which are 80% to 90% full.
18 August 2020||Bhopal,||Domestic workers turn to construction work, selling vegetables in M.P.||In April, when Lata Tilwari turned up at the doorstep of households she had been working as a maid for seven years, a barrage of inquiries came her way: “Hope you are working at only our house?” “How can we pay you as much when our own earnings have crashed during the lockdown?” “You reside with your family in a crammed one-room house. Is it safe for us?” Eventually, she was asked to stay home until the pandemic subsided, despite the government easing restrictions. “I too may contract the illness from them. Yet earning a livelihood is more important,” said Ms. Tilwari, who lives in the Kathputli colony here. Her husband, who made Rs. 7,000 a month as a taxi driver, lost his job during the lockdown, and she could no longer bring home the Rs. 5,000 a month working in Nehru Nagar, a posh locality. So the couple bought a push cart and now sell vegetables. But their earnings have dropped by half to Rs. 200 a day. “At least we are not starving,” said Ms. Tilwari. Like her, thousands of women domestic workers in Madhya Pradesh, faced with uncertain working conditions, are turning to alternative livelihoods such as selling vegetables or construction work. The lucky ones manage to retain work at a household or two, forced to settle for lower wages, whereas others sit idle at home. Returning to their villages in Harda district, 180 km away, from where members of the Tilwari community migrated decades ago, is not viable. “Women don’t work as cobblers like our men do and we are landless. We came to cities to escape exploitative conditions in working in others’ fields,” said Phoolwati Thackeray. Women say the pandemic has “amplified untouchability” they faced at households. “We don’t get tea or water there any more . Memsahebs fear coming too close to us,” said Ms. Thackeray. At New Ambedkar Nagar, Rina Dhurve has now settled to cook for Rs. 2,500 for a family, half of what she made earlier. She was told to not visit other households. “Nearly 50 of the 400 domestic workers in the colony have taken up construction work,” said Jayshree Vakade, president, State Gharelu Kamgar Union. If women construction workers made Rs. 300 a day before the lockdown, Jyoti Ginare can now make only Rs. 200 a day.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Conditions in Mahul equal to those of a ‘gas chamber’: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has noted that conditions prevailing in Mahul, Ambapada, and Chembur are sometimes likened to that of a ‘gas chamber’, in an order passed last week directing four Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), Sea Lord Containers Limited (SLCL), and Aegis Logistics Limited (ALL) to pay fines of Rs. 286 crore for causing air pollution. An NGT bench of chairperson Justice Adarsh Goel, Justice S.P. Wangdi, and judicial member Satyawan Garbyal was hearing a plea on August 13, which sought execution of an NGT order passed on December 18, 2015, for controlling air pollution in the areas. The order relied upon a report submitted by KEM Hospital, Mumbai. ‘Major contributors’ The 61-page judgement said, “Major contributors to the air pollution were said to be the logistic services, storing of oil, gas and chemical items, and oil companies releasing emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) during loading, storage and unloading or handling of hazardous chemicals at various stages.” The Tribunal found that there was deterioration of ambient air quality causing threat to health of the residents. Accordingly, the Tribunal directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board to prepare a comprehensive action plan for control of air pollution. A health impact assessment study was directed to be carried out, apart from a VOC assessment study. The Tribunal issued other incidental directions for prevention and remedial action by the operators of various projects as well as regulatory authorities. The bench directed HPCL to pay Rs. 76.5 crore, BPCL to pay Rs. 67.5 crore, ALL to pay Rs. 142 crore, and SLCL to pay Rs. 0.2 crore, and held the companies responsible for released emissions of 199.9 kg per day, 176.57 kg per day, 372.54 kg per day and 0.53 kg per day, respectively. Action plan The NGT also directed a 10-member joint committee to be set up comprising two senior nominees of the Central Pollution Control Board, representative of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, State Pollution Control Board, District Magistrate, Mumbai, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Mumbai, KEM Hospital, Mumbai, and a nominee of health secretary, Maharashtra, to prepare an action plan for restoration measures spread over a span of time, not beyond five years. The State PCB will be the nodal agency and the finalisation and execution of the action plan may be overseen by Justice V.M. Kanade, former judge of the Bombay High Court. Medical report KEM Hospital had conducted a respiratory morbidity survey in Mahul and Ambapada villages and prepared a report on July 16, 2013. The report said that in Mahul, 67.1% population had complaints of breathlessness more than three times in a month, 76.3% reported the complaints in all season, 86.6% complained of eye irritation, and 84.5% had a history of persisting chocking sensation in chest. On pulmonary function testing, 7.3% of residents at Chereshwar CHS Limited in Mahul had mild restriction while 5% residents had mild obstruction. In Ambapada, 66.5 % reported cough as a complaint, 61.3% complained of eye irritation, 51.4% reported chocking sensation in chest, 53.3% had complaints of frequent colds and running nose, and 81% reported strong smell in the area.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Need direction to block access to user, social media platforms inform HC||Social media platforms told the Bombay High Court on Monday that if the Central government or the HC issued an order, they would block access to a supporter of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). The AIMIM supporter posted a video which allegedly could create communal hatred between Hindus and Muslims, using the novel coronavirus as a garb. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.J. Jamdar was hearing a criminal petition field by one Imran Khan, through advocate Vivek Shukla. Mr. Khan wanted the court to direct authorities to delete a video, and also permanently block AIMIM supporter Abu Faizal from social media platforms such as YouTube, Google, and Facebook. Mr. Khan contended in the plea that Mr. Faizal, in the said video, had claimed that media was being used to target Muslims and defame Islam under the garb of COVID-19. He said the video was uploaded on Mr. Faizal’s social media accounts and claimed that no action was taken by the police despite a complaint being filed. The petition said that the video alleged that a vicious campaign led by the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) was under way to control the Muslim population in the country. Mr. Khan also alleged that Mr. Faizal was seen provoking and encouraging Muslims to assault doctors of other religions. Senior counsel Darius Khambata representing Facebook and advocate Naresh Thacker appearing for YouTube told the court that the video uploaded by Mr. Faizal had been deleted. To this, Mr. Shukla said Mr. Faizal had uploaded several videos on social media even after the earlier clips were deleted. Mr. Khambata submitted that Facebook could block access of the site to Mr. Faizal if the Central government passed an order as per the procedure laid down under the Information Technology (IT) Act or if the HC ordered it to do so. Mr. Thacker said the URLs of the earlier videos uploaded by Mr. Faizal had been deleted. The Bench asked if Mr. Shukla approached the nodal officer appointed by the government under Section 69 A (power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource) of the IT Act. The court said, “The IT Act has laid down a procedure by which any person can approach the nodal officer if he or she has a complaint against any content posted on the internet. Why should the court interfere and pass orders?” The Bench has reserved its judgement in the plea. On May 24, the HC had directed all social media platforms to block the hate speech video made by Mr. Faizal.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC orders SIT to probe man’s death at hands of police during lockdown||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, to set up a special investigation team (SIT) consisting of two police officers within 24 hours to investigate the matter where four policemen allegedly assaulted a man to death for violating the lockdown in Vile Parle in March. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate Firdause Irani, which cited instances of police brutality inflicted on kirana shop and dairy store owners during the lockdown. The PIL said that uniformed police personnel without name and badges, accompanied by local youth and municipal workers in civil dress, were at the fore of committing acts of violence. Advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan representing Mr. Irani told the court that there were 13 videos that showed policemen assaulting people with lathis or slapping them without even asking the reason behind their travel. ‘Police brutality’ The Bench, however, said, “Police brutality is only one side of the coin. The truth is there are many amongst us who do not care about the lockdown guidelines and do not comply with the restrictions. There are black sheep everywhere.” Mr. Sankarnarayan contended that even if there were violators of the lockdown restrictions, this did not give the police the right to assault any person. The Bench then said it could not sit to decide in which case or situation the use of lathis, tear gas or force may be required. “Every case or situation cannot be painted with the same brush. If people violate laws, then they have to be dealt with strong hands,” the HC said. ‘Safeguard interests’ The Bench said that the police had been given the task to safeguard interests of the general public. “In such a situation, some policemen think just because they have a lathi they can use it.” The HC said, “Prima facie, the police have been dragging their feet and the situation that has since emerged leaves a lot to be desired. We have no option but to direct the Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, to constitute a SIT comprising two police officers of impeccable integrity and unquestionable competence. Such officers shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Police within 24 hours.” ‘Police report’ “We hope and trust that the SIT shall fairly, freely, efficiently and meaningfully conduct and complete the investigation and be in a position to place the police report by the time we assemble next on September 21,” the Bench said. The HC also asked Mr. Irani to submit his suggestions on how the police should handle such violators.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Cases doubled faster in Mumbai last week: BMC||The novel coronavirus cases doubled at a faster rate in Mumbai last week as compared to the previous week and the average growth rate of the viral infection also went up, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On August 8, the country’s financial capital recorded the slowest doubling rate of 89 days and the lowest growth rate of 0.79%. On Saturday, the rate of doubling became faster at 83 days and the average growth rate of COVID-19 cases rose to 0.84%. The average doubling rate in the city again slowed a bit on Sunday to 85 days and the growth rate decreased to 0.82%, as per figures of the BMC. The city’s D-ward, which includes areas like Peddar Road and Malabar Hill, had the fastest doubling rate of 50 days on Sunday, while the M-East ward, that includes Chembur (East) area, had the slowest doubling rate of 119 days. The D-ward also had the highest growth rate of 1.40%, while the M-East ward had the lowest growth rate of 0.58% as on Sunday. The average doubling and growth rates are calculated taking COVID-19 cases of the past seven days into consideration. Till Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,28,726 COVID-19 cases and 7,133 deaths due to the disease. n June 15, the city had an average doubling rate of 28 days and the average growth rate of 2.49%. On July 31, the doubling rate improved to 77 days and growth rate to 0.9%, according to BMC data.
18 August 2020||Mumbai,||Home awaits full-time bureaucrat, but two departments see abrupt transfers||While vital departments such as Home and Public Works Department (PWD) have no full-time secretaries, two other important departments dealing with the uplift of socially backward communities in Maharashtra are under the scanner for abrupt transfers of IAS officers. The State Home department has not seen a full-time bureaucratic in-charge for the last two years as the present Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government continues the tradition set by the previous Bharatiya Janata Party-led regime. Cabinet Minister of the Tribal Welfare department is senior Congress leader K.C. Padvi while the Social Justice department is led by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde. Following the transfer of Manisha Verma as secretary of the Tribal Welfare department, Vinita Ved-Singhal was appointed last month. Within 23 days after taking charge, she was transferred last week to the Labour department. Anup Kumar Yadav, a 2002 batch IAS officer, was appointed in her place in the Tribal Welfare department. In the Social Justice department, following the transfer of Dinesh Waghmare, the department’s charge was given to Parag Jain. Within a few months, Mr. Jain was transferred on Monday to be appointed as the secretary, Textile department, and S.A. Tagde was appointed as principal secretary, Social Justice department. There has been no full-time bureaucratic head for the Home department for the last two years, since the retirement of senior IAS officer K.P. Bakshi. Taking forward the previous government’s mode of functioning, the MVA government has given the additional charge to a senior IAS officer in the rank of additional chief secretary, Sitaram Kunte. The Home department is led by the NCP. Similarly, the PWD, which is with the Congress, has no full-time secretary. The responsibility is handled by Manoj Saunik, who is the additional chief secretary (finance). The charge of Tourism and Excise departments is shared by Valsa Nair Singh while Ashish Kumar Singh has the dual responsibility of Transport and the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). The Food and Civil Supply department has no full-time secretary while the post of vice-president of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority is lying vacant. When contacted, neither of the ministers commented on abrupt transfers. Sources in the ministers’ offices said that the decision on IAS transfers lies with the CMO.
18 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Kharkopar-Uran rail line work progresses during lockdown||Even as the clearance for a 4.479-hectare forest land by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), Navi Mumbai, is awaited, the Central Railway (CR) has moved ahead with the Kharkopar-Uran rail line project. The work on the 14.6-km Kharkopar–Uran stretch of the 27-km Belapur-Seawoods–Uran rail line has been going on in full speed even during the lockdown, the CR said. “The CR has completed and also speeded up several infrastructure projects amid the lockdown and unlock period. Amongst those major infra work speeded-up was the construction of the remaining 14.6-km Kharkopar–Uran line of the 27-km Belapur -Seawoods-Uran project. The completion of this entire line will cut the distance between Mumbai and Uran by almost 40% to 50%,” CR’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said. Of the whole route from Belapur to Uran, the Belapur-Kharkopar stretch was completed. Of the 14.3 km from Kharkopar to Uran, about 11 km from Gavhan to Uran was acquired by the CIDCO. However, a crucial three-km patch between Kharkopar and Gavhan is yet to be acquired by the CIDCO from the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change. On the acquired patch in the Kharkopar-Uran line, construction work is in progress at various sites with the help of pile boring machines, concrete placer booms, transit mixers, trippers, JCBs, Hydras, Poclains and Hydraulic Jacks. “The major construction activities under progress are superstructure work of cover over platform at Rajanpada station, foundation and sub-structure work at Nhava-Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran stations, subway work at Uran, bridge foundation work at Chainage 10975, stressing and lowering of U-girder at bridge 7982,” Mr. Sutar said. The stretch of Kharkopar–Uran line will have five stations, two major bridges, 41 minor bridges, two road under-bridges and four road overbridges.
18 August 2020||Srinagar,||We were not invited to I-Day events: J&K parties||J&K’s regional parties, including the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, have claimed that none of their top leaders was invited to the Independence Day functions, including the ‘At-Home’ event in Srinagar, presided by newly appointed Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha. “There was no invitation extended to our top leaders, former Ministers or legislators. This reflects arrogance... The act of not inviting us is to convey that local leadership is unwanted,” PDP leader Waheed Parra, who is under a house detention, told The Hindu over the phone. “There is a move by bureaucrats and police officers to stop any dialogue or a political process from taking shape,” he added. On August 15, Mr. Sinha addressed an I-Day function in Srinagar, but no one from the NC, the PDP, the Peoples Conference, the CPI(M), the J&K Peoples Movement or the Awami National Conference, among others, was present. However, BJP leaders and its former legislators did attend it. The spokesmen of the NC and the Peoples’ Conference of Sajad Lone also confirmed that their top leaders were not invited. “It’s an irony that the BJP leaders were allowed to celebrate August 5 and August 15 despite a curfew, but other parties are not allowed to even sit down to have a dialogue,” NC Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi said. “We were not allowed to go anywhere on August 15. There was a direction to my driver and the escort not to move around on that day. This was to discourage our attendance,” Mr. Masoodi said. None of the five MPs or leaders from the NC, the PDP and the PC attended the Lt. Governor’s ‘At-Home’ function either. Government sources said invitations were sent to all MPs from Kashmir for both the events. A Raj Bhavan spokesman said the ‘At-Home' was attended by Chief Justice Gita Mittal, judges, advisors to the L-G, Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam, GOC L-G B.S. Raju, DGP Dilbag Singh and former legislators, mainly from the BJP. Mr. Sinha also met the families of two BJP leaders who were killed by the militants.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Vanquishing the virus||
18 August 2020||Washington,||U.S. imposes more sanctions targeting Huawei||The U.S. administration on Monday expanded its sanctions on China’s Huawei, a move aimed at further limiting the tech giant’s access to computer chips and other technology. A Commerce Department statement added 38 Huawei affiliates around the world to the “entity list,” claiming that the company was using international subsidiaries to circumvent the sanctions which prevent export of U.S.-based technology. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Huawei and its affiliates “have worked through third parties to harness U.S. technology in a manner that undermines U.S. national security and foreign policy interests.” U.S. officials have argued that Huawei poses a security risk because of its links to the Beijing government, a claim denied by the company. The toughening of sanctions comes amid heightened U.S.-China tensions and claims by Washington that Chinese firms are being used for spying, despite repeated denials. Speaking on Fox News on Monday, Mr. Trump claimed that Huawei “comes out and they spy on our country — this is very intricate stuff, you have microchips, you have things that you can’t even see.” The Trump administration has banned Huawei from 5G wireless networks in the U.S. and has pressed allies to do the same.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Bernie Sanders’s supporters unite behind candidate Biden||Bernie Sanders, stoop-shouldered in his navy-blue suit jacket, adjusted his chair and stared into the camera as the livestream began this month. He bobbed and jabbed both fists in the air. He smiled. Then with a boxing announcer’s rumbling crescendo, he introduced three protégés who had recently won their primaries, including activist Cori Bush. It has been four months since Mr. Sanders ended his campaign for President. Since then, progressive candidates have notched once-improbable primary victories against long-time Democratic incumbents. Each member of the so-called Squad, the group of progressive women of colour in the House, will almost certainly return to Washington. The pandemic has revitalised support nationwide for progressive policy proposals including “Medicare for All.” Endorsing progressives In that time, Mr. Sanders has quietly faded back into Senate life. Aside from endorsing some fellow progressives down the ballot, he has largely kept his focus on the public health crisis. One of his latest initiatives was to introduce legislation that would provide “masks for all.” On Monday, Mr. Sanders was to address the Democratic National Convention and once again make his case for the progressive cause. But this is not 2016. While Mr. Sanders nominally lent his support to Hillary Clinton at this point four years ago, he never stopped arguing that he had been mistreated in the primary — an air of grievance that his followers took with them to the convention floor. Desire to defeat Trump Mr. Sanders is still stubborn, still passionate and still convinced he would have made the best President. But this year, he also appears to be something else: at peace. “I understand we do not agree with Joe Biden on all of the issues — believe me, I know that, I ran against Joe Biden,” he told hundreds of delegates on a call last month. “But at this moment, what we need to do is engage in coalition politics with the goal of defeating Trump.” Allies say the success of other progressives, like Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, has perhaps lifted some of the weight off his shoulders. He appreciates that so many within the party have embraced at least the spirit of his ideas — including universal health care, eliminating student debt, and making public colleges and universities tuition-free — even as he remains frustrated with the pace of change. Like Mr. Sanders, the party’s left flank has also been far more sanguine in its approach to the general election than it was last time. Though some of his delegates have refused to back the Democratic Party platform, arguing that it does not go far enough particularly on health care, progressives have largely taken their cues from him and fallen in line. Even those most disenchanted with Mr. Biden appear largely intent on backing him in November. Their acceptance has perhaps never been clearer than it was last week after Mr. Biden announced that he had selected Sen. Kamala Harris as his running mate. By most measures, it is this overwhelming desire to defeat Mr. Trump that helps explain why the Democratic Party does not expect Sanders loyalists to be as disruptive to the electoral prospects of the party’s nominee as they were in 2016. Mr. Sanders is now keenly aware of the electoral power his loyal backers wield, and that their support for Mr. Biden could be a key factor in beating Mr. Trump. Never again, aides say, does he want to inspire the kind of divisiveness that some in the party still blame for the election of Mr. Trump. Mr. Sanders’s supporters say the swiftness with which his followers have united behind Mr. Biden is a testament to how he has approached this entire second presidential bid. They point to his decision to exit the race in early April, before it could become acrimonious, then almost immediately back Mr. Biden.NY Times
18 August 2020||Washington,||New Zealand postpones poll to fight second wave of virus||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday postponed the nation’s election to focus on fighting a COVID-19 second wave, as data showed Japan’s economy had endured a historic contraction. With more than 21.5 million cases worldwide, a second wave of infections is also threatening further disruption in Europe where summer holiday-makers are helping fuel a resurgence of COVID-19. The disease has killed more than 7,66,000 people globally. Virus in Auckland The postponement of New Zealand’s election to October 17 came after the shock discovery of COVID-19 in Auckland last week, ending the nation’s 102-day streak without community transmission. “This decision gives all parties time over the next nine weeks to campaign and the Electoral Commission enough time to ensure an election can go ahead,” Ms. Ardern said. She said the return of the virus — which sent New Zealand’s largest city into lockdown — had rattled Kiwis and could have discouraged some from voting in a September election. In South Korea, another country that had brought its initial outbreak largely under control, thousands of Protestant church members were asked to quarantine as authorities battled virus clusters linked to religious groups. The largest of those current clusters is centred on the Sarang Jeil Church in Seoul, headed by controversial conservative pastor Jun Kwang-hun. South Korean have authorities have filed two separate complaints against him for deliberately hindering efforts to contain the virus. U.S. conventions Across the Pacific, less than three months out from the American presidential election, the surging caseload in the United States — the worst in the world at more than 5.4 million with 1,70,000 deaths — has forced the convention season online. The Democrats’ disparate factions were projecting a united front behind Joe Biden as their four-day virtual gathering got under way on Monday, as they sought to oust President Donald Trump — who has been widely criticised for his handling of the pandemic. Many countries have plunged into recession since COVID-19 first emerged in China late last year. The latest evidence of the economic destruction emerged in Japan, which saw its economy shrink a record 7.8% in the April-June quarter — the worst contraction in the nation’s modern history.  Italy — once the global epicentre of the virus — has ordered the three-week closure of all dance venues after a pick-up in infections over the weekend blamed in part on young partygoers. Wearing a face mask is also mandatory in public areas from 6.00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. “The contagion is on the rise but we’re dancing,” proclaimed the Corriere Della Sera newspaper, which slammed Sardinia’s clubs as being “joyful contagion machines”. Infections in Europe That came after Britain removed France, the Netherlands, Malta and three other countries from its list of places exempt from self-isolation rules because of the continent’s second virus wave. Wary of a similar resurgence, authorities in Australia’s most populous state of New South Wales have banned children from playing the recorder and singing in choirs to stem the spread of the virus after infections were detected at several Sydney schools. Dancing is also off-limits as Australia battles to contain a number of outbreaks after months of near-zero local transmission.
18 August 2020||Canberra,||Law could see Australians lose free search services: Google||Google warned on Monday that the Australian government’s plan to make digital giants pay for news content threatens users’ free services in Australia and could result in their data being given to media organisations. The U.S.-based company’s warning, contained in what it called an “open letter to Australians,” comes a week before public consultations close on draft laws that would make both Google and Facebook pay for news siphoned from commercial media companies. “A proposed law... would force us to provide you with a dramatically worse Google Search and YouTube, could lead to your data being handed over to big news businesses, and would put the free services you use at risk in Australia,” Google Australia and New Zealand managing director Mel Silva wrote. Google owns YouTube. Sharing revenue Both Google and Facebook have condemned the proposed legislation, which was released last month and aims to succeed where other countries have failed in making the companies compensate media businesses for news content. Australian competition watchdog Rod Sims, chair of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, which drafted the laws, said Google’s letter contains misinformation. “Google will not be required to charge Australians for the use of its free services such as Google Search and YouTube, unless it chooses to do so,” Mr. Sims said in a statement. Google later said in a statement that free services were at risk in Australia because the draft laws were “unworkable.” Google also said the draft legislation requires the platform to provide user data that “goes beyond the current level of data sharing between Google and news publishers.”
18 August 2020||Kabul,||Afghan prisoner release process hits an impasse||Afghan authorities and the Taliban have hit an impasse over the planned release of hundreds of insurgents after opposition from some foreign governments, officials said on Monday, apparently stalling peace talks. The negotiations were expected to begin within days after prominent Afghans met in Kabul on August 9 and approved the release of 400 Taliban prisoners — including many involved in deadly attacks — removing a crucial precondition to talks. While Afghan authorities freed 80 Taliban prisoners on Thursday, there have been no further releases since then. “There is no plan to release any prisoner today also,” an official with the country’s National Security Council said on Monday. Concerns expressed The delay has “something to do with some countries’ concerns about some people in the list,” said Ghulam Farooq Majroh, a member of the Afghan negotiating team. Another NSC official said some “international partners have reservations” about releasing the prisoners. The NSC officials and Mr. Majroh did not identify the countries, but Paris and Canberra have objected to the release of several insurgents accused of killing French and Australian nationals and soldiers.
18 August 2020||Colombo,||Power outage hits entire Sri Lanka||The entire nation of Sri Lanka was left without power on Monday in an hours-long outage following an “unspecified failure” at a major power plant, the state-run electricity board said. Minister of Power Dullas Alahapperuma said a “technical issue” at the Kerawalapitiya power station just outside the capital Colombo was the cause of the blackout. The outage hit the entire nation at around midday, and although power returned to some parts of the country after six hours, Colombo was in darkness as night fell. It is the worst disruption since March 2016, when the entire nation was without electricity for more than eight hours following a massive system breakdown.
18 August 2020||Washington,||Kamala Harris appoints Indian-American as her press secretary||Senator Kamala Harris has roped in Indian American Sabrina Singh, who previously was the spokeswoman of two Democratic hopefuls, as press secretary for her Democratic campaign. Ms. Singh, 32, previously headed the press shop of two hopefuls — Senator Cory Booker and former New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg.PTI
18 August 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Aug 17, 2020 (AFP) -||Russia’s Foreign Ministry on Monday said it had summoned the Dutch charge d’affaires in Moscow to protest over what it said was spying on Russia’s military attache in the Netherlands. Russia “strongly protested” to the Dutch diplomat after the discovery of “spy equipment” in the official car of the Russian military attache in the Netherlands, said the Ministry.AFP
18 August 2020||Madrid,||Madrid, Aug 17, 2020 (AFP) -||Juan Carlos, the former king of Spain who went into exile in the face of corruption allegations earlier this month, is in the United Arab Emirates, the royal palace said on Monday. Mr. Carlos, 82, “travelled to the UAE on August 3 and he remains there,” a spokesman for the royal palace said.AFP
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Jurisdictional conflict in the running of Delhi||“The exercise of establishing a democratic and representative form of government for NCT of Delhi by insertion of Articles 239AA and 239AB would turn futile if the Government of Delhi that enjoys the confidence of the people of Delhi is not able to usher in policies and laws over which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has powers to legislate for the NCT of Delhi.” So said the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Government of NCT of Delhi vs. Union of India (2018). The issue before the Supreme Court was the jurisdictional conflicts between the government of NCT and the Union Government and its representative, the Lieutenant Governor. Issues and possible solutions The judgment which runs into more than 1,000 pages analyses the contentious issues which hobbled the State government and attempts to resolve them. Very lofty principles concerning constitutional morality, co-operative federalism, constitutional conscience, pragmatic federalism, etc., have been enunciated in this judgment. It reminds the Lt. Governor what his real functions are. It tells the State government that it should remember that Delhi is a special category Union Territory and lays down the parameters to enabling the harmonious functioning of the government and the Lt. Governor. The judgment clarified and settled many contentious issues such as the powers of the Lt. Governor vis-à-vis the elected government, his discretionary powers, the extent of the executive powers of the State government, etc. On the face of it, it did not very clearly delineate the issues in respect of which the Lt. Governor can refer a decision taken by the Council of Ministers to the President in the event of a difference of opinion between the Lt. Governor and the State government. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court has settled the law in regard to the ‘aid and advice’ of the Council of Ministers by affirming that the Lt. Governor is bound to act on the aid and advice except in respect of ‘Land’, ‘Public Order’ and the ‘Police’. The Court has also made it clear that there is no requirement of the concurrence of the Lt. Governor and that he has no power to overrule the decisions of the State government. However, there is a catch here — in the operationalisation of Article 239AA (4) ( proviso ) which says that in the case of a difference of opinion between the Lt. Governor and his Ministers on any matter, the Lt. Governor shall refer it to the President for decision and act according to that decision. In the meantime, if the Lt. Governor thinks that the matter is urgent he can take immediate action on his own. So, ultimately things are back to square one. If a Lt. Governor, for example, wants to frustrate the efforts of the government, he can declare that there is a difference of opinion on any issue decided by the elected government and refer it to the President which in reality means the Union Home Ministry. The Lt. Governor being its representative, it is easier for him to secure a decision in his favour. The State government will be totally helpless in such a situation. Delhi riot cases The recent appointment of prosecutors for conducting the Delhi riot cases in the High Court is a case in point. As per the High Court and the Supreme Court, the appointment of prosecutors is exclusively within the purview of the State government. When the government decided to appoint them, the Lt. Governor referred it under proviso to Article 239AA (4) to the President stating that there is a difference of opinion between him and the government over this matter. In the meantime the Lt. Governor appointed all the prosecutors whose names were submitted by the Delhi Police and thus the State government’s list was rejected. This episode clearly points to the fault lines which still exist in the power equations in the capital’s administrative structure. The key question is whether the Lt. Governor can refer a routine administrative matter such as the appointment of prosecutors to the President. A close reading of the Supreme Court judgment in the NCT Delhi case (supra) would reveal that he cannot. Just take a look at what the Supreme Court says. “The words ‘any matter’ employed in the proviso to Article 239AA (4) cannot be inferred to mean ‘every matter’. The power of the Lieutenant Governor under the said proviso represents the exception and not the general rule which has to be exercised in exceptional circumstances by the Lt. Governor. Keeping in mind the standards of Constitutional trust and morality, the principles of collaborative federalism and the concept of Constitutional balance....” Matters of jurisdiction The Court further says, “the Lieutenant Governor should not act in a mechanical manner without due application of mind so as to refer every decision of the Council of Ministers to the President.” The highest judicial forum in the country in its own majestic style directs the Lt. Governor not to refer to the President normal administrative matters as that would disturb the concept of Constitutional governance, principles of collaborative federalism and the standards of Constitutional morality. Reference of the appointment of Prosecutors by the Lt. Governor to the President seems to be a negation of these principles. There is another point which emerges from the judgment and attention needs to be paid to it. That is that the executive power of the Union does not extend to any of the matters which come within the jurisdiction of the Delhi Assembly. Parliament can legislate for Delhi on any matter in the State List and the Concurrent List but the executive power in relation to Delhi except the ‘Police’, ‘Land’ and ‘Public Orders’ vests only in the State government headed by the Chief Minister. The Supreme Court says, “Article 239AA (3)(a) reserves the Parliament’s legislative power on all matters in the State List and Concurrent List but clause (4) explicitly grants to the Government of Delhi executive powers in relation to matters for which the Legislative Assembly has powers to legislate.” This statement of law by the Supreme Court implies that the Union Government is not empowered to exercise executive authority on a matter which comes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the State government like the appointment of Prosecutors. The only occasion when the Union Government can overrule the decision of the State government is when the Lt. Governor refers a matter to the President under the proviso to clause (4). But this proviso cannot totally override the executive decisions of the State government under clause (4). The judgment of the Supreme Court resolves this apparent contradiction by enjoining the Lt. Governor to keep in mind while making a reference to the President the constitutional morality, principles of collaborative federalism, concept of constitutional governance, objectivity, etc. Although the Court did not specify the matters which can be referred by the Lt. Governor to the President, the high principles described above broadly indicate what can be referred and what cannot. In any case it is unambiguously clear that the executive decisions of the State government cannot be referred to the President merely because the Lt. Governor has a different personal opinion about some of them. The top court wants the Lt. Governor and the Council of Ministers to use in full the mechanism provided in the Government of NCT of Delhi Act and the Transaction of Business Rules to thrash out differences. The Court seems to elevate to a higher level the issues that can be referred to the President as distinct from the normal decisions taken in exercise of the executive powers of the State. The President is the highest Constitutional authority and his decision should be sought only on constitutionally important issues. The last word Finally, the Supreme Court gives wise advice to the Lt. Governor: “We may reiterate that the Constitutional scheme adopted for the NCT of Delhi conceives of the Council of Ministers as the representatives of the people on the one hand and the Lt. Governor as the nominee of the President on the other who are required to function in harmony within the Constitutional parameters. In the said scheme of things, the Lt. Governor should not emerge as an adversary having a hostile attitude towards the Council of Ministers of Delhi; rather, he should act as a facilitator.” So, when we analyse the reference by the Lt. Governor to the President the issue of appointment of prosecutors within the parameters laid down by the Supreme Court, we find that it is not in consonance with these principles enunciated by the Court. It is against constitutional morality which requires strict adherence to the constitutional principles of collaborative federalism, constitutional balance and the concept of constitutional governance. All these principles act as bulwark against the usurpation of powers of the State by the Union. When the Court declares the law and requires the constitutional authorities to follow it, they have to act in compliance and not in defiance. P.D.T. Achary is Former Secretary General of the Lok Sabha
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What is criticism and what is contempt?||A recent order of the Supreme Court found advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for two tweets — one relating to the Chief Justice of India astride an expensive motorcycle and the other a comment that the Supreme Court, in his opinion, played a role in the destruction of democracy in India over the last six years. Criminal contempt For the purpose of the topic at hand we are concerned only with criminal contempt and not those wilfully disobedient litigants who ignore the orders of the courts. Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 defines criminal contempt as the publication of any matter or the doing of any other act which scandalises or lowers the authority of any court; or prejudices or interferes with the due course of any judicial proceeding; or obstructs the administration of justice. Does this mean that one can never voice any criticism of the judiciary? No. What the law permits you to say regarding the functioning of Indian courts forms the basis of this particular article, i.e., there is a thin line separating criticism and contempt. Freedom of speech is a fundamental right guaranteed to every Indian citizen under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, albeit subject to reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2). In C.K. Daphtary v. O.P. Gupta (1971), the Supreme Court held that the existing law of criminal contempt is one such reasonable restriction. That does not mean that one cannot express one’s ire against the judiciary for fear of contempt. As long back as in 1968, Lord Denning M.R. set out guidelines in matters of contempt of court. He stated that contempt is not the means to uphold the court’s dignity. He said its jurisdiction is to be exercised sparingly and that protection of freedom of speech is paramount. While welcoming criticism, Lord Denning only requested that it be fair since judges, owing to their status, are not in a position to refute the comments so levelled against them. What does the Indian judiciary deem permissible and impermissible? The Supreme Court has held that if a comment is made against the functioning of a judge, it would have to be seen whether the comment is fair or malicious. If the comment is made against the judge as an individual, the Court would consider whether the comment seeks to interfere with the judge’s administration or is simply in the nature of libel or defamation. The Court would have to determine whether the statement is fair, bona fide , defamatory or contemptuous. A statement would not constitute criminal contempt if it is only against the judge in his or her individual capacity and not in discharge of his or her judicial function. Criminal contempt does not seek to afford protection to judges from statements which they may be exposed to as individuals. Such statements would only leave the individual liable for defamation. Statements which affect the administration of justice or functioning of courts amount to criminal contempt since public perception of the judiciary plays a vital role in the rule of law. An attack on a judge in his or her official capacity denigrates the judiciary as a whole and the law of criminal contempt would come down upon such a person unless it is a fair critique of a judgment. Various examples Sections 4 and 5 of the Contempt of Courts Act are akin to a defense a person may take in a case of defamation i.e., fair comment. In Re: S.Mugolkar v. Unknown (1978), the Supreme Court held that the judiciary cannot be immune from fair criticism, and contempt action is to be used only when an obvious misstatement with malicious intent seeks to bring down public confidence in the courts or seeks to influence the courts. In this judgment, Chief Justice M.H. Beg opined that at times the judiciary adopts a “magnanimously charitable attitude even when utterly uncharitable and unfair criticism of its operations is made out of bona fide concern for improvement.” The same Justice Beg remarked post-retirement that Justice H.R. Khanna’s famous dissent in the ADM Jabalpur case (1976) made no contribution to law but only to his popularity. The Allahabad High Court citing Brahma Prakash Sharma (1953) did not find Justice Beg guilty of contempt. Former Law Minister of India, P. Shiv Shankar, referring to landmark judgments of the Supreme Court, said once: “Mahadhipatis like Keshavananda and Zamindars like Golaknath evoked a sympathetic chord nowhere in the whole country except the Supreme Court of India. And the bank magnates... got higher compensation by the intervention of the Supreme Court in Cooper’s case.” He also said: “Antisocial elements i.e. FERA violators, bride burners and a whole horde of reactionaries have found their heaven in the Supreme Court.” Speaking for the Supreme Court in 1988, Justice Sabyasachi Mukherjee found that these statements did not impair the administration of justice. He only opined that the language could have been milder given the Minister’s own legal background. He also said: “If antisocial elements and criminals have benefited by decisions of the Supreme Court, the fault rests with the laws and the loopholes in the legislation. The Courts are not deterred by such criticisms.” Truth is also a defence in matters of criminal contempt if it is bona fide and made in public interest, as held by the Supreme Court in Indirect Tax Practitioners’ Association v. R.K. Jain (2010). However, all these precedents did not come to the aid of activist Arundhati Roy when the Supreme Court found her guilty of contempt. A petition was filed against Ms. Roy, which was dismissed by the apex court. However, it was Ms. Roy’s reply to the petition which was held to be in contempt. In that, Ms. Roy had admonished the Supreme Court for acting with undue haste in a frivolous petition and attributed it to her strong critique of the apex court’s decision in the Sardar Sarovar Dam case. The Supreme Court held that a statement that the Court willingly issued notice on an unsubstantiated petition affected the reputation and credibility of the Court before the public and therefore found Ms. Roy guilty of contempt. The above cases would show that whether a comment would constitute criminal contempt or not depends entirely on the facts and circumstances of each case. In conclusion, tweets or remarks by conscientious citizens certainly do not affect the dignity of the Indian judiciary, to quote Lord Denning “that must rest on surer foundations”.  Gautam S.Raman is an advocate practicing at the Madras High Court
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Judicial remedies for the J&K net restrictions||During the novel coronavirus pandemic, a large part of the realm of freedoms protected by the Constitution, ranging from carrying on a business, to obtaining education, health care, and information, have all moved online. This has meant that we have had to discuss ways to improve access to the Internet for all. But even as we do this, the Internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) have completed a whole year. In response to the Supreme Court of India’s stern approach in the recent hearing on August 7, the Central government has agreed to restore Internet in two districts on a trial basis. While this is a welcome step, the fundamental rights of the people of J&K will truly only have meaning if the Supreme Court maintains this stern approach and assesses the proportionality of the State’s restrictions, and is willing to grant an effective remedy where disproportionate restrictions are identified. The Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Opinion and Expression of the United Nations and representatives of other regional organisations, in a Joint Declaration, have pointed out that neither the slowing nor the shutting down of the Internet is justifiable even on national security grounds.This is because Internet shutdowns or slowdowns are an inherently overbroad restriction for it adversely affects millions of innocent civilians owing to the actions of a few. Indeed, the provision of 2G Internet on mobile phones since March 2020 has failed to provide any meaningful respite to the people of J&K. It has become impossible for them to adapt to the pandemic, by resorting, as the rest of India has, to online classes, working from home, tele-consults with doctors or even video calls with family. What is more, important industries such as tourism, handicrafts and agriculture have faced devastating losses. The president of the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry has estimated the loss to the region’s economy this past year at Rs. 40,000 crore. Moreover, experts have found shutdowns counter-productive in reducing violence. Despite having heard two challenges to the restrictions since August 2019, the Supreme Court has remarkably not ruled on their validity. In January 2020, in Anuradha Bhasin , the Court granted limited relief by directing the government to publish reasoned orders and review the restrictions every seven days. A pandemic and a lockdown later, the Court faced criticism for its order in Foundation For Media Professionals where it set up an Executive Committee to review the 2G speed restrictions that had been imposed by the Executive in the first place. Right of judicial review Two arguments have been advanced to justify the Court’s deferential approach. But both are unsustainable. First, that such decisions are not based on objective factors that can be presented to and assessed by a judicial body, but are based on the “subjective satisfaction” of officers who possess exclusive knowledge of the situation on the ground. This notion of subjective satisfaction can be traced back to English public law where Parliament could grant the Executive the power to exercise subjective satisfaction in certain cases. The English courts did not have the power to strike down legislation as invalid. The framers of our Constitution consciously moved away from this legal tradition while entrenching judicial review as a fundamental right under Article 32. In 1956, Justice Vivian Bose emphasised this fundamental aspect of the Constitution, when he wrote that if the power of subjective satisfaction was conferred on executive bodies, then “there would be no point in these fundamental rights, for the courts would then be powerless to interfere and determine whether those rights have been infringed”. Two decades later, the Supreme Court, in what is regarded as its nadir, held in ADM Jabalpur that detentions during the Emergency were based on the subjective satisfaction of the Executive and were not amenable to judicial review. In overruling this decision, in K.S. Puttaswamy , the Court affirmed that our Constitution guarantees that “judicial remedies would be available to ask searching questions and expect answers when a citizen has been deprived of these, most precious rights”. The second, and closely related, argument offered is that the Court does not have the competence to review matters of national security. However, this argument taken to its logical conclusion would imply that the Court cannot rule on any complex issue irrespective of its impact on fundamental rights. Indeed, the Court has often ruled on complex issues such as the ban on the use of crypto-currency and the linkage of Aadhaar to SIM cards and bank accounts on grounds of national security and money laundering, respectively, and even struck them down. In these cases, instead of choosing between either refraining altogether or substituting the decision of the government, the Court assessed the quality of the government’s justifications. The four-step test The Court in Anuradha Bhasin recognised the proportionality test as the framework for such assessment. Under this, the government must provide a four-step justification. It has to show that the restrictions are in pursuance of a legitimate aim (in this case, national security), that they are suitable to achieving that aim, that there exist no less restrictive alternatives that would limit the right to a lesser extent, and finally, that the adverse impact of the restrictions are proportionate to their benefit. In Foundation For Media Professionals , the government of J&K’s own affidavit revealed that terrorist incidents have continued despite these restrictions. But the government failed to explain why less restrictive alternatives such as permitting the use of 4G on verified post-paid SIMs, blocking and intercepting specific numbers, websites or applications, issuing takedown orders of content that incite violence, and limiting restrictions to particular areas for shorter durations could not be applied. Finally, on the impact of restrictions, the government asserted that people can download e-learning applications, e-books and use websites and messaging platforms on 2G Internet. Not only is this statement factually incorrect, it also contradicts the government’s own claim that the restriction to 2G speed is suitable as it restricts terrorists from communicating and circulating videos. It is difficult to fathom how such weak and inconsistent reasons could have been the basis for restricting the entire realm of rights of 1,25,00,000 people. Indeed, these restrictions were unconstitutional the day they were imposed. One year on, it is imperative that the Court fulfils its constitutional duty by examining and going over any further reasons given by the State with a fine toothcomb. Jahnavi Sindhu is a Delhi-based advocate
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Failing to rise up to challenges||Caught between a surging COVID-19 pandemic and recurring natural calamities, Kerala is at a crossroads and facing the risk of losing its gains in human development and life standards. The expatriates from the State whose remittances drive the State’s economy are returning en masse, raising serious questions about the future of Kerala’s economy. The agricultural and industrial sectors, which were on a decline over the years, have been hit further. The tourism industry, the biggest contributor to the State’s GDP, is the worst hit. Pandemic and natural disasters Kerala was the first State to report a COVID-19 case in India. Sadly, it was also the first State to have officially announced community transmission of COVID-19 cases. As early as March, we had cautioned the LDF government not to treat the pandemic like the Nipah virus outbreak and come up with a mix of containment and mitigation strategies. However, the government went ahead with extreme containment measures alone. Though this contained the virus for a small period of time, it wreaked havoc on the State’s economy. The treatment of a public health hazard as a public relations exercise also created a false sense of security amongst the people. The poor emphasis on mitigation measures led to non-discovery of hidden cases and led to a second surge of cases in June. Now, Kerala is witnessing over 1,000 cases per day and some coastal villages are seeing community transmission. To tackle the situation, Kerala needs to ramp up its daily testing capacity to 75,000 tests a day. Mass testing in public places like markets and retail shops needs to be initiated and proper surveillance strategies are required to identify the super spreaders early. Further, mild and asymptomatic patients need to be identified and private hospitals need to be roped in as quickly as possible. Its ironic that this government is approaching a healthcare crisis as a law and order problem. The government needs to withdraw its order of roping in the police for COVID-19 containment immediately and instead use professional healthcare workers for the same. COVID-19 cases need to be dealt with in a humane manner and not with an iron fist. From the Ockhi cyclone in 2017 to catastrophic floods in 2018 and 2019, Kerala has been facing the brunt of natural calamities that are killing many and destroying property worth thousands of crores of rupees. The catastrophe continues this year too. About 10 days ago, landslides occurred in Pettimudi near Munnar. The death toll has increased to more than 50. It is unfortunate that the Rebuild Kerala Initiative, set up to address these issues, is a non-starter. With the State seeing high rainfall in the last few years, the situation has aggravated further. That may have destabilised various areas that were not vulnerable previously. What Kerala requires now is an immediate blueprint on environmental land management and a landslide susceptibility map. We may not control natural calamities but we can always control human greed and man-made disasters. This government has given licences to hundreds of illegal quarries in environmentally vulnerable areas. These need to be reviewed immediately. Identifying the risk-prone areas of the State, ensuring that there is constant monitoring during the monsoon season, giving proper advisories to those living in risk-prone areas and ensuring their eviction during the initial signs of the calamity are also immediately required. Not a model of governance There are other problems too. For the first time in history, the National Investigation Agency has entered the State Secretariat with regard to a gold smuggling case. The Sprinklr controversy, where a U.S.-based firm was given the right to collect data of citizens without consent, left even the CPI(M) speechless. A communist Chief Minister tolling the bell at the London Stock Exchange for purchasing Masala bonds and the precarious dependence on foreign consultancies have also put the Left ideology in the dock. The backdoor appointments, including of a prime accused in the gold smuggling case; complaints of plagiarism to rampant malpractices during the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) exams; and periodic expiry of PSC lists without appointments being made have even put the credibility of constitutional bodies at stake. This government has also failed in bringing any big-ticket investments or projects to the State. To summarise, a government which was touted as a model for alternative governance has left the citizens of the State in search of better alternatives. Ramesh Chennithala is Leader of Opposition, Kerala Legislative Assembly
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||In Bihar, a balancing act||With the Bihar Assembly election scheduled for October, political parties are busy staking claim for a greater share of seats within their own alliances. While the Congress has made it clear that it will enter into an alliance only if offered an “honourable” number of seats, the Janata Dal (United), reacting to attacks by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) President Chirag Paswan on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, has said its alliance is with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).  A greater share of seats Do Mr. Paswan’s repeated attacks on Mr. Kumar signal a possible change in alliance in Bihar? Given the fact that the LJP’s unease with Mr. Kumar is not on any ideological or policy issue, the strategy seems to be to demand a larger share of seats. The LJP has six members in the Lok Sabha and its leader, Ram Vilas Paswan, holds a ministerial post, but in the State Assembly, the party has only two MLAs, so it is in a very poor bargaining position for seats. While it is fine for parties to devise bargaining strategies, like the LJP is doing, they also need to be mindful of how far they can stretch their demands. In the past, whenever the LJP went overboard in its demands, it suffered. Chirag Paswan has been very critical of Mr. Kumar over the last few months. He created ripples when he said that the BJP would decide who the face of the coalition will be. The JD(U) reacted sharply to this saying that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)’s top leadership had already decided that the Assembly election would be fought under Mr. Kumar’s leadership. Chirag Paswan also went to the extent of saying that the LJP is prepared to contest all 243 Assembly seats alone. While one cannot rule out the fact that he has his personal ambitions, Mr. Paswan’s aggressive posturing shows an attempt to have multiple gains. Knowing well that being inexperienced, he may not be chosen to replace Ram Vilas Paswan in the Union Cabinet once the latter retires, Mr. Paswan wants to stake claim to a greater share in State politics. Demanding a substantial number of seats is the first step towards that. There is another reason for his attacks on Mr. Kumar. The LJP contested the 2015 Assembly election in alliance with the BJP in 42 seats. It managed to get a sizeable number of seats as the JD(U) was in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress. Now, with the JD(U) back in the NDA, the LJP is likely to get far fewer seats compared to the previous election. What makes the LJP’s claim even weaker is its strength of two in the current Bihar Assembly, whereas the JD(U) had won 71 seats and the BJP, 53. Mr. Paswan would be mindful of how the party suffered a severe setback during the October 2005 Assembly election. In the February 2005 Assembly election, the LJP won 29 seats, but it refused to extend support to anyone or join any coalition to form the government. Thus a hung assembly forced the State to go to polls again in October, in which the LJP won only 10 seats. The tough posturing of Ram Vilas Paswan in February 2005 did not pay any dividends. The party would need to be careful in this balancing act of making demands and making concessions.  Importance in the State In spite of its poor presence in the current Assembly, the LJP still enjoys some bargaining power as it has a reasonable support base across the State. The BJP and the JD(U) are mindful of the fact that the LJP may not be able to win a large number of seats on its own, but the party’s popularity amongst Dalit voters in general and among the Paswans in particular could be vital for helping the NDA partners win closely contested elections. Knowing well the importance of the LJP in the Bihar election, Congress leaders invited the LJP to join their alliance. Mr. Paswan has time and again talked about his ambition to become Chief Minister. The question is, will Tejaswi Yadav and leaders of the UPA alliance be ready for this? Sanjay Kumar is a Professor at Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi, and Neel Madhav, a student of journalism at the University of Delhi, is associated with Lokniti, a research programme of CSDS. Views are personal
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A better test||On August 15, six and a half months after the first novel coronavirus case was reported in the country, India crossed another grim milestone — 50,000 deaths. The total number of cases reported as on Saturday stood at nearly 2.6 million; India has been reporting the most fresh cases in a day in the world since August 2. More than the total death toll, now 51,045, what is troubling is the shorter time taken for the death toll to double. The toll count crossed 25,000 on July 16 and doubled to over 50,000 in just 30 days. It is certain that there is some extent of underreporting of deaths across the country, especially when deaths have occurred outside the health-care system. For instance, reporting of COVID-19 cases and deaths by States such as Gujarat, West Bengal and Telangana have been suspect right from the beginning; the pandemic-defying trend seen in these States is in stark contrast to the rest of the country. No combination of factors can explain the low daily mortality figures in Gujarat and Telangana. In fact, in the last one month, the death toll on any single day in Telangana has never crossed 15 and has been in single digits on many days; the State even reported zero deaths on July 26, while in Gujarat, deaths have never crossed 30, except on one day. However, under-reporting notwithstanding, it is unlikely to be huge enough to change the death toll several-fold. Like in most Southeast Asian countries, deaths per million population have been low in India. While the case fatality rate too has been low, the continuous dip in the rate might be due to more cases, including asymptomatic ones, being detected due to increased testing with rapid antigen tests. Also, large cities that witnessed strained health-care infrastructure due to the surge in cases, leading to more deaths, seem to have passed the peak. A big shortcoming of rapid antigen tests is their low sensitivity, and despite the ICMR’s recommendation, most States have very low rates of validation of negative test results using the molecular method. Relying mostly on rapid antigen tests will result in many of the infected continuing to spread the virus. If speed, low cost and constraints of molecular testing capacity are the reasons why many States have embraced rapid antigen testing, the emergency use authorisation granted recently by the U.S’s FDA for a saliva test developed by Yale University should be good news for India. This rapid, inexpensive, non-invasive and highly sensitive test that uses saliva samples will not only help detect more cases but also reduce the need for trained care workers to collect samples. With the testing protocol made freely available, India should facilitate rapid adoption of the tests by States, after local validation. Early results of the saliva test have been encouraging and India will hugely gain by embracing it in lieu of the unreliable rapid antigen test, particularly when the virus spreads to rural areas.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||End of a run||Cricket in India has often been littered with stereotypes. Much akin to the great Indian rope trick, the game was reduced to the tropes of wristy batsmen and magical spinners. The sport was also blinkered to ancient geographical contours, often linked to royalty or the erstwhile British Presidencies of Bombay, Madras and Calcutta. Despite these boxy references, Kapil Dev emerged as an allrounder from Haryana and after him, it was Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s turn to stun the pundits. Hailing from Jharkhand, never previously known for its prowess in the willow game, Dhoni kept dismantling clichés as he built a splendid career that defied odds and technical benchmarks. As a batsman and wicket-keeper, aesthetics was not his strong point; but supreme athleticism, innate talent, a calm head and remarkable effectiveness in the crunch, made him an outstanding player. If there was a pattern to him, it was his unpredictability, be it the way he dealt with opposition bowlers, led India and timed his good-byes — from Tests in 2014 or limited-overs international cricket this Saturday. In the first instance, the BCCI issued a statement, and in the second, the former India captain picked Instagram as his medium. The initial reaction of overwhelming shock quickly became an acceptance of his quirks and then it sunk in — an era had ended in Indian cricket. If Sourav Ganguly helped India tide past the match-fixing crisis of 2000, Dhoni took his side to greater heights and India became the number one team in Tests during 2009. But it was ODIs and Twenty20s that enhanced Dhoni’s aura. It was in the abridged versions that he was at his supreme best, flexing those helicopter sixes, effecting mind-boggling stumpings, being astute in his field placements, running between wickets seemingly at the speed of light and making his men believe that they could win big trophies. As a leader, he anchored India to three ICC titles — 2007 World Twenty20, 2011 World Cup and 2013 Champions Trophy. In the chase, he was often in the zone and until age caught up with him, it was a certainty that Dhoni will guide India home. There was an earthy intelligence about him and during his years as the skipper, at times he would sit cross-legged in the corridor and give a pep talk to the youngsters. He had his unique style and Indian cricket will be poorer without him, though at 39, the sands of time were running out for him. Dhoni the cricketer would still be in vogue as the Chennai Super Kings captain in the imminent Indian Premier League (IPL). In the coming years, those IPL days will dwindle but his permanence in the pantheon of cricketing greats is assured.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Memorial by Anglo-Indians (From an editorial)||A memorial signed by about 30 Anglo-Indians, ladies and gentlemen, has been forwarded to the Secretary of State for India and H.E. the Viceroy empathetically protesting against the “serious and retrograde” steps being taken in certain European and Eurasian schools within and outside the city of Madras to abolish the vernacular in the curriculum of studies. The memorialists are of opinion that the proposed change in the curriculum took no account of the practical aspect of education as moulded by local conditions and the utility and importance of a working knowledge of the local vernacular in the case of a domiciled community. Apart from the utility of the knowledge of the vernaculars, their importance and value in service is a matter of common recognition. That Government should insist on the passing of vernacular test examinations in the case of I.C.S. men and other officers is a clear indication of their views in the matter.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Rounding up the naxalites||The Calcutta police seems to be slowly getting the measure of the naxalites and has arrested quite a few leaders of the movement in the city. Equally important has been the fact that the naxalite student terrorists are often meeting with strong opposition in the schools and colleges which they try to raid. There have been a number of clashes with rival organisations and some of the more serious ones have been with members of the Communist Party (Marxist). This is not surprising since the naxalites are a breakaway group from the C.P. (M) and disagree with the main organisation on the question of doctrine and tactics. It was in 1967 when the C.P (M)-led United Front was in office in West Bengal, that the party was faced with a revolt in the Naxalbari area of the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. The local C.P. (M) branch, led by Charu Mazumdar, Kanu Sanyal and Jangal Santal, began to attack jotedars and forcibly occupy the lands. The C.P. (M) expelled Mazumdar from the party and the Government ordered the police to go into action. The movement was quickly put down since Naxalbari is a flat area without jungle cover. But this was the period of the Cultural Revolution in China and Peking Radio came out for Mazumdar and condemned the C.P. (M) as reactionary.
18 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Dhoni an inspirational figure’||They share a bond that is deep, strong and has withstood turbulent times. “M.S. Dhoni is the greatest cricketer India has produced so far," said former ICC and BCCI chief N. Srinivasan talking to The Hindu here on Monday. “He has accomplished everything. He is a match-winning batsman, an outstanding ‘keeper, a brilliant captain, a sensational leader of men and an inspirational figure. I have never seen him lose his cool on the cricket field. And he has excelled in all formats and in all conditions.” said Srinivasan. No match He added, “He is a destroyer of attacks and can still pull off lightning stumpings and continues to be super quick between wickets. And he has won for India, the ICC ODI World Cup, the World Twenty20, the Champions Trophy, and fetched India the mace for being the No. 1 Test side in the world. So as an all-round cricketer and a winner, he has no equal in Indian cricket.” Asked whether he was aware of Dhoni’s sudden decision to retire from international cricket on Saturday, Srinivasan replied, “That is between me and him.” Going back to Dhoni’s shock decision to quit as Test captain minutes after the Melbourne Test of 2014, Srinivasan said, “He had earlier wanted to retire from Tests and I said ‘no.’ And then he again wanted to retire from Tests soon after the Melbourne game and I didn’t stop him.” The former BCCI chief revealed. “Dhoni said ‘Sir, just give me half an hour so that I can inform my teammates.' He was just listening to his body, given his workload in Tests.” Simple, straightforward Queried about Dhoni’s qualities, Srinivasan said, “He is simple, straightforward, clear-headed, humble, loyal and someone who can lift the entire team around him.” Explaining their relationship, Srinivasan said, “It is one of mutual respect. I gave him freedom, did not interfere in what he did. I have not just respect for him, but a great deal of affection too. For someone who has accomplished so much, he is so humble.” Srinivasan observed, “He made his men believe in themselves at all times. He led by example. The manner in which he finished games showed his spirit. “He is still super fit. He will play on and on for CSK. His bond with the club, its fans and Chennai is unshakable.” Srinivasan concluded, “Dhoni is a good man to ride the river with.”
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Khel Ratna — who will be crowned this time?||Will Rohit Sharma join the ranks of star cricketers Sachin Tendulkar, M.S. Dhoni and Virat Kohli ? That will be the interesting question, when the selection panel meets in the Capital on Monday and Tuesday, to decide on the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, Arjuna and other government sports awards. Tendulkar was bestowed the Khel Ratna in 1998, Dhoni in 2007 and Kohli in 2018. Quite notably, a cricket star has been recognised for his contribution almost every ten years, so far. Instituted in 1992, the Khel Ratna has been awarded to 38 sportspersons. Generally it is one or two every year, except when four were awarded after the Rio Olympics, and three after the Beijing Olympics. In 2014, the panel did not find a deserving candidate among six, two of whom went on to win the award in later years. 40 applicants This year, there are about 40 applicants from more than 20 disciplines for the Khel Ratna. The world under-20 champion, and the reigning Asian Games and Commonwealth Games gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra finds himself in the mix, along with another world under-20 champion athlete, Hima Das. Badminton, which has won awards through P. Gopi Chand, Saina Nehwal and P.V. Sindhu has former world No.1 K. Srikanth in the list. With Devendra Jhajaria and Deepa Malik having made the breakthrough for para athletes, Rio Paralympics gold medallist high jumper Thangavelu Mariyappan may fancy his chance. The shooters have done well in winning the award over the years, starting with Abhinav Bindra in 2001, and stand a fair chance to have a representation this time, through Apurvi Chandela, Anjum Moudgil and Ankur Mittal. Joshana Chinappa (squash), Manika Batra (table tennis), Rani Rampal (hockey), Vinesh Phogat (wrestling), Prithvi Sekhar (tennis) and Jyothi Surekha (archery) are some of the other prominent athletes who are in the fray for the Khel Ratna. With self-application allowed this time, many athletes have mustered courage to nominate themselves from disciplines like wushu, throwball, roller skating, powerlifting and pencak silat.
18 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pranav secures US high school scholarship||Ever since he came into prominence as an exciting talent a few years ago, Pranav Prince has been setting benchmarks for success in Kerala basketball. Two years ago, he became the first player from Kerala to be selected to the NBA Academy India and now the plus one student has signed up with First Love Christian Academy, a private high school in Washington, Pennsylvania. The 17-year-old guard becomes the second player from NBA Academy and the first from Kerala to win a high school basketball scholarship in the United States. Not a surprise Pranav's success, though, has not come as a surprise. The 6'6" tall player was selected as the Most Valuable Player in the Euro Youth Basketball League for two consecutive years and he led the Indian under-16 team to glory last year at the SABA basketball championship, which was the qualifier for the FIBA under-16 championship. "I am thrilled to get the scholarship and I must thank NBA Academy and its coaches for my success," said Pranav. “The exposure and specialised coaching at the academy helped me to improve as a player. When you train and compete against the best players in your age group you improve. Last season was pretty good for me. I got the MVP award in the Euro league and it was a huge honour to lead India. I am looking forward to the stint in the US.”  A native of Kottayam, Prince's first taste of basketball was when his family moved to Thiruvananthapuram. He joined St. Joseph's HSS, where he came under the tutelage of Manoj Xavier. Prince made a mark in the 2016-17 Reliance Foundation Junior NBA Programme which enabled his selection to the NBA India Academy. "I have set myself small targets. After the high school scholarship, I am looking to get a NCAA scholarship. “Though there are many professional basketball leagues around the world my ultimate dream is to play in the NBA,” he said.  I have set myself small targets. After the high school scholarship, I am looking to get a NCAA scholarship. My ultimate dream is to play in the NBA
18 August 2020||Southampton,||England-Pakistan second Test drawn||The second cricket Test between England and Pakistan ended in a draw on Monday. The host declared at 110 for four in its first innings, in reply to Pakistan’s 236, on a rain-affected final day which saw the first session being washed out. England had started the day at seven for one after losing opener Rory Burns for a duck on the fourth day.  Zak Crawley, the No. 3 batsman, scored 53 while opener Dom Sibley hit 32. For Pakistan, pacer Mohammad Abbas picked up two wickets. England had won the first Test in Manchester by three wickets. The final match of the series will start in Southampton on Friday.  The scores: Pakistan 236 drew with England 110 for four declared in 43.1 overs (Dom Sibley 32, Zak Crawley 53) .
18 August 2020||Hyderabad,||No need to go flat out just yet: Srikanth||Former badminton World No. 1 K. Srikanth is in no mood to rush things after resuming training with sparring partner B. Sai Praneeth here at the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy. “Fortunately, with no BWF events likely to be held in the near future, we feel there is no need to rush things and hence we are not going flat out, [we are] working only on small aspects of our game,” Srikanth told The Hindu on Monday. “I remember last year when I had an injury break and resumed training at full steam only to suffer some setbacks. So, I am very guarded this time around, with the specific objective of peaking at the right time for any eventual BWF events.” The 27-year-old said his only concern was that the BWF would draw up “a cramped calendar in the anxiety to conduct most of the postponed events when the pandemic fades out”. He added, however, that he was “confident of making the cut for the [2021 Tokyo] Olympics as and when the BWF calendar is finalised in the run-up to the Games”. Asked about training — Sai Praneeth and he are working with new Indonesian coach Agus Dwi Santoso, who joined the national camp just before the lockdown — Srikanth said, “There were some gingerly steps when we started, as we have to be cautious given the pandemic threat. But, yes, we are taking all the precautions even as there is an element of fear creeping in.” A challenge How difficult was it to stay motivated with no tournaments scheduled? “It is a fact that generally we plan and train to peak at the right time for a major event,” Srikanth said. “So, it is challenging for all of us, but this [period] is also giving us enough time to correct aspects of our game and understand our body better.” Srikanth also has other things to look forward to as he continues to train — he is hoping for some positive news on the Awards front, with his name being recommended by the Badminton Association of India for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Expect pure ’ball in bubble-wrapped Playoffs||After a riveting set of seeding games, the NBA moves to the season’s business end — the Playoffs. And if the seeding games are any indication, the Playoffs, with the intensity ratcheted up, should feature top-quality competition when they begin on Tuesday (IST). With no ‘home advantage’ in play — all games will be held in the ‘bubble’, the sequestered complex in Florida — the knockouts will be a true test of skill, ability, tactics and talent. Both Conference top seeds, Milwaukee Bucks (East) and Los Angeles Lakers (West), had a rough time, going 3-5 in the seeding games. The Bucks, up against Orlando Magic, will have an easier time than the Lakers, matched against a rejuvenated Portland Trail Blazers, boosted by point guard Damian Lillard, who willed the side into the Playoffs with spectacular scoring displays in the seeding games. Best duo But the Lakers have the league’s best duo in LeBron James and Anthony Davis — a match-up nightmare for anybody. Second seed Los Angeles Clippers’ own superstar duo of Kawhi Leonard and Paul George will vehemently contest that claim, but the side will need its A-game to nullify the Luka Doncic-led Dallas Mavericks, which has posted historical offensive numbers this season. Defending champion Toronto Raptors should get past the injury-decimated Brooklyn Nets in the East, but third vs. sixth and fourth vs. fifth in the East and the West will be far more competitive, perhaps the tightest games in this round. Boston Celtics has more talent and cohesion than Philadelphia 76ers, but the latter has the match-up’s best player (centre Joel Embiid), which could even things out. In Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets has the best passing big man ever in the game, but with key guards injured, taking on the Rudy Gobert-led Utah Jazz won’t be easy. Expect rookie Michael Porter Jr. to play a major role for Nuggets in a competitive series. In the Miami Heat-Indiana Pacers contest, the former has the best player (forward Jimmy Butler) and is a well-oiled machine, run by coach Erik Spoelstra. But the injury-plagued Pacers, equally well coached by Nate McMillan, will be no pushover, with forward TJ Warren set to carry the scoring load. Intriguing contest The most intriguing match-up pits Houston Rockets, led by MVP candidate James Harden, against Oklahoma City Thunder, led by Harden’s ex-teammate Chris Paul. Rockets play an unorthodox five-out, three-point-dependent ‘small ball’ game, but key guard Russell Westbrook is hobbled by injury. This should provide an opening for Thunder to stage an upset.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Indian hockey players recover from COVID-19||Six Indian men’s hockey team players, including skipper Manpreet Singh, were on Monday discharged from a Bengaluru hospital after recovering from COVID-19. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) said in a statement that Manpreet, defender Surender Kumar, Jaskaran Singh, Varun Kumar, goalkeeper Krishan Bahadur Pathak and striker Mandeep Singh have been placed under quarantine at its Bengaluru centre after they were discharged from the hospital. “Manpreet Singh, Surender Kumar, Jaskaran Singh, Varun Kumar, Krishan B. Pathak and Mandeep Singh, who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month and were later shifted to hospital as a precautionary measure and for better monitoring were discharged from hospital earlier today,” the SAI said. “They are now under quarantine at Sports Authority of India’s National Centre of Excellence (NCOE) in Bengaluru.”
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura saves opener in set four||Hikaru Nakamura’s famed defensive skills denied Magnus Carlsen a victory in the first game of the fourth set of their title-clash in the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Monday. Nakamura hit back after losing the first game on Sunday to take the third set for a 2-1 lead in best-of-seven final.  The results: Final: Set Four, Game One: Carlsen drew with Nakamura. Set Three: Nakamura bt Carlsen 3.5-2.5.
18 August 2020||LISBON,||Mbappe fit to start: Tuchel||Kylian Mbappe is fit to start for Paris Saint-Germain against RB Leipzig in Tuesday’s Champions League semifinal in Lisbon, coach Thomas Tuchel has confirmed. “He played for 30 minutes against Atalanta and had no reaction. He has had six days since then to work on his fitness, so of course he can start,” said Tuchel during a virtual press conference on the eve of the game. “We will decide after training whether he can play 90 minutes.” Mbappe started on the bench in the quarterfinal against Atalanta after spending the weeks leading up to that match struggling with an ankle injury.
18 August 2020||Bengaluru,||RFC launches academy for girls||Rebels Football Club (RFC) launched the RFC Girls Football Academy, a girls residential football training facility here. The academy will provide training for young and talented female footballers. The residential football programme, integrated with educational pursuits, is located at New Age World School here. The programme is open to girls from ages 13 to 22.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nagal progresses to the third round||Sumit Nagal moved past Jay Clarke after the Briton retired at 6-3, 5-7, 4-1 in the €130,000 Challenger second round in Prague on Monday. In the pre-quarterfinals, he will play wild card Czech Republic’s Jiri Lehecka.
18 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu and others resume training||World champion P.V. Sindhu resumed training at the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here on Monday. Once Sindhu was through with her session, B. Sai Praneeth arrived followed by his sparring partner K. Srikanth. Chief national coach P. Gopi Chand said that all are okay and there are no worries as such.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Music legend Pandit Jasraj passes away||Pandit Jasraj, a doyen of Hindustani classical music, will be remembered for taking the art beyond the rarefied confines of a select set by imbuing khayal with an unmistakable element of bhakti rasa . He passed away in the U.S. after a cardiac arrest on Monday. He was 90. The foremost exponent of the Mewati gharana moved away from Dhrupad and brought an element of devotional singing to khayal by employing harkats and murkis that were associated with light classical music. The purists took time to compliment him, but the connoisseurs couldn’t resist the charm of his Sanskrit stotras , his mastery over shuddha madhyam notes and his ability to play with light and heavy and popular and rare ragas like Durga , Jog and Abeer Todi with equal felicity. Not to forget his sage-like presence on the stage which got a little dramatic in the latter half of his career. He would often end his concert with a kirtan . Born in a village in Hisar district of Haryana, Pandit Jasraj started as a tabla player and was known as an able accompanist in the classical circuit in Kolkata before turning to classical singing. He learnt from his father, Pandit Motiram, and elder brother, Pandit Maniram, but drew inspiration from various sources, including Begum Akhtar. The bhakti element took birth in him when he saw his father who was a court musician singing every morning at 3 a.m. But it was his association with his spiritual guru Maharana Jaywant Singh of the erstwhile princely state of Sanand in Gujarat that made him believe in the miracles of bhakti . Once his elder brother lost his voice. It was said to be restored after the Maharana, a devotee of goddess Durga made him sing Mata Kalike . “I have seen many such miracles from close quarters. It filled me with the belief that the Almighty holds your hand and takes you to the path you are made for, without you even realising it,” Pandit Jasraj once told The Hindu in a conversation. Perhaps it was because of his deep connection with Durga, that he gave the name to his daughter. The Padma Vibhushan awardee was also a master of haveli sangeet and could speak for hours about its journey and rich history. A keen student of philosophy and spirituality, he loved to spend time with J. Krishnamurti, who loved his singing. He was married to Madhura Shantaram, daughter of the legendary filmmaker V. Shantaram and often talked about his conversations with his father-in-law who made many classical music and dance-based films. “It was he who always pushed me to have clarity in my voice,” he would fondly remember. Panditji was one of those rare classical musicians who loved to share his knowledge. It reflects in the vast corpus of his students, as varied as violinist Kala Ramnath and vocalist Sanjeev Abhyankar, who will carry his legacy forward.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 08:07 IST,||Sudoku - August 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Hanging by a thread||The craft world is reeling from the Development Commissioner for Handlooms’ notice, announcing the abolishment of AIHB, the almost 70-year-old All India Handloom Board, established in 1952 and nurtured by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Done without a whisper of warning, it came as a surprise even to those directly part of it. It was followed by a notice that the All India Handicrafts Board had been similarly dissolved. With unconscious irony, the news broke just before Handloom Day (August 7). The notification went viral on social media, evoking both emotion and questions. It is a sign of how the Indian public, even jeans-clad millennials, still cares deeply for handlooms and handicrafts and the people who craft them. For the cultural heritage that shapes us as Indians. Among handloom weavers themselves, there have been protests and demonstrations, showing the importance they gave that official forum for their voices. Finding answers It is true that all these years on, the Boards had become increasingly moribund, toothless and politicised. Successive governments appointed members ad hoc, as a reward to loyal constituents. The Boards hardly met. Nevertheless, AIHB and its twin, the Handicrafts Board, had more than historical value. They remained the one official forum, albeit watered down, where the voices and views of weavers and craftspeople could be shared directly with the Government. One place where they were present in considerable numbers, actually mandated to advise bureaucrats on policy and sectoral spending. The rationale for ‘abolishing’ the AIHB (the wording is stark; it doesn’t say “re-constituting’’) is that the move is “in consonance with the Government’s vision of Minimum Government and Maximum Governance” and “a leaner Government machinery”. Somehow, this is not reassuring. Such spaces where people themselves can interact directly with the Government, or be part of their own governance, are increasingly fewer and fewer. Rather than abolish them, we need to revitalise such institutions; seeking inspiration from their original objectives. Setting up the AIHB, it was intended that those members (it currently has a strength of over a 100), were makers and practitioners, who could speak with authority and a knowledge of ground realities. The Cottage Industries Emporia, the HHEC, our SONA shops abroad, the State Handicrafts & Handloom Corporations, The Crafts Museum, the Design Centres and Weavers Service Centres, the magnificent Vishwakarma and ADITI exhibitions, the National Award for master craftspersons, are all institutions and initiatives that emerged from those early discussions. Now, we might not have crafts without them. That pool of collective wisdom is much needed now, at a time when craftspeople and the sector are struggling for survival and imaginative solutions, while the gulf between the Government and the people it serves seems to be widening. Good ideas should not be scrapped because of bad implementation. The Board’s achievements in its heyday speak for themselves. Those who justify abolishing the AIHBs because they have not achieved much recently, only meeting six times in 11 years, are making the argument for me. A Board cannot be effective if it doesn’t meet and deliberate. The onus of calling meetings is with the officials of the Ministry under which it falls; in this case, the Ministry of Textiles. Beyond digital campaigns Ever an optimist, I postponed too much dismay regarding the AIHB notification, expecting an announcement on Handloom Day of some new handloom policy, institution, or think-tank to replace the AIHB. What we got was the Textile Minister tweeting that “handloom can enrich our daily lives and surroundings in many ways; from clothing to furnishing to masks in Covid times to wall hanging”. Exhorting us to “bring home handmade in India”! Three days before Handloom Day, industry leaders, Bollywood stars, designers, media, and other influencers were sent letters urging them to support a digital campaign by sharing pictures wearing handloom, using the official Ministry of Textiles hashtag. Handloom Day, however, is not just about wearing pretty saris and posting selfies on social media. It needs to actively promote the stories and professional skills of the makers, and ensure that they receive recognition. India’s skilled handloom weavers deserve the same respect and support that other professional sectors receive. Part of this is giving them a voice and presence. A Textiles Ministry quiz on ‘know your handlooms’, and promises of online opportunities are not enough. ‘Symbol of heritage’ Meanwhile, the Prime Minister also saluted handloom “a symbol of India’s glorious cultural heritage and an important source of livelihood in the country”. He too encouraged people to use handmade products and spread awareness, adding that they will help India be a self-reliant country. “Let us all be #Vocal4Handmade and strengthen efforts towards an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he tweeted. However pragmatic a gesture, telling a sector in acute distress to be “ aatmanirbhar ”, while simultaneously abolishing their only forum to articulate problems and suggest solutions, is sending a negative message. Coming at a time when sales and livelihoods are at an end, a celebration of Handloom Day called for something different. What weavers need today is not rhetoric or pats on the back, but practical assistance to work through these hard times. A re-constituted and active All India Handlooms & Handicrafts Board, with practical grassroots experience, youth and energy, could be the first reassuring step forward.  Laila Tyabji is chairperson of Dastkar, an NGO that works to support traditional Indian craftspeople.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||More develop antibodies against virus||About 29% of the 15,350 people whose blood samples were randomly collected from across the city for the second serological survey, held earlier this month, have developed antibodies against the deadly COVID-19, according to sources. ‘An increase of 3%-5%’ “The seroprevalence is in the range of 29%, but after making adjustments for sensitivity of ELISA kits used to test the samples, it may come down to the range of 28%. Almost all the 11 districts have shown an increase of 3%-5% compared to the last survey,” a government official told The Hindu . The earlier survey — done from June 27 to July 4, in which over 22,000 blood samples were collected — had shown that 23.4% of the population had developed antibodies. This was corrected to 22.8%, after adjusting for sensitivity of the kits. The previous survey was done under the guidance of the National Centre for Disease Control. The second survey was headed by the Delhi government-run Maulana Azad Medical College. In the latest survey, Central and North districts have shown seroprevalence of about 31%. It is around 18%-19% for South West district, the official added. After a person develops antibodies against the disease, chances of him/her contracting the virus again are low, said officials. When a larger part of the population becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission of the virus is broken and this reduces the spread of the disease and is called herd immunity. So, a higher value of seroprevalence is favourable. Results likely this week The result of the survey is expected to be made public later this week; the final report is still being prepared. This is the second such largescale survey done in the city by the government. Last month, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that though experts have different opinion on herd immunity, there is consensus that when around “40%-70%” of people get infected and recover (develop antibodies), then herd immunity is attained. After the last survey, Mr. Jain had said that about a “quarter of Delhi’s total population” had developed antibodies against the virus (extending the survey results to the whole of Delhi). On similar lines, it can now be said that about 29% of Delhi’s population have recovered from the virus and have developed antibodies. The second survey was done from August 1 to 7, and about 15,400 blood samples were collected from people of different age groups and demographics. Some samples were damaged and the results of around 15,350 samples were used for the study. The blood samples were then tested in labs run by central and State governments as well as municipal corporations, using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies against it. A positive result would mean that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. So, a seroprevalence of 29% means that 29 out of 100 people tested have developed antibodies against the virus.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Residents of girls hostel oppose notice to vacate||Students of Delhi University’s Undergraduate Hostel for Girls (UGHG) on Monday slammed the hostel’s notice, which has asked them to submit fees for the lockdown months and vacate the premises. The hostel had earlier put up a notice on its website, informing residents that the administration has decided to have the hostel vacated immediately. Additionally, for the period starting April 1, the administration would charge Rs. 1,000 per month as a portion of the total fee. The students said they would not be able to come to the hostel from their hometown at this time and called the move “unfair”. Ritika Rana, a resident of the hostel, said she had left for home in Himachal Pradesh during the mid-semester break in March. She said it would not be possible for her to return to hostel to vacate her room as the travel would be “expensive”. She said the university should refund the money instead of asking for additional fees. Another student, Sneha (name changed), a BA political science student at DU, who belongs to Maharashtra, said it would be impossible for her to vacate her room. She said it was wrong on the part of the hostel authorities to demand the same on the pretext of “whitewashing hostel”. Started petition The students have started a petition, which has gathered nearly 800 signatures in a day. The hostel authorities issued a clarification on Monday, withdrawing the previous notice. In a new post on their website, they asked students to “discuss among themselves” to determine an amount that ought to be deducted from their security deposit that may be used to pay various expenses of running the institution during the lockdown. They also clarified that it was necessary to vacate the hostel rooms, especially for students not living in the city.
18 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Not averse to imposing stricter curbs: Punjab CM||Concerned over the surge in COVID-19 cases and increasing number of deaths in the State, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said he was not averse to imposing harsher measures to check further spread of the pandemic. At a virtual conference of his Cabinet, which reviewed the COVID-19 situation, the Chief Minister, in response to a suggestion from the expert health advisory committee chairman K.K. Talwar, said if needed, the State government would consider going in for strong measures to combat the virus, according to an official statement. Though he did not rule out a lockdown, especially in areas with spike in cases, Captain Amarinder made it clear that economic activity will not be allowed to suffer. Earlier, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who is heading a expert group for revival of the State’s economy, also said any measures to check COVID-19 spread should not impact economic activity. In his presentation on COVID-19 crisis, Dr. Talwar said four districts of Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar and Patiala were witnessing the maximum surge and needed stricter preventive measures to control the situation. The scenario in the State, he said, was grim, with 32,000 plus cases and more than 800 fatalities.  Increase in deaths Deaths per million has also gone up to 27.2, and as many as 265 patients were on oxygen and 20 on ventilators at the present, Dr. Talwar said, underlining the need for early testing and treatment for saving lives. Testing in the State has reached 20,000 per day, including rapid antigen test, he said. Separately, the Chief Minister informed that Punjab has achieved the top rank in operationalisation of Health and Wellness Centres as per the latest ranking of States released by the Union Government, showcasing the State’s robust health infrastructure. He said Punjab was way ahead of neighbouring Delhi, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. While Haryana has slipped to 14th place, Himachal Pradesh was placed at 9. Delhi, with its much touted healthcare model, lags far behind at 29, Capt. Amarinder added.
18 August 2020||patna,||Poll soon, defections begin in Bihar||In poll-bound Bihar, expelled Janata Dal (United) leader and former Industries Minister in the Nitish Kumar Cabinet Shyam Rajak on Monday joined the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) while three RJD MLAs hopped over to the ruling JD(U). The Assembly elections are due in October-November. Mr. Rajak was earlier in the RJD and Minister in the regimes of Mr. Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. In 2009, he joined the JD(U) and was inducted into the Ministry in 2017 when Mr. Kumar formed the NDA government. “I’m getting emotional today on my homecoming,” said Mr. Rajak who returned to the RJD after 11 years. Nitish slammed Mr. Rajak slammed Mr. Kumar on several fronts. “He indulges in tall talk of development but one can see how much money his government has spent on development … what his views have been towards the Dalits or the marginalised sections,” said Mr. Rajak. “The industries department was in a dormant state but when I revived it through various developmental works, roadblocks were put in my way…Nitish Kumar hears only what bureaucrats tell him.” Mr. Rajak was on Sunday expelled from the JD(U) and sacked from the Ministry by Governor on advice of the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Unfurling a copy of the constitution of the JD(U), Mr. Rajak said, “It is ridiculous to say I was expelled from the party…JD(U) even does not respect its own constitution,” he said. Mr. Rajak also took on the Nitish government for its stand on the National Register of Citizenship and other issues. On Sunday, the RJD also expelled three of its MLAs for anti-party activities. The buzz in political circles is that another RJD MLA from Sasaram, Ashok Kushwaha, is also likely to join the JD(U) in a day or two. The three RJD MLAs — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat), Prema Chaudhury (Patepur) and Dr Ashok Kumar (Sasaram) — joined the JD(U) in the presence of senior party leaders charging the RJD with becoming a party of the rich and sycophants.
18 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Infant deaths decline 4.6% in Haryana||The Haryana National Health Mission clarified on Monday that 1,208 infants deaths were reported in the State between April and June this year as against 1,264 such deaths during the corresponding period in 2019. Until 2019, an offline, manual reporting system was in use for compilation of births and deaths. Only limited information was collected in this system and hence age-wise deaths were not captured till 2019, said Dr. P. K. Singh, Additional Chief Registrar, Births and Deaths (Haryana), in a statement.  The Hindu had on August 7 reported about Haryana registering a rise in deaths of infants between April and June 2020 with 1,208 infants deaths reported in these three months as against 828 such deaths during the corresponding period in 2019. “After analysing the Civil Registration System (CRS) data, total infant deaths between April to June 2019 were 1,264 (660 male and 604 female) and in April to June 2020 are 1,208 (649 male and 559 female), which has shown a decline of 4.6%. An online system of registration of births and deaths was introduced in Haryana in year 2016, but was not used in all the registration centres till year 2019. The office of Registrar, Births and Deaths did not use the online portal for reporting till 2019. From January 2020 onwards, online registration in CRSORGI (Civil Registration System, Office of the Registrar General, India) was made mandatory for all the registration centres in the State (sic),” he said.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi sets goals for 2030, releases vision document||Kick-starting its diamond jubilee celebrations, the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, on Monday released a strategy document setting the vision and direction for 2030. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the year-long celebrations of IIT-Delhi, via videoconferencing and released the diamond jubilee logo of the institute. Mr. Naidu said the institute, in its 60 years, had made numerous contributions for the national development. “It is heartening to note that over half of India’s ‘unicorns’ have come out of this single institute and that IIT-Delhi is laying great emphasis on internationalisation, interdisciplinary research and industry connect,” Mr. Naidu said. He added that he was happy to know that the institute is planning to file over 200 patents this year as against 153 patents filed in 2019 and has emerged as a leader in the entrepreneurship space in the country. COVID-19 challenge HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ who was also present at the function praised the contributions of IIT-Delhi in meeting the national challenge of fighting COVID-19 through technological support. “From developing the world’s cheapest RT-PCR-based COVID-19 diagnostic kit to supplying over 40 lakh PPEs to India and the world, the institute’s researchers have done a remarkable job,” Mr. Pokhriyal said. V. Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi said, “With the vision for 2030 in place, IIT-Delhi is on the road to its next phase of growth. The successful achievement of its vision will positively impact the lives of students, alumni, faculty and staff, while shaping the progress of our nation for decades to come.”  IIT-Delhi said that it has set five aspirations for 2030 which include: drive research excellence, enhance educational experience and employability, attain global competitiveness in select technology areas, sustain global leadership in entrepreneurship and contribute to society and the country.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Tension engulfs north Delhi locality as men open fire||Tension erupted in north Delhi’s Kucha Mohtar Khan after nearly dozens of men allegedly barged inside the locality, opened fire in the air and vandalised vehicles in a bid to catch a group of boys with whom they had a fight, the police said on Monday. The incident was reported around 1 a.m. and three men have been arrested in connection with the incident so far, the police said, adding that raids are being conducted to nab the remaining culprits. The police said that a quarrel broke out between a group of locals with one Lalit and his brother-in-law following which Lalit called up his associates who then reached the locality with arms to catch the youths. They even vandalised several vehicles while barging into the lanes of the locality in search of the boys. Soon after quarrel, the group of locals allegedly fled the spot. Lalit Yadav alias Pongi is a ‘bad character’ of Model Town and is wanted in connection with a case registered against him there under section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 452 (house-tresspass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. He had been hiding at his in-laws’ place in Kucha Mohtar Khan after the incident. When a police team from Kashmiri Gate police station reached there, they found three to four cars damaged while several bikes had fallen down. While locals alleged that they heard multiple rounds of fire, the police claimed they initially recovered three empty rounds from the spot and another empty round was recovered during inspection by a crime team. During enquiry, locals told the police that a group of boys had come to the locality and knocked on their doors. They also entered the house a resident and began searching for someome but the residents could not name any of them, a senior police officer said. DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj said that on the complaint of a local resident, a case was registered under sections of riot and other relevant sections and a search was launched. There are no CCTV cameras installed in the area and raids are being conducted to nab Lalit and his other accomplices who are still absconding, the police said.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. panel set to summon Facebook officials||The Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee on Monday said it has received multiple complaints against Facebook officials for “deliberate and intentional inaction” to contain hateful content in India for vested reasons. The panel, chaired by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has decided to take “immediate cognisance” of the issue. The panel said it has set its mechanism in motion. Summons to be sent Summons are set to be sent for the appearance of Facebook officials, including Ankhi Das, who has filed a police complaint alleging that she received threats in connection with the matter. The panel is scheduled to hold its first meeting related to the matter this week. The committee is meant to facilitate the State’s endeavour to “maintain and promote an irenic atmosphere in the city” as well as establish a “conducive milieu of concordance, peace and pacification amongst different communities” residing in the Capital. “The committee has received multiple complaints addressed to its chairman Raghav Chadha, underscoring the alleged instances of intentional and deliberate inaction on the part of social media platform — Facebook — to enforce its policies against inflammatory and hateful contents and alleged larger conspiracy involving said social media platform, with respect to the scathing revelations made by the news report published by The Wall Street Journal on 14.08.2020, an online news platform based in the United States of America,” the committee stated. It also stated that a leader of the BJP had been mentioned in the article as “another hatemonger spared” by Facebook. ‘ Officials turn blind eye’ “The officials of Facebook have been alleged to turn a blind eye to hate speech and communal hatred mongers. In view thereof it compels the committee to take immediate notice and get to the root of this issue with a view to painstakingly discern if there is any role or complicity of Facebook official in the orchestration of Delhi riots,” it stated. According to the committee, the complaints had alleged that Facebook, despite its comprehensive policies and regulations on curbing unabated dissemination of hateful and offensive content in place, had been turning a blind eye to “mass manufacturing and propagation of vile, hateful communal content” not only in bad taste but with potential to “erupt violence and riot-like situation”. The committee, after vetting the complaints, it stated, was of the prima facie view that the allegations against the Facebook officials concerned were “extremely serious in nature“ which if unchecked and unhindered “may lead to serious adverse fallouts”. “The committee aims at redressing the issue at the earliest, therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion,” it stated.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT tells States to monitor Ganga rejuvenation||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Chief Secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar and West Bengal to periodically monitor the rejuvenation of the Ganga, while observing that it was a “pity” that pollutants were still being discharged into the river despite several directions of various courts. A Bench headed by NGT chief Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We also feel that there should be periodic joint meetings of Chief Secretaries of the States concerned to consider vital issues like pooling of human resources and sharing best practices for rejuvenation of Ganga, particularly preventing discharge of sewage and other pollutants therein directly or in its tributaries or drains connected thereto.” Stating that a holistic approach for rejuvenation of the river was required, the Bench said, “It is a pity that even after constant monitoring by the Supreme Court for 34 years and by this Tribunal for six years, 46 years after enactment of the Water Act – making discharge of pollutants in waterbodies a criminal offence – pollutants continue to be discharged in the most holy river.” “Pollution-free environment is the constitutional right of every citizen and constitutional obligation of States. To this extent, the States are certainly failing in discharging their constitutional obligation. This unsatisfactory state of affairs calls for rigorous planning action at the highest level monitoring for meaning enforcement of the rule of law for protection of environment and public health and also rejuvenation of Ganga river,” the bench said. Earlier, the green panel had constituted a Central Monitoring Committee to prepare and enforce a national plan to make over 350 river stretches in the country pollution-free.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Phase IV: DMRC starts casting work of U-girders||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday began casting work of U-girders, which will be installed on a 4.2-km-long elevated section on the Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridor under its Phase IV project. The segment also includes construction of a six-lane elevated flyover (double-deck system) from Sangam Vihar to Ambedkar Nagar and one underpass at Saket-G, the DMRC said. “After construction of this section, the Mehrauli-Badarpur road will be signal-free from Sangam Vihar to Saket. A ramp will facilitate seamless traffic movement from Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg to MB Road and an underpass will facilitate smooth movement of traffic from MB Road towards Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg,” DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said. With the starting of construction on this section, work on all three priority corridors of Phase IV has begun, officials added. “U-girders are pre-cast pre-tensioned U-shaped girders on which track-laying can be done immediately. These girders are readied in casting yards and brought to the sites and launched with the help of high capacity cranes of launchers,” explained Mr. Dayal. The Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridor is projected to be a 22-km-long section with 15 stations. “Despite issues such as unavailability of adequate labour force, the DMRC is moving ahead with the work of all the three corridors approved so far as part of Delhi Metro Phase IV,” said Mr. Dayal.
18 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana to conduct e-Lok Adalat on Aug. 29||E-Lok Adalats will be conducted across Haryana on August 29 to decide cases on digital platforms due to restricted working of courts in view of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The e-Lok Adalats aim to facilitate online platform for the litigants to decide their cases during this pandemic situation. The social distancing norms will be followed for the protection from COVID-19 while preparing and conducting e-Lok Adalats at all stages. Eight Benches Gurugram Sessions Judge M.M. Dhonchak, who is also chairman, District Legal Services Authority, has constituted eight Benches for the upcoming e-Lok Adalat. Gurugram DLSA secretary-cum-Chief Judicial Magistrate Pardeep Choudhry said that 525 cases of all categories would taken up during the e-Lok Adalat. Separate WhatsApp groups have been created for the purpose of e- Lok Adalat for judicial officers, panel advocates and litigants. Nodal officers Nodal officers of each Bench shall arrange mobile numbers of all the participants and create WhatsApp groups. They may take help of panel advocates for proper coordination. One WhatsApp group will be created for each Bench. The details will also be uploaded on the website of the District and Sessions Court, Gurugram, for the information of public.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||787 new COVID-19 cases take city’s tally to 1,53,367||As many as 787 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,53,367, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of cases were less as fewer tests were done in the past 24 hours compared to rest of the month, it stated. Also, 18 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,214. Of the total cases, 1,38,301 people have recovered and there are 10,852 active cases at present.  The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 32 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests a day, only 4,106 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 14,988 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 72.6% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to the RT-PCR tests. The positivity rate has also dropped from 12.2% as on July 1 to 5.2%. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday was 557. AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday held a video conference with the state convenors of the party and directed state presidents to draft a plan by Wednesday on distribution of oximeters and setting up of oxygen testing centres. "It will help AAP to send out a powerful message that there is a party that is ready to help people whenever needed and we will be able to establish a strong organization in every region of the country," Mr. Kejriwal said in a statement.
18 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 51 virus deaths, 1,492 new cases||Punjab recorded 1,492 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday and reported 51 deaths taking the toll to 862, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 32,695. The major chunk of new cases, 298 and 220 were reported from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 11,653 and 20,180 patients have so far recovered. Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 114 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,216. The active cases in the city are 1,001 while 1,183 patients have so far recovered. 30 deaths have been reported till now, the statement said.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||Reorganisation of Delhi BJP unit now in final stages||The reorganisation of the BJP’s State unit is in its final stages and new teams are expected to be announced this week, said party insiders. Party sources said senior party leadership had held discussions with the RSS over the exercise last week, with another scheduled this week. The national unit has appointed general secretary Arun Singh and Mahila Morcha president Vijaya Rahatkar as observers for the organisational restructuring of the unit. Several rounds of meetings and consultations have taken place with final touches and the final nod of RSS for individuals for various posts scheduled over the coming days, said sources. According to party sources, claims of being “connected to the ground” made by potential candidates for various party posts in the Delhi unit are being verified and recommended candidates are not being entertained. The maximum age of block presidents, sources said, has been fixed at 45 years. The appointment of block presidents will be followed by appointment of district presidents and, later, by the appointment of office-bearers.
18 August 2020||Noida,||G.B. Nagar records 55 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 55 fresh cases of COVID-19 in 24 hours, pushing the district’s tally of cases to 6,544 on Monday, according to State health department data. However, during the same period, the number of active cases came down to 810 from 867 on Sunday, while the recovery rate rose to almost 87%. As many as 121 patients were discharged in 24 hours, it showed. So far, 5,691 people have recuperatedin Gautam Buddha Nagar, the third highest among districts in the State after Lucknow with 10,301 and Kanpur 6,058 recoveries, the data revealed. The district has so far recorded 43 deaths linked to the virus.
18 August 2020||August 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Festivity amid fear||
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||12 city forests ready, four more soon: Rai||Twelve city forests have been developed in the Capital and four more will be ready soon, Environment Minister Gopal Rai told the Centre on Monday. Five of the 12 city forests are spread over an area of over 10 hectares. The Centre mandates developing ‘Nagar Van’ (city forest) spread over an area of 10-14 hectares. The five mentioned by the Delhi government have been developed at Nasirpur (28 hectares), Alipur (19.5 hectares), Mitraon Pocket B (35.15 hectares), Taj Enclave (56 hectares), and Hauz Rani (28 hectares), the Minister said.
18 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to give facelift to 11th century temple||Notwithstanding the massive financial burden on the State economy due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Odisha government on Monday announced that it will give a facelift to the 11th century Lingaraj Temple, akin to its pre-350-year structural status. A committee chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has approved the redevelopment plan of peripheral area of the 55-metre-tall temple, known as ‘Ekamravan Kshetra’, in Bhubaneswar. The redevelopment will take place over 66 acres of land surrounding the temple, said the CMO in a statement.  More space At present, the space in front of the temple can barely accommodate 10,000 to 15,000 devotees during Shivratri congregation. However, after the revamp, 2 lakh devotees could easily congregate in the space. As per reports, the State government had proposed to spend a total of Rs. 700 crore for the temple project. In this year’s budget, a fund to the tune of Rs. 150 crore was earmarked for the same. Other infrastructural projects, including an orientation centre, parking, a food plaza, a prayer hall, renovation of the Bindusagar (a sprawling pond) and drainage development will be taken up simultaneously. Apart from Minister Ashok Panda and Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy, Development Commissioner Suresh Chandra Mohapatra and Private Secretary to Chief Minister V.K. Pandian were present at the meeting.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out in Parliament annexe||Seven fire tenders were rushed to Parliament annexe building in central Delhi after a fire incident was reported on Monday morning, an official said. A Delhi Fire Services official said the blaze broke out in a room on the sixth floor. No one was injured and the damage was confined to the room. A call regarding the incident was received at 7.30 a.m. It is suspected that the fire started from a short circuit. The fire has been brought under control, said DFS chief Atul Garg.
18 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four arrested for killing man in Sonia Vihar||Four men have been arrested for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old man in Sonia Vihar, the police said on Monday. The arrested persons have been identified as Aakash, Ajay, Aarush and Vikash. On August 15 at 10.34 p.m., the police received a PCR call stating that a man has been shot in Sonia Vihar. The victim — Dinesh — was shifted to JPC Hospital where he was declared brought dead, an officer said. The deceased’s brother, Vicky, an eyewitness to the incident, said he was eating at a fast-food centre when he saw Dinesh being beaten by the accused. When Dinesh fell down, Aakash fired rounds at him, said Vikash. Based on the statement, an FIR was registered at Sonia Vihar police station. DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said the accused were nabbed when they were planning to flee the city.
18 August 2020||New Delhi,||4 arrested for robbing man of over Rs. 3 lakh||Four men have been arrested in connection with a daylight robbery in Dwarka here, the police said on Monday. They claim to have recovered three firearms and robbed cash of Rs. 3.28 lakh from the accused —Samrat, Shekhar, Puneet Tanwar and Sadiq. “The victim, Bhamarbar Jena, cash manager in a gas agency, lodged a complainant in Dwarka South police station where he stated that on August 12 at 1.55 p.m., he was robbed of Rs. 3,79,922 when he was going to a bank in Sector-7,” said DCP (Dwarka)Anto Alphonse. He said two boys suddenly came from begind and robbed him of the cash on a gunpoint. “A case under relevant sections was registered,” the DCP added. “On August 15, after receiving tip-off, the four accused were held from near Sector-16A in Dwarka,” he added.
18 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Mobile OPD vans collecting swab samples||The mobile OPD vans, pressed into service under the Chief Minister’s free medicine scheme in Rajasthan, have started collecting swab samples for COVID-19 testing. Over 32,000 tests are being conducted in the State every day, while plasma therapy has been promoted for treatment of patients, as the active cases have crossed the figure of 14,400. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Monday that since most of the COVID-19 patients were asymptomatic, the spread of infection could be stopped with a high number of tests. “No stone has been left unturned to ensure a better recovery rate and reduce the fatalities,” he said. About 73% of the patients in the State were recovering after treatment, while the fatality rate had come down to 1.4%, Mr. Sharma said. The State government has also written to the Indian Council of Medical Research for reconsidering the antigen test and improve its quality.
